FR940314-2-00107 FR940314-2-00058 The ``equal treatment'' requirement contained in section 3306(t)(2), FUTA, provides that SEA allowances will be ``payable in the same amount, at the same interval, on the same terms, and subject to the same conditions, as regular unemployment compensation under the State law *␣*␣*.'' Thus, SEA allowances must be paid to all eligible individuals to whom regular UC is payable under State law, including individuals who performed services to which section 3304(a)(6)(A), FUTA, and 5 U.S.C. chapter 85 apply. These equal treatment requirements extend to all aspects related to the payment of SEA. h. Financing of SEA Allowances. It will be necessary for States to review their laws to determine how the allowances will be financed. Financing depends on the type of employer for which the individual receiving the allowance previously performed services. (1) Experience Rated Employers. Section 3303(a)(1), FUTA, requires, as a condition of employers in a State obtaining the additional credit against the Federal unemployment tax, that no reduced contribution rate be assigned an employer, except on the basis of ``experience with respect to unemployment or other factors bearing a direct relation to unemployment risk *␣*␣*.'' All but one of the existing experience rating systems consist of charging payments of compensation or benefit wages to an employer who had previously provided employment to the compensated individual. As noted in item 1.f, under section 3306(t)(2)(c), FUTA, individuals to whom the SEA allowance is payable ``are considered to be unemployed for the purposes of Federal and State laws applicable to unemployment compensation *␣*␣*.'' Under this provision, SEA allowances reflect ``experience with respect to unemployment or other factors bearing a direct relation to unemployment risk'' for purposes of section 3303(a)(1), FUTA. Therefore, the measurement of an employer's experience through charges based on SEA allowances is appropriate. In charging SEA allowances, States must use the same method of charging (e.g., charging base period employers proportionately) and noncharge in the same situations (e.g., noncharging claims where the individual has voluntarily quit) as apply to regular UC. To fail to do this would raise an issue under the ``uniform method'' requirement of section 3303(a)(1), FUTA. See UIPL 29&hyph;83, Change 1, dated September 24, 1991. The Department will address the issue of whether SEA allowances may be noncharged when it develops a comprehensive noncharging policy. (The one experience rating system not using payments of compensation or benefit wages is Alaska which uses a payroll decline system. The Department believes this system will not be affected by the payment of SEA allowances.) (2) Reimbursing Employers. Section 3309(a)(2), FUTA, provides that costs ``of compensation attributable under the State law'' to service performed for State and local governments and nonprofit organizations to which that section pertains must be reimbursed by such entities. Since, as discussed in item 1.f, SEA allowances are considered to be compensation, this requirement also applies to SEA allowances. (3) Federal Military and Civilian Employers. Under 5 U.S.C. 8509(b), moneys in the Federal Employees Compensation Account shall be ``available only for the purpose of making payments to States pursuant to agreements'' with the Secretary of Labor. Since payments of SEA are payments of compensation for purposes of Federal law, SEA allowances attributable to Federal military or civilian service may be charged to Federal employers. i. Payment of Administrative Costs. Costs of administering SEA allowances (including those paid to UCFE and UCX claimants) are payable from grants received for the administration of State's UC law under Title III of the SSA. Costs of providing SEA program services such as entrepreneurial training, business counseling and technical assistance are not, however, payable from these Title III funds.
