FR940622-1-00066 FR940622-1-00029 Section 674.16␣Making and Disbursing Loans Section 676.16␣Payment of an FSEOG The Secretary proposes to allow institutions to disburse a Federal Perkins Loan or an FSEOG award after a student ceases to be enrolled under certain circumstances. Currently, the Federal Perkins Loan and the FSEOG programs do not provide for late disbursements while the other title IV, HEA programs have provisions for late disbursements. This proposed change would prevent a student from being penalized because the student did not receive funds that he or she needed and expected due to a delay in payment. The proposal would allow an institution to disburse funds under the Federal Perkins Loan and FSEOG programs to a student when he or she is no longer enrolled if the assistance was awarded while the student was still an eligible student. Further, the institution must determine that the funds are needed to cover the student's documented educational costs that are normally included in the student's cost of attendance under section 472 of the HEA for the payment period for which the loan or grant was intended and the student was actually enrolled. The institution would be expected to collect and retain documentation supporting the amount of and the reason for the late disbursement paid to the student. Federal Perkins Loan Program Program Name Change The ``Perkins Loan program'' will be known as the ``Federal Perkins Loan program.'' Section 674.2␣Definitions Section 462(h) of the HEA replaced the dollar-volume ``default rate'' calculation in the Federal Perkins Loan program with a borrower-based ``cohort default rate,'' beginning in the 1993&hyph;94 award year. Accordingly, the Secretary proposes to amend §674.2 to remove the definition of ``default rate,'' ``defaulted principal amount,'' and ``matured loans,'' which are definitions used in the calculation of an institution's ``default rate,'' but are not used in the ``cohort default rate'' calculation. Section 462(h) of the HEA also provides that any loan on which the borrower has made satisfactory arrangements to resume repayment is not counted toward an institution's cohort default rate. ``Satisfactory arrangements to resume payment'' is a term currently used in the FFEL program. The Secretary proposes to add the same definition of ``satisfactory arrangements to repay the loan'' to §674.2. The amendments in section 464(c)(2)(A) of the HEA created a new economic hardship deferment and added a new provision of forbearance in section 464(e), both of which were also provisions added to the FFEL program. Negotiated rulemaking in the FFEL program resulted in the requirement that in order for a borrower to establish eligibility for an economic hardship deferment or for forbearance of payments, the borrower would be required to provide certain documentation to the granting institution, including evidence showing the borrower's most recent monthly disposable income. The Secretary proposes to add the same definition of ``disposable income'' as resulted from the negotiated rulemaking process for the FFEL program. Section 484 of the HEA now permits borrowers pursuing a second baccalaureate degree to receive assistance under the Federal Perkins Loan program. The Secretary is, therefore, proposing to amend the definition of ``undergraduate student'' in §674.2 of the Federal Perkins Loan program regulations. The specific date on which a loan is made to a borrower as well as the specific date on which a borrower enters repayment on his or her Federal Perkins Loan is critical to the determination of eligibility for certain benefits (for example, deferments, cancellations, exclusion from an institution's cohort default rate, interest rates, and grace periods). However, there has been some confusion on the meaning of these concepts. Therefore, the Secretary proposes to incorporate into the Federal Perkins Loan program regulations the definitions of the term ``making of a loan'' and the term ``enter repayment.'' These definitions are based on common institutional practice. The Secretary is aware that the term ``Direct Loans'' when used to mean a ``National Direct Student Loan'' is the same as the term used to mean the new ``Federal Direct Student Loan'' and will clarify the distinction between these two terms.
