FR940912-2-00034 FR940912-2-00031 Office of Hearings and Appeals Issuance of Decisions and Orders During the Week of May 2 Through May 6, 1994 During the week of May 2 through May 6, 1994 the decisions and orders summarized below were issued with respect to appeals and applications for exception or other relief filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Energy. The following summary also contains a list of submissions that were dismissed by the Office of Hearings and Appeals. Appeal The National Security Archive, 5/3/94, LFA&hyph;0365 The National Security Archive (NSA) filed an Appeal from a determination issued to it on March 18, 1994 by the Office of Resource Management (ORM), Office of Policy, Planning, and Program Management of the Department of Energy which denied a request for information it had filed under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). The request sought information concerning the export of 4.3 tons of heavy water from the U.S. to Israel in 1963. The ORM stated that it did not possess any responsive documents, and the Appeal challenged the adequacy of the search. In considering the Appeal, the DOE found that NSA's FOIA request may not have been subjected to a search sufficiently thorough and conscientious to meet the established standard of reasonableness. Accordingly, the Appeal was granted and remanded to the FOI Branch for further action. Requests for Exception Carson Petroleum Co., 5/4/94, LEE&hyph;0055 Carson Petroleum Co. (Carson) filed an Application for Exception from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) requirement that it file Form EIA&hyph;782B, the Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering Carson's request, the DOE found that the firm was not experiencing a gross inequity or serious hardship. On March 10, 1994, the DOE issued a Proposed Decision and Order determining that the exception request should be denied. No Notice of Objection to the Proposed Decision and Order was filed within the prescribed time period. Therefore, the DOE issued the Proposed Decision and Order in final form, denying Carson's Application for Exception. Dick's Oil Co., 5/3/94, LEE&hyph;0067 Dick's Oil Co. filed an Application for Exception from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) requirement that it file Form EIA&hyph;782B, the ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering this request, the DOE found that the firm was not suffering gross inequity or serious hardship. Accordingly, exception relief was denied. Friendly Service Stations, Inc., 5/3/94, LEE&hyph;0070 Friendly Service Stations, Inc. (Friendly) filed an Application for Exception from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) requirement that it file Form EIA&hyph;82B, the ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' Friendly showed that it had been forced by financial difficulties to reduce its staff to such an extent that complying with the reporting requirement would impose an inordinate burden on the firm. DOE therefore determined that exception relief should be granted. Friendly hopes that its current difficulties will prove temporary. The exception relief granted will therefore be effective for a period of nineteen months, ending April 30, 1995. If Friendly wishes to receive continued exemption from filing requirements after that time, it must then reapply with the DOE. Accordingly, the Application was granted in part. Raymer Oil Company, 5/3/94, LEE&hyph;0095 Raymer Oil Company (Raymer) filed an Application for Exception from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) requirement that it file Form EIA&hyph;782B, the Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering this request, the DOE found that the firm was not suffering gross inequity or serious hardship. On March 24, 1994, the DOE issued a Proposed Decision and Order determining that the exception request should be denied. No Notice of Objections to the Proposed Decision and Order was filed at the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the DOE within the prescribed time period. Therefore, the DOE issued the Proposed Decision and Order in final form, denying Raymer's Application for Exception. Rockford Grain Growers, 5/4/94, LEE&hyph;0064 Rockford Grain Growers (Rockford) filed an Application for Exception from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) requirement that it file Form EIA&hyph;782B, the ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering this request, the DOE found that the firm was not experiencing a serious hardship, gross inequity, or unfair distribution of burdens arising from this filing requirement. On February 10, 1994, the DOE issued a Proposed Decision and Order determining that the exception request should be denied. A Notice of Objections (Objections) to the Proposed Decision and Order was filed at the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the DOE on March 14, 1994. In the Objections, Rockford submitted additional information which demonstrated that the firm's precarious financial situation was exacerbated by the requirement to file EIA&hyph;782B. Since Rockford demonstrated in its Objections that it was experiencing an unfair distribution of burdens, the DOE issued a Decision and Order, granting Rockford's Application for Exception.
