FR940511-2-00068 FR940511-2-00046 To have its MSWLF permit program deemed adequate by EPA, a tribe must have adequate authority over the regulated activities. Indian reservations include lands owned in fee by non-Indians. The extent of Tribal authority to regulate activities by non-Indians on such land has been the subject of considerable recent discussion. The test for civil regulatory authority over nonmember lands within Indian reservations was stated in Montana v. U.S., 450 U.S. 544, 565&hyph;66 (1981) (citations omitted): To be sure, Indian tribes retain inherent sovereign power to exercise some forms of civil jurisdiction over non-Indians on their reservations, even on non-Indian fee lands. A tribe may regulate *␣*␣* the activities of non-members who enter consensual relationships with the tribe or its members, through commercial dealing, contracts, leases, or other arrangements. *␣*␣* A tribe may also retain inherent power to exercise civil authority over the conduct of non-Indians on fee lands within its reservation when that conduct threatens or has some direct effect on the political integrity, the economic security, or the health or welfare of the tribe. In Brendale v. Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation, 492 U.S. 408 (1989), the Court applied this test. Both the State of Washington and the Yakima Nation asserted authority to zone non-Indian real estate developments on two parcels within the Yakima reservation, one in an area that was primarily Tribal, the other in an area where much of the land was owned in fee by nonmembers. Although the Court analyzed the issues and the appropriate interpretation of Montana at considerable length, the nine members split 4:2:3 in reaching the decision that the Tribe should have exclusive zoning authority over property in the Tribal area and the State should have exclusive zoning authority over non-Indian owned property in the fee area. Specifically, the Court recognized Tribal authority over activities that would threaten the health and welfare of the Tribe, 492 U.S. at 443&hyph;444 (Stevens, J., writing for the Court); id. at 449&hyph;450 (Blackmun, J. concurring). Conversely, the Court found no Tribal jurisdiction where the proposed activities ``would not threaten the Tribe's *␣*␣* health and welfare.'' Id. at 432 (White, J., writing for the Court). Given the lack of a majority rationale, the primary significance of Brendale is in its result, which was fully consistent with Montana v. United States. In evaluating whether a Tribe has authority to regulate a particular activity on land owned in fee by nonmembers but located within a reservation, EPA will examine the Tribe's authority in light of the evolving case law as reflected in Montana and Brendale and applicable Federal law. The extent of such Tribal authority depends on the effect of that activity on the Tribe. As discussed above, in the absence of a contrary statutory policy, a Tribe may regulate the activities of non-Indians on fee lands within its reservation when those activities threaten or have a direct effect on the political integrity, the economic security, or the health or welfare of the Tribe. Montana, 450 U.S. at 565&hyph;66. For further discussion of this issue see 56 FR 64876. However, in Brendale several justices argued that for a Tribe to have ``a protectable interest'' in an activity, the activity's effect should be ``demonstrably serious *␣*␣*.'' Brendale, 492 U.S. at 431 (White, J.). In addition, in a more recent case involving Tribal criminal jurisdiction, a majority of the Court indicated in dicta that a Tribe may exercise civil authority ``where the exercise of tribal authority is vital to the maintenance of tribal integrity and self-determination.'' Duro v. Reina, 110 S.Ct. 2053, 2061 (1990). See also Brendale, 492 U.S. at 450 (Blackmun, J.) (test for inherent Tribal authority whether activities ``implicate a significant tribal interest''); id. at 462 (Blackmun, J.) (test for inherent Tribal authority whether exercise of authority ``fundamental to the political and economic security of the tribe *␣*␣*''). As discussed above, the Supreme Court, in recent cases, has explored several options to assure that the impacts upon Tribes of the activities of non-Indians on fee land, under the Montana test, are more than de minimis, although to date the Court has not agreed, in a case on point, on any one reformulation of the test. In response to this uncertainty, the Agency will apply, as an interim operating principle, a formulation of the standard that will require a showing that the potential impacts of regulated activities of non-members on the Tribe are serious and substantial. The choice of an Agency operating principle containing this standard is taken solely as a matter of prudence in light of judicial uncertainty and does not reflect an Agency endorsement of this standard per se. Moreover, as discussed below, the Agency believes that the activities regulated under the various environmental statutes generally have serious and substantial impacts on human health and welfare. As a result, the Agency believes that Tribes usually will be able to meet the Agency's operating principle, and that use of such a test by the Agency should not create an improper burden of proof on Tribes or create the administratively undesirable result of checkerboarding reservations. Whether a Tribe has jurisdiction over activities by nonmembers will be determined case-by-case, based on factual findings. The determination as to whether the required effect is present in a particular case depends on the circumstances. Nonetheless, the Agency also may take into account the provisions of environmental statutes and any legislative findings that the effects of the activity are serious in making a generalized finding that Tribes are likely to possess sufficient inherent authority to control reservation environmental quality. See, e.g., Keystone Bituminous Coal Ass'n v. DeBenedictis, 480 U.S. 470, 476&hyph;77 and nn.6, 7 (1987). As a result, in making the required factual findings as to the impact of a solid waste activity on a particular Tribe, it may not be necessary to develop an extensive and detailed record in each case. The Agency also may rely on its special expertise and practical experience regarding the importance of solid waste management.
