FR940217-1-00083 FR940217-1-00014 With respect to fine proceedings against third-party servicers, the Secretary proposes to amend §668.84 to specify under the procedures for fine proceedings that a designated department official notifies each institution that is affected by the alleged violations identified as the basis for the fine proceeding. To the extent possible, the official also notifies each institution that contracts with the servicer for the same service affected by the alleged violation. This change would parallel the notification requirements that the Secretary has proposed under §668.24(b). As explained in the prior discussion regarding notification requirements under §668.24(b), there was no consensus during negotiated rulemaking on this proposed provision. Some negotiators opposed this requirement on the grounds previously noted. In addition, §§668.85 and 668.86 would require the official to notify each institution that contracts with a third-party servicer under a suspension, limitation, or termination proceeding. Fine, limitation, suspension, and termination proceedings would all require the official to include in the notice to a third-party servicer the consequences of the action to the institution, including that the Secretary may fine, limit, suspend, or terminate the institution, as applicable. Given the potential consequences to an institution, the Secretary deems it proper to provide notice to each institution that could be affected of the Secretary's intent to seek a sanction against the servicer, whether the Secretary also intends to seek a sanction against the institution or not. Even if the Secretary does not begin a fine, limitation, suspension, or termination proceeding against an institution, the Secretary believes that the institution should be kept informed of the status of any proposed sanction against the institution's servicer. Imposition of the sanction could have an effect on the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. Further, the Secretary believes that an institution should be informed if its servicer's administration of a Title IV, HEA program is called into question. That information would permit the institution to make informed judgments about the institution's continued use of the servicer, and take corrective action prior to the outcome of any administrative proceeding. Sections 668.87␣Prehearing Conference and 668.88 Hearing. The Secretary proposes to add references to third-party servicers to conform to the proposed changes in the scope of this subpart. Section 668.89␣Authority and responsibilities of the hearing official. The Secretary proposes to amend this section to make clear that a hearing official is bound by all applicable statutes and regulations. This change would codify in the regulations the existing responsibility of the hearing official. Section 668.90␣Initial and final decisions_Appeals. This section would be amended to add references to third-party servicers to conform to the proposed changes in the scope of this subpart. In addition, paragraph (a)(3) of this section would be amended to reflect changes proposed under §§668.12 and 668.82 dealing with the past performance of individuals, agencies, or organizations that are affiliated with an institution, including, as applicable, third-party servicers. The Secretary proposes to add a new restriction on a hearing official's authority to modify a proposed sanction against an institution or third-party servicer. If a designated department official brings a termination action against an institution or servicer for engaging in fraud, and a hearing official finds that the institution or servicer has engaged in fraud, the hearing official must uphold the termination. The examples of fraud listed in this section are the same as those proposed for §668.83 concerning emergency action. The Secretary believes that if an institution or third-party servicer engages in fraud involving a Title IV, HEA program, the institution's participation in the program should be terminated or the servicer's eligibility to contract with an institution to administer any aspect of that institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs, as applicable, should be terminated. The Secretary does not believe that a lesser sanction that permits the institution or servicer to continue to participate in the program or in the case of a third-party servicer to be eligible to contract, is a sufficient safeguard against the likely abuse of Title IV, HEA program funds. The Secretary proposes to amend paragraph (c)(1) of this section so that in a fine, limitation, or termination proceeding, the hearing official's initial decision automatically becomes the Secretary's final decision in 30 days (20 days is mandated under the current regulations) after the initial decision is issued and received by both parties unless that initial decision is questioned before the Secretary. The Secretary is proposing these new timeframes to make them consistent with other reporting requirements in this part. The Secretary does not believe that a ten-day difference in an institution's or servicer's right to appeal an initial decision would unduly affect the integrity of the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary also proposes to make technical changes in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section to correct typographical errors that inadvertently appeared in final regulations published in the Federal Register on July 31, 1991 (56 FR 36698). Section 668.91␣Filing of requests for hearings and appeals; confirmation of mailing and receipt dates. The Secretary proposes to add references to third-party servicers to conform to the proposed changes in the scope of this subpart.
