FR941004-2-00158 FR941004-2-00090 ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, 333 South Hope Street, 52nd Floor, Los Angeles, California 90071. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Courtney S. Thornton, Senior Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0583, or Barry D. Miller, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Each of the Funds is an open-end, diversified management investment company registered under the Act. With the exception of The Investment Company of America, which is a Delaware corporation, each of the Funds is either a Massachusetts business trust or a Maryland corporation. 2. Each Fund is governed by a board of directors/trustees, a majority of whom are not ``interested persons'' of the Funds within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Act. CRMC, a subsidiary of The Capital Group, Inc., serves as investment adviser to each of the Funds. In addition, certain of the Funds employ advisory boards, as defined in section 2(a)(1) of the Act, whose members (``Advisors'') consult from time to time with CRMC and Fund directors, primarily with respect to such Fund's investments or management. No director or Advisor employed by CRMC or its affiliated companies (other than the Funds) or by Washington Management Corporation (``WMC'') (the business manager for three of the Funds) or its affiliates receives any remuneration from the Funds. 3. Applicants request an exemptive order to permit the Funds to offer certain deferred compensation plans (``Plans'') to their directors who are not employees of either CRMC or its affiliates or WMC or its affiliates (the ``Non-Employee Directors'') 1 and their Advisors (collectively, the ``Participants''). 2 Applicants request that the exemption requested, other than the exemption from section 13(a)(3), which is requested only for certain of the Funds that are named as applicants, also apply to any open-end management investment company that is advised by CRMC in the future. 1 Most of the Non-Employee Directors are not ``interested persons'' of the Funds as defined in section 2(a)(19) of the Act. However, one Non-Employee Director may be deemed an interested person due to membership on the board of directors of the parent company of a registered broker-dealer. 2 The Plans are substantially similar to deferred compensation plans which previously were offered by certain of the Funds (the ``Pre-Existing Plans'') for which no-action relief was requested and granted by the Commission. See American Balanced Fund, Inc. (pub. avail. Feb. 13, 1984). All of the Pre-Existing Plans now have been terminated. 4. The purpose of the Plans is to permit Participants to defer receipt of all or a percentage of the fees otherwise payable to them by such Fund. Fees deferred under a Plan, and any earnings thereon, are not subject to federal or state income taxation until actually received by the Participants or their beneficiaries. 5. Each of the Plans became effective upon adoption by the board of directors of the relevant Fund, prior to the filing of the application for an exemptive order. An order is required for the Plans because the Funds wish to use returns on investment companies in The American Funds Group (which encompasses all of the Funds named as applicants, with the exception of the American Variable Insurance Series) to determine the amount of earnings and gains or losses allocated in respect of a Participant's deferred compensation account (``Deferred Payment Account''); this feature may not be implemented without SEC approval. Pending receipt of SEC approval, each Plan provides that compensation deferred by a Participant under a Plan will be credited to the Participant's Deferred Payment Account in the form of cash, and credited with earnings in an amount equal to the yield on 90-day U.S. Treasury Bills. Any conversion of previously credited cash amounts will be effected at the net asset value of the relevant Fund(s) as of the date of any order granting exemptive relief or an appropriate date thereafter. 6. Compensation deferred under a Plan is credited to a Deferred Payment Account established in the name of each Participant on the books of the relevant Fund on the date on which it would otherwise have been credited to a Participant. Participants may select one or more Funds in The American Funds Group, in which their deferred compensation will be deemed to be invested in the form of fictional shares (``Phantom Shares'') of the Fund(s) selected by a Participant for purposes of crediting earnings and determining payments. Participants will receive periodic statements, at least annually, showing the balance credited to their respective Deferred Payment Accounts. A Participant's benefits under a Plan are not transferable or assignable, except in the event of death. If a Participant dies at any time before all amounts in his or her Deferred Payment Account have been paid, such remaining amounts will be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable to the Participant's designated beneficiaries. 7. Except in the case of Funds that are money market funds, a Fund sponsoring a Plan will be under no obligation to a Participant to purchase, hold, or dispose of any underlying shares of any Fund in order to exactly match its obligations to credit or charge Participants' Deferred Payment Accounts with the earnings and gains or losses attributable to any Phantom Shares. Nevertheless, if underlying shares of any Funds are purchased by a Fund for matching purposes, any and all such shares will continue to be a part of the general assets and property of such Fund. Amounts credited to a Participant's Deferred Payment Account are not evidenced by any note or other security, or funded or secured in any way. In addition, no assets of a Fund will be segregated for the account of any participant; Participants' will be general unsecured creditors of the relevant Fund for payments due under any Plan. The obligations under a Plan will be reflected as a liability on the books of the relevant Fund.
