FR940705-0-00050 FR940705-0-00004 Food Safety and Inspection Service 9 CFR Chapter III [Docket No. 94&hyph;019N] Use of Direct Final Rulemaking AGENCY: Food Safety and Inspection Service. ACTION: Policy statement. SUMMARY: The Food Safety and Inspection Service is implementing a new rulemaking procedure to expedite noncontroversial changes to its regulations. Rules that the agency judges to be noncontroversial and unlikely to result in adverse comments will be published as ``direct final'' rules. ``Adverse comments'' are comments that suggest that a rule should not be adopted or suggest that a change should be made to the rule. Each direct final rule will advise the public that no adverse comments are anticipated and that unless written adverse comments or written notice of intent to submit adverse comments are received within 30 days, the revision made by the rule will be effective 60 days from the date the direct final rule is published in the Federal Register . This new policy should expedite the promulgation of routine or otherwise noncontroversial rules by reducing the time that would be required to develop, review, clear, and publish separate proposed and final rules. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paula M. Cohen, Director, Regulations Development, Policy, Evaluation and Planning Staff, Room 3812 South Agriculture Building, 14th and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250&hyph;3700; (202) 720&hyph;7164. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is committed to improving the efficiency of our regulatory process. As such, we plan to adopt the rulemaking technique known as ``direct final rulemaking,'' which will be used to promulgate some of FSIS' rules. The Direct Final Rule Process Rules that FSIS judges to be noncontroversial and unlikely to generate adverse comments will be published as direct final rules. Such direct final rules will advise the public that no adverse comments are anticipated and that unless written adverse comments or written notice of intent to submit adverse comments are received within 30 days, the revision made by the rule will be effective 60 days from the date the direct final rule is published in the Federal Register . ``Adverse comments'' are comments that suggest that the rule should not be adopted or that a change should be made to the rule. A comment expressing support for the rule as published would not be considered adverse. Also, a comment suggesting that requirements in the rule should, or should not, be employed by FSIS in programs or situations outside the scope of the direct final rule would not be considered adverse. In accordance with the rulemaking provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553), this procedure gives the public general notice of FSIS' intent to revise or adopt a new rule and gives interested persons an opportunity to participate in the rulemaking through submission of comments. The major feature of direct final rulemaking is that if FSIS receives no written adverse comments within 30 days of the publication of a direct final rule or any written notice of intent to submit adverse comments, the rule will become effective without the need to publish a separate final rule. However, FSIS will publish notice in the Federal Register stating that no written adverse comments and no written notice of intent to submit adverse comments were received regarding the direct final rule, and confirming that the direct final rule is effective on the date stated in the direct final rule. If FSIS receives written adverse comments or written notice of intent to submit adverse comments within 30 days of the publication of a direct final rule, FSIS will publish in the Federal Register a notice of withdrawal of the direct final rule. If FSIS intends to proceed with the rulemaking, the direct final rule will be republished as a proposed rule, and we will proceed through the normal notice-and-comment rulemaking procedures. Determining When To Use Direct Final Rulemaking Not all FSIS rules are good candidates for direct final rulemaking. We intend to use the direct final procedure only for rules that we consider noncontroversial and unlikely to generate adverse comments. The decision to use direct final rulemaking for particular situations will be based on FSIS' experience with similar rules. Done in Washington, DC., on June 27, 1994. William J. Hudnall, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16109 Filed 7&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;DM&hyph;P
