FR940831-1-00006 FR940831-1-00001 7. Section 1425.9 is amended by revising the introductory text and paragraphs (d) and (g) to read as follows: §1425.9 Charter and bylaw provisions. The articles of incorporation, articles of association, or the bylaws of the cooperative shall comply with each of the following requirements: * * * * * (d) Nominations. (1) Nominations for election of delegates and directors shall be made by members. (2) Nominations for officers shall be made by elected directors or by members when nomination by members is authorized in the cooperative's articles of incorporation or bylaws. (3) Nominations may be made by balloting, nominating committee, petition of members, or from the floor, provided that nominations from the floor shall be requested in addition to nominations made by a nominating committee or by petition. * * * * * (g) Proxy. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, voting by proxy shall be prohibited. (2) Voting by proxy may be permitted if a cooperative: (i) Determines that it is necessary to amend the cooperative's articles of incorporation, articles of association, or bylaws, and (ii) Establishes to the satisfaction of CCC that the law of the State in which the cooperative is incorporated permits voting by proxy, but does not permit members to vote by mail, with respect to such issue. * * * * * 8. In §1425.10, paragraph (b)(3) is revised to read as follows: §1425.10 Financial condition. * * * * * (b)␣*␣*␣* (3)(i) The net worth of the cooperative. The cooperative shall be considered to have a sufficient net worth if such net worth is equal to the product of an amount per unit for a commodity (as set forth in table 1) multiplied by the total number of such units of commodity for which the cooperative is approved, or requesting approval, to participate in price support and handled by the cooperative during the preceding marketing year, or, if the cooperative is in its first full marketing year of operations, the estimated quantity of such commodity that it will handle during such year. (ii) (A) If the amount of the net worth of the cooperative is between 34 and 99 percent of the amount computed in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section and the cooperative is determined by CCC to be otherwise financially sound, CCC may determine that such cooperative meets the requirements of this section. Such a determination by CCC may be made if: ( 1 ) The board of directors of the cooperative agrees to make a capital retain in the amount set forth in table 2 with respect to each unit of the commodity delivered to the cooperative until the net worth of the cooperative is at least equal to the amount computed in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, and ( 2 ) The cooperative agrees to deduct from pool proceeds the full amount of the estimated expenses of handling the commodities received by the cooperative. (B) The failure to carry out such agreements shall be grounds for suspending a cooperative's approval.
