FR940830-1-00059 FR940830-1-00010 I. Background A. Authority Under section 3004(m) of the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 (HSWA), EPA is required to set ``levels or methods of treatment, if any, which substantially diminish the toxicity of the waste or substantially reduce the likelihood of migration of hazardous constituents from the waste so that short-term and long-term threats to human health and the environment are minimized.'' EPA has interpreted this language to mean treatment standards based on the performance of best demonstrated available technology (BDAT). This interpretation was sustained by the D.C. Circuit in HWTC v. EPA , 886 F.2d 355 (D.C. Cir. 1989), cert. den. 111 S. Ct. 139 (1990). The Agency, however, has recognized that there may be wastes that cannot be treated to the levels specified in the rules, due to the fact that the wastes are in a form that is substantially more difficult to treat than those the Agency evaluated in establishing the treatment standard (51 FR 40576, November 7, 1986), or where the treatment technology is inappropriate for the waste. For such wastes, EPA has established a treatability variance (40 CFR 268.44), to establish alternative treatment standards on a case-by-case basis. The requirements for qualifying for a site-specific treatability variance are contained in 40 CFR 268.44(h), which states, ``Where the treatment standard is expressed as a concentration in a waste or waste extract and a waste generated under conditions specific to only one site cannot be treated to the specified level or where the treatment technology is not appropriate to the waste, the generator or treatment facility may apply to the Administrator, or her designated representative, for a site-specific variance from the treatment standard. The applicant for a site-specific variance must demonstrate that because the physical or chemical properties of the waste differ significantly from the waste analyzed in developing the treatment standard, the waste cannot be treated to specified levels or by the specified methods.'' For a more thorough discussion of the conditions which justify granting a treatability variance and the supporting information the petitioner is required to submit, please refer to the November 7, 1986 Federal Register Notice, also known as the Solvents and Dioxins Final LDR Rule (51 FR 40605&hyph;40606). B. Site Description The specific site addressed by this proposed variance is located at Citgo Corporation's Lake Charles Refinery, 4401 Louisiana Highway 108 in Calcasieu County in the southwest corner of Louisiana. The surface impoundment in question, referred to as the ``Surge Pond'' in Citgo's literature, is situated immediately adjacent to the west bank of the Calcasieu River, approximately 10 miles southwest of Lake Charles and 15 miles north of the Sabine National Wildlife Refuge. The Surge Pond has a surface area of twenty six (26) acres. Much of the pond is 15 to 20 feet deep; the deepest part is about 40 feet deep. The water surface elevation of the pond is six feet above sea level; the water layer is about 15 feet deep. The bottom of the pond is filled with sludge which has been accumulating since the 1940's. The pond has been receiving untreated petroleum refining process water and stormwater runoff from the site throughout most of the site's history. The sludge at the bottom of the pond is a primary sludge generated by the settling of petroleum refining wastewater and thus meets the definition of RCRA Hazardous Waste Codes F037 and F038. The Surge Pond discharges into the old onsite wastewater treatment system. This system consists of an earthen equalization basin, followed by dissolved air flotation (DAF) tanks, an earthen aeration basin, clarifier tanks, a settling pond, a polishing pond, and then discharges into the Calcasieu river at a NPDES regulated outfall (Permit number LA0005941). (The company's request for a treatability variance only includes sludge from the Surge Pond; it does not include any sludge generated by the rest of the old wastewater treatment system.) A new onsite wastewater treatment system has been in operation since May 13, 1994. The system now receives stormwater and process wastewater from the site. The system consists primarily of above ground tanks with floating roofs. Air emissions from the tanks are routed to a vapor control system. The new wastewater flow path is from API separators, to an equalization tank, to a DAF unit, to aerated activated sludge tanks, to a clarifier. Clarifier effluent discharges to the settling pond of the old wastewater treatment system. C. Regulatory History 1. Regulations Applying to Citgo's Surge Pond The Surge Pond began operating in the late 1940's, and has been generating sludge since that time. The RCRA regulatory history of the impoundment, set out in full in Citgo's petition, is complicated. (See Citgo's variance petition for a more thorough discussion of the regulatory history of Citgo's refinery.) Most of this history is not relevant for evaluating the petition. It is clear, however, that the sludge in the pond is listed as F037 and F038; as such, it became subject to the land disposal restriction treatment requirements and prohibitions on June 30, 1994, the date that the national capacity variance for this waste expired. See ยง268.36 (c), promulgated at 57 FR 37271 (Aug. 18, 1992). Thus, the sludge or any residues generated from its treatment cannot be placed on the land, including back in the Surge Pond, unless first treated to meet the treatment standards for F037/F038, since the impoundment does not qualify as a section 3005 (j) (11) impoundment. Nor does the company want to put the treated sludge back into the impoundment. The company has also constructed a new tank-based wastewater treatment system to replace the old system of surface impoundments.
