FR940825-1-00108 FR940825-1-00009 EPA also currently provides technical and financial support to Tribes that have initiated the process of developing Tribal air programs. For example, some EPA Regional Offices are currently providing such assistance to Tribes that have air quality that is worse than the NAAQS. The objective is to assist the Tribes in developing a strategy for controlling emissions from existing sources that will bring the area back into attainment with the NAAQS. Because EPA has not finalized today's rule authorizing Tribes to submit Federal CAA programs to EPA for approval, some EPA Regions are now working with Tribes to develop programs that will be promulgated and administered by EPA until this rule is finalized and a Tribal program is approved. 10 Where air quality problems have already been identified, it is EPA's policy to proceed expeditiously, in conjunction with Tribes, to address such problems. 10 Such an interim EPA-administered program would be displaced upon EPA's approval of a Tribal program addressing the same CAA requirements. In addition, as described in Part I.B, there are some programs that are solely Federal programs (e.g. Phase I of the Acid Rain Program and Title VI of the Act, which provides for the phase-out of certain substances that deplete stratospheric ozone). Such programs apply to sources located on Tribal lands in the same manner as sources on lands subject to State jurisdiction. EPA views these efforts as an important and substantial first step in providing CAA protection of reservation air resources. EPA also intends to develop an implementation strategy for achieving Federal CAA protection of air resources within Indian reservations. The strategy will be designed to prioritize EPA resources in support of this rule. It is EPA's policy to assist Tribes in developing comprehensive and effective air quality management programs to insure that Tribal air quality management programs will be implemented to the extent necessary on Indian reservations. EPA will do this by, among other things, providing technical advice and assistance to Indian Tribes on air quality issues. EPA intends to consult with Tribes to identify their particular needs for air program development assistance and to provide on-going assistance as necessary. However, as it required many years to develop State and Federal programs to cover lands subject to State jurisdiction, so it will require time to develop Tribal and Federal programs to cover reservations and other lands subject to Tribal jurisdiction. As a first step in this process, EPA intends to draft a Plan for Reservation Air Program Implementation that will provide a strategy for developing reservation programs in accordance with this policy. The Plan will identify priority needs and include a strategy to address them by providing technical and grant assistance for the development of air quality management programs. EPA will seek appropriate input from Tribal governments in developing the Plan. C. Objective of Tribal Primacy and Self-Determination Ultimately, of course, EPA would prefer to work with Tribes to have the Tribes develop and administer their own air quality management programs under the CAA, just as EPA works with States. This is the principal objective of the Federal financial assistance described in Part IV below. While some Tribes may entirely develop their own CAA programs, other Tribes may consider forming Tribal consortia. Smaller Tribes in particular may wish to form consortia or create inter-Tribal agencies as ways to develop the necessary expertise to administer CAA programs in a cost-effective way. One of the advantages of forming a consortium of Tribes is that a Tribe may rely on the expertise and resources of the consortium in demonstrating that the Tribe is reasonably expected to be capable of carrying out the functions to be exercised, as described below. Today's action also does not require Tribes to develop CAA programs wholly from scratch. For example, a Tribe may adopt or incorporate standards from an adjacent or similarly situated State, with appropriate revisions that would adapt the State standards to reservation conditions and Tribal policies. The use of such adaptations would enable Tribes to build on State experience and expertise, and might represent quicker and less costly ways to establish Tribal programs than developing Tribal programs independently. This technique of utilizing small-scaled adaptations of State programs would allow Tribes to build experience and expertise that could later be used to revise existing programs, if appropriate. Tribes could also choose to negotiate a cooperative agreement with an adjoining State to jointly plan and administer CAA programs that are appropriately tailored to individual reservation conditions and Tribal policies. Such an agreement would be subject to the review and approval of the Administrator or her delegatee, if it is to be made part of an approvable Tribal air program under the CAA.
