FR941202-0-00020 FR941202-0-00001 (1) Comment . It is inappropriate for the NRC to use the existing policy for compatibility determinations regarding this rulemaking because the NRC is currently considering a new policy. Response . The Commission must use the existing policy for compatibility determinations regarding all rulemakings until the new policy becomes effective. At that time, the Commission expects that the existing compatibility determinations will be reviewed in light of the new policy. (2) Comment . There is an increasing tendency of NRC to use the term ``safety significance'' in justifying the NRC's position on compatibility determination. But the question is, ``How much significance?'' Response . Under the existing policy the Commission considers the safety significance of a particular requirement, i.e., whether it is necessary to ensure adequate protection of the public health and safety, in determining whether it should be an item of Agreement State compatibility. If it is necessary to ensure adequate protection, the requirement will, at a minimum, be Division 2 level of compatibility. In addition, if the requirement is both necessary for adequate protection and clear communication, it will be a Division 1 level of compatibility. Using these criteria, the Commission has made the findings on compatibility described above. The basic objective of these findings is to ensure that the public receives adequate radiation protection during medical procedures without undue interference in the practices of pharmacy and medicine. The relationship between compatibility and health and safety will be clarified in the new policy on Agreement State compatibility. (3) Comment . Some commenters suggested that Agreement States' requirements should be identical to NRC's requirements. Other commenters suggested that a high degree of consistency between Agreement States and the NRC on medical rules is not necessary. Response . The Commission believes in some cases, that it is necessary for Agreement States' regulations to be essentially verbatim, i.e., identical, to NRC regulations. In other cases, it is necessary for the Agreement States to adopt the provisions in a consistent although not identical form. As discussed above in the response to comment (2), the Commission has determined which provisions of this rule are a Division 1 level of compatibility. Except for definitions which are a Division 1 level of compatibility, all other provisions of this final rule are either Division 2 or 3 levels of compatibility. Thus, for this final rule, uniformity is not required between Agreement States and the NRC for all provisions. (4) Comment . Medical facilities are essentially fixed facilities with little or no implications for interstate commerce. Where is the justification for the NRC's position? Response . In the proposed rule, the NRC did not state that the reason for the proposed compatibility levels was due to interstate commerce implications. As stated earlier, the justifications for compatibility are as follows. All definitions contained in §§30.4 and 35.2 that are established or modified by this rulemaking are Division 1 levels of compatibility. These definitions must be the same for all NRC and Agreement State licensees so that national consistency can be maintained. Also, certain specific sections are Division 2 levels of compatibility because requirements at least this stringent are necessary to ensure adequate protection of the public health and safety.
