FR940426-1-00025 FR940426-1-00004 VII. Rights Offerings Concept Six: Regulation should be limited to rights offerings that raise a readily identifiable incentive to manipulate the market. Rights offerings are a means of raising capital whereby, for a limited period of time, issuers offer existing security holders the opportunity to purchase new securities, generally at a discount to the market price of the security underlying the rights. Because the structure differs significantly from that of a traditional offering of equity or debt securities, rights offerings involve different risks. 97 For instance, a decline in the market price during the often lengthy period during which rights may be exercised (``rights exercise period'') can affect the success of the offering. For this reason, issuers often retain underwriters who assume the risk of failure of the offering, i.e., that a substantial amount of rights will remain unexercised at the end of the rights exercise period. 97 See generally Loss, supra note 46, at 1604&hyph;1614; Foshay, supra note 5, at 916&hyph;918. Broker-dealers often are employed by issuers in one of, or some hybrid of, two methods to reduce market risk during the rights exercise period. The first method is the so-called ``Shields Plan,'' 98 which is used when the underwriters (typically a syndicate of underwriters) enter into a standby arrangement with the issuer, thereby committing to purchase all shares left unsubscribed at the expiration of the rights exercise period. During the rights exercise period, the underwriters will seek to offset the risk of purchasing the shares representing unexercised rights by purchasing rights, exercising them, and selling the securities acquired. The underwriters also may effect short sales of the underlying security and then purchase rights to cover this short position. 98 The Shields Plan originated in 1947 with a committee of the Investment Bankers Association headed by a partner of Shields & Co. In the so-called ``Columbia Gas Plan,'' 99 the issuer retains a securities dealer to act as dealer-manager of the offering, although there is no standby commitment to purchase unsubscribed shares. 100 Where rights are transferable, Shields Plan-type activities may be used in this type of arrangement to increase the amount of rights exercised, i.e. , the soliciting dealers sell short the securities being offered and purchase rights and exercise them to cover their short positions. Accordingly, although the dealer-manager may facilitate the exercise of rights and thus the distribution of the underlying securities, the risk of failure remains with the issuer. 99 The Columbia Gas Plan was first devised and implemented by the Columbia Gas Company in 1948. 100 This is also referred to as the ``dealer-manager plan.'' Rule 10b&hyph;8 defines a dealer-manager as ``a person [other than the issuer] who manages a distribution involving soliciting dealers.'' 17 CFR 240.10b&hyph;8(d)(8)(viii). One commentator has observed that the Commission encouraged the development of these plans because they reduced the flotation costs of rights offerings and protected existing security holders who otherwise might not receive a fair price for the rights that they did not wish to exercise. 101 101 Loss, supra note 46, at 1605. Adopted by the Commission in 1955, Rule 10b&hyph;8 represented a codification of prior administrative practice regarding rights offerings by permitting purchases of rights and other activities designed to reduce the risk of raising capital through rights offerings, albeit subject to limitations consistent with the goals of Rule 10b&hyph;6 (i.e., to restrict activities by persons participating in the rights offering which might artificially affect the price of the rights or the underlying security). 102 102 Rule 10b&hyph;8 applies to any person participating in a rights distribution, including the issuer, underwriter, dealer-manager, and soliciting dealers. The rule excludes from its coverage a person whose activities consist solely of receiving compensation from the issuer of rights for obtaining exercises of rights by security holders to whom they were originally issued. In recent years, certain persons or entities that are not brokers or dealers have served as standby purchasers in rights offerings in order to increase their ownership in the issuer's securities. Unlike standby underwriters who purchase rights to reduce their position risk, purchases of rights by such persons are made to acquire or increase a position in the underlying security. These latter standby purchasers are not covered by Rule 10b&hyph;8. See, e.g., Letter regarding Elron Electronic Industries Ltd. (March 19, 1990), [1990&hyph;1991] Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶79,656. The rule has remained essentially unchanged since it was adopted in 1955. 103 103 In 1983, the rule was amended to include within its scope convertible securities called for redemption pursuant to a standby underwriting agreement. Generally, calls for redemption contain features similar to rights offerings, namely, that a standby underwriter seeks to minimize its exposure to position risk during the redemption period. In 1993, the rule was amended to except certain rights offerings of foreign securities made exclusively in the United States to ``qualified institutional buyers,'' as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act. See Rule 144A Release.
