FR940919-0-00077 FR940919-0-00016 2. Categories of TC Wastes Affected by Today's Rule The following TC wastes are subject to UTS: (1) all wastes identified as D018 through D043 (described in the proposed rule as ``new organic constituents); (2) D012 through D017 organic pesticide wastes whose TCLP extract composition meets the concentration criteria of 40 CFR 261.24, Table A but whose EP extract composition does not; (3) D012 through D017 pesticide wastes whose TCLP extract composition meets the concentration criteria of 40 CFR 261.24 Table A, as does the EP extract composition, and (4) soil and debris contaminated with the preceeding three sets of wastes. The first two categories are newly identified wastes, i.e. wastes not yet identified as hazardous at the time of the 1984 amendments and therefore not covered by the original statutory schedule. (The March 29, 1990 rule extended the list of chemicals defined as TC and changed the extraction step to a more sensitive procedure which may potentially identify more pesticide wastes than did the EP.) For soil contaminated with the TC wastes, the variance process is available (see discussion in the Background section of this rule under the heading ``E. Treatment Standards for Hazardous Soil''). As noted in the proposed rule, regulating land disposal of newly identified TC wastes by addressing underlying hazardous constituents is the same approach as EPA adopted in the recent interim final rule for ignitable (D001) and corrosive (D002) characteristic wastes, promulgated on May 10, 1993 (published on May 24, 1993, 58 FR 29860) in response to the court's decision in Chemical Waste Management v. EPA , 976 F. 2d 2. That case vacated and remanded certain Agency regulations (commonly referred to as the Third Third rule) establishing prohibitions and treatment standards for characteristic wastes, and also established rules as to when the prohibitions and standards would not apply. A summary of the court's decision, an overview of the interim final rule published on May 24, 1993, and a discussion of how the Agency proposed to apply this approach to the TC wastes can be found in the text of the proposed rule at 58 FR 48092. Today's rule regulates underlying hazardous constituents in the D018&hyph;D043 as well as in newly identified D012&hyph;D017 and in the rest of the universe of D012&hyph;D017 wastes. (The definition of ``underlying hazardous constituents'' is contained at 268.2(i) in this rule.) For those D012&hyph;D017 nonwastewaters originally regulated in the Third Third rule, today's rule changes the numerical value of the previously applicable treatment standards to the UTS. 3. Soil Contaminated by Underground Storage Tanks Soil which is contaminated with petroleum and is managed during corrective action of releases from a RCRA Subtitle I underground storage tank (UST) is not subject to the treatment standards promulgated today for the TC organic wastes (D018&hyph;D043). Such soil that fails the TC for one or more of the newly identified organic wastes (D018&hyph;D043) has been temporarily deferred from regulation as a hazardous waste (55 FR 26986). In addition, the Agency has proposed to permanently exempt UST petroleum-contaminated soils from the TC rule (58 FR 8504). However, any Subtitle I petroleum-contaminated soil identified as D001 through D017 would not be subject to the deferral and would be subject to all applicable RCRA land disposal restriction requirements. The Agency reminds the regulated community that any soil contaminated by a release from a hazardous substance UST (Subtitle I) as well as from all non-Subtitle I USTs (including petroleum tanks) will continue to be subject to applicable RCRA hazardous waste requirements, including the land disposal restrictions. Likewise, petroleum-contaminated soils from non- UST sources that exhibit a hazardous characteristic are also subject to applicable Subtitle C requirements. 4. Metal TC Wastes Are Not Affected by Today's Rule Today's rule does not affect TC metal wastes at all; this rule leaves the Third Third final treatment standards (which apply to EP metals) in place. Furthermore, today's rule does not affect the mineral processing wastes which were formerly exempt from Subtitle C regulation under the Bevill Amendment but which recently lost that exemption. Included in that set of wastes are wastes from the remediation of historic manufactured gas plant or coal gasification sites. EPA will address TC metal wastes and the former Bevill mineral processing wastes in a future rulemaking. B. Background 1. Legal and Policy Basis for Today's TC Standards Today's rule applies the UTS to underlying hazardous constituents in D012&hyph;D043 wastewaters and nonwastewaters. Commenters' principal objection to the proposed standards for TC wastes was that the September 1992 Circuit Court decision did not authorize EPA to regulate underlying hazardous constituents in TC wastes. Most of these comments asserted that organic TC wastes were fundamentally different from ignitable or corrosive wastes and therefore EPA's decision to apply the standards promulgated in the May 24, 1993 Interim Final Rule for ignitable and corrosive wastes was inappropriate. These commenters said that TC wastes were unlikely to pose a threat to human health and the environment once treatment removed the single constituent, partly because such treatment would remove other similar hazardous components of the waste. None of these commenters submitted process data demonstrating these claims. On the other hand, some commenters argued that merely deactivating characteristic wastes might well leave hazardous components intact. The Agency is regulating in this rule underlying hazardous constituents in TC wastes when they are managed in non-CWA/non-CWA equivalent/non-Class I injection well waste management systems. If, as commenters assert, treatment of the TC constituent effectively treats underlying hazardous constituents, then regulating the underlying hazardous constituent poses no further burden. Additionally, EPA believes that the compliance monitoring provisions requiring the generator to address only those underlying constituents ``reasonably expected to be present in the wastes'' relieves generators and treaters from an undue regulatory burden. Several commenters objected that extending the requirement to treat underlying hazardous constituents from ignitable and corrosive wastes, as promulgated in the May 24, 1993 Interim Final Rule, to TC wastes was unnecessary. The numerical treatment standard for the constituent present at the TC level, the commenters reasoned, meets RCRA's section 3004(m) ``minimize threat'' requirement. EPA is not persuaded by such reasoning. 55 FR 22542, 22652 (June 1, 1990); Chemical Waste Management, 976 F.2d at 14; HWTC III, 886 F. 2d at 362. The TC level identifies wastes that are clearly hazardous, and does not evaluate presence of underlying hazardous constituents, non-groundwater exposure pathways, or adverse environmental effects. 2. Ongoing Management Practices for TC Wastes The proposed rule solicited comments and data on volumes of TC wastes managed in Class V injection wells, and on waste management practices employed prior to such injection. EPA received little substantive comment and consequently has no basis for changing the proposed approach. The proposed rule also solicited information about industrial generation patterns in order to allow the Agency to assess the potential for source reduction or recycling for these TC wastes in light of their wide diversity. However, EPA received no comments describing current industry practices upon which the Agency could act. The Agency is to consider opportunities for source reduction and recycling of these wastes, and ways treatment standards could reflect such types of waste minimization. The Agency notes that the subtitle C rules generally, and the LDR rules in particular, have already resulted in substantial volumes of hazardous waste no longer being generated, because these rules impose waste management costs on hazardous waste generators, and thus create a financial incentive to generate less waste. Finally, several commenters expressed concerns about achievability of UTS for underlying hazardous constituents in complex matrices and about the appropriateness of numerical standards based on incineration. See the discussion of UTS in section III.A of this preamble for more information on these comments.
