FR940404-2-00200 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Ad Hoc Working Group on Trade Efficiency, Second Session, Trade and Development Board, United Nations Conference for Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Geneva, November 15&hyph;23, 1993 Representative John L. Wilkinson, Acting Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Private Enterprise, Agency for International Development Alternate Representative Steven Schlaikjer, Economic Counselor, United States Mission, Geneva Advisers Robert Konrath, Economic Officer, United States Mission, Geneva Leonard James Petree, Assistant Customs Attache, United States Mission to the European Community, Brussels Elizabeth W. Shelton, Deputy Director, Office of International Economic Policy, Bureau of International Organization Affairs, Department of State Private Sector Advisers George J. Arnold, Director of Development, City of Columbus, Ohio Sandra Bartley, Special Assistant to the Mayor for International Affairs, City of Columbus, Ohio Greg Harter, President, EDI Association of the United States, Alexandria, Virginia Judith E. Payne, Payne and Associates, McLean, Virginia Randall E. Wise, Director, The North American Trade Point, Columbus, Ohio United States Delegation to the Second Meeting of Study Group 8, Telecommunication Standardization Sector, International Telecommunication Union, Geneva, November 16&hyph;25, 1993 Representative Dennis Bodson, Deputy Director, National Communications System, Arlington, Virginia Alternate Representative Douglas V. Davis, Attorney Adviser, Federal Communications Commission Advisers George Flynn, Director, National Security, Emergency Preparedness Division, General Services Administration Steven Perschau, Senior Engineer, National Communications System, Arlington, Virginia Private Sector Advisers Bruce J. DeGrasse, Consultant, B. J. Communications, Dallas, Texas Ross Kocen, Product Marketing Manager, Tekelec, Calabasas, California Andrew Mutz, Research Scientist, Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York James P. Rafferty, President, Human Communications, Danbury, Connecticut Herman R. Silbiger, Communications Consultant, APPLICOM, Tinton Falls, New Jersey Steven Urban, Senior Engineer, Delta Information Systems, Horsham, Pennsylvania United States Delegation to the Maritime Transport Committee (MTC), Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris, November 22&hyph;23, 1993 Representative Geoffrey Ogden, Director, Office of Maritime and Land Transport, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Alternate Representative Ralph Edwards, Office of International Affairs, Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation Private Sector Adviser Donald L. O'Hare, Sea-Land Corporation, Iselin, New Jersey
