FR941011-2-00010 FR941011-2-00002 Complainants. These are individuals, who have not requested anonymity or confidentiality regarding their identity, who allege wrongdoing, mismanagement, or unfair treatment relating to USDA employees and/or programs. Others. These are all other individuals closely connected with a matter of investigative interest. Categories of records in the system: The OIG Investigative Files and Automated Investigative Indices System consist of: 1. Computerized records searchable by case number or alphabetically by the names of individuals, organizations, and firms, with a separate record for each containing, if applicable, identification of the OIG file or files which contain information on that subject, and if such information was available when the record was created or modified, the individual's name, address, sex, race, date and place of birth, relationship to the investigation, FBI or State criminal identification number, and social security number (very few have the dates when entries were made into the index); 2. Files containing sheets of paper or microfiche of such sheets from investigative and other reports, correspondence, and informal notes and notations concerning (a) one investigative matter or (b) a number of incidents of the same sort of alleged violation or irregularity; and 3. Where an investigation is being or will be conducted, but has not been completed, various case management records, investigator's notes, statements of witnesses, and copies of records. These are contained on cards and sheets of paper located in an OIG office or in the possession of the OIG investigator. Certain management records are retained after the investigative report is released as a means of following action taken on the basis of the OIG investigative report. Authority for maintenance of the system: Pub. L. 95&hyph;452, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App.; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 2270. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Routine uses (1) through (12) listed in the system of records designated USDA/OIG&hyph;1. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: The OIG Automated Investigative Indices System consists of computerized records. The investigative files are stored in steel lektriever cabinets, on microfiche sheets, microfilm, electronic image filing systems, or in Federal Records Centers. Retrievability: Computerized records are retrievable alphabetically or by using the case number, with each record identifying one or more OIG investigative case files or administrative files arranged numerically by file number. Information in investigative or administrative files concerning individuals not indexed is considered irretrievable. Safeguards: These records are kept in limited-access areas during duty hours, in locked offices during nonduty hours, or in the possession of the investigator. Computer files are password protected. Retention and disposal: The investigative case files are maintained for 10 years after the case is closed. Administrative files are kept for 5 years after the case is closed. Computerized records are destroyed at the same time as the physical files to which they relate. System manager(s) and address: Director, Resources Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2307. Record access procedures: To request access to information in this system, write to Director, Information Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2309. Contesting record procedure: To contest information in this system, send request to Assistant Inspector General for Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2310. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), this system of records has been exempted from all provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended, except subsections (b), (c)(1) and (2), (e)(4)(A) through (F), (e)(6), (7), (9), (10) and (11), and (i).
