FR941013-1-00061 FR941013-1-00010 The EPA prepared estimates of the cost to owners and operators of implementing the requirements of the proposed off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP at facilities expected to be subject to the rule. The total nationwide capital investment cost to purchase and install the air emission controls that would be required by the proposed rule is estimated by the EPA to be approximately $49 million. The total nationwide annual cost of the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP, as proposed, is estimated to be approximately $24.5 million per year. II. Background A. Section 112 Statutory Requirements Section 112 of the Clean Air Act (CAA) regulates stationary sources of hazardous air pollutants (HAP). This section was comprehensively amended under Title III of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. The term ``stationary source'' means any building, structure, facility, or installation that emits or may emit air pollutants. Under the amended CAA section 112(b), Congress listed 189 chemicals, compounds, or groups of chemicals as HAP. The EPA is directed by the CAA section 112 to regulate the emission of these HAP from stationary sources by establishing national emission standards (i.e., NESHAP). A 1990 amendment to section 112(c) of the CAA requires the EPA to develop and publish a list of source categories that emit HAP for which NESHAP will be developed. The EPA is required to list all known categories and subcategories of ``major sources.'' The term ``major source'' is defined by the CAA to mean ``any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit, considering controls, in the aggregate 10 tons per year (ton/yr) or more of any HAP or 25 ton/yr or more of any combination of HAP.'' The EPA's initial list of categories of major sources of HAP emissions was published in the Federal Register on July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576). For each NESHAP source category listed by EPA, standards must be developed to control HAP emissions from both new sources and existing sources in accordance with specific statutory directives set out in CAA section 112, as amended. The statute requires the EPA to establish standards under a NESHAP to reflect the maximum degree of reduction in HAP emissions through application of maximum achievable control technology (MACT). A statutory minimum or baseline to the level of HAP emission control that the EPA can select to be MACT for a particular source category is defined under CAA section 112(d)(3). This minimum HAP emission control level is referred as the ``MACT floor.'' For new sources, the MACT floor is the level of HAP emission control that is achieved in practice by the best controlled similar source. The statute allows standards under a NESHAP for existing sources to be less stringent than standards for new sources. The determination of MACT floor for existing sources is dependent on the nationwide number of existing sources within the source category. For a source category with 30 or more existing sources, the MACT floor is the average emission limitation achieved by the best performing 12 percent of the existing sources. Once the MACT floors are determined for new and existing sources in a source category, the EPA must establish standards under a NESHAP that are no less stringent than the applicable MACT floors. The Administrator may promulgate standards that are more stringent than the MACT floor when such standards are determined by the EPA to be achievable taking into consideration the cost of implementing the standards as well as any non-air quality health and environmental impacts and energy requirements listed in CAA section 112(d)(2). All owners and operators of sources within the source category must comply with the promulgated NESHAP.
