FR941031-1-00009 FR941031-1-00002 The first step in the proposed new process would be the compilation of related services that have been determined to meet the definition and other criteria specified in this regulation (the Related Service List or simply ``the list''). As provided in proposed §618.8010(c)(2), the list would briefly describe each related service, capturing key distinguishing aspects of the activity, as well as a designation of the types of institutions authorized to offer the specific services. Institutional restrictions would mainly be due to statutory limitations related to eligible recipients. Finally, any special conditions placed on offering a given service would be identified on the list. It is anticipated that these conditions would be the exception rather than the rule and would apply mainly to complex services, with readily identifiable safety and soundness risks. Appendix A contains a sample list consisting of all previously approved related services known to have at least one active program among System banks and associations and those services specifically mentioned in the statute. The sample list is included as an attachment to this Federal Register document for informational purposes only and will not become part of the final regulation. Although every attempt has been made to identify existing services, the FCA recognizes that its historical records may not be complete. Therefore, System banks and associations currently offering services that meet the related service definition, but are not part of the sample list, should submit such services during the comment period if they wish to continue providing them after the revised regulation becomes effective. Institutions should provide the title of the service and a brief description, including any previous action taken by the FCA on the related service. If there is no existing documentation, then the institution should provide sufficient information for the FCA to consider the service based on the provisions in proposed §618.8010(b). These services may be included on the initial list to be published concurrently with the final regulation. If some services require further study, they will be considered for inclusion on the list after the regulation is finalized. Once a service is determined to meet the regulatory criteria and is placed on the list, proposed §618.8010(b) would provide that System banks and associations could develop programs and subsequently offer the related service, subject to any special conditions and institutional restrictions identified on the list. This proposal would eliminate the requirement in existing §618.8000(c) that the FCA approve each institution's related services program. The FCA believes that an institution's program for offering the service and its capacity to offer that service can be reviewed during the examination process. Proposed §618.8010(c)(4) would require that when a listed service is first offered by an institution, the institution must notify the FCA's Office of Examination field office responsible for examining that institution. An institution that wishes to offer a related service not previously evaluated by the FCA would need to submit a written proposal pursuant to proposed §618.8010(b). Neither a formal bank review nor a detailed operational program (per existing regulations) would be required prior to requesting that the FCA review the service. In the event of complex or controversial proposals, proposed §618.8010(b)(3) acknowledges that the FCA, at its discretion, may publish the proposed service in the Federal Register for public comment. No later than 60 days after receipt of a complete proposal, including any additional information the FCA may require, System institutions would be notified of the FCA's action pursuant to §618.8010(b)(4). Although the FCA would normally act promptly on a proposed service, for good cause and prior to the expiration of the 60 days, the review period could be extended for up to a total of 120 days. The FCA would formally notify all System institutions of its action by bookletter or other appropriate forms of communication. Proposed new related services would be evaluated by the FCA based on the provisions of proposed §618.8010(b). The FCA would consider two key aspects in evaluating a related service. The first aspect is whether the service is authorized; that is, whether it meets the definition of a related service in proposed §618.8000(b). For example, a service provided by a title I or title II lending institution would have to be appropriate to on-farm operations and would have to be targeted to the defined eligible recipients. When evaluating that service, the FCA would also consider whether the service would be appropriate to cooperative operations and, if so, include BCs and ACBs as authorized institutions. The second key aspect the FCA would consider is whether significant risk factors are inherent in the service and whether they can be managed or eliminated. This evaluation would involve assessing the degree of risks in the areas of financial liability, operational matters, and conflicts of interest.
