FR941212-0-00031 FR941212-0-00014 Discussion Tariff and ET Filing Fees The bulk of the comments focuses on the new fees for tariff and ET filings. Those commenters opposed to the proposed fees for tariff and ET filing primarily contend that the Commission should not require carriers to pay for filings that are mandated by law; that facilitate the administering of FMC regulations; and that, they believe, benefit the shipping public as a whole. As regards the argument that tariff and ET filings are required by law, we would point out that the Federal Communication Commission's (``FCC'') imposition of fees for processing carrier tariffs has been upheld, Electronics Industries Ass'n v. FCC, 554 F.2d 1109, 1115 (D.C. Cir. 1976), as has the Interstate Commerce Commission's (``ICC'') imposition of fees for processing tariffs, Central & Southern Motor Freight Tariff Ass'n v. U.S. , 777 F.2d 722, 730&hyph;36 (D.C. Cir. 1985) (``Central & Southern''). The courts in these cases upheld the agencies' assessment of tariff filing fees even though tariff filing was mandated by law. It is also argued that carriers should not pay for such filings because the purpose of the Commission's tariff filing program is to provide rate information to shippers. 6 Carriers, however, derive identifiable benefits from tariff filing. The carrier benefits of tariff filing were explained in Central & Southern, 777 F.2d at 734, n.8, in which the court observed: 6 For example, JCG argue that the primary purpose of tariff filing is to ensure certainty and stability in rates that enables a shipper to obtain the rates that its competitors receive. The tariff-filing requirement may contribute to industry stability in at least two ways. First, it may make secret price-cutting impossible, since tariffs are of course public records and inasmuch as a motor carrier must charge the rate specified in its tariff. Second, the requirement may make instantaneous price cuts more difficult; before lowering its rates to meet or undercut the competition, a carrier must go to the trouble of filing its new proposed rates with the ICC. These statutorily provided constraints on competition, in turn, stabilize profits of individual carriers. Our conclusion that this increased industry stability warrants the imposition of a filing fee may appear, at first blush, inconsistent with the statement . . . that a fee may not be predicated merely upon the adoption of some practice of general benefit to the industry as a whole. Such is not the case, however. The tariff system is, in a sense, a cooperative venture, sanctioned by statute and supported by the ICC, in which each carrier agrees to publish its rates, thereby foregoing the opportunity of making secret, precipitous rate cuts that would be advantageous to the carrier in the short run. In return, all the other carriers agree to similar behavior, the result of which is to stabilize prices in the industry. As already noted, this stability is one of the chief purposes underlying the tariff-filing requirement. The ICC, by accepting a carrier's tariffs, assists that carrier in fulfilling its obligation to the other carriers, even as it assists the carrier in complying with its statutory duty. Hence, in these special circumstances, the ICC's tariff-filing services benefit the individual carrier, and not merely the industry as a whole. While the court in Central & Southern was considering the benefits of the ICC's tariff filing program to surface carriers, its observations are applicable to ocean common carriers as well. In the NPR, the Commission recognized that there exist public benefits from tariff and ET filings, such as increased public access to carriers' rate and service information. In cases where, as here, fees have been assessed for programs conferring both public and private benefits, reviewing courts have concluded that there need only be a special private benefit to an identifiable beneficiary to justify assessment of a fee, regardless of ``incidental'' public benefits. 7 The court in Central & Southern concluded that ``[i]f the asserted public benefits are the necessary consequence of the agency's provision of the relevant private benefits, then the public benefits are not independent, and the agency would therefore not need to allocate any costs to the public.'' Central & Southern, 777 F.2d at 732. 7 See Electronic Industries Ass'n v. FCC, 554 F.2d at 1114&hyph;5; Centeral & Southern, 777 F.2d at 731&hyph;32. A public benefit that results from nothing more than providing a private benefit, or is a necessary consequence of the agency's providing a private benefit, would be ``incidental'' to the private benefit. In contrast, an ``independent'' public benefit is a benefit that results from additional expense or effort above and beyond providing the private benefit. In Engine Manufacturers Association v. Environmental Protection Agency and Carol M. Browner, Administrator, 20 F.3d 1177, 1180 (D.C. Cir. 1994), the court noted that ``*␣*␣* the public benefits associated with cleaner air are incidental to, not independent of, that private benefit, in the sense that they are produced at no cost beyond that required to produce the private benefit.'' The difference between ``independent'' and ``incidental'' benefits has been explained in a case involving the FCC as follows: If the Commission, in granting an equipment type approval *␣*␣* is required to incur expenses for testing or inspection, such expenses can be charged in full to the applicant. These activities have undisputed private benefits although they may also create incidental public benefits as well. But if the agency were to engage in further activity to determine whether a piece of equipment which has already been found to have no potential for creating `harmful interference'. . . meets standards for consumer safety it would be doing so to satisfy some independent public interest, and the charge for these additional expenses could not be included in fees imposed on equipment owners. Although there may be some private benefit in safety testing, it is not a part of the service the agency must render to the manufacturer in order for him to comply with the statute: the additional tests service an independent public interest, with only incidental private benefits. Electronic Indus. Ass'n v. FCC, 554 F.2d at 1115. Given the distinction drawn between ``independent'' and ``incidental,'' the NPR invited the industry to comment on whether the public benefit of tariff and ET filings is ``independent'' or merely ``incidental'' to that of tariff and ET filers, and, if ``independent,'' to comment on what proportion of the costs to tariff-filing and ET-filing carriers should be pro-rated to reflect any ``independent'' benefit to the general public. JCG contends that the benefit to shippers from tariff and ET filings is ``independent'' rather than ``incidental,'' and that filers therefore should not be required to pay the full cost of tariff and ET filings. JCG refers to the Report of the Advisory Commission on Conferences in Ocean Shipping, 8 which noted that the majority of shippers supported tariff filing provisions, and stated that the provisions: 8 The Advisory Commission on Conferences in Ocean Shipping was established pursuant to section 18(d) of the Shipping Act of 1984 (``1984 Act''), 46 U.S.C. app. 1717(d), to conduct a comprehensive study of conferences in ocean shipping. The Advisory Commission issued a final report in April, 1992.
