FR940812-0-00061 FR940812-0-00019 Subpart A_General ยง2541.10 Purpose and scope of this part. This part establishes uniform administrative rules for Federal grants and cooperative agreements and subawards to State, local and Indian tribal governments. ยง2541.20 Scope of subpart. This subpart contains general rules pertaining to this part and procedures for control of exceptions from this part. ยง2541.30 Definitions. The following definitions apply to terms used in this part and part 2542 of this chapter. Accrued expenditures. The term accrued expenditures means the charges incurred by the grantee during a given period requiring the provision of funds for: (1) Goods and other tangible property received; (2) Services performed by employees, contractors, subgrantees, subcontractors, and other payees; and (3) Other amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performance is required, such as annuities, insurance claims, and other benefit payments. Accrued income. The term accrued income means the sum of: (1) Earnings during a given period from services performed by the grantee and goods and other tangible property delivered to purchasers; and (2) Amounts becoming owed to the grantee for which no current services or performance is required by the grantee. Acquisition cost. The term acquisition cost of an item of purchased equipment means the net invoice unit price of the property including the cost of modifications, attachments, accessories, or auxiliary apparatus necessary to make the property usable for the purpose for which it was acquired. Other charges such as the cost of installation, transportation, taxes, duty or protective in-transit insurance, shall be included or excluded from the unit acquisition cost in accordance with the grantee's regular accounting practices. Administrative requirements. The term administrative requirements means those matters common to grants in general, such as financial management, kinds and frequency of reports, and retention of records. These are distinguished from ``programmatic'' requirements, which concern matters that can be treated only on a program-by-program or grant-by-grant basis, such as kinds of activities that can be supported by grants under a particular program. Awarding agency. The term awarding agency means: (1) With respect to a grant, the Federal agency; and (2) With respect to a subgrant, the party that awarded the subgrant. Cash contributions. The term cash contributions means the grantee's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the grantee or subgrantee by other public agencies and institutions, and private organizations and individuals. When authorized by Federal legislation, Federal funds received from other assistance agreements may be considered as grantee or subgrantee cash contributions. Contract. The term contract means (except as used in the definitions for ``grant'' and ``subgrant'' in this section and except where qualified by ``Federal'') a procurement contract under a grant or subgrant, and means a procurement subcontract under a contract. Cost sharing (or matching ). The term cost sharing (or matching ) means the value of the third party in-kind contributions and the portion of the costs of a federally assisted project or program not borne by the Federal Government. Cost-type contract. The term cost-type contract means a contract or subcontract under a grant in which the contractor or subcontractor is paid on the basis of the costs it incurs, with or without a fee. Equipment. The term equipment means tangible, nonexpendable, personal property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit. A grantee may use its own definition of equipment provided that such definition would at least include all equipment mentioned in this definition. Expenditure report. The term expenditure report means: (1) For nonconstruction grants, the SF&hyph;269 ``Financial Status Report'' (or other equivalent report); (2) for construction grants, the SF&hyph;271 ``Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement'' (or other equivalent report). Federally recognized Indian tribal government. The term federally recognized Indian tribal government means the governing body or a governmental agency of any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community (including any Native village as defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 85 Stat. 688) certified by the Secretary of the Interior as eligible for the special programs and services provided by him through the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Government. The term government means a State or local government or a federally recognized Indian tribal government. Grant. The term grant means an award of financial assistance, including cooperative agreements, in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government to an eligible grantee. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct appropriations. Also, the term does not include assistance, such as a fellowship or other lump sum award, which the grantee is not required to account for. Grantee. The term grantee means the government to which a grant is awarded and which is accountable for the use of the funds provided. The grantee is the entire legal entity even if only a particular component of the entity is designated in the grant award document. Local government. The term local government means a county, municipality, city, town, township, local public authority (including any public and Indian housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.) school district, special district, intrastate district, council of governments (whether or not incorporated as a nonprofit corporation under state law), any other regional or interstate government entity, or any agency or instrumentality of a local government. Obligations. The term obligations means the amounts of orders placed, contracts and subgrants awarded, goods and services received, and similar transactions during a given period that will require payment by the grantee during the same or a future period. OMB. The term OMB means the United States Office of Management and Budget. Outlays (expenditures). The term outlays (expenditures) means charges made to the project or program. They may be reported on a cash or accrual basis. For reports prepared on a cash basis, outlays are the sum of actual cash disbursement for direct charges for goods and services, the amount of indirect expense incurred, the value of in-kind contributions applied, and the amount of cash advances and payments made to contractors and subgrantees. For reports prepared on an accrued expenditure basis, outlays are the sum of actual cash disbursements, the amount of indirect expense incurred, the value of in-kind contributions applied, and the new increase (or decrease) in the amounts owed by the grantee for goods and other property received, for services performed by employees, contractors, subgrantees, subcontractors, and other payees, and other amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performance are required, such as annuities, insurance claims, and other benefit payments. Percentage of completion method. The term percentage of completion method refers to a system under which payments are made for construction work according to the percentage of completion of the work, rather than to the grantee's cost incurred. Prior approval. The term prior approval means documentation evidencing consent prior to incurring specific cost.
