FR940930-2-00211 FR940930-2-00071 IV. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change The Commission finds that the BSE's proposal to extend its pilot program regarding specialist concentration for an additional one-year period is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6 of the Act. 7 For the reasons set forth below, the Commission believes that the BSE proposal to extend its specialist concentration pilot furthers the objectives of Section 6 of the Act. 7 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1988). The Commission believes it is necessary to extend the pilot program's operation in order to afford both the Exchange and the Commission a further opportunity to evaluate the pilot's operation during the Commission's consideration of permanent approval of the concentration rules. Although the pilot has been in effect since February, 1990, only two proposed combinations have triggered an extensive Committee review by exceeding the concentration limits set forth in the policy. Consequently, the Commission believes that the Exchange, in conjunction with the SEC, needs additional time to fully evaluate the operation of the concentration policy and to determine whether the concentration rules are enhancing the quality of the markets that specialist units make and thus improve the standards of specialist performance. The Commission believes that allowing the Exchange an additional one-year period in which to implement the pilot will enable the Exchange and the Commission to adequately address the effectiveness of the pilot. In its prior orders renewing and extending the pilot program, 8 the Commission requested that the BSE develop criteria to evaluate the effects of its concentration rules on the activities of specialists and to determine, for example, whether implementation of these rules is increasing the performance and effectiveness of specialists and aiding in the prevention of undue concentration. Specifically, the Commission requested that the BSE submit a report to the Commission addressing, among other things, the following issues: the number of proposed specialist combinations that have triggered an Executive Committee review since the inception of the pilot program and the circumstances surrounding these reviews; whether the existence of more firms has increased competition among specialists for new stock allocations; whether the concentration rules have increased incentives for quality markets and higher standards for performance; and the impact that the specialist combination rules have had upon the competitive environment necessary to maintain an orderly market. 8 See supra, note 3. In response to the Commission's request, the BSE submitted a letter 9 which addressed many of the issues the Commission outlined in previous orders. The BSE stated that, during the last pilot period, there have been no proposed specialist combinations that exceeded the concentration limits set forth in the policy. 10 The BSE reported that the last combination reviewed under the concentration policy was in February of 1993. The acquisition was discussed in the previous pilot extension approval order. 9 See letter from George Mann, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Boston Stock Exchange, to Amy Bilbija, Commission, dated September 1, 1994. 10 The BSE has had a total of two proposed combinations that exceeded the concentration limits since the inception of the pilot program. The first such proposed combination was discussed in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29551 (August 13, 1991), 56 FR 41380 (File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;91&hyph;06). The second such proposed combination was discussed in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32753 (August 16, 1993), 58 FR 44707 (File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;93&hyph;15). The Commission also asked the BSE to discuss various other issues, identical to the requests made during the previous one-year pilot periods. The BSE's responses were identical to those submitted pursuant to the previous pilot extension due to the absence of relevant data during the last year. During the extended pilot period, as was requested during the previous one-year pilot periods, the Commission expects the Exchange to continue to develop criteria to evaluate the effects of its concentration rules on the activities of specialists. In this regard, the Commission expects the BSE to report to the Commission by May 1, 1995, the number of proposed specialist combinations that have triggered an Executive Committee review since the extension of the pilot program and the circumstances surrounding these reviews; whether competition among specialists for new stock allocations as well as specialists and specialist firms applying for those allocations since the inception of the pilot program; 11 and whether any of the specialist firms that have undergone Executive Committee review have demonstrated an improvement in specialist evaluation results or displayed a higher quality of markets. In addition, the Commission remains interested in whether the BSE finds that the concentration rules have assisted the Exchange in increasing order flow and if so, the reasons for this conclusion, as well as the impact that the specialist combination rules have had upon the competitive environment necessary to maintain an orderly market. 12 11 The Commission believes the BSE needs to more fully address and justify why the proposed concentration levels are set appropriately. In particular, the Commission expects the BSE to demonstrate that the Policy does not result in a decrease in competition for allocation and adversely affect the quality of the BSE's markets. 12 In evaluating the effects of the pilot, the Commission expects the BSE to provide specific data to support its conclusions.
