FR940429-0-00100 FR940429-0-00012 (b) If, under paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section, a State selects an institution for review, before the SPRE may request the Secretary to approve that review, the SPRE must_ (1) Notify the institution of the selection and provide the institution with the reasons for its selection; (2) Delay its review request to the Secretary if the State receives a notice from the institution no later than seven days after the institution receives the notice from the State challenging the accuracy of the information on which the selection was based. (3)(i) If an institution challenges the accuracy of the information on which its selection was based, the institution has the burden of proving that the information was inaccurate. (ii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the State shall presume that records maintained in the normal course of business by the U.S. Department of Education, a guaranty agency under the FFEL programs, a SPRE, a State licensing agency, or another State agency are accurate. (4) To challenge the accuracy of the information on which its referral was based, the State must receive no later than 30 days after the institution receives the notice described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section the institution's submission, along with any supporting document or record. (c) If the institution timely challenges its referral under paragraph (b) of this section, the State requests a review of the institution from the Secretary unless the institution convinces the State that its selection was based upon inaccurate information. (d)(1) Documents referenced in this section may be hand-delivered or mailed. If documents are mailed, they must be mailed certified mail, return receipt requested, or by next-day mail service. (2) If documents are mailed, proof of receipt shall be evidenced by the delivery date indicated on the United States Postal Service return receipt card (green card), or the pick up date indicated on the next day mail service's bill. (3) For purposes of paragraph (e)(2) of this section, if any submission is sent by next-day mail service, the State shall presume that the document was delivered the day after the date on which it was picked up for delivery. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;3) ยง667.7 Notice to SPRE and nationally recognized accrediting agency of Federal actions. (a)(1) If the Secretary takes an action against an institution, the Secretary notifies the SPRE of the State in which the institution is located, and the appropriate nationally recognized accrediting agency, within 10 days of taking that action. (2) For purposes of this part, an action taken by the Secretary includes, but is not limited to, the actions described in 34 CFR part 668, subpart G. (b) If the Secretary is informed that another Federal agency is taking an action against an institution, the Secretary notifies the SPRE of the State in which the institution is located, and the appropriate nationally recognized accrediting agency, as soon as possible but not later than 10 days after learning of that action. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;3) ยง667.8 Notice to nationally recognized accrediting agency of SPRE actions. (a) A SPRE shall notify a nationally recognized accrediting agency when it plans to conduct a review of an institution accredited or preaccredited by that agency; and (b) After conducting a review of the institution, the SPRE shall notify the accrediting agency of its findings and the actions the SPRE takes, or plans to take, as a result of those findings. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;3) ยง667.9 Institutions with locations in more than one State. (a) If an institution that is subject to a referral has locations in more than one State, the Secretary refers the institution to the SPRE in each State in which the institution is located and informs each SPRE of the other States in which the institution is located. (b) The SPRE of the State in which the main campus of the institution is located has the principal responsibility for reviewing that institution. (c) If a branch campus or additional location of an institution is in a State other than the State in which the institution's main campus is located, the SPRE of the State in which that branch campus or additional location is located_ (1) May review that branch campus or additional location before a SPRE review is conducted of the main campus of that institution; (2) May delay its review of that branch campus or additional location until a SPRE review is conducted of the main campus of that institution; or (3) May choose not to review that branch campus or additional location if_ (i) The SPRE of the State in which the main campus of that institution is located reviews that institution and makes no significant findings; and (ii) The allotment of the State in which the branch campus or additional location is located is insufficient to allow the SPRE to review all referred institutions. (d) An institution and its branch campuses and additional locations are subject to the review standards of the State in which they are located, respectively. (e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, to review a referred institution that has locations in more than one State, the SPREs of those States may enter into an agreement under which the SPREs may alter the review responsibilities set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
