FR941110-0-00090 FR941110-0-00016 The qualifications for surveyors, other survey agency personnel, and HCFA trainers, we believe, are already high. In our operating experience, we have seen no reason to believe otherwise. Even if we required that each team include a physician, as some commenters recommended, we are not certain that some providers would be any more pleased with the survey results than they are now. We remain unconvinced that one must be a physician or an acknowledged expert in a clinical specialty in order to perform a valid survey. We believe that the heart of the survey process consists of clear guidelines and a detailed review of the results. The suggestions that survey training materials be published for public comment are addressed under the ``Determination of a Deficiency'' section of this preamble. The suggestion that providers be permitted to attend survey training courses at their own expense has merit. Traditionally, we have had no provisions for accommodating all providers interested in attending: our resources are taxed enough by simply trying to provide timely training for surveyors. However, being able to offer surveyor training universally to providers at their own cost may help improve understanding and cooperation between surveyors and providers. We are therefore seriously considering the changes in law necessary to allow this. We do not accept the suggestion that surveyors present providers with proof of the successful completion of surveyor training. The fact that a surveyor is sent by the State or HCFA is, in itself, evidence that the bearer meets the requirements to be a surveyor. A number of the commenters did not make any suggestions with respect to the proposed rule. Instead, their comments were in the context of denigrating surveyors with whom they had had unpleasant experiences, declaring that running a facility is costly, frustrating, and unappreciated, or protesting the whole survey process in general. Because no specific suggestions were made concerning the proposed rule, we are unable to respond to these kinds of broad complaints. Comment: Two commenters suggested revising the end of the sentence at proposed §488.164(c) as follows: *␣*␣* completed the required training and competency testing program.'' Another said that, at the onset of each survey, facilities should be told which surveyors are serving as observers, and regulations should stipulate that these individuals should be excluded from active participation in the survey process. Some other commenters said that surveyors-in-training should be allowed to participate in the survey process as long as they are appropriately supervised. They said that, historically, these individuals have been used to ``*␣*␣* collect information to be used by qualified surveyors during the deficiency decision making process.'' Further, two commenters said, not allowing surveyors-in-training to observe would mean that new surveyors would face significant periods of nonproductive time while waiting for courses to be offered. Response: We agree that surveyors must not only complete the required training, but the competency testing program as well. However, paragraph (c) already requires that a surveyor successfully complete ``*␣*␣* a training and testing program.'' We do not agree that the survey team should, at the outset of a survey, identify which of its members (if any) have not yet completed the required training and competency testing program. We also disagree that surveyors who have not yet completed the training and testing program should ``be excluded from active participation.'' We do not want to prohibit the ``historic'' role of observers mentioned by two of the commenters, that is, to ``*␣*␣* collect information to be used by qualified surveyors during the deficiency decision making process,'' or forbid individuals from making valuable contributions to the survey process if they are in a position to do so. We are, therefore, amending this section (§488.164(d) in the proposed rule) redesignated as §488.314(c)(3) in the final rule, to provide that the survey agency may permit an individual who has not completed a training program to participate in a survey as a trainee if accompanied onsite by a surveyor who has successfully completed the required training and testing program.
