FR940928-2-00062 FR940928-2-00049 C. Certification Sponsors are required to provide GNMA with two annual certifications: 1. With respect to Co-sponsors: a. Certification that the Sponsor has developed and implemented a plan that sets goals for meaningful participation by Co-sponsors, and b. Certification of the extent to which MWOBs have been participants in the Sponsor's transactions as Co-sponsors. 2. With respect to Co-trust Counsel: a. Certification from trust counsel used for transactions by the Sponsor that the trust counsel has developed and implemented a plan that sets goals for meaningful participation by MWOLFs, and b. Certification from such trust counsel of the extent to which MWOLFs have been participants in the transactions for the Sponsor. * * * * * VII. Terms and Conditions for Participants As a condition of participation in the program, each participant must agree to the conditions set out below. A. Participant Certifications Each Sponsor, Co-sponsor, all participating trust counsel and accounting firms, and other persons or entities designated by GNMA from time to time in the Multiclass Securities Guide, must certify as of January 1 each year that neither the corporate nor partnership entity, nor any officer, partner or professional presently employed and who will work on the subject matter of this Notice, has been convicted of, or found liable in a civil action for, fraud, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements or any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity that seriously and directly affects the present responsibility of the officer, partner or professional, and no entity or individual to which this certification is applicable is currently suspended or debarred by a State or the Federal government. Participants must report any event which would necessitate a change in this certification to GNMA within 60 days of its occurrence. Material adverse changes in status, including voluntary and non-voluntary terminations, defaults, fines, and agency findings of material non-compliance or non-conformance with agency rules and policies with state and federal agencies and government sponsored enterprises must be reported to GNMA within 60 business days of their occurrence. [End of Excerpts From GNMA Supplemental Notice on Multiclass Securities Program]
