FR941205-2-00094 FR941205-2-00051 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20737; File No. 812&hyph;9224] Citicorp Life Insurance Company, et al. November 28, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``Commission'' or the ``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). Applicants: Citicorp Life Insurance Company (``Citicorp Life''), First Citicorp Life Insurance Company (``First Citicorp''), Citicorp life Variable Annuity Separate Account (the ``Separate Account''), First Citicorp Life Variable Annuity Separate Account (the ``First Citicorp Separate Account'') (together the ``Separate Accounts''), and The Landmark funds Broker-Dealer Services, Inc. Relevant 1940 Act Sections: Order requested under Section 6(c) for exemptions from Sections 26 (a)(2) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. Summary of Application: Applicants seek an order to permit the deduction from the assets of the Separate Accounts of a mortality and expense risk charge under certain variable annuity contracts. Filing Date: An application was filed on September 12, 1994. Hearing or Notification of Hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on December 23, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, 800 Silver Lake Boulevard, Dover, DE 19901. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wendy Finck Friedlander, Senior Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products (Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Citicorp Life is a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of Arizona. Citicorp Life is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citibank Delaware, which is, in turn, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citicorp, a bank holding company. Citicorp Life is licensed to do business in 46 states and the District of Columbia. Citicorp Life is the depositor and sponsor of the Separate Account. 2. First Citicorp, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citicorp Life, is a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of New York. First Citicorp is licensed to do business only in New York and Arizona. First Citicorp is the depositor and sponsor of the First Citicorp Separate Account. 3. The Separate Account and the First Citicorp Separate Account were established by Citicorp Life and First Citicorp, respectively, to fund certain individual flexible premium deferred variable annuity contracts (``Contracts''). The Separate Accounts are registered as unit investment trusts under the 1940 Act and the Contracts are registered under the Securities Act of 1933. The Separate Accounts are divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests solely in the shares of the corresponding portfolio of one of the following series investment companies: the Landmark Variable Insurance Products Fund, the Fidelity Variable Insurance Products Fund, the A.I.M. Variable Insurance Funds, Inc., and the M.F.S. Variable Insurance Trust (collectively, the ``Funds''). Additional sub-accounts may be established in the future to invest in other portfolios of the funds or other investment companies or unit investment trusts. 4. The Contracts are individual flexible premium deferred variable annuity contracts designed to provide benefits in connection with retirement plans that qualify for special federal tax treatment, or on a non-qualified basis. Contract owners may allocate payments to one or more sub-accounts or to the Fixed Account Option that is part of the general account of either Citicorp Life or First Citicorp.
