FR940617-1-00088 FR940617-1-00012 (2) Maki, D.G., ``The Use of Antiseptics for Handwashing by Medical Personnel,'' Journal of Chemotherapy, 1:3&hyph;11, 1989. (3) Ojajarvi, J., ``Effectiveness of Hand Washing and Disinfection Methods in Removing Transient Bacteria After Patient Nursing,'' Cambridge University Journal of Hygiene, 85:193&hyph;203, 1980. (4) Leyden, J. et al., ``Subungual Bacteria of the Hand: Contribution to the Glove Juice Test; Efficacy of Antimicrobial Detergents,'' Infection Control Hospital Epidemiology, 10:451&hyph;454, 1989. 11. The agency is aware that some manufacturers provide technical information relating to the antimicrobial activity of their health-care antiseptic drug products in the form of technical information bulletins. The agency considers such bulletins to be labeling under the provisions of the act. Section 201(m) of the act (21 U.S.C. 321(m)) defines the term ``labeling'' as ``all labels and other written, printed, or graphic matter (1) upon any article or any of the containers or wrappers, or (2) accompanying such article.'' As labeling, technical information bulletins are subject to the OTC drug review. The agency has no objection to the inclusion of technical information relating to the antimicrobial activity of these OTC drug products in the labeling of products intended for health- care professionals only. Therefore, in this amended tentative final monograph the agency is proposing that manufacturers have the option of including data derived from the in vitro and clinical effectiveness tests included in §333.470 of the proposed monograph as additional labeling for products labeled and marketed ``For Hospital and Professional Use Only.'' In order that such additional information provide a standardized comparison of the effectiveness of these OTC drug products, the agency is further proposing that only data on the antimicrobial activity of these OTC drug products derived from the effectiveness tests included in §333.470 of this proposed monograph be included in the labeling of these OTC drug products. At the present time, claims of product effectiveness against organisms other than those included in §333.470(a)(1)(ii) will require an NDA containing information supporting the deviation from the monograph in accord with §330.11. 12. Based on the wound healing data from studies of test wounds in laboratory animals that were discussed in the first aid antiseptic segment of this amended tentative final monograph (comment 37, 56 FR 33644 at 33662), the agency has reevaluated the labeling for iodine tincture as a patient preoperative skin preparation and is not including the warning ``Do not apply this product with a tight bandage, as a burn may result.'' 13. The agency has determined that data and reports have not provided specific evidence that repeated use of health-care antiseptics has brought about overgrowth of gram-negative bacteria, particularly Pseudomonas. Therefore, the previously proposed caution in §333.99(a) concerning this overgrowth is not being included in this amended tentative final monograph. (See section I.D, comment 9.) The warnings proposed in §333.99 (b) and (c) of the previous tentative final monograph are not being included in this amendment because these warnings apply to quaternary ammonium compounds which currently are not Category I for health-care antiseptic uses. (See section I.J., comment 20.) 14. The agency is not including the warning proposed by the Miscellaneous External Panel in §333.98(c)(2) for products containing isopropyl alcohol, ``Use only in a well-ventilated area; fumes may be toxic.'' As discussed in section II.B., paragraph 32 of the segment of this rulemaking covering first aid antiseptics (56 FR 33644 at 33556), the agency invites comment on the need for such a warning, including any reports of adverse reactions due to inhalation that have not yet been brought to the agency's attention. 15. In an effort to simplify OTC drug labeling, the agency proposed in a number of tentative final monographs to substitute the word ``doctor'' for ``physician'' in OTC drug monographs on the basis that the word ``doctor'' is more commonly used and better understood by consumers. Based on comments to these proposals, the agency has determined that final monographs and any applicable OTC drug regulations will give manufacturers the option of using the word ``physician'' or the word ``doctor.'' This amended tentative final monograph proposes that option in §333.450(e). 16. Based on the withdrawal of the majority of the comments on chlorhexidine gluconate as a health-care antiseptic, sufficient data upon which to make a safety and effectiveness determination are no longer present in the rulemaking. (See section I.F., comment 11.) 17. The agency has reviewed the data submitted on chloroxylenol and is classifying chloroxylenol 0.24 percent to 3.75 percent as Category I for safety and Category III for effectiveness for short-term use (patient preoperative skin preparation) and Category III for both safety and effectiveness for long-term uses (antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash and surgical hand scrub). (See section I.G., comment 12.) 18. In §333.30(a) of the previous tentative final monograph, the agency included United States Pharmacopeia (U.S.P.) specifications for iodine tincture and topical solution. In this amended tentative final monograph, the agency is identifying these Category I patient preoperative products as iodine tincture U.S.P. and iodine topical solution U.S.P.
