FR940128-2-00221 FR940128-2-00141 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and to perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange believes that no burdens will be placed on competition as a result of the proposed rule change. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange received one comment letter in opposition to the proposed rule change from an Exchange specialist. However, the Exchange's Committee on Floor Procedure has approved the proposed rule change. According to the Exchange, 6 on October 20, 1992, the Exchange received a comment letter from an Exchange specialist in opposition to the proposed rule change. The commentator opposes the rule change for several reasons. Specifically, the commentator states that the proposed rule does not provide for the protection of customer orders; that the proposed rule is not necessary because there is not a problem now except for a few specialists; that the proposed rule will be subject to abuse because of the inability to determine whether or not the crosses are really agency crosses on an immediate basis; that the Exchange should be encouraging more orders and less crosses; and that, as a result of the new rule, specialists will not be able to participate, among other things. 6 See Amendment No. 1, supra , note 2. The Exchange believes that the commentator's concerns are misplaced. First, the proposed rule change will not interfere with public orders in the book. Customer orders will continue to be protected under the proposed rule, even if, through oversight, they are not displaced. The specialist must fill a customer order at the limited price even if an agency cross takes place at the limit price. This should also encourage specialists to be more efficient in displaying customer orders. Second, the proposal will encourage more institutional trades to be sent to the floor; whether this will result in more revenue to the Exchange is a secondary consideration. The proposal will provide a more attractive marketplace for institutional orders without sacrificing traditional agency/auction principles. Third, the potential that some firms may abuse the rule by not having an agency order on both sides of the trade is not an argument for not having the rule. There are literally dozens of rules in place today which inherently cannot be surveilled on an immediate basis to monitor compliance. If the Exchange finds that firms are abusing the rule, it will take appropriate action. Lastly, the proposed rule does not reduce the possibility of order interaction on the floor. The specialist is the only one who cannot participate in a cross if he is not displaying his market at the cross price; this should encourage specialists to quote their true markets. The requirement for a firm with agency orders to cross to bid or offer at the post still remains and any other interest in the crowd can participate. It is only the specialist who cannot, unless he is quoting at the cross price or unless he has been previously solicited for his help. This is not a major departure from agency auction principles and should encourage more orders to the Exchange floor to participate in the auction process. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Chicago Stock Exchange. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;MSE&hyph;93&hyph;05 and should be submitted by February 18, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1813 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
