FR940127-0-00046 FR940127-0-00012 Synopsis of the Rule Section 1 The FAA defines aircraft ``product,'' ``article,'' and ``component'' for the purpose of the SFAR. The definitions explain more clearly an authorization holder's return to service authority. Section 2 The FAA restates the general provisions of the current SFAR in terms applicable to the individual types of eligible certificate holders. Paragraph (c) of section 2 clarifies that an SFAR 36 authorization does not expand the scope of authority of a repair station certificate holder; i.e., it does not give a repair station return to service authority for any article for which it is not rated or change the articles it is rated to repair. Section 3 Section 3 states that an authorized certificate holder may approve an aircraft product or article for return to service after accomplishing a major repair, using data not approved by the Administrator, only in accordance with the amended SFAR. Section 3 requires that the data used to perform the major repair be developed and ``approved'' in accordance with the holder's authorization and procedures manual. Section 3 also enables an authorization holder to use its developed repair data on a subsequent repair of the same type of product or article. For each subsequent repair, the holder must determine that accomplishment of the repair, using previously developed data, will return the product or article to its original or properly altered condition and will conform to all applicable airworthiness requirements. In addition, each subsequent use of the data would have to be recorded in the authorization holder's SFAR records. Section 4 Section 4 describes the procedures for applying for an SFAR 36 authorization. Section 5 Section 5 identifies the requirements a certificate holder must meet to be eligible for an SFAR 36 authorization. Paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (b) define the personnel required and incorporate clarifying changes from the current SFAR. Paragraph (c) contains the reporting requirement of the current SFAR that pertains to changes that could affect the holder's continuing ability to meet the SFAR requirements. Section 6 Section 6 describes the procedures manual requirements. Paragraph (c) of section 6 requires that an authorization holder that experiences a change in procedures or staff obtain and record FAA approval of the change in order to continue to approve products or articles for return to service.
