FR941012-0-00069 FR941012-0-00011 OSHA notes that some commenters opposed requiring every employee to have first-aid training because of the transient nature of the logging industry. OSHA finds that the commenters' argument does not support the position that fewer employees should be trained. If there is high employee turnover, it may be the trained employee who is not employed any longer. If work continues without a fully-trained person while a first-aid replacement is being trained, employees may be at great risk. By contrast, if work has to be stopped until a replacement can be trained, the employer could incur costs which could be prevented by having adequate first aid coverage in advance. If all employees working in the logging industry are required to have first-aid training, a pool of trained employees will always be available to employers for hiring. Fifth, requiring that each employee be trained eliminates confusion and may be less administratively burdensome than making a daily check and rescheduling of work assignments to assure that supervisors, fellers and some additional number of employees in each operating area hold current first aid training certificates. To ease the training burden for employers, the final rule does not require that the first-aid training be provided by the employer. Rather, the final rule requires that the employer assure that each employee performing logging operations receives or has received first-aid training and that the first-aid training/certificate is current. For example, as one means of complying with the final rule, the employer could make first-aid training a condition of hiring or continued employment. The employer would be free to hire only those persons who had previously obtained first-aid training and kept their certificate current. In addition, when there is employee turnover, trained employees will be able to bring their first-aid skills from one workplace to another and thus relieve the training burden for the new employer. OSHA is aware that some employers currently provide first-aid training and most likely will continue to provide such training. OSHA is also aware that a number of organizations and schools provide first-aid training that would meet the requirements of Appendix B. For example, the American Red Cross, the Mine Safety and Health Administration, State extension services, community colleges, and adult education programs all provide first-aid training that includes CPR. As such, OSHA does not believe that the requirement of assuring that all employees have received first-aid training that remains current will pose an unreasonable burden on any employer or employee. b. Elements of first-aid training. In the hearing notice, OSHA requested comment on the specific elements, such as CPR, that should be included in first-aid training. In the proposed rule OSHA did not specify the basic elements in which supervisors and fellers must be trained. Rather, OSHA proposed that first-aid training meet the requirements of courses provided by the American Red Cross, MSHA or an equivalent training program.
