FR940712-1-00055 FR940712-1-00012 A translator is a rebroadcast device that transmits signals of a primary TV or FM station to another location that would not otherwise receive the original signal. The schedule is applicable to rebroadcast devices licensed to the principal community or other political subdivision which it primarily serves. Translators are generally located in the same service area and are inherently low power in nature. LPTV refers to television translator stations that are permitted to originate programming for broadcast to the general public. They are limited to 10 watts VHF and 1000 watts UHF. Cable Television This category includes right-of-way holders that operate FCC licensed facilities that primarily transmit video programming to multiple subscribers in a community over a wired network. Cable television includes head-end microwave or satellite antennas and receiver systems used for television reception that retransmit by cable or microwave (wireless cable) methods. These systems usually operate as a commercial entity within an authorized franchise area, providing their services to subscribers who pay a periodic fee. This category does not include rebroadcast devices that retransmit television signals of one or more television broadcast stations, or personal or internal antenna systems such as private systems serving hotels or residences. Commercial Mobile Radio Service (CMRS) This category includes right-of-way holders that operate an FCC-licensed commercial mobile radio facility providing primarily mobile communication service to individual customers. The right-of-way holder owns the facility (building and tower) and operates, maintains, rents, or sells commercial mobile radio equipment in the facility. Although the primary use of the building is to provide communication service to customers for a fee, a portion of the income to the owner may be derived from renting space for other communication uses unrelated to the primary use of the facility. Primary services generally include two-way voice and paging services such as community repeaters, trunked radio (specialized mobile radio), two-way radio dispatch, and public switched network (telephone/data) interconnect service. Private Mobile Communications This category includes right-of-way holders that operate FCC licensed private mobile radio systems primarily used by a single entity for the purposes of internal communications. This use is not sold and is exclusively limited to the user in support of business, community activities, or other organizational communication needs. Services generally include private local radio dispatch and private paging services. Cellular Telephone This category includes right-of-way holders that operate FCC-licensed systems primarily used for mobile communications, using a blend of radio and telephone switching technology. They provide public switched network services to fixed and mobile users within a tightly defined geographic area. The system consists of cell sites containing transmitting and receiving antennas, cellular base station radios, telephone equipment, and often microwave communications link equipment. The cell sites are linked to a mobile telephone switching office, often via microwave, and at that point into the Public Switched Network. This category includes Personal Communication Systems, a digital mobile telephone service, and enhanced specialized mobile radio. Common Carrier Microwave This category includes right-of-way holders who operate FCC-licensed facilities primarily used for long-line intrastate and interstate telephone, television, information, and data transmissions. These uses are regulated by State public utility commissions and are required to provide service to any consumer with the ability to pay according to published rate schedules. The microwave system is an integral part of the company's primary business of providing communication service.
