FR940418-2-00133 FR940418-2-00074 A. Utility of the Series 42 The Amex, Phlx, NYSE, and CBOE argue that the usefulness of the Series 42 is limited because broker-dealers who trade options should understand the entire marketplace, especially instruments which underlie options. The Amex believes that the Series 42 will result in broker-dealers having only a narrow understanding of just one type of product, namely options. 18 Furthermore, the Amex, CBOE, NYSE, and Phlx each believe that the Series 7 is the most effective way of ensuring that the investing pubic will be served by qualified and informed options representatives because the examination covers virtually every securities product trading on U.S. exchanges and the NASD Automated Quotation System (``NASDAQ''). 19 18 See Amex Letter, supra note 4. 19 See Amex Letter, supra note 4; CBOE June 24 Letter, supra note 7; NYSE August 16 Letter, supra note 5; and Phlx Letter, supra note 6. The Phlx, CBOE, and NYSE believe that except for the Series 62, 20 the NASD's current limited product examinations can be justified because these examinations are intended to accommodate limited purpose broker-dealers and their representatives whose securities activities are limited to specific, discrete product lines, such as investment company products/variable annuities (Series 6), direct participation programs (Series 22), and municipal securities (Series 52) and, therefore, the potential for investor confusion is minimal. 21 In this context, the CBOE notes that unlike the Series 42 and 62, the NASD's other limited product exams do not conflict with the current Series 7 test because such non-exchange traded securities are within the regulatory purview of the over-the-counter market. 22 Further, the Phlx believes that the same economic efficiencies will not be realized from the implementation of the Series 42 because there is not a sufficient number of firms whose business is limited solely to options, or to corporate securities and options, to achieve these efficiencies. 23 20 The Phlx, CBOE, and NYSE, believe that the introduction of the Series 62 added confusion to the existing regulatory scheme by creating multiple levels of qualification standards for stockbrokers. See Phlx Letter, supra note 6; CBOE June 24 Letter, supra note 7; and NYSE August 16 Letter, supra note 5. The Commission notes, however, that it did not receive any written comments to the NASD proposal for the Series 62 exam prior to its approval. See Exchange Act Release No. 25719, supra note 13. 21 Id. 22 See CBOE June 24 Letter, supra note 7. 23 See Phlx Letter, supra note 6. Finally, the CBOE and Phlx argue that the usefulness of the Series 42 is limited because it is likely that no national securities exchange will recognize the examination. 24 24 See CBOE June 24 Letter, supra note 7; and Phlx Letter, supra note 6. B. Investor Confusion The CBOE and NYSE argue that the Series 42 will confuse investors by fragmenting the elements of qualification for the offering of listed securities options contracts, thus requiring an investor to determine whether or not his stockbroker is qualified to accept his orders in certain products. 25 The CBOE and NYSE also believe that the knowledge and capabilities of a limited product stockbroker may not be as sound as those of a stockbroker who is qualified for all products in the securities markets. For this reason, the CBOE and NYSE recommend that limited product representatives be required to disclose limited qualifications in writing. 26 25 See CBOE June 24 Letter, supra note 7; and NYSE August 16 Letter, supra note 5. 26 Id. Further, the Phlx argues that use of the Series 42 could confuse and mislead public investors by creating specialized representatives within general purpose firms. 27 The Phlx believes that it is possible that a representative qualified under the Series 42 and Series 62 examinations would be unqualified to make recommendations on the range of available investment products suitable to a particular customer, or might seek to dissuade an investor from pursuing certain otherwise appropriate investment products because the representative is not qualified to recommend them. 28 Further, the Phlx believes that because there is no requirement for disclosing the capacities in which a representative is qualified, a customer would not know whether a representative was fully qualified, nor be able to assess any possible ``extraneous motives'' for a representative's advice. 29 27 See Phlx Letter, supra note 6. 28 Id. 29 Id.
