FR940428-2-00139 FR940428-2-00064 Based the reported prices of the common stock, a Merrill Lynch affiliate or an independent third party will calculate the value of the Restructuring Companies Portfolio on at least a daily basis and make those values available to investors. The Issuer The Exchange has determined that the issuer of the Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS, Merrill Lynch, meets the listing criteria set forth in Section 703.19 of the Manual. The Exchange states that Merrill Lynch is an Exchange-listed company in good standing and has sufficient assets to justify the issuance of MITTS offerings of the size contemplated by the proposed rule change. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and with Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NYSE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;15 and should be submitted by May 19, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 10 10 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10088 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
