FR940616-0-00048 FR940616-0-00009 67. Several parties have submitted comments regarding the regulatory fee categories. Generally, the comments addressed issues concerning possible adjustment of the required fees, the absence of certain services from the fee schedule, and definitions of terms important to payment of the fees. We address these comments below. In certain instances, we have clarified our explanation of a fee category based upon the comments of the parties. See Appendix B. A. Private Radio Services 68. The two basic levels of statutory fees allocated for Private Radio Services, exclusive use and shared use services, were established on the premise that those licensees who generally receive a higher quality communications channel, due to exclusive or lightly shared frequency assignments, will pay a higher fee than those who share channels of marginal quality. 26 House Report at 17. In addition, because of the relatively small fee amounts levied in the Private Radio Services, as we proposed in the Notice, applicants for new licenses, reinstatement and renewal licenses will be required to pay a regulatory fee covering an entire license term. Applications for modification or assignment of an existing authorization do not require payment of a regulatory fee since the expiration date of modified or assigned licenses will not reflect a new license term. 26 As noted, for FY 1994, we will not impose a regulatory fee upon applicants for lifetime restricted radiotelephone permits and radio operator licenses. 1. Exclusive Use 69. B&S disputes our interpretation of the fee schedule's requirement for Private Radio Service fees. Essentially, B&S contends that the term ``shared use services,'' as it appears in the Schedule of Regulatory Fees, applies to systems that share use of their licensed facilities with others. According to B&S, an 800 MHz Specialized Mobile Radio Service licensee providing service to end users is an example of a shared use service because the SMRs customers are sharing the same base station facility. B&S argues that their analysis is consistent with 47 CFR 90.179 and precedent interpreting that provision of our rules. According to B&S, it follows that ``exclusive use services'' are comprised of licensed facilities that are used only by the licensee. An example of what B&S considers an exclusive use service is a licensee in the Taxicab Radio service that operates an internal communications system in the 470&hyph;512 MHz band. 70. B&S confuses the concept of shared use of a particular licensed facility with that of shared channel assignments. Under 47 CFR 90.179, a licensee or group of licensees may choose to share base station facilities on a non-profit or not-for-profit basis. In contrast, shared channel assignments require licensees to be licensed for the same channel for the same geographic area, and it is this latter concept that the Schedule of regulatory fees clearly addresses. As we have recently explained in our Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in PR Docket No. 92&hyph;235, 27 the private land mobile radio services licensed below 470 MHz 28 do not enjoy exclusive use of their channel assignments in a particular geographic area, and must accept a greater degree of co-channel interference. 29 In contrast, channel assignments above 470 MHz, including the SMR service, are granted on either an exclusive basis, with no other co-channel use authorized in a geographic area, or are licensed on an ``earned exclusivity'' basis, where co-channel use is capped. Thus, licensees of services above 470 MHz enjoy a lesser degree of interference than those below 470 MHz, and, accordingly, are required to pay the higher regulatory fee. To accept B&S's interpretation would ignore the established demarcation point between ``shared'' and ``exclusive'' channel assignments that 470 MHz represents. 27 8 FCC Rcd 8105, paras 11&hyph;13 (1992). 28 The 220&hyph;222 MHz band is the sole exception, where we have created exclusive use channels below 470 MHz. 29 While there may be rare instances where a particular licensee below 470 MHz does not share its channel assignment with other licensees in a geographic area, these licensees have no ability to preclude new licensees from requesting the same channel assignment.
