FR940919-0-00015 FR940919-0-00002 PART 1640_MARKETING AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE-RELATED ASSETS Subpart A_Marketing and Selling Real Property on an Individual Basis for 120 Days Sec. 1640.1␣Purpose and scope. 1640.2␣Definitions. 1640.3␣Procedure during initial 120-day marketing period. 1640.4␣Procedure after initial 120-day marketing period. 1640.5␣Exceptions. Subpart B_Disposition of Real Estate-Related Assets 1640.11␣Purpose and scope. 1640.12␣Definitions. 1640.13␣Procedure for disposition of real estate-related assets. 1640.14␣Exceptions. 1640.15␣Coordination with subpart A of this part and section 21A(w)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act. Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1441a (w)(2) and (w)(3). Subpart A_Marketing and Selling Real Property on an Individual Basis for 120 Days §1640.1 Purpose and scope. (a) This subpart provides the implementing regulations required by section 21A(w)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, which requires the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) to market and sell real property assets solely on an individual basis for an initial 120-day marketing period and which, after such initial 120-day marketing period, further requires the RTC to justify in writing the disposition of real property assets on a portfolio basis or as part of a multi-asset sales initiative. (b) This subpart applies with respect to all single real property assets held by the RTC on or after December 17, 1993; provided, however, that this subpart shall not apply with respect to any such assets which were the subject of a contract to sell or other disposition contract on December 17, 1993. §1640.2 Definitions. For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply: (a) Controlling interest, with respect to a single real property asset, shall mean an ownership interest which gives the RTC the ability to direct and control the disposition of such asset; (b) Initial 120-day marketing period, with respect to a single real property asset, shall mean the 120-day period beginning on the date on which the RTC first markets such asset on an individual basis; (c) Insured depository institution shall have the meaning given such term in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; (d) Market shall mean to provide notice to the public of the availability of a single real property asset for sale through methods calculated to reach persons who can reasonably be expected to have an interest in acquiring such asset. Examples of methods which the RTC may employ for initiating marketing include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) Listing of such an asset with a real estate broker, multiple listing service or contractor qualified to market the asset; and (2) Advertising the availability of such an asset in a general interest publication, such as a local, regional or national newspaper, or in a specialized publication, such as a business or trade publication or marketing brochure; (e) Portfolio sale or multi-asset sales initiative shall mean a method of asset disposition in which the RTC permits the purchase, or other disposition, of two or more single real property assets for one indivisible price; (f) Real property shall mean improved or unimproved property held in fee simple or pursuant to a ground lease, a leasehold in connection with shares in a cooperative corporation or similar entity and any other property constituting real property within the meaning of the law of the State (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) in which the property is situated. The term shall not mean a time share interest, a space lease or a security interest in property, including a mortgage or deed of trust; (g) RTC or Resolution Trust Corporation shall mean the Resolution Trust Corporation, established in section 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, in its corporate capacity, its capacity as conservator, its capacity as receiver, or its capacity as the owner of a subsidiary of a depository institution under conservatorship or receivership, or in any combination thereof; (h) Single real property asset shall mean_ (1) A legally separate and distinct real property asset, in which the RTC holds an undivided or controlling interest; or (2) Two or more legally separate and distinct real property assets, in which the RTC holds an undivided or controlling interest, which may be logically treated as a single asset because the assets have at least two common characteristics, including contiguity, economic integration, shared utility systems, former common ownership, former common operation, common infrastructure improvements, common recreational facilities and other similar characteristics; (i) Undivided interest, with respect to a single real property asset, shall mean an interest which gives the RTC complete ownership and control of the disposition of such asset; and (j) Sale shall mean a disposition by sale or otherwise, whereby the RTC transfers its interest in a single real property asset to another person or entity.
