FR940128-1-00109 FR940128-1-00006 b. Temperature-Recording Devices Temperature-recording devices should be installed where they can be easily read and the sensors for such devices should be installed to ensure that they accurately measure the warmest temperature of the refrigeration equipment and the coldest temperature of the heating equipment, as appropriate. Computerized storage of temperature data may be used in place of recorder thermometer charts if the use of such a system has been validated and can be shown to be substantially equivalent to the use of a temperature-recording device. Each temperature-recording device should be checked for accuracy at the beginning and end of each production day and adjusted as necessary to agree as nearly as possible with the reference temperature-indicating device. A record of these accuracy checks should be maintained that specifies the time, date, temperatures indicated by both devices before adjustment, corrective action taken, where applicable, and person performing the accuracy check. 8. Corrective Actions Under 21 CFR 123.7, whenever a deviation occurs at a critical control point, the processor shall segregate and hold the product until a review can be made to determine the effect of that deviation, and shall take corrective action as necessary. For cooked, ready-to-eat products, when a deviation occurs at a cooking or pasteurization critical control point, the processor should meet the requirements of ยง123.7 either by destroying the product; by fully reprocessing, where possible, that portion of the production involved, keeping full records of the reprocessing conditions; or by setting aside that portion of the product involved for further evaluation as to any potential public health significance. Such an evaluation should be made by a process authority and should be in accordance with procedures recognized by process authorities as being adequate to detect any unacceptable hazard to public health. Unless this evaluation demonstrates that the product had been given a thermal process that rendered it free of microorganisms of potential public health significance or, in the case of pasteurization, that resulted in the adequate reduction in numbers of microorganisms, the product set aside should be either fully reprocessed to correct the deficiency or destroyed. A record should be made of the evaluation procedures used and the results. Either upon completion of full reprocessing or after the determination that no significant public health hazard exists, that portion of the product involved may be shipped in normal distribution. Otherwise, the portion of the product involved should be destroyed. 9. Sanitary Zones In addition to the requirements of 21 CFR 123.10, sanitary zones should be established around areas in which cooked product is handled or stored. In such areas, objects and employees that have come into contact with waste, raw product, or other insanitary objects are excluded. Packaging material, equipment, employees, and in-process materials that enter a sanitary zone should be treated in a manner that will minimize the risk of the introduction of microorganisms. Air handling systems should be designed to minimize the risk of airborne contamination and to provide positive air pressure in the sanitary zone relative to the surrounding areas. Appendix B to Part 123_Scombroid Toxin Forming Species 1. General guidelines for Scombroid Toxin Forming Species. 2. Critical control points. 3. Receipt of raw materials critical control point. 4. Processing critical control point. 5. Additional critical control points.
