FR941107-2-00065 FR941107-2-00025 Problems in Tender Filing_New Policy AGENCY: Military Traffic Management Command, DOD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Military Traffic Management Command (MTMC) is proposing a policy governing carrier's responsibility for tender filings. This policy gives MTMC authority to reject and correct mistakes in rate tender filings, and provides carriers with rate filing procedures for correcting mistakes in rate. DATES: Comments must be received not later than December 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Headquarters, Military Traffic Management Command, ATTN: MTOP&hyph;T&hyph;ND, Room 621, 5611 Columbia Pike, Falls Church, VA 22041&hyph;5050. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Barbara McGinnis, (703) 756&hyph;1103. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposed policy will be included as an enclosure to all future MTMC Guaranteed and Non-Guaranteed Traffic solicitations. Problems in Tender Filings 1. Authority. As indicated in the solicitation, the Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations-Transportation Services retains the authority to reject and correct mistakes in rate tender filings. 2. Procedures for Filing Tenders a. General (1) Carriers are solely responsible to ensure tender submissions are legible and typed. Handwritten or illegibly typed submissions or submissions having typed strikeovers will be returned as being nonresponsive. (2) If a rate(s), if applicable, is omitted, the tender submission will be returned as being nonresponsive. (3) If a minimum charge(s), if applicable, is omitted, the tender submission will be returned as being nonresponsive. If a carrier does not want to make a minimum charge, if applicable, that carrier must insert a ``0''. Tender submission will be returned as being nonresponsive for failure of carrier to insert a ``0''. (4) Tender submission may be returned as being nonresponsive for failure of the carrier to submit a properly signed and executed Certificate of Independent Pricing with tender submission. (5) Tender formats cannot be altered by carriers in any manner. If altered, the tender submission may be returned as being nonresponsive. b. Carrier Responsibility for Tender Filings Carriers are solely responsible for the proper preparation, accuracy, and timely submission of their tenders. Carriers are responsible for establishing quality control procedures that will include review of tenders prior to their submission to Headquarters, Military Traffic Management Command. Tenders found to contain errors such as typographical may be granted relief based on justification in support of alleged errors. c. Administrative Errors Administrative errors which can be corrected include, but are not limited to, mistakes in the following: (1) Carrier street address and Standard Carrier Alpha Code. (2) Carrier telephone number. (3) Mode, if applicable. (4) Tender number or series. (5) Interstate Commerce Commission, and/or intrastate operating authority certificate number. (6) Typed name of company official authorized to submit rates, address, and telephone number. Tender submission will be returned as being nonresponsive for failure of a carrier to sign its tender. (7) Tender and rate sheet not corresponding that can be evaluated on an equal basis with other carriers. If a rate sheet varies the material terms (e.g., change in rate qualifier, mileage groups, or minimum weights) of the solicitation so that the rates cannot be evaluated on an equal basis with other carriers, the tender submission will be returned as being nonresponsive. (8) Failure to submit the required number of original signature copies of the rate tender.
