FR940628-1-00091 FR940628-1-00015 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 676 [Docket No. 940683&hyph;4183; I.D. 060994B] RIN 0648&hyph;AE79 Limited Access Management of Federal Fisheries In and Off of Alaska AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Proposed rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS issues a proposed rule to implement Amendment 31 to the Fishery Management Plan (FMP) for the Groundfish Fishery of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Area (BSAI), Amendment 35 to the FMP for Groundfish of the Gulf of Alaska (GOA), and a regulatory amendment affecting the fishery for Pacific halibut in and off the State of Alaska (Alaska or State). This action is being proposed to implement the Modified Block Proposal, to clarify the transfer process for the Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ) program, and to prevent excessive consolidation of the Pacific halibut and sablefish fisheries off Alaska. If approved, these FMP and regulatory amendments would require the issuance of quota share (QS) blocks for QS resulting in less than 20,000 lb (9 mt) of IFQ for halibut or sablefish, based on the 1994 total allowable catch (TAC) for fixed gear in those fisheries, allow the combination of QS blocks that are less than 1,000 lb (0.5 mt) of IFQ for halibut and less than 3,000 lb (1.4 mt) of IFQ for sablefish, restrict the number of blocks that may be held by a person in any IFQ regulatory area, and clarify the transfer process for QS and IFQ. It is intended to ensure that small part-time operators and diversified operations can continue to participate profitably in the IFQ fisheries. DATES: Comments must be received by August 8, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be sent to Ronald J. Berg, Chief, Fisheries Management Division, Alaska Region, NMFS, 709 W. 9th Street, Room 453, Juneau, AK 99801 or P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802, Attention: Lori J. Gravel. Copies of Amendments 31 and 35, and the Environmental Assessment/Regulatory Impact Review/Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (EA/RIR/IRFA) for the ``Sitka Block'' proposed amendment, the ``Full/Partial Block'' proposed amendment, and the ``Modified Block'' proposed amendment to the IFQ management alternative for the Pacific halibut and sablefish fisheries off Alaska, may be obtained from the North Pacific Fishery Management Council, P.O. Box 103136, Anchorage, AK 99510. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John Lepore, 907&hyph;586&hyph;7228. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Sitka Block proposed amendment, the Full/Partial Block proposed amendment, the Modified Block proposed amendment, and the status quo alternative for the IFQ program for fixed-gear sablefish fisheries off Alaska and for the fixed-gear Pacific halibut fisheries in and off Alaska are described in the EA/RIR/IRFA dated December 17, 1993. Language amending the BSAI and the GOA FMPs was developed for the Modified Block Proposal, the North Pacific Fishery Management Council's (Council) chosen alternative. The amendments to the FMPs affect the sablefish fisheries in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) off Alaska, which are managed in accordance with the BSAI and the GOA groundfish FMPs. The Council prepared both FMPs under authority of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act). The BSAI FMP is implemented by regulations appearing at 50 CFR 611.93 for the foreign fishery and 50 CFR part 675 for the U.S. fishery. The GOA FMP is implemented by regulations appearing at 50 CFR 611.92 for the foreign fishery and at 50 CFR part 672 for the U.S. fishery. General regulations that also pertain to the U.S. groundfish fisheries appear at 50 CFR part 620. The Council does not have an FMP for halibut. The domestic fishery for halibut in and off Alaska is managed by the International Pacific Halibut Commission (IPHC), as provided by the Convention between the United States and Canada for the Preservation of the Halibut Fishery of the Northern Pacific Ocean and the Bering Sea (Convention), signed at Washington, DC, March 29, 1979, and the Halibut Act. The Convention and the Halibut Act authorize the Regional Fishery Management Councils established by the Magnuson Act to develop regulations that are in addition to, but not in conflict with, regulations adopted by the IPHC affecting the U.S. halibut fishery. Under this authority, the Council may develop, for approval by the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary), limited-access policies for the Pacific halibut fishery in Convention waters in and off Alaska. ``Convention waters'' means the maritime areas off the west coast of the United States and Canada, as described in Article I of the Convention (see 16 U.S.C. 773(d)). The Council acted under these authorities in recommending changes to the IFQ program for the halibut and sablefish fisheries. These recommended changes would be implemented by this proposed action and are intended by the Council to promote the conservation and management of sablefish and halibut resources, and to further the objectives of the Magnuson Act and the Halibut Act. QS Block Proposals
