FR941221-1-00042 FR941221-1-00013 Wednesday December 21, 1994 Part V Environmental Protection Agency 40 CFR Part 136 Water Pollution Control; Test Procedures Guidelines; Chlorinated Pesticides and PCBs; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 244␣/␣Wednesday, December 21, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 136 [FRL&hyph;5125&hyph;3] Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants; Chlorinated Pesticides and PCBs by Disk Extraction AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed rule and request for comment. SUMMARY: This proposed amendment to 40 CFR part 136 would approve the use of an additional procedure for the determination of chlorinated pesticides and PCBs in wastewater by adding appropriate citations to Tables IC and ID and by amending the incorporation by reference section of the regulation accordingly. The proposed method differs from currently approved methods in that the proposed method incorporates a disk of octadecyl bonded silica enmeshed in a matrix of inert PFTE fibrils for extraction of the analytes. The precision and recovery for the chlorinated pesticides and PCBs using this technique are not substantially different from those obtained using the liquid-liquid extraction technique already approved. Use of approved analytical techniques is required whenever the waste constituent specified is required to be measured for: an NPDES permit application; discharge monitoring reports; state certification; and other requests from the permitting authority for quantitative or qualitative effluent data. Use of approved test procedures is also required for the expression of pollutant amounts, characteristics, or properties in effluent limitations guidelines and standards of performance and pretreatment standards, unless otherwise specifically noted or defined. DATES: Comments on this proposal will be accepted until January 20, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send comments to: James E. Longbottom, Environmental Monitoring Systems Laboratory_Cincinnati, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Cincinnati, OH 45268&hyph;0592. The comments should be labeled as ``Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for the Analyses of Pollutants Under the Clean Water Act_Chlorinated Pesticides and PCBs by Disk Extraction''. The record and all supporting information on this proposal is available to the public for inspection or copying during normal business hours at the Cincinnati Laboratory. The public should contact James E. Longbottom at (513&hyph; 569&hyph;7308) for access. An additional copy of the record and supporting information is also available to the public for inspection and copying at the EPA Public Information Reference Unit, Room 2404. For information about materials in the docket see SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
