FR940413-2-00162 FR940413-2-00072 [Release No. 34&hyph;33852; File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;94&hyph;03] Self-Regulatory Organizations; National Securities Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of a Proposed Rule Change Amending NSCC's By-laws to Provide for an Additional Member of the Board of Directors April 1, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on March 4, 1994, the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been primarily prepared by NSCC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change amends NSCC's by-laws to allow for an additional member of the board of directors. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, NSCC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. NSCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change When NSCC was formed, the number of directors on the board was sixteen. To provide a greater representation of the participants in the management of NSCC, the number of directors on the board was increased to seventeen in 1984 and to eighteen in 1990. 2 NSCC's participant base has expanded significantly since 1990. Therefore, NSCC believes that it is in the participants' interest that the number of directors again be increased. NSCC's by-laws permit the number of directors to be increased from time to time. The rule change consists of an amendment to the by-laws increasing the number of directors on the board from eighteen to nineteen. Pursuant to NSCC's shareholders agreement, the board of directors is made up as follows: One director representing each shareholder ( i.e., the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange, and National Association of Securities Dealers), one director representing NSCC's management ( i.e., NSCC's president and chief executive officer), and the remaining directors are selected from NSCC's participants. The additional participant director will further the opportunity for participants to be represented on the board and to participate in the administration of NSCC. 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 27984 (May 2, 1990), 55 FR 19400 [File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;90&hyph;02] (order approving proposed rule change).
