FR940607-2-00063 FR940607-2-00048 During emergency events involving PCB contamination, emergency personnel are required to wear chemical-protective clothing ( i.e. , polyethylene-coated coveralls, pvc or composite-rubber gloves, and full-face, fitted respirators). Every employee at the facility has access to either the internal telephone system or a two-way radio that can be used to communicate the occurrence of a fire or explosion to the Emergency Coordinator located in the supervisor's trailer at the north end of the facility site. The Emergency Coordinator determines the correct emergency response, and initiates this emergency response by manually activating the appropriate combination of falcon horns, sirens, and/or alarm horn/strobe-light sets. Using predetermined routes, all nonessential employees are evacuated from the immediate fire/explosion area to designated assembly areas outside the facility gates. Only authorized (and predesignated) employees are allowed to remain in the fire/explosion area. During regular operating hours, the fire brigade is available onsite to control the emergency event. During nonoperating hours, the employee who discovers the emergency, usually the security officer, notifies the Emergency Coordinator; after determining the appropriate response, the Emergency Coordinator telephones members of the fire brigade at their homes and directs them to report to the Envirosafe facility. After the emergency event has been controlled, the decision to reenter the facility can be made only by the Emergency Coordinator; prior to reentry, a tally is made of employees, contract personnel, and visitors. All employees receive emergency training drills semi-annually, during which they practice emergency evacuations. If a power outage occurs during an emergency event, emergency equipment requiring electricity can be operated either through batteries ( e.g. , two-way radios) or auxiliary power. Copies of the Emergency Evacuation Plan covering these activities may be obtained from Envirosafe at the address listed above in the first paragraph under ``I. Background.'' 15. To respond to serious emergency events ( i.e. , fires and explosions), a fire brigade consisting of specially-trained Envirosafe employees is available during operating hours. Pursuant to the Training Plan mentioned in the preceding section, members of the fire brigade are trained not only in fire brigade procedures and safety, but in first aid and CPR. Every employee at the facility receives the following onsite emergency training: Procedures for locating, using, inspecting, repairing, and replacing facility emergency and monitoring equipment; emergency communication procedures and alarm system operation; proper responses to fires, explosions, and spill incidents ( i.e. , procedures for containing, controlling, and mitigating spills); and evacuation procedures. At least two employees on duty during regular operating hours are trained in first-aid and CPR. As described in Table G&hyph;4 of Appendix 5 to the EPA approval document, the fire brigade is trained to use dry chemicals or carbon dioxide on small fires, and standard firefighting agents ( i.e. , foam and high-pressure water) on large fires. The fire brigade is available at the facility during normal operating hours (and on standby status at home during nonoperating hours), and is equipped with a fire truck carrying a foam unit, high-pressure water applicator, and water supply. A storage tank has been installed at the facility to supply a maximum of 16,000 gallons of water during fire emergencies. Employees in the processing building are trained to operate Class ABC 20-pound fire extinguishers, while members of the fire brigade also are trained in the use of 125-pound Class BC fire extinguishers located outside this building. The applicant states that it is providing its employees with employment and a place of employment at least as safe and healthful as required by 29 CFR 1910.106(b)(2)(viii)( f ) by using engineering techniques and operational procedures to prevent the accumulation of vapors generated from the transfer of combustible/flammable liquids used in its processing operations and by controlling ignition sources at these transfer sites.
