FR940810-1-00020 FR940810-1-00005 For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 685 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 685_PELAGIC FISHERIES OF THE WESTERN PACIFIC REGION 1. The authority citation for part 685 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. 2. In §685.2, the definitions of ``Special Agent-in-Charge'' and ``vessel monitoring system unit (VMS unit)'' are added in alphabetical order, as follows: §685.2 Definitions. * * * * * Special Agent-in-Charge (SAC) means the Special Agent-in-Charge, NMFS Office of Enforcement, Southwest Region or the designee of the Special Agent-in-Charge. * * * * * Vessel monitoring system unit (VMS unit) means the hardware and software equipment owned by NMFS, installed on vessels by NMFS, and required by this part to track and transmit the positions of longline fishing vessels. 3. In §685.5, new paragraphs (aa)-(hh) are added as follows: §685.5 Prohibitions. * * * * * (aa) Fail to carry a VMS unit as required under §685.16. (bb) Interfere with, tamper with, alter, damage, disable, or impede the operation of a VMS unit or to attempt any of the same; or to move or remove a VMS unit without the prior permission of the SAC. (cc) Make a false statement, oral or written, to an authorized officer, regarding the use, operation, or maintenance of a VMS unit. (dd) Fish for, catch, or harvest Pacific pelagic management unit species with longline gear without a VMS unit on board the vessel after installation of the VMS unit by NMFS. (ee) Possess on board a vessel without a VMS unit Pacific pelagic management unit species harvested with longline gear after NMFS has installed the VMS unit on the vessel. (ff) Interfere with, impede, delay, or prevent the installation, maintenance, repair, inspection, or removal of a VMS unit. (gg) Interfere with, impede, delay, or prevent access to a VMS unit by a NMFS observer. (hh) Connect or leave connected additional equipment to a VMS unit without the approval of the SAC. 3. Section 685.14 is revised to read as follows: §685.14 Transit notification. The operator of a longline fishing vessel subject to this part who does not have on board a VMS unit while transiting the protected species zone, must notify the NMFS Southwest Enforcement Office at (808) 541&hyph;2727 immediately upon entering and immediately upon departing the protected species zone. The notification must include the name of the vessel, name of the operator, date and time (GMT) of entry or exit from the protected species zone, and location of the vessel by latitude and longitude to the nearest minute.
