FR940725-0-00130 FR940725-0-00019 The scope of revised Subpart B has been expanded so that the final rule covers all shipyard work, and the title of the Subpart, originally called ``Explosive and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Vessel and Vessel Sections,'' has been changed to ``Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Shipyard Employment.'' OSHA believes this change more accurately reflects the scope of this Subpart, which now addresses all shipyard employment operations and which is not limited to confined spaces. The entire subpart applies regardless of whether shipbuilding, ship repair, or shipbreaking is being done. The scope of the 1988 proposal differed from the previous standard in two major respects: (1) The proposed standard would have extended coverage to employees in shipbuilding, who were not protected by previous §§1915.12 through 1915.16, and (2) the proposed standard would have extended coverage to employees in shipbreaking who were not protected by the previous §1915.16. The notice of proposed rulemaking listed two reasons for extending the scope of Subpart B in this manner: (1) That the national consensus standard corresponding to Subpart B (NFPA 306, Control of Gas Hazards on Vessels ) imposes the same basic requirements to all shipyard work, regardless of whether ship building, ship breaking, or ship repair is being performed; and (2) that the protective measures required under the previous §§1915.12 through 1915.16 are current industry practice in all aspects of shipyard work. NFPA 306 (1988) is the national consensus standard that applies to work covered by revised Subpart B. Like Subpart B, it contains requirements for atmospheric testing, for cold work and hot work, and for maintaining safe atmospheres for employees while shipbuilding, shipbreaking, or ship repairing is being performed. Under section 6(b)(8) of the OSH Act, any standard that OSHA adopts in regard to atmospheric hazards on vessels must be at least as protective as the NFPA document unless another standard would be more consistent with the purpose of the act. 2 Expanding the scope of the current standard to all of shipyard employment is consistent with the scope of NFPA 306 and therefore providing at least equivalent protection. 2 Section 6(b)(8) of the OSH Act reads as follows: Whenever a rule promulgated by the Secretary differs substantially from an existing national consensus standard, the Secretary shall, at the same time, publish in the Federal Register a statement of the reasons why the rule as adopted will better effectuate the purposes of this Act than the national consensus standard. Before the publication of the 1988 proposal, 30 groups, representing government agencies, employers, unions, and associations, commented on the first draft rewrite of Subpart B. All of these groups supported the concept of expanding Subpart B coverage to both shipbuilding and shipbreaking (53 FR 48094). As noted in the preamble to the proposal, OSHA believes that this is because the shipyard industry was already applying the requirements of previous Subpart B to the entire shipyard. In fact, the preliminary regulatory impact analysis identified no cost impact from the application of the proposal to shipbuilding, shipbreaking, and ship repair (53 FR 48104). In response to the 1988 notice of proposed rulemaking, OSHA received no comments in opposition to the extension of this coverage and several expressions of support for applying the standard uniformly throughout the shipyard (Ex. 6&hyph;3, 6&hyph;6, 6&hyph;23). The position of the 39 commenters is best expressed by the following statements. The Shipbuilders Council of America (SCA) (Ex. 6&hyph;3), which represents 25 major U.S. shipyards that employ 95 percent of shipyard production workers, stated: *␣*␣*␣having a single standard addressing this issue would achieve the objective of providing employees and employers with one set of rules for given situations. Newport News Shipbuilding (Ex. 6&hyph;6), the largest shipyard in the western hemisphere: *␣*␣*␣the industry treats confined spaces ashore and afloat in a similar manner. The American Waterways Shipyard Conference (AWSC) (Ex. 6&hyph;23), representing the interests of small- to medium-sized commercial shipbuilding and repair industry stated: AWSC is very supportive of OSHA's efforts to develop this vertical standard. The end product will eliminate the confusion which currently exists concerning the applicability of the General Industry Standards to the shipbuilding and repair industry, and will up-date all standards to the existing technology level.
