FR940106-1-00111 FR940106-1-00012 The Endangered Species Act provides for a public hearing on this proposal, if requested. Requests must be received within 45 days of the date of publication of this revised proposal in the Federal Register . Such requests must be made in writing and should be sent to the Acting Field Supervisor, Sacramento Field Office (see ADDRESSES section). As stated previously, all comments that have been received during the preceding public comment periods on the economic impacts, legal requirements, and biological or ecological requirements or effects of critical habitat designation will be considered during preparation of a final rule. Additionally, comments received during the 60-day comment period following publication of this revised proposed rule will be used in preparing a final rule. The final decision on the designation of critical habitat will take into consideration the comments and any additional information received by the Service and will include any exclusion determinations. National Environmental Policy Act The Service has determined that an Environmental Assessment and/or an Environmental Impact Statement, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in connection with regulations adopted pursuant to section 4(a) of the Act. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). Regulatory Flexibility Act and Executive Order 12866 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The Department of the Interior has determined that the proposed rule will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). Based on the information discussed in this rule concerning public projects and private activities within critical habitat areas, significant economic impacts will not result from the critical habitat designation. Also, no direct costs, enforcement costs, information collection, or recordkeeping requirements are imposed on small entities by this designation. Further, the rule contains no recordkeeping requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. Takings Implications Assessment The Service has analyzed the potential takings implications of designating critical habitat for the delta smelt in a Takings Implications Assessment prepared pursuant to requirements of Executive Order 12630, ``Governmental Actions and Interference with Constitutionally Protected Property Rights.'' The Takings Implications Assessment concludes that the designation does not pose significant takings implications. References Cited Arthur, J.F., and M.D. Ball. 1978. Entrapment of suspended materials in the San Francisco Bay-Delta Estuary. U.S. Dept. Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, Sacramento, California. Arthur, J.F., and M.D. Ball. 1979. Factors influencing the entrapment of suspended material in the San Francisco Bay-Delta Estuary. Pages 143&hyph;174 in T.J. Conomos, editor. Pacific Division, Amer. Assoc. Advance. Sci., San Francisco, California. Arthur, J.F., and M.D. Ball. 1980. The significance of the entrapment zone location to the phytoplankton standing crop in the San Francisco Bay-Delta Estuary. U.S. Dept. Interior, Water and Power Resources Service. Erkkila, L.F., J.W. Moffet, O.B. Cope, B.R. Smith, and R.S. Smith. 1950. Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta fishery resources: Effects of Tracy Pumping Plant and the Delta Cross Channel. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Special Scientific Rept. 56:1&hyph;109. Ganssle, D. 1966. Fishes and decapods of San Pablo and Suisun Bays. Pages 64&hyph;94 in D.W. Kelley, editor. Ecological studies of the Sacramento-San Joaquin estuary, Part 1. Calif. Dept. Fish and Game, Fish Bulletin 133.
