FR940524-1-00037 FR940524-1-00010 Paragraph (i) would require the instantaneous penetration of the filter (i.e., the amount of aerosol particles that pass through the filter) to be monitored and recorded throughout the test period by a suitable forward-light-scattering photometer or equivalent instrumentation. Paragraph (j) would require the maximum filter penetration for each of the 30 filters to be determined and recorded. The mean maximum penetration, m, and the standard deviation, s, would be required to be calculated from these data. The test static U for the particulate respirator filter would be calculated as the sum of the mean maximum penetration and 2.22 multiplied by the standard deviation. The test static would be used to determine if the performance of the filter would meet the requirement for the requested classification (type). For a type A filter, the test static would be less than or equal to 0.0003; for a type B, the test static would be less than or equal to 0.01; for a type C, the test static would be less than or equal to 0.05. Section 84.185␣Powered, Particulate Respirator Flow Requirements This section would be new. It would specify the minimum requirements and criteria for verification of the airflow rates of powered, particulate respirators. This section would also define the classes as loose-fitting and tight-fitting, depending on their reliance on the tightness of the face seal. The airflow of a powered air-purifying respirator would be measured after each of the penetration tests. The airflow requirements that a powered air-purifying respirator would be required to meet are specified based on its design classification as tight-fitting or loose-fitting. The minimum airflow requirements for each class are specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. A tight-fitting, powered, air-purifying respirator would be defined as designed to seal to the wearer's face and provide protection as a non-powered respirator in the event of a blower failure. A loose-fitting, powered, air-purifying respirator would be defined as designed to function without reliance on a tight-fitting face seal. Paragraph (a) would require tight-fitting, powered air-purifying respirators to maintain an air-flow rate of at least 115 liters (4.06 cubic feet) per minute for a period of at least 4 hours unless otherwise specified. Paragraph (b) would require loose-fitting, powered air-purifying respirators to maintain an air-flow rate of at least 170 liters (6.0 cubic feet) per minute for a period of at least 4 hours, unless otherwise specified. Paragraph (c) would require powered air-purifying respirators to be provided with an acceptable mechanism and appropriate instructions, whereby, the user can routinely and simply determine that the minimum airflow is maintained. Subpart L_Chemical Cartridge Respirators Section 84.203␣Breathing Resistance Tests; Minimum Requirements This section would be redesignated from existing §11.162&hyph;1. It would be modified only to delete reference to various ``classifications'', such as paints and pneumoconiosis and fibrous producing dusts, that would no longer be appropriate with the introduction of the ``particulates'' classification with the new instantaneous-penetration test.
