FR940920-1-00050 FR940920-1-00007 The EPA has determined that additional dioxin/furan control is achievable with activated carbon injection, which is the basis for MACT for Hg, as discussed above. The EPA's analysis of test data from a recent testing program at an MWC at the Camden County, New Jersey, facility and other facilities indicates that the injection of activated carbon into the flue gas of an SD-based scrubbing system provides additional removal of dioxins/furans (greater than 50 percent additional control over levels achieved with SD/ESP systems alone). As such, the EPA believes a dioxin/furan level of approximately 10 ng/dscm total mass (which represents a 99-percent reduction) is achievable for MWC's using GCP and equipped with SD/FF's and activated carbon injection. Because carbon injection is being proposed as part of the basis for MACT for Hg, the EPA is proposing MACT for dioxins/furans for MWC's at both small and large MWC plants based on carbon injection. The EPA is proposing MACT for dioxins/furans on both a TEQ basis and a total mass basis. Based on the EPA's analysis of an average TEQ ratio, the 10 ng/dscm total mass emission level translates to 0.16 TEQ. However, because there is uncertainty about the ratio, the proposed MACT floor for dioxins/furans on a TEQ basis is 0.20 ng/dscm. Using the average TEQ ratio, 0.20 ng/dscm TEQ is equivalent to about 13 ng/dscm total mass dioxins/furans. Therefore, the EPA is proposing MACT for dioxins/furans for MWC's at both small and large MWC plants at a level of 0.20 ng/dscm TEQ or 13 ng/dscm total mass. Sources may comply with either format of the limit. However, since the activated carbon injection technology does not have a long-term record of commercial application in the United States and since the 0.20 ng/dscm TEQ or 13 ng/dscm total mass standard is restrictive, the EPA is proposing a 3-year optimization schedule for activated carbon injection applied at initial subpart Eb applications. All affected facilities commencing construction after September 20, 1994, but on or before September 22, 1997 would be required to meet a standard of 0.50 ng/dscm TEQ or 30 ng/dscm total mass for the first 3 years following the date of initial startup. Thereafter, the standard would be 0.20 ng/dscm TEQ or 13 ng/dscm total mass. For all affected facilities commencing construction after September 22, 1997, the standard at startup would be 0.20 ng/dscm TEQ or 13 ng/dscm total mass. Starting in 1994, MWC units with activated carbon injection technology will be initiating commercial operation. As dioxin/furan data become available from MWC's operating with carbon injection technology, the EPA will reconsider the appropriateness of the 3-year optimization schedule. i. MACT for Nitrogen Oxides. The average NO X emission level for MWC's without postcombustion NO X control (at both small and large MWC plants) is 225 ppmv. The best emission control system for controlling NO X emissions from MWC's at large MWC plants is SNCR. The EPA's analysis of test data for existing MWC's (excluding modular MWC's) equipped with SNCR indicates that an emission level of 180 ppmv can be continuously achieved. Therefore, the MACT floor for NO X for MWC's at large MWC plants is 180 ppmv (24-hour averaging period). As discussed in section IV.F.1.c of this preamble, the addition of SNCR postcombustion NO X control has not been demonstrated on any modular MWC, and the performance of such a system on a modular MWC is in question. Since the performance of an SNCR system on a modular MWC is in question, postcombustion NO X control is not being considered for MWC's at small MWC plants; therefore, the MACT floor for NO X for MWC's at small MWC plants is no control. The proposed MACT standard for NO X for MWC's at large MWC plants is the MACT floor level of 180 ppmv. The proposed MACT standard for NO X for MWC's at small MWC plants is based on no control. Section IX of this preamble discusses the proposed ``no control'' NO X standard for MWC's at small MWC plants.
