FR940302-2-00090 FR940302-2-00065 [Release No. 34&hyph;33662; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;91&hyph;46] Self-Regulatory Organizations; New York Stock Exchange, Inc.; Order Granting Approval to Proposed Rule Change Relating to Audit Trail Account Identification Codes February 23, 1994. On December 17, 1991, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''), pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 a proposed rule change to introduce new account identification codes to indicate orders for the account of a competing dealer for audit trail reporting purposes. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1993). The proposed rule change was published for comment in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30142 (January 2, 1992), 57 FR 728 (January 8, 1992). No comments were received on the proposal. 3 3 The Commission notes that in a letter from William W. Uchimoto, General Counsel, Philadelphia Stock Exchange, to Mary Revell, Branch Chief, Division of Market Regulation, dated January 24, 1992, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange (``Phlx'') requested an extension until March 4, 1992 to comment on the proposal and on an American Stock Exchange (``Amex'') proposal concerning competing dealers (File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;90&hyph;29). In the letter, the Phlx expressed its belief that both proposals were ``highly controversial, giving rise to significant competitive and market structure concerns.'' The Commission did not, however, receive further comment from the Phlx regarding this NYSE proposal. See note 10, infra. NYSE Rule 132 presently requires that clearing member firms submitting a transaction to comparison must include certain audit trail data elements, including a specification of the account type for which the transaction was effected according to defined account categories. 4 Under NYSE Rule 132, the NYSE has established account identification codes which differentiate trades executed for customers from trades executed for the proprietary account of a member/member organization 5 and trades executed by a member/member organization as agent for another member/member organization. 6 The new indicators being approved herein will identify transactions effected for the account of a competing dealer. 4 NYSE Rule 132, Supp. Material .30(1) to (9) (Comparison and Settlement of Transactions Through a Fully-Interfaced or Qualified Clearing Agency), specify the trade elements that must be submitted. Paragraph (10) provides the Exchange with the authority to require additional information as well. 5 The Exchange uses indicators D (Program Trade Index Arbitrage), C (Program Trade Non-Index Arbitrage), and P (All Other Orders) for transactions effected for a member/member organization's proprietary account. 6 The Exchange uses indicators M (Program Trade Index Arbitrage), N (program Trade non-Index Arbitrage), and W (All Other Orders) for transactions effected by a member/member organization as agent for another member/member organization. New indicators of O, T, and R will denote that a transaction was effected for the account of a competing dealer. The identifier ``0'' denotes a proprietary order for the account of a competing dealer. The identifier ``T'' denotes an order where one member is acting as an agent for another member's competing dealer account. Finally, the identifier ``R'' denotes an order for the account of a non-member competing dealer. 7 In addition, the rule change adds the following definitions: 7 Member firms will be given a reasonable period of time (approximately six months) to make their own system enhancements so that they may be in compliance with the new account type identification requirements. Competing Dealer: a specialist or market-maker registered as such on a registered stock exchange (other than the NYSE), or market-maker bidding and offering over-the-counter, in a New York Stock Exchange-traded security. Proprietary, Competing Dealer: a member or member organization trading for its own competing dealer account. As Agent for Other Member, Competing Dealer: a member or member organization trading as agent for another member's competing dealer account. The Exchange states that the new account categories for order identification will enhance the efficiency and accuracy of audit trail information. Furthermore, the NYSE believes that the identifiers will improve the Exchange's ability to assess the extent of activity by competing dealers and market makers in NYSE-listed securities and the impact of this activity on the NYSE market. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of section 6(b) of the Act. 8 Specifically, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the section 6(b)(5) requirements that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, to protect investors and the public. 8 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). The Commission believes that the proposed identification codes should prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts by improving the accuracy and efficiency of audit trail information used for surveillance purposes. Specifically, the Commission believes that the new, more precise identifier codes should facilitate surveillance investigations by clearly and more specifically demarcating competing dealers proprietary trading. In addition, more accurate audit trail information should increase the effectiveness of the Exchange's automated surveillance procedures and provide Exchange staff with a more comprehensive reconstruction of trading activity. In summary, we believe the proposed identifier codes should permit the NYSE to perform its surveillance responsibilities more thoroughly and therefore, for this sole reason, find the proposal consistent with section 6(b)(5) of the Act. The Commission notes that the approval of this proposal is limited solely to establishing competing dealer identifier codes for audit trail and surveillance purposes. 9 The proposal does not limit or restrict the activity of competing dealers or their access to the NYSE. Thus, any competitive burden on competing dealers would be minimal and outweighed by the surveillance benefits to be obtained by the NYSE. 10 9 This information is not available to specialists or traders on the floor. 10 The Commission is currently considering an Amex proposal (File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;90&hyph;29) that would impose certain restrictions on limit orders for the account of a competing dealer. The Commission has received over 40 comments opposing this proposal. While the NYSE proposal being approved herein also concerns competing dealers, the proposal only requires orders for competing dealers to be noted on account identifiers for surveillance purposes. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 11 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;91&hyph;46) is approved. 11 15 U.S.C. 78s (b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 12 12 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4702 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
