FR940822-2-00154 FR940822-2-00061 Each non-scholarship grantee (including a State or local court receiving a subgrant from the State Supreme Court) shall provide for an annual fiscal audit. The audit may be of the entire grantee organization (e.g., a university) or of the specific project funded by the Institute. Audits conducted in accordance with the Single Audit Act of 1984 and OMB Circular A&hyph;128, or OMB Circular A&hyph;133 will satisfy the requirement for an annual fiscal audit. The audit shall be conducted by an independent Certified Public Accountant, or a State or local agency authorized to audit government agencies. For grantees receiving more than $50,000 in payments during their fiscal year, the audit shall be conducted in accordance with the Government Accounting Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States and shall include: a. An opinion on whether the financial statements of the grantee present fairly its financial position and the results of its financial operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; b. A report on the grantee's internal control structure over financial reporting; and, c. A report on the tests of compliance with applicable laws and regulations that have a direct and material effect on the financial statement amounts. For grantees receiving payments totalling $50,000 or less during their fiscal year, the annual fiscal audit may be conducted in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). A written report shall be prepared upon completion of the audit. Grantees are responsible for submitting copies of the reports to the Institute within 30 days after the acceptance of the report by the grantee, for each year that there is financial activity involving Institute funds. Grantees who receive funds from a Federal agency and who satisfy audit requirements of the cognizant Federal agency, should submit a copy of the audit report prepared for that Federal agency to the Institute in order to satisfy the provisions of this section. Cognizant Federal agencies do not send reports to the Institute. Therefore, each grantee must send this report directly to the Institute. 2. Resolution and Clearance of Audit Reports Timely action on recommendations by responsible management officials is an integral part of the effectiveness of an audit. Each grant recipient shall have policies and procedures for acting on audit recommendations by designating officials responsible for: follow-up, maintaining a record of the actions taken on recommendations and time schedules, responding to and acting on audit recommendations, and submitting periodic reports to the Institute on recommendations and actions taken. 3. Consequences of Non-Resolution of Audit Issues It is the general policy of the State Justice Institute not to make new grant awards to an applicant having an unresolved audit report involving Institute awards. Failure of the grantee organization to resolve audit questions may also result in the suspension of payments for active Institute grants to that organization. K. Close-Out of Grants 1. Definition
