FR940111-2-00045 FR940111-2-00020 FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION Stevedoring, Terminal, CFS and Maintenance and Repair Services; Agreement Filed; et al. The Federal Maritime Commission hereby gives notice of the filing of the following agreement(s) pursuant to section 5 of the Shipping Act of 1984. Interested parties may inspect and obtain a copy of each agreement at the Washington, DC office of the Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., 9th Floor. Interested parties may submit comments on each agreement to the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573, within 10 days after the date of the Federal Register in which this notice appears. The requirements for comments are found in ยง572.603 of title 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Interested persons should consult this section before communicating with the Commission regarding a pending agreement. Agreement No.: 224&hyph;200815. Title: Stevedoring, Terminal, CFR and Maintenance and Repair Services Agreement between Matson Terminals, Inc./Naviera Interamericana Navicana S.A. (Ports of Los Angeles, Oakland and Seattle). Parties: Matson Terminals, Inc. (``Matson'') Naviera Interamericana Navicana S.A. (``Naviera''). Synopsis: The proposed Agreement permits Matson to furnish Naviera with stevedoring, terminal, container freight station, and maintenance and repair services, including berth/crane and other service guarantees at the ports of Los Angeles, Oakland and Seattle. Subject to Agreement provisions, the parties have agreed upon other matters relating to terminal services and charges. Agreement No.: 224&hyph;200816. Title: Stevedoring, Terminal, CFR and Maintenance and Repair Services Agreement between Matson Terminals, Inc./Compania Sudamericana De Vapores (Ports of Los Angeles, Oakland and Seattle). Parties: Matson Terminals, Inc. (``Matson'') Compania Sudamericana De Vapores (``CSDV''). Synopsis: The proposed Agreement permits Matson to furnish CSDV with stevedoring, terminal, container freight station, and maintenance and repair services, including berth/crane and other service guarantees at the ports of Los Angeles, Oakland and Seattle. Subject to Agreement provisions, the parties have agreed upon other matters relating to terminal services and charges. Agreement No.: 224&hyph;200817. Title: Stevedoring, Terminal, CFS and Maintenance and Repair Services Agreement between Matson Terminals, Inc./Flota Mercante Gran Colombiana (Ports of Los Angeles, Oakland and Seattle). Parties: Matson Terminals, Inc. (``Matson'') Flota Mercante Gran Colombiana (``Flota''). Synopsis: The proposed Agreement permits Matson to furnish Flota with stevedoring, terminal, container freight station, and maintenance and repair services, including berth/crane and other service guarantees at the ports of Los Angeles, Oakland and Seattle. Subject to Agreement provisions, the parties have agreed upon other matters relating to terminal services and charges. Dated: January 5, 1994. By Order of the Federal Maritime Commission. Joseph C. Polking, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;549 Filed 1&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6730&hyph;01&hyph;M
