FR941206-0-00066 FR941206-0-00011 II. Summary of Impacts These standards will reduce nationwide emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) from ethylene oxide commercial sterilization and fumigation operations by 1,030 Mg (1,140 tons), or 96 percent, in 1997 compared to the emissions that would result in the absence of the standards. No significant adverse secondary air impacts, water, solid waste or energy impacts are anticipated from the promulgation of these standards. The implementation of this regulation is expected to result in nationwide annualized costs for existing commercial EO sterilization facilities of about $6.6 million beyond baseline based on an analysis of the application of controls to all existing facilities not currently controlled to the level of the standards. Capital costs incurred by a typical uncontrolled existing source such as a large commercial EO sterilization and fumigation operation using 68,000 kg/yr (75 ton/yr) of EO would be about $310,000 for controlling the sterilization chamber vent emissions, and about $290,000 for controlling the aeration room vent and chamber exhaust vent emissions. The annualized cost incurred by this typical source to operate the control devices would be about $100,000 to control the sterilization chamber vent emissions and about $80,000 to control the aeration room vent and chamber exhaust vent emissions. The economic impact analysis done prior to proposal showed that the economic impacts from the proposed standard would not be significant. No changes have been made to the proposed rule that would increase the economic impacts to a significant level. III. Significant Changes to the Proposed Standards A. Public Participation Prior to proposal of the standards, interested parties were advised by public notice in the Federal Register (56 FR 1186), of a meeting of the National Air Pollution Control Techniques Advisory Committee to discuss the ethylene oxide commercial sterilization and fumigation source category recommended for proposal. This meeting was held on January 29&hyph;31, 1991. The meeting was open to the public and each attendee was given an opportunity to comment on the standards recommended for proposal. The standards were proposed and the preamble was published in the Federal Register on March 7, 1994 (59 FR 10591). The preamble to the proposed standards discussed the availability of the regulatory text and proposal BID, which described the regulatory alternatives considered and the impacts of those alternatives. Public comments were solicited at the time of proposal, and copies of the regulatory text and BID were distributed to interested parties. Electronic versions of the preamble, regulation, and BID were made available to interested parties via the TTN (see ADDRESSES section of this preamble). To provide interested persons the opportunity for oral presentation of data, views, or arguments concerning the proposed standards, a public hearing was offered at proposal; however, one was not requested. The public comment period was from March 7 to May 6, 1994. Twenty comment letters were received (two letters were received from one commenter; nineteen commenters submitted comments). The comments have been carefully considered, and changes have been made to the proposed standards when determined by the Administrator to be appropriate. B. Comments on the Proposed Standards Comments on the proposed standards were received from nineteen commenters composed mainly of States, environmental groups, control device vendors, industry, and trade associations. A detailed discussion of these comments and responses can be found in the promulgation BID, which is referred to in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. The summary of comments and responses in the BID serve as the basis for the revisions that have been made to the standards between proposal and promulgation. Most of the comment letters contained multiple comments. The comments have been divided into the following areas: (1) Determination of MACT floor for major source chamber exhaust vents.
