FR941104-2-00085 FR941104-2-00052 JUSTICEANS_001A SYSTEM NAME: The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) Alien File (A-File) and Central Index System (CIS). SYSTEM LOCATION: Central, Regional, District, and other INS file control offices in the United States as detailed in JUSTICE/INS_999. Remote access terminals will also be located in other components of the Department of Justice and in the Department of State on a limited basis. CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY THE SYSTEM: A. Individuals covered by provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act of the United States. B. Individuals who are under investigation, were investigated in the past, or who are suspected of violating the criminal or civil provisions of treaties, statutes, Executive Orders, and Presidential proclamations administered by INS, and witnesses and informants having knowledge of such violations. CATEGORIES OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM: A. The computerized indexing system contains personal identification data such as A-File number, name, date and place of birth, date and port of entry, as well as the location of each official hardcopy paper file known as the ``A-file.'' Microfilm records contain naturalization certificates and any supporting documentation prior to April 1, 1956; however, after that date, this type of information is maintained in the ``A-File'' which is described in B below. B. The hard copy A-file (prior to 1940 were called Citizenship File (C-File)) contains all the individual's official record material such as naturalization certificates; various forms, applications and petitions for benefits under the immigration and nationality laws; reports of investigations; statements; reports; correspondence; and memorandums on each individual for whom INS has created a record under the Immigration and Nationality Act. AUTHORITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS: Sections 103 and 290 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1103 and 8 U.S.C. 1360), and the regulations pursuant thereto. PURPOSE: The system is used primarily by INS and other Department of Justice employees to administer and enforce the immigration and nationality laws, and related statutes, including the processing of applications for benefits under these laws, detecting violations of these laws, and the referral of such violations for prosecution. ROUTINE USES OF RECORDS MAINTAINED IN THE SYSTEM, INCLUDING CATEGORIES OF USERS AND THE PURPOSES OF SUCH USES: Relevant information contained in this system of records may be disclosed as follows: A. To clerks and judges of courts exercising naturalization jurisdiction for the purpose of filing petitions for naturalization and to enable such courts to determine eligibility for naturalization or grounds for revocation of naturalization. B. To the Department of State in the processing of petitions or applications for benefits under the Immigration and Nationality Act, and all other immigration and nationality laws, including treaties and reciprocal agreements. C. To other Federal, State, and local government law enforcement and regulatory agencies and foreign governments, including the Department of Defense and all components thereof, the Department of State, the Department of the Treasury, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Selective Service System, the United States Coast Guard, the United Nations, and INTERPOL, and individuals and organizations during the course of investigation in the processing of a matter or during a proceeding within the purview of the immigration and nationality laws to elicit information required by INS to carry out its functions and statutory mandates.
