FR940412-1-00030 FR940412-1-00008 Construction of Investment Base 1Account No. 1Description Recognized assets: +10999 Total current assets ^29999 Total current liabilities +20100 Current notes payable +13999 Total property and equipment (Net) ^12000 Land +15000 Total other assets s ␣ ␣Total recognized assets Non-recognized assets: +11999 Total investments and special funds s ␣ ␣Total Non-recognized assets 1 Total Recognized and Non-Recognized Assets 0 Recognized sources of funds: +39999 Total stockholders equity +26000 Long-term debt +20100 Current notes payable +24500 Advances from affiliated companies +26100&hyph;500 Long-term obligations_Capital leases s, ␣ ␣Total recognized sources Non-Recognized sources of funds: +26600 Pension liability +26800 Other non-current liabilities +27000 Deferred Federal income taxes +27200 Other deferred credits s, ␣ ␣Total Non-recognized sources 1 Total Recognized and Non-Recognized Sources 0 The proposed Investment Base is the Recognized Assets, multiplied by the ratio of Recognized Sources of Funds to Total Sources of Funds. Recognized assets are adjusted by this ratio to ensure that the assets are not encumbered by outstanding liabilities. The non-recognized sources of funds are available only because they have not been demanded; they represent costs that have been incurred, but not paid. Notes to the Financial Statement and Other Informational Notes All matters which may materially influence interpretations or conclusions drawn from the financial statement with regard to the financial condition or earnings position are required to be clearly and completely stated as footnotes to the financial statement (46 CFR Part 403.) Part A: Proposed Methodology In summary, the basic steps to be followed in the proposed Great Lakes pilotage ratemaking methodology would be as follows: (1) Projection of operating expenses, including target pilot compensation; (2) projection of operating revenues at current rates, including revenues from ancillary services; (3) calculation of investment base; (4) determination of target rate of return on investment; (5) substitution of data into the basic utility rate structure; and (6) adjustment of the basic pilotage rate schedule if necessary, subject to the requirements of the Memorandum of Arrangements between the United States and Canada. The details of each of these steps can be found in Appendix A of the proposed amendments to 46 CFR part 404. General Ratemaking Provisions The Director would continue to determine, under applicable law, when reviews of Great Lakes pilotage rates would be conducted. In addition, this NPRM proposes to allow an interested party or parties to petition the Director for a review, provided that sufficient justification is included in the request. This would allow the Director to react to changing circumstances which might affect pilotage rates. The Coast Guard invites comment on whether rate reviews should be conducted at fixed intervals, and if so, what the timing of the intervals should be. This NPRM proposes that each of the seven U.S. pilotage areas be treated as separate cost centers for ratemaking calculations. This is because each area consists of either designated or undesignated waters, and the target pilot compensation would be different for each. Part A.1. Derivation of Return on Investment and Adjustment for Inflation Return on Investment The proposed rate schedule, based on average costs per pilotage hour as developed below, are in part determined by the permitted rate of return on investment (ROI). This is calculated by dividing the sum of return to debt (interest expense) and the return to equity (net income), by the investment base. Revenues received must be sufficiently high to create sufficient net income, when added to interest expense and the sum divided by the investment base, to equal the allowed rate of return on investment. The ROI for any industry can vary significantly depending solely on the mix of debt to equity capital. Many public service ratemaking authorities determine the allowable ROI using an artificial debt/equity ratio. This is generally done to encourage equity capital investment in an industry, since the return to equity is generally set higher than the return to debt. Since such a mechanism is neither feasible nor necessary in the case of pilotage services, this NPRM does not propose to establish any ROI standard based on a specified debt/equity ratio, but would accept the debt/equity ratio of each of the pilot organizations as reported. This NPRM proposes to set the allowed rate of return to equity capital at the most recent return on stockholder's equity for a representative cross-section of transportation industry companies, including maritime companies, with a minimum rate equal to the interest rate incurred by the associations for debt capital, and a maximum rate of 20.0 percent. Alternate proposed rate of return to capital percentages should contain reasonable support for their selection over this NPRM's proposal. For example, under this NPRM's proposed methodology, the computed ROI standard for pilotage rates, assuming a 50/50 debt/equity ratio, an implicit interest rate of 14 percent on debt capital and a 20 percent return to equity capital, would be 17.0 percent (.50 times .14, plus .50 times .20 = .170, or 17.0 percent.)
