FR941213-0-00081 FR941213-0-00018 (1) Labels. (i) The number must be printed indelibly on a label, and the label must be permanently affixed to the passenger motor vehicle's part. (ii) The number must be placed on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section in a location such that the number is, if practicable, on an interior surface of the part as installed on the vehicle and in a location where it: (A) Will not be damaged by the use of any tools necessary to install, adjust, or remove the part and any adjoining parts, or any portions thereof; (B) Is on a portion of the part not likely to be damaged in a collision; and (C) Will not be damaged or obscured during normal dealer preparation operations (including rustproofing and undercoating). (iii) The number must be placed on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section in a location that is visible without further disassembly once the part has been removed from the vehicle. (iv) The number must be placed entirely within the target area specified by the original manufacturer for that part, pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section. (v) Removal of the label must_ (A) Cause the label to self-destruct by tearing or rendering the number on the label illegible, and (B) Discernibly alter the appearance of that area of the part where the label was affixed by leaving residual parts of the label or adhesive in that area, so that investigators will have evidence that a label was originally present. (vi) Alteration of the number on the label must leave traces of the original number or otherwise visibly alter the appearance of the label material. (vii) The label and the number shall be resistant to counterfeiting. (viii) The logo or some other unique identifier of the vehicle manufacturer must be placed in the material of the label in a manner such that alteration or removal of the logo visibly alters the appearance of the label. (2) Other means of identification. (i) Removal or alteration of any portion of the number must visibly alter the appearance of the section of the vehicle part on which the identification is marked. (ii) The number must be placed on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section in a location that is visible without further disassembly once the part has been removed from the vehicle. (iii) The number must be placed entirely within the target area specified by the original manufacturer for that part, pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section. (e) Target areas. (1) Each manufacturer that is the original producer who installs or assembles the covered major parts on a line shall designate a target area for the identifying numbers to be marked on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section for each of its lines subject to this standard. The target area shall not exceed 50 percent of the surface area on the surface of the part on which the target area is located. (2) Each manufacturer subject to paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall, not later than 30 days before the line is introduced into commerce, inform NHTSA in writing of the target areas designated for each line listed in Appendix A. The information should be submitted to: Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590. (3) The target areas designated by the original vehicle manufacturer for a part on a line shall be maintained for the duration of the production of such line, unless a restyling of the part makes it no longer practicable to mark the part within the original target area. If there is such a restyling, the original vehicle manufacturer shall inform NHTSA of that fact and the new target area, in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section. 5. The heading of appendix A to part 541 is revised to read as follows: Appendix A_High Theft Passenger Motor Vehicles Lines Subject to the Requirements of This Standard
