FR940207-2-00049 FR940207-2-00028 Multiproject Costs: These are costs for facilities being charged to one project that benefit other projects. MW: Megawatt. MWD: Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. NEPA: National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.). O&M: Operation and maintenance. P-DP: Parker-Davis Project. PAO: Phoenix Area Office. Pinch-point: The FY in which the level of the rate is set as dictated by a revenue requirement in some future year to meet relatively large annual costs or to repay investments which come due. PRS: Power repayment study. Proposed Rate: A rate revision that the Administrator of Western recommends to the Deputy Secretary for approval. Provisional Rate: A rate which has been confirmed, approved, and placed into effect on an interim basis by the Deputy Secretary. Ratesetting PRS: The PRS that utilizes, in whole or part, proposed or assigned rates. It is designed to demonstrate that potential revenue levels will satisfy the cost recovery criteria over the remainder of the power system's repayment period. Reclamation: Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Department of the Interior. Replacements: A unit of property constructed or acquired as a substitute for an existing unit of property for the purpose of maintaining the power features of a project or the joint features properly allocated to power. Replacement Study: The cyclical analysis of replacement service lives. A high level of replacement activity for a few consecutive years will reoccur in future years at a similar high level with the years in between tending to be at a lesser level of replacement. Secretary: Secretary of Energy. SLCA: Salt Lake City Area. SLCA/IP: The Salt Lake City Area Integrated Projects, which encompass the combined sales and resources of the CRSP, Collbran, and Rio Grande Projects. Treasury: Secretary of the Department of the Treasury. Upper Basin: That part of the Colorado River Basin consisting of the southwestern part of Wyoming, western Colorado, most of New Mexico, Utah, and the northwestern section of Arizona. Western: Western Area Power Administration, DOE. Effective Date Western is proposing to implement a two-step rate process for firm power and firm and nonfirm transmission service. Step one of the P-DP provisional rates for firm power and firm and nonfirm transmission service will become effective on an interim basis beginning February 1, 1994. Step two of the provisional P-DP rates will become effective October 1, 1995, through January 31, 1999. The P-DP provisional rates will be in effect until FERC confirms, approves, and places the rate schedules into effect on a final basis for a 5-year period, or until superseded.
