FR941003-2-00065 FR941003-2-00034 C. Beneficiary Information and Assistance HCFA invites ideas that may make the Medicare and Medicaid programs understandable to beneficiaries and recipients and that provide assistance to these individuals in their attempts to deal with the programs. Potential program users (Medicare beneficiaries and Medicaid recipients) need to understand when they are eligible, what services or products are covered, and what their rights and responsibilities are within each program. An example would be an information project that would assist health care consumers, including Medicare beneficiaries and Medicaid recipients, by providing aggregate data on provider performance and utilization trends, discrete price information, and information on related copayments, etc.; in a sense, a ``Blue Book for Consumers.'' Another example is obtaining payment for claims, one of the most frequent problems encountered by Medicare beneficiaries. The process of dealing with Medicare's fiscal intermediaries and carriers is difficult for many. Tools that would ease this process would be welcome. Beneficiaries also need to be able to decide whether they should join, or exit from, a health maintenance organization, and the advantages and disadvantages of the decision. Beneficiaries need to understand what considerations to take into account when long term care is a possibility. Similarly, beneficiaries need to be assisted in the decision about the purchase of health insurance in addition to Medicare. HCFA invites ideas in beneficiary communication and assistance approaches that are tailored to special populations (such as significant demographic, sociocultural, or disease-related groups of beneficiaries), as well as approaches that could be used by supplemental health benefit program sponsors (for example, employers and unions) in assisting Medicare-eligible retirees. Applicants who are considering this topic should understand that the SBIR Program generally seeks to support the development of commercially viable products and that there is already a fair amount of existing commercial activity in this area.
