FR941011-0-00027 FR941011-0-00009 A comment submitted by Abbott Laboratories requested that prescription injectable products continue to be exempt under the definition of ``regulated transaction''. Abbott further states that there is no evidence of diversion of these products which are sold by prescription only. While the DEA agrees that it is not currently aware of the diversion of these single entity ephedrine injectable products, the CSA does not provide for the exemption of a specific form of single entity ephedrine products. Therefore, recordkeeping, reporting and notification requirements will apply to these prescription injectable products. However, prescription and hospital records kept in the normal course of medical treatment are adequate to meet the recordkeeping requirements of 21 CFR part 1310. An Interim Rule, which modifies 21 CFR part 1310 to clarify this, will be published in the Federal Register . Several comments proposed alternatives to the elimination of the threshold. BDI proposed that there be no monthly cumulative threshold for retail stores which stock only packages of 100 tablets or less and limit sales to 2.5 grams per transaction. A comment submitted by The Hammer Corporation suggested an alternative threshold of 61 tablets per individual transaction and 6000 tablets per month. Mr. G's Manufacturer and Wholesale Distributors suggested that 6 count or 42 count package sizes should be exempt at the retail level. T&M Distributing suggested that a threshold of 12,000 capsules or tablets per month be instituted. DEA has considered all of these comments and suggested alternatives. However, given the small batch sizes encountered at U.S. clandestine methamphetamine and methcathinone laboratories, evidence of the diversion of ephedrine from various types of outlets, and the public health threat imposed by the diversion of these ephedrine products, DEA has determined that none of the suggested alternatives are sufficient to prevent the diversion of ephedrine consistent with the intentions of the Domestic Chemical Diversion Control Act of 1993 (DCDCA). Therefore DEA had determined that the elimination of the ephedrine threshold is necessary. In making this determination, DEA recognizes that additional entities which distribute ephedrine products will not be required to keep records. Many of the entities which distribute ephedrine products are truckstops, convenience stores, gas stations and liquor stores. DEA has determined that (1) the sale of ephedrine is not a principal business activity of these entities and (2) the recordkeeping, reporting and notification requirements resulting from the elimination of the threshold are essential to prevent and detect the diversion of ephedrine products to clandestine laboratories. The Attorney General has delegated authority under the CSA and all subsequent amendments to the CSA to the Administrator of the DEA (28 CFR 0.100) The Administrator, in turn, has redelegated this authority to the Deputy Administrator pursuant to 28 CFR 0.104 (59 FR 23637 (May 6, 1994)). The Deputy Administrator hereby certifies that this proposed rulemaking will have no significant impact upon entities whose interests must be considered under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. This position is further supported by The National Association of Boards of Pharmacy (NABP) which commented that the elimination of the ephedrine threshold ``should have no significant impact on pharmacies, hospitals, or points of distribution that distribute medications containing ephedrine for the treatment of asthma and other conditions''. This final rule is not a significant regulatory action and therefore has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to Executive Order 12866. This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria in E.O. 12612, and it has been determined that the final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. List of Subjects 21 CFR Part 1310 Drug traffic control, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 21 CFR Part 1313 Drug traffic control, Chemical importation and exportation requirements. For reasons as set out above, 21 CFR part 1310 is amended as follows: PART 1310_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 1310 continues to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 802, 830, 871(b).
