FR940527-0-00068 FR940527-0-00023 (c) If a master's degree program in which a Fellow is enrolled offers the option of a master's thesis in place of a course or courses, the Fellow will be strongly urged to write a thesis. If the preparation of a master's thesis adds additional required credits to the minimum number of credits required for the master's degree, the Foundation will pay for these additional credits. In all programs in which a master's degree thesis is required or elected as an option, a Fellow must write the thesis in a subject concerning the framing, principles, or history of the United States Constitution. §2400.44 Commencement of graduate study. (a) Fellows may commence study under their fellowships as early as the summer following the announcement of their award. Fellows are normally expected to commence study under their fellowships in the fall term of the academic year following the date on which their award is announced. However, as indicated in §2400.62, they may seek to postpone the commencement of fellowship study under extenuating circumstances. (b) In determining the two- and five-year fellowship periods of Junior and Senior Fellows respectively, the Foundation will consider the commencement of the fellowship period to be the date on which each Fellow commences study under a fellowship. §2400.45 Special consideration: Junior Fellows' courses of study. Applicants for junior fellowships who seek or hold baccalaureate degrees in education are strongly encouraged to pursue master's degrees in history or political science. Those applicants who hold undergraduate degrees in history, political science, government, or any other subjects may take some teaching methods and related courses, although the Foundation will not pay for them unless they are required for the degree for which the Fellow is matriculated. The Foundation will review each proposed course of study for an appropriate balance of subject matter and other courses based on the Fellow's goals, background, and degree requirements. §2400.46 Special consideration: second master's degree. The Foundation may award senior fellowships to applicants who are seeking their second master's degrees providing that the applicants' first master's degrees were obtained at least five years prior to the year in which the applicants would normally commence study under a fellowship. In evaluating applications from those intending to pursue a second master's degree, the Fellow Selection Committee will favor those applicants who are planning to become American history and social studies teachers after having taught another subject and those whose initial master's degree was in a subject different from that sought under the second master's degree. Subpart F_Fellowship Stipends §2400.50 Amount of stipends. Junior and senior fellowships carry a stipend of up to a maximum of $24,000 prorated over the period of Fellows' graduate study. In no case shall the stipend for a fellowship exceed $12,000 per academic year. Within this limit, stipends will be prorated over the period of Fellows' graduate study as follows: a maximum of $6,000 per academic semester or trimester of full-time study, and a maximum of $4,000 per academic quarter of full-time study. Stipends for part-time study will be pro rata shares of those allowable for full-time study. §2400.51 Duration of stipends. Stipends for junior fellowships may be payable over a period up to two calendar years of full-time graduate study, and those for senior fellowships may be payable over a period of not more than five calendar years of part-time graduate study, commencing with the dates under which Fellows commence their graduate study under their fellowships. However, the duration of stipend payments will be subject to limitations indicated in §2400.61.
