FR941007-1-00095 FR941007-1-00009 (iii) Low satisfactory. The OCC shall rate a bank's investment performance ``low satisfactory'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) An adequate level of qualified investments, although rarely in a leadership position, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (B) Occasional use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (C) Adequate responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (iv) Needs to improve. The OCC shall rate a bank's investment performance ``needs to improve'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) A poor level of qualified investments, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (B) Rare use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (C) Poor responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (v) Substantial noncompliance. The OCC shall rate a bank's investment performance as being in ``substantial noncompliance'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) Few, if any, qualified investments, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (B) No use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (C) Very poor responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (3) Service performance rating. The OCC shall assign each bank's service performance one of the five ratings described below. (i) Outstanding. The OCC shall rate a bank's service performance ``outstanding'' if, in general, the bank demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are readily accessible to essentially all portions of its service area(s); (B) To the extent changes have been made, the bank's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has improved the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) are tailored to the convenience and needs of its service area(s), particularly low- or moderate- income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and (D) It is a leader in providing community development services. (ii) High satisfactory. The OCC shall rate a bank's service performance ``high satisfactory'' if, in general, the bank demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are accessible to essentially all portions of its service area(s); (B) To the extent changes have been made, the bank's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has not adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- and moderate-income geographies and to low- and moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) do not vary in a way that inconveniences certain portions of its service area(s), particularly low- and moderate-income geographies and low- and moderate-income individuals; and (D) It provides a relatively high level of community development services. (iii) Low satisfactory. The OCC shall rate a bank's service performance ``low satisfactory'' if, in general, the bank demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are reasonably accessible to essentially all portions of its service area(s); (B) To the extent changes have been made, the bank's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has generally not adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- and moderate-income geographies and to low- and moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) do not vary in a way that inconveniences portions of its service area(s), particularly low- and moderate-income geographies and low- and moderate-income individuals; and (D) It provides an adequate level of community development services. (iv) Needs to improve. The OCC shall rate a bank's service performance ``needs to improve'' if, in general, the bank demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are accessible to limited portions of its service area(s); (B) To the extent changes have been made, the bank's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) vary in a way that inconveniences certain portions of its service area(s), particularly low- or moderate-income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and (D) It provides a limited level of community development services.
