FR940228-1-00154 FR940228-1-00010 •An associates degree should be determined by the professional judgment of the Secretary. [Kansas City] •An associates degree should be determined by an institution's State licensing agency. [Kansas City] •An associates degree should consist of previous training in the same field of study as that for which the eligible program prepares training. [Kansas City] •An associates degree should, for occupations with apprenticeship programs, require the completion of five-year apprenticeship programs. [Kansas City] •An associates degree should represent the completion of the equivalent of two years of successful academic work in a postsecondary environment or a professional license that required a specific period of training and perhaps work experience. [New York] •An associates degree should represent the completion of the equivalent of at least two academic years of study, subject to compliance with applicable State laws and regulations. [San Francisco] •An associates degree should represent the completion of 60 semester hours or the equivalent. [Atlanta] 2. What are other measures of ``quality'' for programs of less than 600 hours? •An educational program should be considered to satisfy the Secretary's quality measures if a program that prepares students for State licensure in an occupation; a program that prepares students for certification by a nationally recognized professional or industry association; or a program that is approved by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association. [Kansas City] •No additional measures should be included. [New York, Atlanta] 3. How should the required job placement and graduation rates be calculated? How often should the rates be calculated? •The methodology and timing for the calculations should be identical to those required under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act and the Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act. [Kansas City] •Calculation of completion rates should be based on the formula used under the Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act, except that the calculation should not include time-specific constraints. [New York] •Calculation of placement rates should be based on the formula used under the Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act, except that only completers should be counted in the denominator. No time frame should be used in the calculation. [New York] •Regulations should define completion rate, graduation rate, and full-time employment (which should specify a period of time in a job). [San Francisco] •Calculations should be based over a two-three year period to reflect long-term trends and avert the adverse impact of short-term problems such as those caused by economic conditions. Institutions that fall below the minimum rates ought to be provided appeal procedures. [San Francisco] •Because there are many State regulations and accrediting agency standards governing this area, institutions should be allowed to follow the most restrictive ones. Institutions following the most restrictive regulations and standards should not be required to maintain multiple sets of documentation demonstrating compliance with a variety of regulations and standards. [San Francisco] •The cohort for calculation of placement rates should include placement in jobs related to the occupation for which students are trained. [San Francisco] •In calculating placement rates, students should be counted as employed if they obtain jobs within 180 days of graduation. Students should be counted as employed if they obtain jobs in the field for which they were trained or a related field. Students (such as those in continuing education or in the military) who are not looking for a job should be excluded from the calculation. The calculation should be based on a percentage of graduates. Incarcerated or physically incapacitated students should be excluded from the calculation. [Atlanta] 4. What documentation is required to support the institution's completion and job placement rates? •Documentation should be identical to that required under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act and the Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act. [Kansas City] •Documentation should be any documentation required by the institution's State or accrediting agency. The rates can be verified through required compliance audits. [New York] Calculations should be included in the Fiscal Operations Report and Application to Participate (FISAP) for the campus-based programs. The time-frame for reporting this data should be relatively short, to ensure that the data is relevant. [San Francisco] •A student's placement information should be maintained in each student's file. Placement information should be available for the purposes of audits. [San Francisco] •Institutions should maintain employment records on file to confirm placements. Employment records should not be submitted to the Department of Education. [Atlanta]
