FR941019-2-00188 FR941019-2-00099 [Release No. IC&hyph;20616; 812&hyph;9134] USAA Life Insurance Company, et al. October 13, 1994. agency: Securites and Exchange Commission (the ``SEC'' or ``Commission''). action: Notice of Application for Exemptions under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). applicants: USAA Life Insurance Company (``USAA Life''), Separate Account of USAA Life Insurance Company (the ``Account''), any other separate account (``Other Account''; together with the Account, the ``Separate Accounts,'' unless the context otherwise requires) established by USAA Life in the future to support certain variable annuity contracts, and USAA Investment Management Company (``USA IMCO''). relevant 1940 act sections: Exemptions requested under Section 6(c) from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. summary of application: Applicants seek an order permitting them to deduct a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Account and any Other Account under certain flexible premium deferred combination fixed and variable annuity contracts (the ``Contracts''). filing date: The application was filed on August 1, 1994. hearing or notification of hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on November 7, 1994, and must be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests must state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary. addresses: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20549. Applicants: 9800 Fredericksburg Road, San Antonio, Texas 78288. for further information contact: C. Christopher Sprague, Senior Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, or Brenda D. Sneed, Assistant Director, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. Applicants' Representations 1. USAA Life was organized under Texas law as a stock life insurance company and is the depositor, for purposes of the 1940 Act, of the Account. USAA Life will be the depositor of any Other Account established by it. 2. The Account was established under Texas law as an insurance company separate account, and is registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. That portion of the assets of the Account equal to the reserves and other Contract liabilities of the Account will not be chargeable with liabilities arising out of any other business USAA Life may conduct. Any income, gains, or losses, realized or unrealized, from assets allocated to the Account will be, in accordance with the Contracts, credited to or charged against the Account without regard to other income, gains, or losses of USAA Life. The Account currently is divided into seven variable fund accounts (the ``Variable Fund Accounts'), all of which will initially be available under the Contracts. Five of the Variable Fund Accounts will invest solely in the shares of five corresponding funds of USA Life Investment trust, which is registered under the 1940 Act as a diversified open-end management investment company. One Variable Fund Account will invest solely in the shares of the Capital Growth Portfolio of Scudder Variable Life Investment Fund, an open-end management investment company. Another Variable Fund Account will invest solely in the shares of the Alger American Growth Portfolio of the Alger American Fund, an open-end management investment company. 3. The Contracts will be distributed through USAA IMCO, which is a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. 4. The Contracts will be flexible premium deferred combination fixed and variable annuity contracts to be issued by USAA Life on an individual basis. The Contracts are designed to provide retirement payments and other long-term benefits for persons covered under plans qualified for federal income tax advantages available under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and for persons desiring such benefits who do not qualify for such tax advantages. The Contracts will have a Fixed Fund Account option that will be funded through USAA Life's general account. USAA Life assesses a Contract maintenance charge of $30 per year against each Contract at each Contract anniversary or at the time of a full withdrawal from the Contract. The annual Contract maintenance charge will be made only during the accumulation phase of the Contract. Under all Contracts, USAA Life will assess each Variable fund Account with an administrative expense charge, on a daily basis, at an effective rate of 0.10% per annum of the average net assets. The administrative expense charge will be imposed during both the accumulation and distribution phases. Neither the contract maintenance charge nor the administrative expense charge may be raised during the life of a Contract. USAA Life does not expect that the total revenues from such administrative charges under the Contracts will exceed the expected costs of administering the Contracts, on average, excluding costs that are properly categorized as distribution expenses, over the period that the Contracts are in force. No sales charge is collected or deducted under the Contracts, although a charge will be assessed on full or partial withdrawals or on transfers from USAA Life's general account under specified circumstances. 5. USAA Life proposes to compensate itself for assuming certain insurance risks under the Contracts by deducting from the assets of the Account a daily charge for mortality and expense risks.
