FR940127-2-00078 FR940127-2-00058 Although the use of brochures, newspaper notices and individual letters are important resources for informing workers of the time provision for enrolling in training, they do not relieve States of their responsibility for helping workers enroll in a training program in a timely manner. State agencies shall follow existing funding a precertification procedures for NAFTA&hyph;TAA program petitions now used for regular TAA Program petitions. Initiation of fact-finding investigations in response to NAFTA&hyph;TAA petitions will be announced through publication of the information in the Federal Register , in the same manner as regular TAA petitions. Under precertification responsibilities, State agencies must obtain information from the subject firm about layoffs beginning on and after December 8, 1993, including the names and social security numbers of the affected workers. The State agency staff shall also follow the procedures used for the regular TAA Program to check UI files, flag appropriate claims, and maintain coordination between the UI and ES offices to ensure that workers are enrolled in approved training within the statutory time frames so they are not denied TRA eligibility. d. Prohibition of Training Waivers. Provisions of sections 231(a)(5)(C) and 231(c) of the Trade Act, authorizing the payment of TRA upon a finding that it is ``not feasible or appropriate'' to approve a training program for a worker, are not applicable to payment of TRA under the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program. Thus, in order for a worker to qualify for TRA under the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program, the worker must be enrolled in training approved under section 236(a) of the Trade Act. e. Job search allowances. Workers certified for NAFTA&hyph;TAA are eligible for job search allowances to the same extent and under the same conditions as workers certified for the regular TAA program under section 237 of the Trade Act. f. Relocation allowances. Workers certified for NAFTA&hyph;TAA are eligible for relocation allowances to the same extent and under the same conditions as workers certified for the regular TAA program under section 238 of the Trade Act. A.9. Administration of NAFTA&hyph;TAA. AMENDED LAW. Subsection (e) of section 250 states that the provisions of subchapter C of Chapter 2, Title II, of the Trade Act shall apply to the administration of the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program in the same manner and to the same extent as such provisions apply to the administration of the regular TAA program under subchapters A and B of the Trade Act, except that the agreement between the Secretary and the States described in section 239 of the Trade Act shall specify the procedures that will be used to carry out the certification process under subsection (c) of section 250 and the procedures for providing relevant data by the Secretary to assist the States in making preliminary findings under subsection (b) of section 250. ADMINISTRATION. The procedures for NAFTA&hyph;TAA certification process under subchapter D of Chapter 2, Title II, of the Trade Act are: a. The certification procedures set forth in Sections A.5 and A.6 of this document provide operating instructions on the methods for making preliminary determinations under section 250(b) of the Trade Act and the Secretary's review of petitions under subsection (c). b. Upon request from the Governor, the Secretary will make a determination of what relevant import data is needed to satisfy the criteria for making a preliminary finding under subsection (b) and provide such data to the State. c. Pursuant to section 250(c), the Secretary will conduct a full investigation to determine if the petition for NAFTA&hyph;TAA certification meets the criteria specified in subsection (a). B. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS Section 503 of the new law provides conforming amendments to the Trade Act as follows: B.1. References. AMENDED LAW. Subsection (a) of section 503 of the new law amends sections 221(a), 222(a), and 223(a) by striking out ``assistance under this chapter'' and inserting ``assistance under this subchapter''. ADMINISTRATION. These are technical changes which do not have a material effect on the administration and operation of the TAA and NAFTA&hyph;TAA programs. B.2. Benefit Information. AMENDED LAW. Subsection (b) of section 225 is amended by inserting ``or subchapter D'' after ``subchapter A'' each place it appears.
