FR940404-0-00053 FR940404-0-00019 The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) may grant exceptions for classes of grants or recipients subject to the requirements of this part when exceptions are not prohibited by statute. However, in the interest of maximum uniformity, exceptions from the requirements of this part shall be permitted only in unusual circumstances. Federal awarding agencies may apply more restrictive requirements to a class of recipients when approved by OMB. All requests for class deviations shall be processed through the Assistant Secretary for Administration. Federal awarding agencies may apply less restrictive requirements when awarding small awards, except for those requirements which are statutory, subject to the concurrence of the Assistant Secretary for Administration. Exceptions on a case-by-case basis may also be made by Federal awarding agencies, with the concurrence of the Assistant Secretary for Administration to ensure conformance with Department of Transportation grant administration policies. §19.5 Subawards. Unless sections of this part specifically exclude subrecipients from coverage, the provisions of this part shall be applied to subrecipients performing work under awards if such subrecipients are institutions of higher education, hospitals or other non-profit organizations. State and local government subrecipients are subject to the provisions of 49 CFR part 18, ``Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments.'' §19.6 Availability of material referenced in this part. (a) Copies of Federal Transit Administration (FTA) documents identified in this part may be obtained by calling the FTA Administrative Services Division at (202) 366&hyph;4865. (b) Copies of Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) documents identified in this part may be obtained by calling the FAA Program Guidance Branch at (202) 267&hyph;3831. Subpart B_Pre-Award Requirements §19.10 Purpose. Sections 19.11 through 19.17 prescribes forms and instructions and other pre-award matters to be used in applying for Federal awards. §19.11 Pre-award policies. (a) Use of grants and cooperative agreements, and contracts. In each instance, the Federal awarding agency shall decide on the appropriate award instrument (i.e., grant, cooperative agreement, or contract). The Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act (31 U.S.C. 6301&hyph;08) governs the use of grants, cooperative agreements and contracts. A grant or cooperative agreement shall be used only when the principal purpose of a transaction is to accomplish a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal statute. The statutory criterion for choosing between grants and cooperative agreements is that for the latter, ``substantial involvement is expected between the executive agency and the State, local government, or other recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated in the agreement.'' Contracts shall be used when the principal purpose is acquisition of property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government. (b) Public notice and priority setting. Federal awarding agencies shall notify the public of its intended funding priorities for discretionary grant programs, unless funding priorities are established by Federal statute. §19.12 Forms for applying for Federal assistance. (a) Federal awarding agencies shall comply with the applicable report clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320, ``Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public,'' with regard to all forms used by the Federal awarding agency in place of or as a supplement to the Standard Form 424 (SF&hyph;424) series. (b) Applicants shall use the SF&hyph;424 series or those forms and instructions prescribed by the Federal awarding agency. (c) For Federal programs covered by E.O. 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' as implemented at 49 CFR part 17, Intergovernmental review of Department of Transportation programs and activities, the applicant shall complete the appropriate sections of the SF&hyph;424 (Application for Federal Assistance) indicating whether the application was subject to review by the State Single Point of Contact (SPOC). The name and address of the SPOC for a particular State can be obtained from the Federal awarding agency or the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. The SPOC shall advise the applicant whether the program for which application is made has been selected by that State for review. (d) Federal awarding agencies that do not use the SF&hyph;424 form should indicate whether the application is subject to review by the State under E.O. 12372. §19.13 Debarment and suspension.
