FR940318-0-00158 FR940318-0-00023 •Household refrigerators; •Household freezers; •Residential dehumidifiers; and •Motor vehicle air conditioning. It is also unacceptable as a substitute for HCFC&hyph;22 in residential and packaged HCFC&hyph;22 air conditioning. Other substitutes for CFC&hyph;12 exist which contain no class I substances. In addition, because this blend contains CFC&hyph;12 (which has an ODP 20 times that of HCFC&hyph;22), it poses a greater risk to stratospheric ozone than the use of HCFC&hyph;22 alone. (2) HCFC&hyph;141b. HCFC&hyph;141b is unacceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;11 in new centrifugal chillers. This substance has a high ozone depletion potential. At least one other substitute exists that presents lower overall risk. (3) Hydrocarbon Blend A. Hydrocarbon Blend A is unacceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;12 in: •Commercial comfort air conditioning; •Ice skating rinks; •Cold storage warehouses; •Refrigerated transport; •Retail food refrigeration; •Vending machines; •Water coolers; •Commercial ice machines; •Household refrigerators; •Household freezers; •Residential dehumidifiers; and •Motor vehicle air conditioning. Flammability is the primary concern. EPA believes the use of this substitute in very leaky uses like motor vehicle air conditioning may pose a high risk of fire. EPA requires a risk assessment be conducted to demonstrate this blend may be safely used in any CFC&hyph;12 end-uses. E. Foams 1. Overview Foam plastics accounted for approximately 18 percent of all U.S. consumption of ozone-depleting chemicals on an ODP-weighted basis in 1990. Five class I chemicals_CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;12, CFC&hyph;113, CFC&hyph;114, and methyl chloroform_are used as blowing agents in foam production. These five compounds are used in a wide variety of applications. Foam plastics manufactured with CFCs fall into four major categories: polyurethane, phenolic, extruded polystyrene, and polyolefin. Historically, CFC&hyph;11 and CFC&hyph;113, which remain in a liquid state at room temperature, have been used as blowing agents in polyurethane and phenolic foams. CFC&hyph;12 and CFC&hyph;114, which have lower boiling points than CFC&hyph;11 and CFC&hyph;113 and are gases at room temperature, are used in polyolefin and polystyrene foams. In addition to CFCs, methyl chloroform is used as a blowing agent in some flexible polyurethane foams. Due to the wide variety of applications that foams represent, the Agency has divided its analysis of foam plastics into the following ten distinct end-use sectors: •Rigid polyurethane and polyisocyanurate laminated boardstock; •Rigid polyurethane appliance; •Rigid polyurethane spray and commercial refrigeration, and sandwich panels; •Rigid polyurethane slabstock and other foams; •Polystyrene extruded insulation boardstock and billet; •Phenolic insulation board; •Flexible polyurethane; •Polyurethane integral skin; •Polystyrene extruded sheet; and •Polyolefin. The SNAP determinations in this final rule distinguish between these ten end-use sectors because the mix of potential alternatives to Class I blowing agents, and potential emission and exposure profiles, differ for each. Appendix B at the end of this preamble lists in tabular form the Agency's determinations on substitutes in the foam sector. These determinations are based on the risk screens described in the background document entitled, ``Risk Screen on the Use of Substitutes for Class I Ozone-Depleting Substances: Foam-Blowing Agents'' and discussed in supporting memoranda. The table also includes as ``pending'' substitutes for which the Agency has not yet issued determinations. Vendors or users of substitutes not described in Appendix B should submit information on these uses, so that the Agency can review them and issue a SNAP determination. 2. Alternative Blowing Agents Under the SNAP program, the evaluation of alternatives for CFCs depends on a number of factors. These include toxicity, flammability, environmental concerns, and, in the case of insulating foams, the insulating efficiency of alternatives. Toxicity concerns associated with the use of alternative chemicals relate to the exposure of workers and consumers to the chemicals or to the decomposition products these chemicals may form slowly over time in foam products. The likely degree of human health risk associated with an alternative depends not only on the nature of a substitute chemical but also on the chemical composition, manufacturing process, and product applications that characterize the foam end-use sector into which that substitute will be introduced. Flammability concerns, like toxicity concerns, have to do with possible danger to workers and consumers. Such danger includes possible ignition of materials during manufacturing, storage, or transportation, and the fire hazard posed by the final product. Alternatives to CFCs have varying degrees of flammability. As in the case of toxicity, however, the composition, production processes, and end-use applications that characterize each foam type dictate the potential risks associated with flammability. In addition to posing toxicity and flammability risks, alternatives may have deleterious effects on the environment. Such effects may include stratospheric ozone depletion, global warming, and contribution to smog or tropospheric ozone formation. HCFCs have, in varying degrees, the potential to deplete ozone; both HCFCs and HFCs have global warming potential; and various potential alternatives, especially hydrocarbons, are volatile organic compounds (VOCs) that contribute to the formation of ozone, or smog, in the lower atmosphere. The use of alternative blowing agents can have an adverse affect on the insulating capacity of foam products due to higher thermal conductivity of the substitute. The overall risk screen for substitutes under SNAP takes into account indirect contributions to global warming. a. Hydrochlorofluorocarbons. Because of their relatively low thermal conductivity, hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) are considered necessary transitional alternatives to CFC blowing agents in thermal insulating foams. Two HCFCs, HCFC&hyph;123 and HCFC&hyph;141b, can serve as replacements for CFC&hyph;11 in many end-use applications. Because of limited availability of HCFC&hyph;123, HCFC141b represents the more likely short-term possibility for replacing CFC&hyph;11 in several of the insulating foam sectors. As a result, the Agency has determined that HCFC&hyph;141b, despite its relatively high ODP of 0.11, is an acceptable transitional alternative to CFC&hyph;11 for several foam end-uses. Other HCFC alternatives are HCFC&hyph;22 and HCFC&hyph;142b. Although these compounds are commercially available and have lower ODPs than HCFC&hyph;141b, each has a boiling point significantly lower than CFC&hyph;11. As a result, conversion to HCFC&hyph;22 or HCFC&hyph;142b from CFC&hyph;11 generally entails significant investment in technical and process modification. HCFC&hyph;22 and HCFC&hyph;142b do, however, present viable, near-term alternatives to CFC&hyph;12 in extruded polystyrene boardstock and billet foams.
