FR941206-0-00094 FR941206-0-00012 (g) Processing mail by class with expedited mail, First-Class, and Priority Mail being processed before lower classes of mail. (h) Attempting to deliver mail to the action office (the office responsible for taking action on the mail once it is received) within 6 hours after it is received by the agency from the carrier. Every attempt should be made to deliver mail to the address or addressee's office; however, incoming bulk business rate mail addressed to an individual may be discarded if the facility cannot readily ascertain the name or whereabouts of the addressee. Incoming First-Class mail that cannot be delivered must be returned to the sender, per the U.S. Postal Service's Domestic Mail Manual. (i) Reporting unauthorized use of agency postage including penalty or commercial mail stamps, meter impressions, or other postage indicia immediately upon discovery to the agency Inspector General or internal security office, as appropriate. (j) Reporting mail center deviations from the agency's occupational, safety and health program, in accordance with 29 CFR part 1960 and 29 CFR part 1910. (k) Establishing and implementing procedures to ensure that mail complies with U.S. Postal Service addressing standards which include automated and electronically generated mailing addresses in order to eliminate as many handwritten addresses as possible. Compliance includes ensuring machine readability, proper formatting, use of directionals (N. Main St., 4th St., NW, etc.), and accurate mail preparation for the various classes and discount rates and/or for the best possible delivery service. The U.S. Postal Service publications (Domestic Mail Manual, International Mail Manual, Memo to Mailers, and the Postal Bulletins) contain all U.S. Postal Service regulations for proper mail preparation and dispatch, and must be utilized at each location where outgoing mail is processed. (l) Establishing and reviewing annually in conjunction with the agency security office, a mail security program to ensure appropriate security requirements while not creating undue delay in mail processing. The mail security program must, at a minimum, detail policy and procedures for safe and secure facility operations and for the safe transportation and processing of mail. (m) Reviewing, prior to the creation of the pieces to be dispatched, all mailings which will (i) consist of 200 or more pieces, or (ii) weigh 50 or more pounds, including mail to be dispatched on behalf of the agency by a third party, for example, the Government Printing Office, to ensure that the agency's needs are met at the lowest possible cost. Mail managers will coordinate with agency printing specialists about the mailing portion of contracted printing jobs prior to entering into a printing agreement. (n) Establishing and publishing the facility's mail delivery and pickup times, based on need for service, established through the study of mail volumes and service requirements. The facility mail manager's goal is to provide service to the facility at the lowest possible cost. Consistency in mail pickup and delivery can help achieve the goal. (o) Maintaining close liaison with agency correspondence managers and providing guidance on correspondence management decisions such as the development and design of mailing materials including: Business Reply Mail, letterhead, mailing labels, and envelope design. (p) Notifying facility personnel that personal incoming, internal, and outgoing mail may not be processed in agency facilities. An exception may be granted at a facility for personnel living on the facility, personnel stationed outside the United States, or other situations where agency/facility personnel would otherwise suffer hardship. Subpart 101&hyph;9.3_Reporting Requirements ยง101&hyph;8.301 Agency mail manager information. Agencies will provide GSA with the name, title, mailing address, voice and fax telephone number (if applicable) of the designated agency mail manager (see ยง101&hyph;9.201), and must update the information as necessary. This information will be submitted to GSA as follows: General Services Administration, Attn: Mail Management Branch (FBXM), Room 815, Washington, DC 20406&hyph;0001. ยง101&hyph;9.302 Agency will program data. (a) Agencies will maintain data, on mail volumes and postage expenditures. This data will conform with the requirements of ยง101&hyph;9.201(c)(4) of this part. Maintaining this information is critical for agencies to accurately manage their mail programs and to gauge the impacts of rates and classification changes.
