FR941227-0-00073 FR941227-0-00013 (1) The transferor and its Fund. Neither the transferor nor the transferor's Fund will recognize gain or loss or otherwise take any income or deduction into account by reason of the transfer of a proportionate amount of the assets of the transferor's Fund to the transferee's Fund (or by reason of the transfer of the transferor's entire Fund to the transferee). For purposes of the regulations under section 468A, this transfer (or the transfer of the transferor's Fund) will not be considered a distribution of assets by the transferor's Fund. (2) The transferee and its Fund. Neither the transferee nor the transferee's Fund will recognize gain or loss or otherwise take any income or deduction into account by reason of the transfer of a proportionate amount of the assets of the transferor's Fund to the transferee's Fund (or by reason of the transfer of the transferor's Fund to the transferee). For purposes of the regulations under section 468A, this transfer (or the transfer of the transferor's Fund) will not constitute a payment or a contribution of assets by the transferee to its Fund. (3) Basis. Transfers of assets of a Fund to which this section applies do not affect basis. Thus, the transferee's Fund will have a basis in the assets received from the transferor's Fund that is the same as the basis of those assets in the transferor's Fund immediately before the disposition. (d) Determination of proportionate amount. For purposes of this section, a transferor of a qualifying interest in a nuclear power plant is considered to transfer a proportionate amount of the assets of its Fund to a Fund of a transferee of the interest if, on the date of the transfer of the interest, the percentage of the fair market value of the Fund's assets that are transferred equals the percentage of the transferor's qualifying interest that is transferred. (e) Calculation of schedule of ruling amounts for dispositions described in this section _(1) Transferor. If a transferor disposes of all or a portion of its qualifying interest in a nuclear power plant in accordance with this section, the transferor's schedule of ruling amounts with respect to the interests disposed of and retained (if any) will be determined in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section. (i) Taxable year of disposition. If a transferor does not file a request for a revised schedule of ruling amounts on or before the deemed payment deadline for the taxable year of the transferor in which the disposition of its interest in the nuclear power plant occurs (that is, the date that is two and one-half months after the close of that year), the transferor's ruling amount with respect to that plant for that year will equal the sum of_ (A) The ruling amount contained in the transferor's current schedule of ruling amounts with respect to that plant for that taxable year multiplied by the portion of the qualifying interest that is retained (if any); and (B) The ruling amount contained in the transferor's current schedule of ruling amounts with respect to that plant for that taxable year multiplied by the product of_ ( 1 ) The portion of the transferor's qualifying interest that is disposed of; and ( 2 ) A fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in that taxable year that precede the date of disposition, and the denominator of which is the number of days in that taxable year. (ii) Taxable years after the year of disposition. A transferor that retains a qualifying interest in a nuclear power plant must file a request for a revised schedule of ruling amounts with respect to that interest on or before the deemed payment deadline for the first taxable year of the transferor beginning after the disposition. See ยง1.468A&hyph;3(i)(1)(ii)(B). If the transferor does not timely file such a request, the transferor's ruling amount with respect to that interest for the affected year or years will be zero, unless the Internal Revenue Service waives the application of this paragraph (e)(1)(ii) upon a showing of good cause for the delay.
