FR940811-0-00009 FR940811-0-00004 §1435.203 Remittance. (a)(1) First processors shall remit marketing assessments to CCC by the thirtieth calendar day following the end of the month in which the beet sugar or cane sugar subject to the assessment was marketed. (2) Mailed remittances will be considered timely if they are postmarked not later than the thirtieth calendar day following the month in which the beet sugar or cane sugar subject to the assessment was marketed. (3) Electronic remittances must be received by CCC by the thirtieth calendar day following the month in which the beet sugar or cane sugar subject to the assessment was marketed. (4) Any processor who fails to file a remittance by the date on which it is due shall be assessed a civil penalty and interest in accordance with §1435.204 of this subpart. (b)(1) First processors shall prepare and submit a fully and accurately completed form CCC&hyph;80 each month that shows the quantity of: (i) Beet sugar marketed during the previous calendar month, and (ii) Raw cane sugar, raw value, marketed during the previous calendar month. (2) First processors who do not operate on a calendar month basis may pay their assessments based on marketings that include several extra days or fewer days than the calendar month reporting period, consistent with the processor's standard accounting months. However: (i) Assessments must be paid on all marketings of specific crop year sugar in the fiscal year it is due, and (ii) The marketing assessments must be remitted monthly and by the dates specified in paragraph (a) of this section. (3) The entire assessment that is due and payable shall be remitted with the Form CCC&hyph;80. (c)(1) If, when a raw sugar assessment is due and payable, the first processor cannot determine the exact raw value of such sugar, an estimate of raw value based on the recent experience of the processor shall be made and the assessment submitted on the estimated quantity. (2) Whenever an assessment is based on an estimate of raw value pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, any necessary adjustments to the quantity of raw sugar subject to the assessment shall be made by filing a corrected CCC&hyph;80 no later than 30 calendar days after the last day of the month in which the estimated assessment was paid. If, according to the corrected CCC&hyph;80: (i) The assessment was underpaid, the first processor shall remit the additional assessment due with the corrected CCC&hyph;80, and (ii) If the assessment was overpaid, the first processor shall subtract the overpayment from any assessment due at the time the corrected CCC&hyph;80 is filed, or if none is due at that time, from the assessment next due. (d) Any first processor, who paid an assessment on beet sugar or raw cane sugar processed during the first three months of the 1991 crop year (July 1 through September 30, 1991) and then paid another assessment upon the marketing of the same sugar after September 30, 1991, may receive a credit for any assessment paid on such sugar prior to fiscal year 1992. The credits will be handled by procedures to be developed by the Controller, CCC. (e) By October 30 of each year, first processors shall determine the quantity of beet sugar or raw cane sugar on hand that was produced during the preceding fiscal year but not marketed by September 30 of such preceding fiscal year and shall remit a marketing assessment to CCC as if the sugar had been marketed in September of such preceding fiscal year. Such sugar shall not be subject to a second assessment when it is marketed. (f) First processors shall send remittances and CCC&hyph;80 forms as specified by CCC. §1435.204 Civil penalties and interest. (a) A first processor shall be liable for a civil penalty of up to 100 percent of the relevant national average price-support loan rate times the quantity of raw cane sugar or beet sugar involved in the violation if the processor: (1) Fails to remit, on a timely basis, the entire amount of any marketing assessment in accordance with this subpart; (2) Fails to submit form CCC&hyph;80 fully and accurately completed; or (3) Fails to maintain and permit inspection of records as required by §1435.205 of this subpart. (b) Also, a processor who knowingly markets sugar in excess of the allocated allotment of the processor under section 359d of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 shall pay an assessment in an amount that is double the applicable assessment required under §1435.202 of this subpart. (c) In addition to any civil penalty assessed in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, interest on unpaid assessments or deficiencies in assessments paid shall be due and payable at the rate specified in part 1403 of this chapter, beginning on the first day of the month after the marketing assessment was due in accordance with §1435.203 of this subpart. Such interest shall continue to accrue until such amount is paid. However, if full payment of an assessment is received within 30 calendar days of the date on which the assessment was due, no interest shall apply. (d) The Controller, CCC, shall assess civil penalties and interest. (e) Affected first processors may appeal civil penalties by filing a notice of appeal within 15 calendar days of receipt of certified written notification by the Controller, CCC, of such assessment of civil penalties. Such notice of appeal shall be sent to the Director, National Appeals Division, ASCS, P.O. Box 2415, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;2415. §1435.205 Maintenance and inspection of records. Representatives of CCC shall have the right to have access to the premises of the first processor in order to inspect, examine, and make copies of the books, records, accounts, and other data as are deemed necessary by CCC or CCC's agents to verify compliance with the requirements of this subpart. Such books, records, accounts, and other written data shall be retained by the first processor for not less than three years from the date the remittance is made to CCC. §1435.206 Refunds. Marketing assessments are nonrefundable. However, upon presentation of evidence acceptable to the Controller, CCC, adjustments to an assessment may be made by CCC to reflect the actual marketings of beet sugar or raw cane sugar, or a first processor may adjust the amount of the assessment due in accordance with §1435.203 of this subpart. Signed at Washington, DC, on July 20, 1994. Bruce R. Weber, Acting Executive Vice President, Commodity Credit Corporation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19630 Filed 8&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;05&hyph;P
