FR941230-2-00005 FR941230-2-00003 Bonners Ferry Noxious Weed EIS; Idaho Panhandle National Forests, Boundary County, ID AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The USDA, Forest Service, will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) to disclose the potential environmental effects of noxious weed treatment on the Bonners Ferry Ranger District. Treatment sites would be located at various locations across the district and within the Selkirk Mountain and Kootenai River Ecosystems, Bonners Ferry Ranger District, Idaho Panhandle National Forest, Boundary County, Idaho. Part of the proposed project's activities are within the Kootenai Peak Roadless Area 1&hyph;126 and the Selkirk Roadless Area 1&hyph;125. Most treatment sites are located near or along forest roads. The proposed action to control selected known populations of noxious weeds in certain areas within these ecosystems is designed to promote the retention and health of the native plants within these ecosystems. The proposed action would use an integrated pest management approach to control noxious weeds. The integrated pest management approaches of the proposed action include mechanical, biological, and chemical control. The noxious weed species considered for control include spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa), rush skeleton weed (Chondrilla juncea), Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), orange hawkweed (Hieracium aurantiacum), meadow hawkweed (Hieracium pratense), common St. Johns-wort (Hypericum perforatum), Dalmation toadflax (Linaria dalmatica), and common tansy (tanacetum vulgare). This project level EIS will tier to the Idaho National Forests Weed Pest Management EIS of October 1989 and Idaho Panhandle National Forests Land and Resource Management Plan (Forest Plan) of September 1987. DATES: Written comments and suggestions should be received by February 13, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments and suggestions on the proposed management activities or request to be placed on project mailing list to Debbie Norton, District Ranger, Bonners Ferry Ranger District, Route 4, Box 4860, Bonners Ferry, ID 83805&hyph;9764. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bob Klarich, EIS Team Leader, Bonners Ferry Ranger District, phone number 208&hyph;267&hyph;5561. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Noxious weed control is proposed on 41 sites on the Bonners Ferry Ranger District. The 41 sites range in size from approximately 0.24 acre to 33 acres and together total about 336 gross acres. These sites represent 0.08% of the 410,000 acres of National Forest System Lands on the Bonners Ferry District. There are a variety of purposes for noxious weed control on the Bonners Ferry Ranger District. The primary purposes are: (1) To protect the natural condition and biodiversity of the Selkirk Mountain ecosystem and Cabinet Mountain portion of the Kootenai River Ecosystem by preventing the spread of aggressive, non-native plant species that displace native vegetation; (2) prevent or limit the spread of noxious weeds to important low elevation lakes in the Purcell Mountain segment of the Kootenai River ecosystem; (3) comply with Federal and State laws regulating management of noxious weeds; and (4) cooperate with other agencies and private individuals concerned with the management of noxious weeds. The treatment sites are located across the district. The greatest number of sites are located in the Selkirk Mountain Ecosystem. Other sites are located in the Kootenai River Ecosystem. The decision to be made is what actions, if any, should be taken to control noxious weeds in these ecosystems, where treatment should be applied, and what type of treatment(s) should be used. The Idaho Panhandle National Forests Land and Resource Management Plan provides guidance for management activities within the potentially affected area through its goals, objectives, standards and guidelines, and management area direction. The Forest Plan directed that forest pests be managed by an integrated pest management approach.
