FR940516-1-00112 FR940516-1-00006 EPA's authority to recall engines which do not comply with emission standards in use provides an important incentive to on-highway manufacturers to design and build durable engines and vehicles. However, at this time, EPA has limited data by which to propose in-use standards for small SI engines under section 213(d) of the CAA, subjecting nonroad engine manufacturers to the requirements of section 207(c) of the CAA. Because EPA is not proposing to establish in-use emission standards in this rulemaking, it is necessary to require that manufacturers test in-use engines to gain important knowledge about the emission deterioration of their engines and report the results to EPA. EPA expects that this knowledge will be critical to developing more durable emission control systems and achieving better in-use compliance with Phase 2 engines. An auxiliary outcome of this Phase 1 testing program would be that manufacturers, by working closely with EPA to evaluate in-use emissions and identify solutions to problems, would be preparing for the Phase 2 in-use compliance program. This Phase 1 testing program would permit issues associated with a variety of maintenance and use conditions to be identified and resolved prior to Phase 2. As stated previously, EPA is concerned that these goals may not be as fully achieved with joint testing programs involving several manufacturers and their respective organizations. By requiring direct communication with EPA, manufacturers would have to individually provide test data showing in-use performance. EPA's experience has been that aggregate data (sorted by organizations and stripped of engine identification) is not effective in identifying specific in-use problems. The generated Phase 1 in-use data would improve estimates of in-use emissions, thereby enhancing the basis for emission inventories used to support the State Implementation Plan (SIP) development process. Given the critical feedback the in-use testing program would provide, EPA believes it is compelled to ensure the fulfillment of the obligation to perform in-use testing. For engine families where in-use testing would be required, certification is proposed to be conditioned upon the completion of a number of in-use tests as agreed upon by EPA and the manufacturer at the time of certification. Completion of the number of valid in-use tests as agreed, regardless of the test results, would satisfy this condition. Under this proposal, a manufacturer's failure to fully execute the in-use tests would be considered a failure to satisfy the conditions under which the certificate was issued. An engine would be considered to be covered by the certificate only if the manufacturer fulfilled the conditions upon which the certificate was issued. Thus, failure to satisfy the conditions of the certificate could subject a manufacturer to the imposition of civil penalties. However, EPA recognizes that a manufacturer, notwithstanding its best efforts, might fail to perform the required testing due to circumstances beyond its control. Thus EPA would consider all relevant factors when determining whether to view an engine as not being covered by a certificate based on failure of a manufacturer to fully execute the test program condition of the certificate. EPA requests comment on the proposed in-use testing program.
