FR940616-0-00070 FR940616-0-00009 Note: These appendices will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations Appendix A Guidelines for Regulatory Fee Categories 1. The guidelines below provide an explanation of regulatory fee categories established by the Schedule of Regulatory Fees in section 9(g) of the Communications Act. 47 U.S.C. 159(g). Where regulatory fee categories need interpretation or clarification, we have relied on the legislative history of Section 9, our own experience in establishing and regulating the various services subject to a fee requirement and the comments of the parties in our proceeding to adopt fees for Fiscal Year 1994 and establish rules to implement the regulatory fee program. The categories and amounts set out in the schedule might, by the next fiscal year and in subsequent fiscal years, be amended, adjusted, or modified to reflect changes in the Commission's appropriations, our costs of providing the regulatory services to be recovered by the fee program, and additions, reductions and changes in the services subject to the fee requirement. See 47 U.S.C. 159(b) (2), (3). 1. Private Radio Bureau 2. The two levels of statutory fees for Private Radio services, exclusive use service and shared use services, were established on the basis that those licensees who generally receive a higher quality communications channel, due to exclusive or lightly shared frequency assignments, will pay a higher fee than those who share marginal quality channels. House Report at 17. In addition, because of the relatively small annual fee amounts in the Private Radio Services, applicants for new licenses and reinstatements and for renewal of their current licenses will be required to pay a regulatory fee covering an entire license term, with only a percentage of all licensees paying a regulatory fee in any one year. 3. Applications for modification or assignment of an existing authorization do not require payment of a regulatory fee. The expiration date of these authorizations will not reflect a new license term when either modifications or assignments are processed. In an effort to reduce public confusion, the Commission has provided separate post office box addresses for these actions. a. Exclusive Use Services 4. Land Mobile. Regulatees covered under this category include those authorized under Part 90 of the Commission's Rules to provide limited access private radio service that allows high quality voice or digital communications between vehicles or to fixed stations to further the business activities of the licensee. These services, using the 220&hyph;222 MHz band and frequencies at 470 MHz and above, may be offered on a private carrier basis in the Specialized Mobile Radio Services (SMRS). These land mobile licensees are subject to a regulatory fee of $16 per license per year. They will pay either a $80 or $160 regulatory fee (depending whether their license term is 5 or 10 years). 1 1 Some of these services may be reclassified when the Commission implements the recent amendments to section 332 governing the provision of mobile radio services. See n. 11. 5. Microwave . Private microwave systems, authorized under part 94 of the Commission's Rules, provide telecommunications services between fixed points and are often used to relay data and to control railroad, pipeline and utility equipment. Microwave licensees are required to pay the total regulatory fee for the entire term of their license when filing their initial or renewal application. The annual fee is $16 for a total of $80 to be filed with the application. 6. Interactive Video Data Service (IVDS) . IVDS is a two-way point-to-multi-point radio service which provides information about products and services, and allows subscribers to respond through their television sets. IVDS is offered on a private carrier basis and is authorized under Part 95, Subpart F of the Commission's Rules. IVDS licensees will be assessed a regulatory fee of $80 per license to cover each five year license term ($16 per year).
