FR940602-2-00144 FR940602-2-00090 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Discretionary Cooperative Agreements To Support Biomechanics Research AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Announcement of Discretionary Cooperative Agreement to Support Biomechanical Research. SUMMARY: This notice announces a discretionary cooperative agreement program with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to support research studies to evaluate the biomechanical response of human surrogates to impact and solicits applications for projects under this program. DATES: Applications must be received on or before July 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Applications must be submitted to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Office of Contracts and Procurement (NAD&hyph;30), ATTN: Belinda Leapley, 400 Seventh Street, SW., room 5301, Washington, DC 20590, USA. All applications submitted must include a reference to NHTSA Cooperative Agreement Program No. DTNH22&hyph;94&hyph;R&hyph;07260. Interested applicants are advised that no separate application package exists beyond the contents of this announcement. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: General administrative questions may be directed to Belinda Leapley, Office of Contracts and Procurement, at (202) 366&hyph;9566. Programmatic questions relating to this cooperative agreement program should be directed to Richard M. Morgan, Biomechanics Division (NRD&hyph;12), 400 Seventh Street, SW., room 6221B, Washington, DC 20590, USA, at (202) 366&hyph;4717. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background and Objectives The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is responsible for devising strategies to save lives and reduce injuries from motor vehicle crashes. The purpose of this cooperative agreement program is to promote the improvement of traffic safety for the public through the support of research studies designed to evaluate the biomechanical response of human surrogates to impact as a means of expanding the base of scientific knowledge in this field and to provide for the coordinated exchange of scientific information collected as a result of the studies conducted. Impact trauma research employs the principles of mechanics to discover the physical response and physiological results of impacts to the human body. Generally, the teams doing the research are comprised of individuals from different disciplines: engineering, physiology, medicine, biology, and anatomy. The team studies the physical response of the body to impact by measuring and recording engineering parameters defining the event, such as force, accelerations, displacements, surface contours, strains, pressure, etc., and observing the physiological consequences in terms of physical or functional alterations to the body. One of the major research materials used to simulate injury to the living human is the human cadaver (hereinafter referred to as a human surrogate) exposed to impact and detailed response measurement. The focus of this cooperative research effort is the study of human surrogate response and injury to physical impacts simulating some significant aspect of automotive impact injury, i.e. , head, neck, torso, or lower extremity injury produced in drivers and passengers, restrained by various safety devices and exposed to either a frontal, lateral, or rear impact. The specific objectives of this cooperative research effort are to: (1) Delineate the mechanism of injury, (2) develop functional relationships between the measurable engineering parameters and the extent and severity of injury, and (3) quantify the impact response of the body in such a way as to allow the development of mechanical analogs of the human body. NHTSA Involvement The NHTSA, Biomechanics Division, will be involved in all activities undertaken as part of the cooperative agreement program and will: 1. Provide, on an as-needed basis, one professional staff person, to be designated as the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR), to participate in the planning and management of the cooperative agreement and coordinate activities between the organization and the NHTSA; 2. Make available information and technical assistance from government sources, within available resources and as determined appropriate by the COTR; 3. Provide liaison with other government agencies and organizations as appropriate; and 4. Stimulate the exchange of ideas and problems among cooperative agreement recipients, and, if appropriate, NHTSA contractors and other interested parties. Involvement for Recipient of an Award
