FR940302-2-00043 FR940302-2-00028 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background On October 9, 1991, EPA promulgated revised Criteria for MSWLFs (40 CFR part 258). Subtitle D of RCRA, as amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 (HSWA), requires States to develop permitting programs to ensure that MSWLFs comply with the Federal Criteria under part 258. Subtitle D also requires in section 4005 that EPA determine the adequacy of State municipal solid waste landfill permit programs to ensure that facilities comply with the revised Federal Criteria. To fulfill this requirement, the Agency has drafted and is in the process of proposing a State/Tribal Implementation Rule (STIR). The rule will specify the requirements which State/Tribal programs must satisfy to be determined adequate. As provided in the October 9, 1991 municipal solid waste landfill rule, EPA's national Subtitle D standards took effect on October 9, 1993. Consequently, any remaining portions of the Federal criteria that are not included in an approved State/Tribal program apply directly to the owner/operator without any approved State/Tribal flexibility. On October 1, 1993, EPA published the Final Rule to extend the effective date of the landfill criteria for certain classifications of landfills (58 FR 51536). On October 14, 1993, EPA published corrections to the Final Rule to extend the effective date (58 FR 53137). EPA intends to approve State/Tribal MSWLF permit programs prior to the promulgation of STIR. EPA interprets the requirements for States or Tribes to develop ``adequate'' programs for permits or other forms of prior approval to impose several minimum requirements. First, each State/Tribe must have enforceable standards for new and existing MSWLFs that are technically comparable to EPA's revised MSWLF criteria. Next, the State/Tribe must have the authority to issue a permit or other notice of prior approval to all new and existing MSWLFs in its jurisdiction. The State/Tribe also must provide for public participation in permit issuance and enforcement as required in section 7004(b) of RCRA. Finally, EPA believes that the State/Tribe must show that it has sufficient compliance monitoring and enforcement authorities to take specific action against any owner or operator that fails to comply with an approved MSWLF program. EPA Regions will determine whether a State/Tribe has submitted an ``adequate'' program based on the interpretation outlined above. EPA plans to provide more specific criteria for this evaluation when it proposes the State/Tribal Implementation Rule. EPA expects States/Tribes to meet all of these requirements for all elements of an MSWLF program before it gives full approval to an MSWLF program. B. State of Florida On July 20, 1993, Florida submitted a final application to EPA Region IV for adequacy determination. Region IV reviewed the final application and submitted substantive comments to Florida. Florida addressed EPA's comments and submitted an extensively revised final application in September 1993. Region IV has completed technical review of Florida's revisions and has tentatively determined that, as revised, all portions of Florida's Subtitle D MSW landfill permit program meet the requirements necessary to qualify for full program approval and ensure compliance with the revised Federal Criteria. The public may submit written comments on EPA's tentative determination until close of the public hearing to the person listed in the ``Contacts'' section of this notice. Copies of Florida's application are available for inspection and copying at the location(s) indicated in the ``Addresses'' section of this notice. Comments may also be submitted during the scheduled public hearing, as transcribed from the discussion of the hearing or in writing at the time of the hearing.
