FR940324-2-00077 FR940324-2-00044 RIN 0905&hyph;ZA22 Substance Abuse Prevention Demonstration Grants for High Risk Youth Populations AGENCY: Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), HHS. ACTION: Availability of funds and request for applications. SUMMARY: The Center for Substance Abuse Prevention (CSAP) announces the availability of support for projects that demonstrate and evaluate comprehensive strategies to prevent and/or reduce the use of alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs (ATOD), including inhalants and steroids, among youth at high risk for such behaviors. Since its inception, an important component of CSAP's mission has been to direct its efforts toward youth at high risk for using ATOD. To this end, CSAP has funded a number of projects to demonstrate the effectiveness of various preventive interventions to reduce the use of ATOD, and to change the behavior and attitudes of high risk youth about ATOD. In this Announcement, four related but distinct efforts (program priority areas) are proposed: •High Risk Youth (Module A) •Female Adolescents (Module B) •Alcohol and Other Drug-Related Violence Among High Risk Youth (Module C) •Replications of Model Programs for the Prevention of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Other Drug (ATOD) use Among High Risk Youth (Cooperative Agreements) (Module D) It should be noted that support for three of these program priority areas (High Risk Youth, Female Adolescents, and AOD-Related Violence Among High Risk Youth) will be in the form of prevention demonstration grants, while the fourth (Replications) will provide support for cooperative agreements. Compared with demonstration grant programs, cooperative agreements involve substantially greater involvement on the part of the Federal funding agency in the conduct of the project. Any single project for which support is requested under this announcement may be addressed to only one of the above program priority areas. Applicants seeking support for more than one project, whether in the same priority area or in different priority areas, must submit a separate and different application for each project. Eligibility: Applications may be submitted by public organizations, such as units of State or local governments or eligible agencies of the Federal government, and by private nonprofit organizations such as community-based organizations, universities, colleges, and hospitals. In accordance with section 517(b)(3) of the Public Health Service Act, applications from community-based organizations will be given special consideration by CSAP in its award decision-making process. Target Population: High Risk Youth: Youth who experience multiple risk factors are considered to be at high risk for alcohol and other drug use. Section 517(g) of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act identifies the following groups of youth who are likely to be at high risk. Youth under the age of 21 who: (a) Are children of substance abusers; (b) Are victims of physical, sexual, or psychological abuse; (c) Have experienced chronic failure in school; (d) Have dropped out of school; (e) Have become pregnant; (f) Are economically disadvantaged; (g) Have committed a violent or delinquent act; (h) Are experiencing mental health problems; (i) Have attempted suicide; (j) Have experienced long-term physical pain due to injury.
