FR940930-1-00011 FR940930-1-00005 In 1991, approval was given for several industry members to experiment with the SCC. Since then, a few industry members have been given permission, pending the final outcome of the rulemaking process, to commercially produce reduced alcohol wine and dealcoholized wine using the SCC process under the following conditions: 1. The SCC removal of any alcohol from the wine will be done on DSP premises. 2. Records will be maintained for each lot of wine put through the SCC and the fractions derived from such wine showing the date, quantity, and disposition of each fraction. 3. In the production of reduced alcohol standard wines using the SCC, the same amount of essence will be added back to any lot of wine as was originally removed. 4. Proprietors must contact their ATF Area Supervisor prior to the destruction of any alcohol or other fractions derived from the SCC process. Other persons wishing to use the SCC technology to produce low alcohol and/or dealcoholized wines, or to remove off flavors from wine, should submit letter applications to ATF requesting permission to do so. If it is determined, through this rulemaking process, that the use of the SCC technology is in accordance with ``good commercial practice,'' the SCC process will be added to 27 CFR 24.248 at which time no further letter applications will be required for its use. Reverse Osmosis and Ion Exchange One industry member requested ATF to approve the use of reverse osmosis and ion exchange in combination to remove volatile acidity (VA) from bulk wine. The process combines two technologies already widely in use in the wine industry. The process involves utilizing reverse osmosis to separate wine into various components and then using ion exchange to remove VA. The wine components, minus the VA, would then be recombined in-line to form the original wine minus the VA. The whole process takes place in a closed system. Regulations at 27 CFR 24.248 are currently broad enough to allow ion exchange to be used to remove volatile acidity from wine or from various components of wine. However, this section of regulations does not currently authorize reverse osmosis to be used for anything other than to reduce the ethyl alcohol content of wine. The regulation change that is being proposed in this document will allow reverse osmosis to also be used to remove off flavors in wine, which would enable it to be used as part of an overall process in a closed system to remove VA from wine. Normally, reverse osmosis must be done on distilled spirits plant premises because it is considered a distilling process resulting in a distilled spirits by-product. However, in this case, the various components of wine will only be created temporarily in a closed system and will be immediately recombined in-line to reconstitute the original wine minus VA. ATF has concluded that this type of reverse osmosis may be conducted on bonded winery premises since no separate distilled spirits product is created as a final product or by-product. Absolutely no accumulation of ethyl alcohol outside the closed system will be allowed. Such accumulation of an ethanol solution on winery premises would subject the proprietor to the distilled spirits tax of $13.50 per proof gallon imposed by Section 5001 of the Internal Revenue Code.
