FR940922-1-00042 FR940922-1-00008 EPA proposed several programs for the FIP that deal with circumstances unique to California's industrial and geographic circumstances and are therefore inappropriate for the OTR. For example, due to the fire hazards inherent in an arid region, California fire departments burn vegetation periodically to lower the risk of a wild fire. EPA proposed that these burns only occur on certain days so that the pollution from the fire does not add to ozone exceedances. Since such burns do not occur in the OTR, such requirements would not make sense there. The rules regarding outer continental shelf oil exploration are another example of rules which may make sense in California but not in the OTR. (3) FIP measures that are unreasonable or impracticable in the OTR because they are too costly or disruptive. The FIP contains ``cap'' rules for stationary sources which impose an annual rate of reduction on affected sources for as many controllable VOC and NO X categories as possible. The emission reduction targets are derived from the overall shortfall in the FIP area rather than any consideration of available emission control technologies. EPA's proposal anticipates that the state and local agencies can over time develop carefully tailored economic incentive programs or traditional rules based upon the most recent technologies and regulatory approaches. But the cap rules themselves are not examples of specific regulatory approaches to be adopted at the state or local level. These are therefore blunt instruments without specific and identifiable emissions control mechanisms in mind. As such, they may be costly to achieve and EPA cannot now conclude that they are based on technologies that are potentially practicable. Beginning in 2004, the FIP also proposes to discourage the use of older high polluting recreational boat engines through the imposition of a user fee and permit system. EPA believes that measures which restrict individual behavior or prevent citizens from benefitting from investments made in property are particularly difficult to implement. EPA does not believe it is reasonable to adopt such measures before implementation of the LEV standards. (4) Proposed FIP measures which are not clearly unreasonable and impracticable. Many of the proposed FIP measures are based on national, state and local initiatives that EPA does not believe it should dismiss as clearly unreasonable or impracticable. Nationally, there are a variety of standards for stationary and mobile sources. California initiatives include the LEV program itself, as well as other measures applicable to consumer products. The FIP proposal also takes into account local efforts in the affected California areas to reduce NO X from stationary and mobile sources. EPA is in the process of developing many national rules that it took into account in the FIP proposal and that it therefore expects to apply in the OTR. For example, apart from the FIP proposal, EPA is developing by November 1995, nation-wide emission standards for new marine engines. EPA is also developing standards for locomotives and small nonroad engines under 25 hp. California has also developed rules to reduce VOC emissions from paints and other consumer products and EPA is developing similar controls on the VOC content of consumer and commercial solvents and architectural coatings. EPA has already accounted for the benefits of all of these measures for the OTR above, in its modeling of the impact of the mandatory Clean Air Act measures. Local areas in California, especially the South Coast Air Quality Management District (South Coast), have been especially innovative in developing emissions reduction programs. There are two programs that EPA took into account in its FIP proposal which merit special comment here. First, the South Coast developed an ECO program to reduce the number of vehicle miles travelled to and from major employers. As discussed above, the Clean Air Act now requires many nonattainment areas to implement ECO programs. EPA proposed in the FIP to expand coverage to Sacramento. As discussed above, the ECO programs already required for certain areas in the OTR could be expanded region-wide, or applied to smaller employers than currently mandated. However, as noted above, the incremental benefits from these programs appear to be relatively small. The South Coast has also developed a new program that EPA took into account in its FIP proposal, known as the Regional Clean Air Incentives Market (RECLAIM), to establish a declining cap on NO X emissions from stationary sources. Unlike the South Coast, however, large stationary NO X sources in the OTR are dominated by coal-fired utilities. In place of a declining NO X cap program, the OTR states are developing a plan to impose a stringent NO X standard for utilities. This is part of the 0.15 lbs/MMBtu NO X standard , discussed above. This standard is substantially more stringent than many in the OTR believe to be reasonable, but EPA has nonetheless modeled the impacts of such a strategy in its analysis here. Consideration of Rule Effectiveness In evaluating the emissions reductions attributable to particular control measures, it is important to consider the effectiveness of the rules. If all sources fully comply with the rules at all times, and if there were never problems with control equipment, then the emission reductions associated with control measures could be calculated and summed to reflect the anticipated reductions as a result of applying specific regulations. However, past history has shown that rules are not consistently applied or enforced, control equipment malfunctions, and operating and maintenance problems occur, all contributing to air emissions. These emissions are accounted for through the application of rule effectiveness (RE) guidelines. This is a means of identifying and estimating the increased emissions failures and uncertainties in emission control programs. Rule effectiveness is a measure of the extent to which a rule actually achieves its desired emission reductions. It accounts for a variety of factors that influence the efficacy of emission control programs, including: the nature of the regulation or control (e.g., complexity of record-keeping or test methods); nature of control techniques (e.g., potential for fugitive emissions); performance of sources in complying with the regulation (e.g., schedule of maintenance and inspection of control equipment); and performance of those enforcing the regulation (e.g., inspector training). EPA accounts for RE for mobile source controls that affect the mobile emissions factors internally in the MOBILE model. For stationary sources, however, the emissions inventory must account for RE to yield more reliable estimates of the actual emissions reductions that SIP rules will achieve. In general, EPA specifies an 80 percent default RE value in the absence of a local category-specific RE value. In essence, this assumes that the ability to use control devices or regulations to achieve emission reductions is only 80 percent effective. Without application of RE to the emissions inventory, the emissions reductions estimated to occur as a result of control measures would be overly optimistic. Although EPA's analysis of measures mandated in the Act accounts for RE, the emissions reductions assumed for the other measures may not have accounted for REs and must therefore be considered overly optimistic. Conclusions As described above, EPA believes reductions in the range of 50% to 75% from 1990 baseline NO X and VOC emissions levels will be needed to enable all of the serious and severe nonattainment areas in the OTR to attain the ozone standard. The NO X reductions are needed throughout the OTR and the VOC reductions are needed at least in and near the urban portions of the OTR. EPA recognizes that there are uncertainties in its modeling analysis used to reach this conclusion. For the reasons described earlier in this notice, EPA believes it would be appropriate generally to resolve uncertainties in its factual analysis in favor of the most environmentally conservative course. EPA requests comment on whether, for purposes of its analysis of alternative control measures, EPA should conclude that the middle of this range, or at least a 65% reduction from baseline NO X emissions, will be necessary throughout the OTR. Here, as described below, EPA believes that focus on the low end of the range would not change its conclusion. In addition to uncertainties in the atmospheric models, uncertainties also exist in the base year emissions inventories, the projected emissions that account for growth in the future, the amount of emission reductions estimated to result from implementation of the control measures (including consideration of rule effectiveness), and the modeled ozone concentrations resulting from the emissions. Additionally, EPA believes that it should err on the side of environmental protection in addressing these uncertainties. As described above, a strategy consisting of all of the mandatory Clean Air Act measures and the 0.15 NO X standard for large boilers, gas turbines, and internal combustion engines would achieve approximately a 32% reduction in NO X from 1990 baseline levels. Most of the source categories listed in the STAPPA/ALAPCO compilation of NO X control measures are already included in the 0.15 NO X standard, and the NO X emissions from the few remaining categories of small stationary and area sources comprise an extremely small portion of the stationary source segment of the emissions inventory, and a proportionally smaller portion of the overall inventory. Hence, it is likely that those additional measures would achieve no more than a small percentage reduction in the overall NO X inventory.
