FR940825-2-00182 FR940825-2-00109 (8) Administrative costs. The costs necessary for the effective administration of the program, including salaries for grant organization employees; staff travel for local community organizers; benefits and other indirect costs, per detailed instructions in the Application package. Cost-sharing and enhancement of the basic package provided by USIA is encouraged. The Agency reserves the right to reduce, revise, or increase the proposal budget in accordance with the needs of the program. Please refer to the Application Package for complete budget guidelines. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines stated herein and in the Application Package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the budget and contracts offices, as well as the USIA Office of Eastern Europe and the NIS and the USIA post in Russia. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel or by other Agency elements. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the USIA Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with the USIA grants officer. Review Criteria Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria: 1. Quality of the program idea: Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, precision, and relevance to Agency mission. 2. Program planning and ability to achieve program objectives: The proposal should clearly show how the grantee institution will meet the program's objectives. The proposal should include a detailed agenda and work plan that illustrate logistical capacity. The project content should be substantive and the planned execution realistic. 3. Institutional ability/record: Interested institutions should demonstrate their potential for program excellence and/or provide documentation of successful programs. If an organization is a previous USIA grant recipient, responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements from past Agency grants, as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts (M/KG), will be considered. Pertinent evaluation results of previous projects are a part of this assessment. 4. Thematic and area expertise: Proposals should reflect the institution's expertise in the subject area and should address the specific issues of concern facing the Russian Federation. 5. Project personnel: Personnel's thematic and logistical expertise should be relevant to the proposed program. Résumés should be suited to the specific proposal and no longer than two pages. 6. Cross-cultural sensitivity: Proposals should show evidence of sensitivity to historical, linguistic, and other cross-cultural factors, as well as appropriate knowledge of Russia's geography, and should show how this sensitivity will be used in practical aspects of the program, such as pre-departure orientations or briefing of American hosts. 7. Multiplier effect/follow-on activities: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, to include maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual ties. Proposals should also reflect an institutional commitment for continued exchange activity beyond the term of the USIA grant. 8. Cost-effectiveness/cost-sharing: The overhead and administrative components should be kept as low as possible. Costs to USIA per exchange participant should be reasonable, and all items proposed for USIA funding must be necessary and appropriate to achieve the program's objectives. Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as direct funding contributions and/or in-kind support from the prospective grantee institution. 9. Project evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the project's success. 10. Support of diversity: Proposals should demonstrate the recipient's commitment to promoting the awareness and understanding of diversity throughout the program. This can be accomplished through documentation (such as a written statement or account) summarizing past and/or on-going activities and efforts that further the principle of diversity within both their organization and their activities. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. The needs of the program may require the award to be reduced, revised, or increased. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about January 16, 1995. Awards made will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: August 17, 1994. John P. Loiello, Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20586 Filed 8&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
