FR940713-2-00158 FR940713-2-00095 Discussion: The Secretary acknowledges that all of these components would provide more comprehensive services and, under the existing priority, they may be included in an application at the applicant's discretion. The priority has been designed to allow an applicant flexibility and creativity to meet the needs that exist in its own institution or community. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter suggested that eligibility be expanded to include those who are not former offenders. This commenter also proposed that Federal funds be used to pay for internships in for-profit institutions. Discussion: The Secretary believes that this competition should be limited to projects that will serve criminal offenders under the supervision of the justice system, including those on probation and parole. As discussed elsewhere in this notice, this priority was chosen based on the critical problems of literacy and recidivism pervasive among the adult and juvenile corrections population. With respect to the comment concerning the use of Federal funds to pay for internships in for-profit institutions, the Secretary does not believe that this type of assistance is necessary for the successful completion of projects that address the absolute priority established in this notice. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter suggested aligning the priority with the School-to-Work Opportunities Act and national skill standards. In addition, the commenter recommended that the priority reflect current U.S. Department of Labor policy regarding education and workforce development. Discussion: The Secretary believes the priority is consistent with the School-to-Work Opportunities Act and the Goals 2000: Educate America Act. For example, the priority includes such components as work-based and school-based learning, transition activities, and partnerships between public and private agencies, required in the School-to-Work Opportunities Act. The priority also targets the National Education Goals of adult literacy and life long learning. The Goals 2000: Educate America Act established a Skills Standards Board. A primary responsibility of the Board will be to coordinate the development of voluntary national skill standards. At this time, national skill standards do not exist; therefore, applicants are encouraged to use common standards that have been developed by trade and professional associations, such as the National Occupational Competency Testing Institute and the Vocational-Technical Education Consortium of States, or other standards that are being utilized in current training programs, including those being developed by organizations under contract with the Departments of Education and Labor. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter stated that, as currently written, the absolute priority rendered them ineligible because their State legislature mandates that instruction be separate from custody.
