FR941003-2-00038 FR941003-2-00031 Federally purchased vaccines under the VFC Program will be made available to children who are 18 years of age or younger and_ •Who are eligible for Medicaid; •Who are not insured under any form of health insurance; •Who are not insured with respect to the vaccine and who are administered pediatric vaccines by a federally qualified health center (FQHC) or in a rural health clinic; or •Who are Indians, as defined in section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. Under the VFC program, vaccines must be administered by program-registered providers. Section 1928(c) defines a program-registered provider as any health care provider that_ •Is licensed or authorized to administer pediatric vaccines under the law of the State in which the administration occurs without regard to whether or not the provider is a Medicaid-participating provider; •Submits to the State an executed provider agreement in the form and manner specified by the Secretary; and •Has not been found by the Secretary or the State to have violated a provider agreement or other requirements that may apply that are established by the Secretary or the State. Providers may participate in the VFC program without participating in Medicaid if they are qualified to administer vaccines under applicable State law. However, such providers will not be reimbursed by Medicaid for their services in administering the vaccine. Under the VFC Program, a provider may impose a fee for the administration of a qualified pediatric vaccine as long as the fee, in the case of a Federally vaccine-eligible child, does not exceed the cost of such administration (as determined by the Secretary based on actual regional costs for such administration). However, a provider may not deny administration of a qualified pediatric vaccine to a vaccine-eligible child due to the inability of the child's parents or legal guardian to pay the administration fee. II. Provisions of This Notice With Comment Period A. General Statement This notice announces interim regional maximum charges. These represent the maximum amount that a provider in a State may charge for the administration of qualified pediatric vaccines to Federally vaccine-eligible children under the VFC Program. It also specifies the methodology that HCFA used to establish these regional maximum charges. We are interpreting ``regional'' as specified in the statute to be the ``State'', as discussed in section II.B.2. of this notice. In addition, this notice gives Universal Purchase States (that is, where the vaccines are purchased by the State for all children in the State) the right to develop administration charges that differ from those established by HCFA, provided they are reasonable. Therefore, Universal Purchase States are provided the flexibility to accept the maximum charges established by the Secretary or to develop their own maximum charges. In either case, the statute gives State Medicaid agencies the option to establish and apply vaccine administration fees that are lower than the specified maximum charges if they provide assurances that Medicaid children have access to immunizations to the same extent as the general population. Section 1902(a)(30)(A) of the Act, as amplified by section 1926, requires States to pay enough for obstetrical and pediatric services (which include immunization services) so that those services are available to the ``Medicaid population'' to the same extent that are available to the general population in the geographic area. These assurances must be submitted to HCFA as part of the appropriate State plan amendment to impose the fees. This notice specifies guidelines for States to use in setting lower administration fees.
