FR940920-1-00021 FR940920-1-00004 LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 36 CFR Part 702 [Docket No. LOC 94&hyph;2] Photographing the Interior and Exterior of Library of Congress Buildings and Other Library Facilities AGENCY: Library of Congress. ACTION: Proposed rules. SUMMARY: The Library of Congress proposes to revise the conditions under which the interior and exterior of Library of Congress buildings may be filmed or photographed by groups such as news organizations and commercial or freelance film crews. This part will require all persons and groups, other than individuals who are photographing the exterior of the Library of Congress buildings for their own personal use, to obtain permission from the Library of Congress' Public Affairs Officer. This rule is being promulgated to protect archival records and donated historical materials maintained in all Library buildings; to enhance the safety of persons who use Library facilities, including researchers, exhibit patrons, and Government employees, and to prevent disruption both of the conduct of official business and of the timely provision of Library services to the general public. DATES: Comments should be received on or before October 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Ten copies of written comments should be addressed, if sent by mail to: Library of Congress, Mail Code 1050, Washington, DC 20540. If delivered by hand, copies should be brought to: Office of the General Counsel, James Madison Memorial Building, Room LM&hyph;601, First and Independence Avenue, S.E., Washington, DC 20540&hyph;1050, (202) 707&hyph;6316. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Johnnie M. Barksdale, Regulations Officer, Office of the General Counsel, Library of Congress, Washington, DC 20540&hyph;1050. Telephone No. (202) 707&hyph;1593. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under 2 U.S.C. 136 and 167f, the Librarian of Congress is authorized to make rules and regulations for the government of the Library and may prescribe such regulations as may be deemed necessary for the adequate protection of the Library of Congress buildings and grounds and of persons and property therein, and for the maintenance of suitable order and decorum within the Library of Congress buildings and grounds. The Library of Congress proposes to issue this revised part to define the conditions under which filming and photographing of any Library of Congress building or facility is permissible by groups such as news organizations and commercial or freelance film crews. It also defines the Library's restrictions on access for commercial ventures and limitations on filmmakers and photographers. List of Subjects in 36 CFR Part 702 Federal buildings and facilities, Libraries. Proposed Regulation In consideration of the foregoing the Library of Congress proposes to amend 36 CFR Part 702 as follows: PART 702_CONDUCT ON LIBRARY PREMISES 1. The authority citation for 36 CFR part 702 is revised to read as follows: Authority: Sec. 1, 29 Stat. 544, 546; 2 U.S.C. 136 and 167f. 2. Section 702.5 is revised to read as follows: ยง702.5 Photographing the Interior and Exterior of Library of Congress Buildings and other Library facilities. (a) Purpose. This part states the Library's policy and conditions under which the interiors and exteriors of Library buildings as well as other Library facilities may be photographed by groups such as news organizations and commercial or freelance film crews. (b) Definitions. (1) Photograph or photographing means any method, including photography, filming, videotaping, or any such process of image reproduction. (2) Library of Congress buildings means those buildings on Capitol Hill which constitute the main Library complex as well as other facilities assigned to the Library. (c) General policy. (1) The Public Affairs Officer, or his/her designee, is authorized to grant permission to photograph Library buildings. (2) Those wishing to photograph a Library building shall request in writing permission from the Public Affairs Officer at least one week before the proposed photographic activity, except in extraordinary circumstances when the Public Affairs Officer makes an exception. The Public Affairs Officer may grant permission either in writing or by telephone. (3) In those instances when the Public Affairs Officer has granted permission, he or she shall notify the Protective Services Officer of the proposed activity. (d) Conditions and restrictions. (1) Photographing shall be permitted only for the purpose of providing background to stories about either the Library or a patron who has made use of the Library's holdings. Press interviews will not be permitted unless either Library or other government employees are being interviewed in connection with official business. (2) Permission to photograph shall not be granted to persons or groups wishing to promote commercial enterprises or commodities or to persons or groups involved with political, sectarian, or similar activities. (3) Photographing may not impede the ingress or egress of visitors or staff to any Library building. (4) Permission to photograph the exterior of a Library building does not constitute approval or sponsorship by the Library of the persons or groups involved, of their activities or views, or of the uses to which the works depicting a Library building are put. (5) Permission to photograph does not release the persons or groups involved from liability for injuries to persons or property that result from their activities on Library property. (6) Persons and groups must be accompanied at all times by a member of the Public Affairs Office or Library staff when in any Library building. (7) Interview with Library staff and researchers shall take place only in areas designated by Public Affairs Office or Library staff. (8) Approved photography sessions shall normally be limited to two hours. (9) The policy set out herein does not apply to individuals who are photographing the exterior of Library of Congress buildings for their own personal purposes and do not interfere with ingress or egress of visitors or staff. Dated: September 14, 1994. James H. Billington, The Librarian of Congress. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23232 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 1410&hyph;04&hyph;P&hyph;M
