FR940527-0-00066 FR940527-0-00023 Satisfactory progress means a Junior Fellow's completion of the number of required courses normally expected of full-time master's degree candidates at the university that the Fellow attends, with grades acceptable to that university, and a Senior Fellow's completion each year of the number of required courses toward a master's degree agreed upon each year by the Foundation as constituting adequate progress toward the completion of fellowship study, with grades acceptable to the Fellow's university, in not more than five calendar years from the commencement of that study. Secondary school means grades 7 through 12. Senior means a student at the academic level recognized by an institution of higher education as being the last year of study before receiving the baccalaureate degree. Senior fellowship means a James Madison Fellowship granted to a secondary school teacher of American history, American government, or social studies for part-time graduate study toward a master's degree whose course of study emphasizes the framing, principles, history, and interpretation of the United States Constitution. State means each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and, considered as a single entity, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and, until adoption of its Compact of Free Association, the Republic of Palau. Stipend means the amount paid to a Fellow or to the university that the Fellow attends to cover the costs of graduate study at that university under a fellowship. Term means the period_semester, trimester, or quarter_used by an institution of higher education to divide its academic year. University means an institution of higher education that offers post-baccalaureate degrees. Subpart B_Applications ยง2400.10 Applications. Eligible applicants for fellowships must apply directly to the Foundation. ยง2400.11 Faculty representatives. Each college and university that chooses to do so may annually appoint or reappoint a faculty representative who will be asked to identify and recruit fellowship applicants on campus, publicize the annual competition on campus, and otherwise assist eligible candidates in preparation for applying. In order to elicit the appointment of faculty representatives, the Foundation will each year request the head of each college and university campus to appoint or reappoint a faculty representative and to provide the Foundation with the name, business address, and business telephone number of a member of its faculty representative on forms provided for that purpose. Subpart C_Application Process ยง2400.20 Preparation of applications. Applications, on forms mailed directly by the Foundation to those who request applications, must be completed by all fellowship candidates in order that they be considered for an award. ยง2400.21 Contents of applications. Applications must include for_ (a) Senior fellowships: (1) Supporting information which affirms an applicant's wish to be considered for a fellowship; provides information about his or her background, interests, goals, and the school in which he or she teaches; and includes a statement about the applicant's educational plans and specifies how those plans will enhance his or her career as a secondary school teacher of American history, American government, or social studies; (2) An essay of up to 600 words that explains the importance of the study of the Constitution to: (i) Young students, (ii) The applicant's career aspirations and his or her contributions to public service, and (iii) Citizenship generally in a constitutional republic; (3) The applicant's proposed course of graduate study, including the name of the degree to be sought, the required courses to be taken, and the election of an option, if available, to prepare a master's thesis, as well as information about the specific degree sought; (4) Three evaluations, one from an immediate supervisor, that attest to the applicant's strengths and abilities as a teacher in grades 7&hyph;12; and (5) A copy of his or her academic transcript. (b) Junior fellowships: (1) Supporting information which affirms an applicant's wish to be considered for a fellowship; provides information about the applicant's background, interests, goals, and the college which he or she attends or attended; and includes a statement about the applicant's educational plans and specifies how those plans will lead to a career as a teacher of American history, American government, or social studies in grades 7&hyph;12;
