FR940928-0-00075 FR940928-0-00021 5. Label Size and Format for Instantaneous Water Heaters The NPR noted that, because the physical size of gas-fired instantaneous water heaters (they are often no larger than one to three cubic feet) is usually significantly smaller than most storage-type water heaters, the currently required 5 and 5/16 inches by 7 and 3/8 inches label could be too large to fit on some of the smaller models. 74 There is also the possibility that the surface temperature of the products could affect label adhesion. The NPR requested comment on whether the EnergyGuide label currently required for water heaters is appropriate for instantaneous water heaters and, if not, what would be better. 75 74 Gas-fired instantaneous water heaters are usually larger than electric models, and some larger models could be used for whole-house applications in small houses. Electric instantaneous water heaters (for which labeling rules were not proposed in the NPR) are usually small and for limited point-of-use, as for a particular sink or shower. 75 58 FR 7854. Four comments responded to this request. Paloma contended that labeling on the front jacket of instantaneous water heaters is impossible because of the room taken up by other required labels and is, therefore, technologically infeasible. Paloma also contended that, because of the product's surface temperature, a paper label would be inappropriate. Paloma concluded that, under the circumstances, an aluminum label with special adhesive would be necessary, which would be an economic burden. Paloma recommended, therefore, a tag-type label. 76 GAMA and CEC stated that the conventional label that is currently required would be appropriate for most models. Both commented that the issue of surface temperature is irrelevant because EnergyGuides are required on products only until they are sold, which would be before the water heater was fired for the first time. GAMA recommended allowing a hang-tag type label, as did Washington Gas. 77 76 Paloma, E&hyph;2, 2. 77 GAMA, E&hyph;3, 2 (GAMA also recommended allowing the option of hang-tags for heat pump water heaters); CEC, EE&hyph;2, 5; Washington Gas, EE&hyph;1, 1. The Commission agrees with the comments that both conventional label types ( i.e., paper, rather than aluminum) and hang-tag type labels will be appropriate for instantaneous water heaters. Hang-tags may be preferable in some instances, such as when the instantaneous heater is too small to accommodate conventional labels. Section 305.11(a)(7) of the Rule currently allows for the use of hang-tags as long as they are affixed in such a way that they will be prominent to a consumer examining the product. Therefore, the Rule permits manufacturers of instantaneous and heat pump water heaters to exercise the hang-tag option. 6. Disclosure of Tank Size on Label for Heat Pump Water Heaters Heat pump water heaters are marketed in two ways. They can be sold as an integral unit that includes the heat pump and the storage tank, or they can be sold without a tank and hooked up with an existing water heater with the conventional heating system shut off. For those instances in which the heat pump water heater is sold without a tank, the DOE test calls for measurement of energy use with the heat pump water heater connected to a 47-gallon capacity storage tank. Thus, even when no tank is to be sold with the heat pump water heater, manufacturers will be able to determine the energy use figure to put on the label for comparative shopping purposes. The product's efficiency, however, could be affected by the size of the tank with which it is coupled. The NPR solicited comment, therefore, on whether the label should include a statement that determination of the heat pump water heater's efficiency is based on use with a 47-gallon tank and that its efficiency in the home may vary according to the size of the storage tank to which it is connected. Two comments addressed this issue. CEC stated that the statement that the efficiency of heat pump water heaters could be affected by the size of the tank with which it is coupled is only necessary in the case where the manufacturer does not supply the tank. CEC recommended that, in this case, the label should identify the size of the tank assumed for purposes of determining the energy factor. 78 GAMA stated that the standby loss of the tank, not its size , is what is relevant. Thus, heat pump water heater labels should not state that the efficiency of the water heater could be affected by the size of the tank with which it is coupled. GAMA also contended that, given the limited ranges of sizes and standby losses of tanks coupled with heat pump water heaters, such a statement on the EnergyGuide would not be worthwhile from a consumer benefit standpoint. 79 78 CEC, EE&hyph;2, 7. 79 GAMA. E&hyph;3, 3. The Commission agrees with GAMA that the effect on energy consumption will not be significant enough to require a disclosure on the EnergyGuide label. Thus, the Commission has determined not to require the statement described above concerning tank size.
