FR940516-1-00105 FR940516-1-00006 EPA is currently aware of at least one type of equipment that, in EPA's view, might need to be evaluated through such a process. Unlike CARB, EPA is not allowing all currently produced 2-stroke snowthrowers to meet standards applicable to engines used in handheld equipment. In approving its regulations, California accepted arguments that nonhandheld 2-stroke snowthrowers should be allowed an exemption from the nonhandheld standards to meet emission standards for handheld engines. In EPA's view, at least two factors could have formed a basis for this decision: First, snowthrowers are operated in the winter, which means that they do not significantly impact ozone nonattainment and thus need not be subject to stringent control aimed at improving ambient air quality; and second, at least some of the lightweight 2-stroke snowthrowers that were exempted from nonhandheld standards appear to be designed to be picked up while in operation (for example, to clear porch steps), implying that the use of a 4-stroke engine would significantly limit critical performance features. While the first of these factors raises questions regarding the need to control emissions at all from products that are clearly only used in the winter, regardless of their classification as handheld or nonhandheld, those questions must also be weighed against the need to address CO emissions, and the need to protect the health of equipment operators. The second factor reveals potential problems with CARB's definition of ``handheld.'' Specifically, CARB's action with regard to snowthrowers raises questions regarding other ``fringe'' products. EPA believes that it would be appropriate to classify as handheld equipment lightweight snowthrowers under 14 kg which have no more than two wheels and which would either be carried or supported during operation. All other snowthrowers would be classified as nonhandheld and required to meet the standards that were generally applicable to engines used in nonhandheld equipment. EPA solicits comment on this proposal. Under EPA's proposed definitions, lawnmowers will be classified as nonhandheld equipment and thus engines used in lawnmowers must meet the more stringent nonhandheld emission standards. Manufacturers of 2-stroke lawnmower engines have raised concerns over their economic survival if required to meet nonhandheld standards, based on their doubt that cost-effective technology now exists to bring their 2-stroke engines into timely compliance. EPA requests comment on the ability of 2-stroke lawnmower engine manufacturers to meet the nonhandheld standards, the impact such a requirement would have on such manufacturers, the need for relief for such manufacturers, and the impact such relief might have on the environmental benefits of this proposal. EPA further requests comment on the following options for providing relief to 2-stroke lawnmower engine manufacturers: (1) Provide an extended effective date, such as 1998, for 2-stroke lawnmower engines to meet the nonhandheld standards; (2) allow 2- stroke lawnmower engines to meet the handheld engine standards until the effective date of the second phase of small SI engine regulations; (3) cap the number of 2-stroke lawnmowers allowed to certify to the handheld standards to the number sold in the year this proposal is published or promulgated until the effective date of the second phase of small SI engine regulations; or (4) allow a declining percentage of 2-stroke lawnmower engines to meet the handheld standards, such as 100 percent in 1996, 75 percent in 1997, 50 percent in 1998, and 25 percent in 1999, so that by the year 2000, all 2-stroke lawnmower engines sold would meet the nonhandheld emission standards.
