FR940523-1-00012 FR940523-1-00005 POSTAL SERVICE 39 CFR PART 111 Presort Accuracy Validation and Evaluation (PAVE) AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Notice of proposed program. SUMMARY: The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) published proposed requirements for a Vendor Presort Software Validation Program in the Federal Register on April 14, 1992 (57 FR 12893&hyph;12901). After receiving written comments in response to the proposal, the Postal Service decided to provide additional opportunity for comment. To facilitate the receipt of additional comments, a public meeting was announced in the Federal Register on July 21, 1992 (57 FR 32188), and held on August 5, 1992, at the USPS National Customer Support Center. As a result of comments received, a withdrawal of the proposed rule was subsequently published in the Federal Register on September 11, 1992 (57 FR 41716), in order to publish the following new proposed rule for a Postal Service testing and certification program of presort software that it intends to name Presort Accuracy Validation and Evaluation (PAVE). PAVE, if adopted, would be a voluntary program in which the Postal Service would, upon request, provide testing for certain categories of presort software and hardware products to determine their accuracy in sorting address information according to the mailing standards of the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM). This program would assure those using presort software packages that a PAVE-certified product, if used properly, would have the capability of performing its intended function according to the current mailing standards of the Postal Service. Because make-up errors in mail preparation cannot be eliminated via software alone, the use of a PAVE-certified presort product to produce a mailing would not assure rate eligibility. As part of this program, manufacturers of certified presort software would need to inform users of their products that proper use of presort software (e.g., selecting appropriate options for a given sortation, using the correct parameter settings, etc.) would remain critical to ensuring accurate sortation. The Postal Service is seeking comments from interested parties, including developers and users of presort products, to ensure the most effective design and implementation of this proposed program. DATES: Comments must be received on or before June 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be mailed or delivered to the Manager, Business Mail Acceptance, 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW., room 8430, Washington, DC 20260&hyph;6808. Copies of all written comments will be available for inspection and photocopying between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: George T. Hurst, (202) 268&hyph;5232, or Lynn Martin (202) 268&hyph;5176. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Many mailers rely on computer software to generate mailings for postage discounts. Two areas where computer software has proved particularly advantageous in mail production are the matching and coding of individual address records and the presorting of address lists. To validate the accuracy of address matching software, the Postal Service has established the Coding Accuracy Support System (CASS), which provides a common platform to measure the quality of this software. The Postal Service proposes, with this notice, the implementation of a similar program to validate the accuracy of presort software products in specific presort categories. This program would be voluntary and available to all developers of presort products that sort address information according to the presort standards of the DMM. It would be available to test products configured for personal, mid-range, or main frame computers including mail-sorting optical character readers. The Postal Service does not propose that the use of PAVE certified software be mandatory for obtaining presort postage discounts. For purposes of PAVE certification, eligible presort product developers are defined as those firms that initially develop a presort product, regardless of commercial availability. This definition also includes those that make modifications that alter the sorting logic, documentation generation capability, or add to or revise the original parameters of a software product. A presort product is defined as a complete set of computer program modules or equipment that presorts address lists or mailpieces according to DMM standards for one or more types of mailings. Program Overview Developers of presort software and/or hardware would apply for PAVE certification of their products. On receipt of the application, the Postal Service would forward the appropriate test file of address records to the developer. The developer would sort the file with its presort product and print documentation supporting accurate sortation and rate application (along with other documentation printed by the software). This information, along with the original media, would be returned for evaluation to the USPS National Customer Support Center (NCSC) within a specified time frame. The Postal Service would then evaluate the documentation for presort accuracy. In addition, the Postal Service would evaluate the accuracy, format, and content of; required postal documentation (where applicable), facsimile mailing statements (if generated), and any other postal forms generated by the software product in the category being tested. If the Postal Service determines that the presort product satisfies the current presort standards, the developer would be issued a PAVE certificate for that product in that category. The certification would be good for 1 year, or until the next PAVE cycle. PAVE testing would be conducted from August through December, as detailed further in this notice. A list of PAVE-certified software/hardware developers would then be published in the Postal Bulletin (or a similar publication/listing as is currently used for CASS/MASS certified vendors). Selecting Specific Presort Categories The Postal Service would not be able to test individually all presort categories every year. The Postal Service would choose a limited number of presort categories annually for PAVE testing. Presort product developers would be notified of the new test categories as well as any changes made to previous tests to be evaluated in the next PAVE cycle approximately 3 months in advance of actual testing, so that developers could prepare for and order the appropriate test files.
