FR940224-2-00155 FR940224-2-00094 Applicants are encouraged to view these security dialogues as conflict resolution arrangements where potential adversaries talk to each other rather than form blocs against a common adversary. Proposals should present ideas as to how to extend the dialogue to encompass the entire East Asia and Pacific region or how to enhance the evolving subregional dialogues (e.g. ASEAN, North Asia). Proposals should treat conflict resolution as preventive diplomacy, including reducing tensions, building confidence, and deterring arms races in addition to contributing to the solution of specific conflicts or potential specific conflicts. Security (and thus, conflict resolution) may be broadly defined to include regional issues that directly or indirectly contribute to security (or the lack thereof), such as economic growth and other conditions affecting trade and social stability, including environmental and energy issues, and population questions. A conflict resolution project focussed on Northeast Asia should account for private as well as public sector interests, and should be aimed toward stimulating participants' appreciation of the benefits to the East Asia and Pacific community as a whole to be derived from discussions of both the opportunities for cooperation and the potential conflicts in the subregion. For projects that focus on Northeast Asia, the area may include Japan, China, Russia, the Korean peninsula, and the U.S. For additional information on regionwide or subregional emphases, grant applicants may contact Margaret Eubank, Cultural Coordinator in USIA's Office of East Asia and Pacific Affairs, at (202) 619&hyph;5837. For technical information, interested organizations may contact E/P Program Specialist Elroy Carlson at (202) 619&hyph;5326. Europe USIA will not accept proposals for this region. The Newly Independent States USIA will not accept proposals for this region. Additional Guidelines and Restrictions USIA is interested in supporting programs which will lay the groundwork for new and continuing links between American and foreign professional organizations and non-governmental organizations in the area of conflict resolution and in the specific fields mentioned in the above project descriptions. Proposals which are overly ambitious and those which are very general will not be competitive. Therefore, institutions should provide strong evidence of their ability to accomplish a few tasks exceptionally well. General structural or procedural objectives for all of the above projects include the following: _development of institutional links which continue beyond the duration of USIA funding support, preferably with funding commitments; _development and distribution of written, audio and video instructional materials to complement and enhance the program. _coordination, in the design of these programs, with U.S. Information Service offices overseas, and with foreign government officials and private sector leaders with direct knowledge and experience in the thematic area. Bureau grants are not given to support projects whose focus is limited to technical issues, or for research projects, developing publications for dissemination in the United States, individual student exchange, film festivals, or exhibits. Neither does the Office of Citizen Exchanges provide scholarships or support for long-term (a semester or more) academic studies. Competitions sponsored by other Bureau offices are also announced in the Federal Register and may have different application requirements as well as different objectives. Participants All grant proposals should clearly describe the type of persons who will participate in the program as well as the process by which participants will be selected. However, USIA and USIS posts retain the right to nominate all foreign participants and to accept or deny participants recommended by grantee institutions. Grantee institutions will often provide support, as requested by USIA, in the nomination of participants. The grantee should provide the names of American participants and brief, relevant biographical data. American participants should be selected on the basis of their experience and expertise in the thematic field. Relevant language ability, experience in communicating to foreign audiences and general knowledge of the regions and countries involved in the respective projects are highly desirable.
