FR940616-2-00125 FR940616-2-00090 a. Quality of Program Plan Which includes how your project would meet the Creative Arts Exchanges Program goals, artistic/organizational planning of the highest caliber, why the participants would be appropriate for this project, how the project would contribute to a higher awareness of other countries, a proposed followup, and the qualifications of program staff and participants. b. Feasibility of the Program Plan And the capacity of the organization to conduct the exchange. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program objectives and plan. c. Track Record Included are the past successes of the organization in previous USIA programs and assessments of the organization's experience with international exchanges. For organizations that have not worked with USIA, they will be evaluated by their demonstrated potential to achieve their program goals. d. Multiplier Effect/Impact The ability of the organization to affect the wider community as well as developing continuing ties in the country. The proposal must also promote mutual understanding between the two groups. e. Value to U.S._Partner Country Relations The Agency assesses the need, the potential impact, and the significance of the project with the partner country. f. Cost-Effectiveness The organization should exhibit a wise budgetary policy including cost-sharing. A key measure of cost-effectiveness is the cost per participant. g. Diversity and Pluralism Preference will be given to proposals that demonstrate efforts to provide for the participation of artists from diverse regions, socio-economic and ethnic backgrounds; but only to the extent feasible for the applicant institutions. h. Institutional Commitment As demonstrated through use of personnel, resources and funding. i. Follow-up Activities Proposals should provide a plan for later continuation of contact (without USIA support), which ensures that USIA-supported programs are not isolated events. j. Evaluation Plan Proposals should provide a plan for your own evaluation of the project. Technical Requirements Proposals can only be accepted for review when they are fully in accord with the terms of this request for proposals, as well as with requirements stipulated in the application package. Notice The terms and conditions published in the request for proposals are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of request for proposals does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about January 4, 1995. Awards will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: June 10, 1994. John P. Loiello, Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc 94&hyph;14692 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
