FR941006-0-00065 FR941006-0-00015 Final Action The EPA is reclassifying the Poughkeepsie ozone nonattainment area from a marginal nonattainment area to a moderate nonattainment area. This action also determines that the Albany-Schenectady-Troy, NY; Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton, NJ-PA; Buffalo-Niagara Falls, NY; Essex County, NY; and, Jefferson County, NY ozone nonattainment areas classified as marginal have attained the ozone air quality standard by the attainment date of November 15, 1993. These actions are based on measured ozone air quality levels during the years 1991&hyph;1993. Consequently, these areas are eligible to be redesignated to attainment under section 107(d)(3), if the criteria of that provision are met. Nothing in this final rule should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. Each request for revision to the SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Under Executive Order 12866, which revoked and replaced Executive Order 12291, EPA is required to judge whether an action is a ``significant regulatory action'' and therefore subject to the requirement of a regulatory impact analysis. The Agency has determined that this reclassification would not adversely affect the economy to the degree set forth in section 3(f) of the Executive Order as grounds for a finding that an action is a ``significant regulatory action.'' Furthermore, under the Executive Order, qualitative costs and benefits, such as environmental costs and benefits, are given as much weight in determining the impact of a regulatory action as quantifiable costs and benefits, such as economic costs and benefits. As such, the environmental benefits of this reclassification far outweigh any economic effect of this regulatory action. Consequently, this action will not undergo review by the Office of Management and Budget. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq., EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. Reclassification of nonattainment areas under section 181 of the Act do not create any significant new requirements applicable to small entities. This action does not directly regulate small entities and there are no alternatives to taking this action of the types identified in sections 603(c) and 604(a)(3) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Therefore, I certify that this action does not have a significant impact on small entities. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 81 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, National parks, Wilderness areas. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: September 30, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
