FR940906-1-00016 FR940906-1-00006 (f) Conditions for authorization of disclosure. The Chief Counsel, subject to the terms of paragraph (h) of this section, may authorize the disclosure of Customs documents or the appearance and testimony of a Customs employee if: (1) The demanded documents or testimony, in the judgment of the Chief Counsel, are appropriate under the factors specified in §103.23(a) of this subpart; and (2) None of the factors specified in §103.23(b) of this subpart exist with respect to the demanded documents or testimony. (g) Limitations on the scope of authorized disclosure. The Chief Counsel shall, following any necessary consultation with the originating component, authorize the disclosure of Customs information by a Customs employee without further authorization from Customs officials whenever possible: Provided, that, when the information demanded relates to that collected, assembled, or prepared in connection with litigation or an investigation supervised by a Customs Office, Chief Counsel, prior to authorizing such disclosure, seeks to limit the demand to that which would be consistent with the factors specified in §103.23 of this subpart. The Chief Counsel shall seek to limit the demand through negotiation with appropriate authority. (h) Disclosure of commercial information. In the case of a demand for commercial information or commercial documents concerning importations or exportations, the Chief Counsel or his/her designee shall obtain the authorization of the Assistant Commissioner (Commercial Operations) or his/her designee prior to the Chief Counsel authorizing the production/disclosure of such documents/information. §103.23 Factors in determining whether to disclose information pursuant to a demand. (a) General considerations. In authorizing disclosures pursuant to a demand, the Chief Counsel should consider the following factors: (1) Whether the requesting party has demonstrated that the information requested is_ (i) Relevant and material to the action pending, based on copies of the summons and complaint that are required to be attached to the subpoena duces tecum or other demand; (ii) Genuinely necessary to the proceeding, i.e., a showing of substantial need has been made; (iii) Unavailable from other sources; and, (iv) Reasonable in its scope, i.e., the documents, information, or testimony sought are described with particularity. (2) Whether such disclosure is appropriate under the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand arose; and (3) Whether disclosure or testimony is appropriate under the relevant substantive law concerning privilege. (b) Circumstances where disclosure will not be made. Among the demands in response to which disclosure will not be authorized by the Chief Counsel are those demands with respect to which any of the following factors exist: (1) Disclosure would violate a treaty, statute (such as the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or the income tax laws, 26 U.S.C. 6103 and 7213), or a rule of procedure, such as the grand jury secrecy rule, Fed. R. Crim. Proc. rule 6(e) (18 U.S.C. App.); (2) Disclosure would violate a specific regulation; (3) Disclosure would reveal classified or confidential information; (4) Disclosure would reveal a confidential source or informant; (5) Disclosure would reveal investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, interfere with enforcement proceedings, or disclose investigative techniques and procedures; (6) Disclosure would improperly reveal trade secrets without the owner's consent; (7) Disclosure relates to documents which were produced by another agency or entity; (8) Disclosure would unduly interfere with the orderly conduct of Customs business; or (9) Customs has no interest, records, or other official information regarding the matter in which disclosure is sought. §103.24 Procedure in the event a decision concerning a demand is not made prior to the time a response to the demand is required. If response to a demand is required before the instructions from the Chief Counsel are received, the U.S. Attorney, his/her assistant, or other appropriate legal representative shall be requested to appear with the Customs employee upon whom the demand has been made. The U.S. Attorney, his/her assistant, or other appropriate legal representative shall furnish the court or other authority with a copy of the regulations contained in this subpart, inform the court or other authority that the demand has been or is being, as the case may be, referred for the prompt consideration of the Chief Counsel, and shall respectfully request the court or authority to stay the demand pending receipt of the requested instructions.
