FR940111-1-00013 FR940111-1-00002 (i) The total quantity of tobacco used, (ii) The quantity of domestic tobacco used, (iii) The quantity of imported tobacco used, (iv) The quantity of reconstituted tobacco used in the manufacturing of cigarettes and with respect to such tobacco: (A) The quantity that resulted from tobacco that lost its identity during the manufacturing process and was recaptured and reused to manufacture cigarettes by such manufacturer. (B) The quantity that resulted from cigarettes returned to the manufacturer and reused by such manufacturer to manufacture other cigarettes. (3) Records shall be retained for at least 3 calendar years after the calendar year for which the report and certification in §723.502 is made. Records shall be retained for a longer period upon written notification by the USDA Office of Inspector General, the Administrator, Deputy Administrator or Director. In any case, the destruction of records shall not release any party from any burden that may be lawfully imposed and shall not release any manufacturer from the burden of proof imposed by this section. (b) Required reports. In addition to the reports and certifications required in §723.502, each domestic manufacturer of cigarettes shall submit a report of the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (c) When and where to report. The report required by this section shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to the Director, Tobacco and Peanuts Division, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, USDA, P.O. Box 2415, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;2415 by February 15 of the year after the calendar year for which the report and certification applies. (d) Burden of proof. The manufacturer shall bear the burden of proof on all issues arising under this subpart. §723.507 False reports; Failure to file reports; and Examination of records. (a) False reports, failure to file report. In addition to any other sanction or remedy or presumption that may apply, a person shall be subject to all other remedies provided for by law including, but not limited to, those that apply under section 320C of the 1938 Act and 18 U.S.C. 1001 for any: (1) False report, certification, or statement, or (2) Failure to provide required information. (b) Examination of records. The Director, the Office of Inspector General, or an authorized representative may examine such records, books, computer files, or any other material to determine the correctness of any report or information provided to the Director or to obtain required information. The reasonable cost incurred by such audit may be charged to the cigarette manufacturer who is the subject of the audit or examination. §723.508 Reconsideration and appeal. A domestic manufacturer of cigarettes may request that the Director reconsider any determination of such manufacturer's failure to comply with the provisions of this subpart. A request for reconsideration shall be made within 15 calendar days after the date of the notification of failure to comply. If such manufacturer is dissatisfied with the determination rendered with respect for reconsideration, such manufacturer may appeal the determination to the Director, National Appeals Division in accordance with part 780 of this title. §723.509 Confidentiality of information. The reports, certifications, and other information furnished by a cigarette manufacturer shall be kept confidential by all officials and employees of the Department of Agriculture. Only such data as may be determined relevant shall be disclosed to investigative authorities, under court orders, or at administrative hearings and to the extent permitted by law. Such information shall not be available to the public under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act contained in 5 U.S.C. 552. Aggregate data and general statements not identified to an individual manufacturer may be released if otherwise allowed by law. Signed at Washington, DC, on January 7, 1994. Grant Buntrock, Administrator, Agricultural, Stabilization and Conservation Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;712 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 1:02 pm] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;05&hyph;P
