FR941103-0-00028 FR941103-0-00007 Policy Statement Issued: October 26, 1994. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission) announces a new policy regarding the pricing of transmission services provided by public utilities and transmitting utilities under the Federal Power Act (FPA). 1 The new policy is designed to allow much greater transmission pricing flexibility than was allowed under previous Commission policies. 1 16 U.S.C. 824(e), 796(23). Greater pricing flexibility is appropriate in light of the significant competitive changes occurring in wholesale generation markets, and in light of our expanded wheeling authority under the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct). 2 These recent events underscore the importance of ensuring that our transmission pricing policies promote economic efficiency, fairly compensate utilities for providing transmission services, reflect a reasonable allocation of transmission costs among transmission users, and maintain the reliability of the transmission grid. The Commission also recognizes that advances in computer modeling techniques have made possible certain transmission pricing methods that once would have been impractical. 2 See 16 U.S.C. 824j, 824k. Based on the record developed in this proceeding, the Commission concludes that there appears to be a variety of workable, non-traditional transmission pricing methods that offer potential improvements in fairness, practicality and economic efficiency. For instance, the Commission believes that distance- sensitive rates using contract path or flow-based methods will be acceptable if properly supported. Accordingly, the Commission will permit more flexibility to utilities to file innovative pricing proposals that meet the traditional revenue requirement and will allow such proposals to become effective 60 days after filing, 3 as long as they satisfy certain pricing principles discussed below. We refer to this category of proposals as conforming proposals. We will also permit utilities to file pricing proposals that deviate from the traditional revenue requirement, as long as they meet certain requirements discussed below. We refer to these filings as non- conforming proposals. Non-conforming proposals will be permitted to go into effect only prospectively from the date the Commission determines that such a pricing proposal meets the statutory requirements of the FPA, i.e. , is just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. 3 Whether to suspend such a filing and impose a refund condition will be decided on a case-by-case basis. See West Texas Utilities Company, 18 FERC ¶ 61,189 (1982). In addition to the guidance in this Policy Statement regarding conforming and non-conforming transmission pricing proposals, there are two specific subject areas for which we have instituted separate proceedings, and which may require transmission pricing flexibility. See Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities and Transmitting Utilities, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, IV FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 32,507, 59 FR 35274 (July 11, 1994); Alternative Power Pooling Institutions under the Federal Power Act, Notice of Inquiry, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ XXXX (1994). In those proceedings, we are examining what type of pricing policy is appropriate. We intend to examine whether any special procedural mechanisms are necessary to coordinate our pricing policy and filings proposing alternative power pooling institutions. I. Introduction The Commission will consider a broad range of rate design methods, within a utility's embedded original cost revenue requirement, as discussed in Section IV. We will also consider proposals that deviate from a utility's embedded original cost revenue requirement (subject to certain filing procedures and evaluation criteria), as discussed in Section V. The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the Commission's broad latitude to fix rates. There is no single valid theory of ratemaking. Under the statutory standard of ``just and reasonable'' it is the result reached, not the method employed, which is controlling. Duquesne Light Co. v. Barasch, 488 U.S. 299, 316 (1989) ( Duquesne ); Federal Power Commission v. Hope Natural Gas Co., 320 U.S. 591, 602 (1944) ( Hope ). As the Court observed in Duquesne :
