FR940412-2-00113 FR940412-2-00085 Agreement Containing Consent Order The Federal Trade Commission (``the Commission''), having initiated an investigation of the acquisition by Martin Marietta Corporation (``Martin Marietta''), of certain assets of the Space Systems Division of General Dynamics Corporation (``General Dynamics''), and it now appearing that Martin Marietta, hereinafter sometimes referred to as proposed respondent, is willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to refrain from certain acts and to provide for other relief: It is hereby agreed by and between proposed respondent, by its duly authorized officers and attorneys, and counsel for the Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Martin Marietta is a corporation, organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Maryland, with its office and principal place of business located at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817. 2. Proposed respondent admits all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 3. Proposed respondent waives: a. Any further procedural steps; b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; c. All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and d. Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 4. This agreement shall not become a part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify proposed respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. Provided, however, if, prior to the date the Commission issues its complaint and decision, proposed respondent notifies the Commission in writing that it has abandoned its proposed acquisition as described in the draft of complaint and has withdrawn any related notifications filed pursuant to Section 7A of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 18a, the Commission will not issue its complaint and decision. 5. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached, or that the facts as alleged in the draft complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true. 6. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, and if proposed respondent has not notified the Commission that it has abandoned its proposed acquisition pursuant to paragraph 4 of this agreement, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondent, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following order to refrain from certain acts in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public with respect thereto. When so entered, the order shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified, or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondent's address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondent waives any right it may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation or interpretation not contained in the order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order. 7. Proposed respondent has read the draft of complaint and order contemplated hereby. Proposed respondent understands that once the order has been issued, it will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that it has fully complied with the order. Proposed respondent further understands that it may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final.
