FR940207-1-00002 FR940207-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Immigration and Naturalization Service 8 CFR Parts 214 and 274a [INS No. 1328&hyph;93] RIN 1115&hyph;AB52 Nonimmigrant Classes; NATO&hyph;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7; Control of Employment of Aliens agency: Immigration and Naturalization Service, Justice. action: Proposed rule. summary: This document proposes to amend the regulations of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (``Service'') relating to employment authorization for certain dependents of principal aliens classified as NATO&hyph;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 nonimmigrants. This action is being taken to expand and secure employment opportunities on the basis of reciprocity for dependents of United States military personnel and certain Department of Defense civilian personnel stationed in NATO member countries. Because of the diplomatic and international affairs considerations involved in NATO matters, this rule parallels, to the extent possible, the regulations governing employment authorization for certain dependents of foreign government diplomats, officials, and employees assigned to official duty in the United States and classified as A&hyph;1 and A&hyph;2 nonimmigrants and their A&hyph;3 servants. dates: Written comments must be received on or before March 9, 1994. addresses: Please submit written comments in triplicate to the Records System Division, Director, Policy Directives and Instructions Branch, Immigration and Naturalization Service, room 5307, 425 I Street, NW., Washington, DC 20536. To ensure proper handling, please reference INS Number 1328&hyph;93 on your correspondence. for further information contact: Jack Tabaka, Senior Immigration Examiner, Immigration and Naturalization Service, 425 I Street, NW., room 7122, Washington, DC 20536, Telephone (202) 514&hyph;5014. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Interagency Collaboration in Drafting This Rule The Department of State, the Department of Defense, and the Office of NATO's Supreme Allied Commander, Atlantic (SACLANT) have collaborated closely with the Service in developing this rule, which balances diplomatic and international affairs considerations, administrative requirements, and proper enforcement concerns. Scope The rule applies to certain dependents of NATO military personnel, who typically serve a three-year tour of duty with SACLANT, the major NATO command headquarters in Norfolk, VA. It also applies to certain dependents of NATO civilian employees and officials, who typically work at SACLANT for extended periods. Additionally, the rule applies to certain dependents of the small number of NATO personnel who may be stationed in other locations in the United States and to the servants of NATO military and civilian personnel. Purpose This rule is being published in order to expand and secure employment opportunities on the basis of reciprocity for dependents of United States military personnel and certain Department of Defense civilian personnel stationed in NATO member countries. All parties which collaborated in the drafting of this rule agree that expanding employment opportunities in the United States for NATO&hyph;1 through NATO&hyph;6 dependents will further this goal.
