FR940527-1-00110 FR940527-1-00014 (c) Minimum payment level by class of hospital. (1) HCFA establishes a minimum payment level by class of hospital. The minimum payment level for a hospital will equal a fixed percentage of the hospital's capital-related costs. The minimum payment levels may be no greater than the percentages of allowable capital-related costs that follow: (i) 90 percent for sole community hospitals. (ii) 80 percent for hospitals located in an urban area for purposes of §412.63(a) with at least 100 beds, as determined under §412.105(b), that have a disproportionate share patient percentage of at least 20.2 percent as determined under §412.106(b), and for hospitals located in an urban area for purposes of §412.63(a) with at least 100 beds that qualify for disproportionate share payments under §412.106(c)(2). (iii) 70 percent for all other hospitals. (2) HCFA will issue the minimum payment levels for each class of hospital in determining the additional exception payment in the annual notice of capital prospective payment rates, published in accordance with §412.8(b). (d) Additional payments. A hospital is entitled to an additional payment if its capital payments for the cost reporting period would otherwise be less than the applicable minimum payment level. The additional payment equals the difference between the applicable minimum payment level and the capital payments that the hospital would otherwise receive minus any offset amount determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section. (e) Determining a hospital's exception payment amount _(1) Cumulative comparison. For each cost reporting period beginning before October 1, 2001, the hospital's exception payment is determined by comparing the cumulative payments made to the hospital under the capital prospective payment system to the cumulative minimum payment levels applicable to the hospital for each cost reporting period subject to the prospective payment system. (2) Offsetting amounts. Any amount by which the hospital's cumulative payments exceed its cumulative minimum payment levels is deducted from the additional payment that would otherwise be payable for a cost reporting period. (f) Additional payment exception for extraordinary circumstances. (1) A hospital may request an additional payment if the hospital incurs unanticipated capital expenditures in excess of $5 million (net of proceeds from other payment sources such as insurance, litigation decisions and other State, local or Federal government funding programs) due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the hospital's control. Extraordinary circumstances include, but are not limited to, a flood, fire, or earthquake. (2) A hospital must apply to its HCFA Regional Office by the later of October 1, 1992 or 180 days after the extraordinary circumstance causing the unanticipated expenditures for a determination by the Director, Office of Payment Policy, Bureau of Policy Development, HCFA of whether the hospital is eligible for an additional payment based on the nature of the circumstances and the amount of financial loss documented by the hospital. (3) Except for sole community hospitals, the additional payment is based on a minimum payment amount of 85 percent for Medicare's share of allowable capital-related costs attributable to the extraordinary circumstances. For sole community hospitals, the minimum payment amount is 100 percent. (4) The minimum payment level applicable under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is adjusted to take into account the 85 percent minimum payment level (100 percent for sole community hospitals) under paragraph (f)(3) of this section for the unanticipated capital-related costs. The additional payment for the cost reporting period equals the difference between the adjusted minimum payment level and the capital payments the hospital would otherwise receive less any offset amount determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section. (g) Special exceptions process. For eligible hospitals that meet an age of assets test, receive any required approval from a State or local planning authority, and, in the case of urban hospitals, meet an excess capacity test, an additional payment may be made for up to 10 years beyond the end of the capital prospective payment system transition period. (1) Eligible hospitals. The following classes of hospitals are eligible to receive exceptions payments under this special exceptions provision: (i) Sole community hospitals that have a current ratio less than or equal to 1.75 in the exception year. (ii) Hospitals located in an urban area under §412.63(a) with at least 100 beds, as determined under §412.105(b), that either have a disproportionate share of at least 20.2 percent as determined under §412.106(b) or qualify for disproportionate share payments under §412.106(c)(2), and that have a current ratio less than or equal to 1.75 in the exception year. (iii) Hospitals with a combined inpatient Medicare and Medicaid utilization of at least 70 percent. (2) Age of assets test. A hospital meets the age of assets test if_
