FR940816-2-00027 FR940816-2-00022 Golden Field Office; Federal Assistance Award to Utility Biomass Energy Commercialization Association (UBECA) AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of Financial Assistance Award in Response to an Unsolicited Financial Assistance Application; 36&hyph;94GO10025. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, 10 CFR 600.14, is announcing its intention to enter into a cooperative agreement with the Utility Biomass Energy Commercialization Association (UBECA) for the development of a Biomass Energy Development Plan for the development of sustainable biomass resources and competitive biomass energy conversion technologies. ADDRESSES: Comments and questions regarding this announcement may be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden, Colorado 80401, Attention: W. Webb, Contract Specialist. The telephone number is 303&hyph;275&hyph;4724. The Contracting Officer for this action is John W. Meeker. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: DOE has evaluated, in accordance with the DOE Federal Assistance Regulations, 10 CFR ยง600.14, the unsolicited proposal entitled ``Biomass Energy Development Plan'' and recommends that the unsolicited proposal be accepted for support without further competition in accordance with ยง600.14 of the Federal Assistance Regulations. This proposal is in support of the DOE Biomass Power Program and the President's Climate Change Action Plan. The Climate Change challenge addresses (1) meeting the energy needs of the Nation, (2) promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy, and (3) promoting energy policy that protects the environment, as well as supporting the development of energy efficient measures and low-emission and non-emitting power generation technologies. This project involves cost sharing with the Utility Biomass Energy Commercialization Association (UBECA) for the development of a multi-year industry supported ``Biomass Energy Development Plan'' that encourages the development of economically sustainable biomass resources and economically competitive biomass energy conversion technologies. The proposed award will provide funding to UBECA for the formation of the association, development of the Biomass Energy Development Plan, and initial execution of the program. The objectives of UBECA include: (1) creating an industry supported Biomass Energy Development Plan, (2) providing a voice for developing biomass power technologies and biomass energy crops in the United States, (3) coordinating consideration of technology requirements, analyzing the costs and benefits of biomass power, developing new applications and disseminating information, (4) expanding utility interest and project involvement, (5) developing a market/user interface for biomass technology developers, and (6) coordinating market interests with other organizations. The use of biomass fuels and technologies offers the opportunity for decreased emissions both through modification of fossil-fired boilers for co-firing wood resources and by creating closed cycled biomass systems whereby the resources are grown specifically for biomass power production. These ``energy crops'' offer a CO 2 sink during growth and a fuel source to displace carbonaceous fuels. The proposed association offers a forum for utilities to develop a market-driven program for technology development and commercialization of those technologies. The steering committee formed for the incorporation of UBECA is composed of a group of utilities that are representative of the market. The initial plans are well conceived for the recruitment of members, development of the multi-year biomass energy development plan and the successful creation of an industry supported program. The Utility Biomass Energy Association would have the capability to drive market introduction, increase technology development and biomass resource production, and increase the probability for commercial success. The planning, management, and initial utility group support should provide a high probability of meeting associations objectives. UBECA's goals are consistent and supportive of the DOE Collaborative Strategy for Commercialization of Solar Electric Technologies and provides a unique opportunity for the acceleration of biomass electric technologies by utilities. The total program cost is estimated to be $249,200, with the DOE share being $56,000 or 22.5%. This award will not be made for at least 14 days after publication of this notice to allow for public comment. Issued in Golden, Colorado, on August 1, 1994. John W. Meeker, Chief, Procurement, GO. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20054 Filed 8&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 a.m.] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
