FR940106-0-00150 FR940106-0-00022 whichever is applicable, but does not in any case include self-employment or employment as an independent contractor. * * * * * 5. Section 617.4 is amended by revising the heading of paragraph (c) and adding new paragraphs (d) and (e) to read as follows: §617.4 Benefit information to workers. * * * * * (c) Providing information to State vocational education agencies and others. *␣*␣* (d) Written and newspaper notices. (1) Written notices to workers. (i) Upon receipt of a certification issued by the Department of Labor, the State agency shall provide a written notice through the mail of the benefits available under subparts B through E of this part 617 to each worker covered by a certification issued under section 223 of the Act when the worker is partially or totally separated or as soon as possible after the certification is issued if such workers are already partially or totally separated from adversely affected employment. (ii) The State agency will satisfy this requirement by obtaining from the firm, or other reliable source, the names and addresses of all workers who were partially or totally separated from adversely affected employment before the certification was received by the agency, and workers who are thereafter partially or totally separated within the certification period. The State agency shall mail a written notice to each such worker of the benefits available under the TAA Program. The notice must include the following information: (A) Worker group(s) covered by the certification, and the article(s) produced as specified in the copy of the certification furnished to the State agency. (B) Name and the address or location of workers' firm. (C) Impact, certification, and expiration dates in the certification document. (D) Benefits and reemployment services available to eligible workers. (E) Explanation of how workers apply for TAA benefits and services. (F) Whom to call to get additional information on the certification. (G) When and where the workers should come to apply for benefits and services. (2) Newspaper notices. (i) Upon receipt of a copy of a certification issued by the Department affecting workers in a State, the State agency shall publish a notice of such certification in a newspaper of general circulation in areas in which such workers reside. Such a newspaper notice shall not be required to be published, however, in the case of a certification with respect to which the State agency can substantiate, and enters in its records evidence substantiating, that all workers covered by the certification have received written notice required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section. (ii) A published notice must include the following kinds of information: (A) Worker group(s) covered by the certification, and the article(s) produced as specified in the copy of the certification furnished to the State agency. (B) Name and the address or location of workers' firm. (C) Impact, certification, and expiration dates in the certification document. (D) Benefits and reemployment services available to eligible workers. (E) Explanation of how and where workers should apply for TAA benefits and services. (e) Advice and assistance to workers. In addition to the information and assistance to workers as required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, State agencies shall_ (1) Advise each worker who applies for unemployment insurance under the State law of the benefits available under subparts B through E of this part and the procedures and deadlines for applying for such benefits. (2) Facilitate the early filing of petitions under section 221 of the Act and §617.4(b) for any workers that the agency considers are likely to be eligible for benefits. State agencies shall utilize information received by the State's dislocated worker unit to facilitate the early filing of petitions under section 221 of the Act by workers potentially adversely affected by imports. (3) Advise each adversely affected worker to apply for training under §617.22(a) before, or at the same time as, the worker applies for trade readjustment allowances under subpart B of this part. (4) Interview each adversely affected worker, as soon as practicable, regarding suitable training opportunities available to the worker under §617.22(a) and review such opportunities with the worker. 6. Section 617.10 is amended by adding a new paragraph (d) to read as follows: §617.10 Applications for TRA. * * * * * (d) Advising workers to apply for training. State agencies shall advise each worker of the qualifying requirements for entitlement to TRA and other TAA benefits at the time the worker files an initial claim for State UI, and shall advise each adversely affected worker to apply for training under subpart C of this part before, or at the same time, the worker applies for TRA, as required by §617.4(e)(1) and (3). 7. Section 617.11 is revised to read as follows: §617.11 Qualifying requirements for TRA. (a) Basic qualifying requirements for entitlement_ (1) Prior to November 21, 1988. To qualify for TRA for any week of unemployment that begins prior to November 21, 1988, an individual must meet each of the following requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) (i) through (vii) of this section: (i) Certification. The individual must be an adversely affected worker covered under a certification.
