FR941012-0-00167 FR941012-0-00011 (10) Explosives and blasting agents. (i) Explosives and blasting agents shall be stored, handled, transported, and used in accordance with the requirements of subpart H of part 1910. (ii) Only a designated person shall handle or use explosives and blasting agents. (iii) Explosives and blasting agents shall not be transported in the driver compartment or in any passenger-occupied area of a machine or vehicle. (e) Hand and portable powered tools. (1) General requirements. (i) The employer shall assure that each hand and portable powered tool, including any tool provided by an employee, is maintained in serviceable condition. (ii) The employer shall assure that each tool, including any tool provided by an employee, is inspected before initial use during each workshift. At a minimum, the inspection shall include the following: (A) Handles and guards, to assure that they are sound, tight-fitting, properly shaped, free of splinters and sharp edges, and in place; (B) Controls, to assure proper function; (C) Chain-saw chains, to assure proper adjustment; (D) Chain-saw mufflers, to assure that they are operational and in place; (E) Chain brakes and nose shielding devices, to assure that they are in place and function properly; (F) Heads of shock, impact-driven and driving tools, to assure that there is no mushrooming; (G) Cutting edges, to assure that they are sharp and properly shaped; and (H) All other safety devices, to assure that they are in place and function properly. (iii) The employer shall assure that each tool is used only for purposes for which it has been designed. (iv) When the head of any shock, impact-driven or driving tool begins to chip, it shall be repaired or removed from service. (v) The cutting edge of each tool shall be sharpened in accordance with manufacturer's specifications whenever it becomes dull during the workshift. (vi) Each tool shall be stored in the provided location when not being used at a work site. (vii) Racks, boxes, holsters or other means shall be provided, arranged and used for the transportation of tools so that a hazard is not created for any vehicle operator or passenger. (2) Chain saws. (i) Each chain saw placed into initial service after the effective date of this section shall be equipped with a chain brake and shall otherwise meet the requirements of the ANSI B175.1&hyph;1991 ``Safety Requirements for Gasoline-Powered Chain Saws.'' Each chain saw placed into service before the effective date of this section shall be equipped with a protective device that minimizes chain-saw kickback. No chain-saw kickback device shall be removed or otherwise disabled. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the American National Standards Institute, 11 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Copies may be inspected at the Docket Office, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., room N2625, Washington, DC 20210, or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. (ii) Each gasoline-powered chain saw shall be equipped with a continuous pressure throttle control system which will stop the chain when pressure on the throttle is released. (iii) The chain saw shall be operated and adjusted in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. (iv) The chain saw shall be fueled at least 20 feet (6 m) from any open flame or other source of ignition. (v) The chain saw shall be started at least 10 feet (3 m) from the fueling area. (vi) The chain saw shall be started on the ground or where otherwise firmly supported.
