FR940114-1-00039 FR940114-1-00008 Mandatory autopsies to determine preventable deaths; and Systems management and quality assurance. VIII. Public Information and Education Public awareness and education about the EMS system are essential to a high quality system. Each State should implement a public information and education (PI&E) plan to address: The components and capabilities of an EMS system; The public's role in the system; The public's ability to access the system; What to do in an emergency (e.g., bystander care training); Education on prevention issues (e.g., alcohol or other drugs, occupant protection, speeding, motorcycle and bicycle safety); and The need for dedicated staff and resources for PI&E programming. IX. Medical Direction Physician involvement in all aspects of the patient care system is critical for effective EMS operations. EMS is a medical care system in which physicians delegate responsibilities to non-physician providers who manage patient care outside the traditional confines of the office or hospital. States should require physicians to be involved in all aspects of the patient care system, including: Planning and protocols; On-line and off-line medical direction and consultation; and Audit and evaluation of patient care. X. Evaluation Each State should implement a comprehensive evaluation program to effectively assess and improve a statewide EMS system. EMS system managers should: Evaluate the effectiveness of services provided to victims of medical or trauma-related emergencies; Define the impact of patient care on the system; Evaluate resource utilization, scope of service, patient outcome, and effectiveness of operational policies, procedures, and protocols; and Develop a data-gathering mechanism that provides for the linkage of data from different data sources through the use of common data elements. * * * * * Highway Safety Program Guideline No. 14 Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety Each State, in cooperation with its political subdivisions, should have a comprehensive pedestrian and bicycle safety program that educates and motivates its citizens to follow safe pedestrian and bicycle practices. A combination of legislation, regulations, policy, enforcement, public information, education, incentives, and engineering is necessary to achieve significant, lasting improvements in pedestrian and bicycle crash rates. Each State should recognize that its pedestrians and bicyclists_citizens of all ages who are virtually unprotected from the forces of a crash, face major safety problems and are a valid traffic safety concern. Because of the diverse nature of these issues, education, enforcement, and engineering are critical components to any strategies devised to reduce these problems. In formulating policy, the State should promote these specific issues: The provision of early pedestrian and bicycle safety education and training for preschool children; The inclusion of pedestrian and bicyclist safety in health and safety education curricula; The inclusion of pedestrian and bicyclist safety in driver training programs and driver licensing activities; The provision of a safe environment for pedestrians and bicyclists through such measures as sidewalks and bicycle facilities, in the planning and design of all highway projects; The use of bicycle helmets as a primary measure to reduce death and injury among bicyclists; An awareness of the role of alcohol in adult pedestrian accidents; The safeguarding of older citizens from pedestrian accidents; and, The establishment and support of Community/Corridor Traffic Safety Programs at the local level. A comprehensive highway safety system is the most effective means of producing consistent, long-term changes in knowledge and behavior necessary to improve pedestrian and bicycle safety. The following components create a structure for identifying problem areas; implementing, measuring, and evaluating the problem areas; and directing the results back into system improvements. We believe these elements will effectively address the problem.
