FR940425-0-00031 FR940425-0-00018 NHTSA received many comments about the proposal to evaluate a CNG vehicle's fuel system integrity through an allowable pressure drop requirement. Among the issues addressed by commenters were (1) practicability problems with measuring small levels of pressure drop, (2) the appropriate length of time necessary to evaluate pressure drop, (3) the effect of temperature variations on pressure drop, (4) leakage from fuel system components, (5) and evaluating bi-fuel and dual fuel vehicles. Each of these issues will be addressed below, along with the agency's response to the comments. b. Problems with measuring small pressure drops. AAMA, Thomas, Navistar, TMC, NGVC, Minnesota Gas, and Flxible stated that the proposal about allowable pressure drop would result in manufacturers trying to measure amounts of gas leakage too small to be measured by existing technology. They stated that presently manufactured measuring devices known as pressure transducers do not have the capability to measure the proposed amounts of pressure drop, even if only one cumulative measurement is taken after 15 minutes. AAMA stated that a state-of-the-art capacitance type pressure transducer has an accuracy of 0.11 percent. Therefore, it believed that if this pressure transducer has a range of measurement of 0 to 20,685 kPa (0 to 3000 psi), the error associated with any measurement would be #22.8 kPa ( # 3.3 psi). AAMA further stated that a variation in 5.6 ○ Celsius (10 ○ Fahrenheit) could result in errors of # 41.4 kPa and # 31.0 kPa ( # 6.0 and # 4.5 psi) from thermal zero shift and thermal coefficient sensitivity, respectively. Finally, AAMA stated that the conversion of analog data to digital form would introduce an error of 0.056 percent or # 11.0 kPa ( # 1.6 psi). Aggregating all these alleged measurement errors would result in a potential error of # 106.1 kPa ( # 15.4 psi). AAMA further stated that it is contrary to accepted engineering measurement practice to accurately measure data that are of the same order of magnitude as known transducer data system errors. Thus, it stated that the total measurement error should not exceed 10 percent of the value being measured and that given the above mentioned errors, pressure drops under 1062 kPa (154 psi) should not be measured with a capacitance type transducer. AAMA evaluated the error estimates for a less accurate type of pressure transducer than the capacitance transducer (the strain gage transducer) and obtained a maximum error of # 328.2 kPa ( # 47.6 psi). Based on these comments about the accuracy and practicability of using measurement transducers, NHTSA has independently determined that current pressure transducers are not able to measure the relatively small pressure drops that would have been allowed to occur after 15 minutes for a container with a 3000 psi service pressure. The agency found that most pressure transducers have an accuracy of approximately 0.1 percent, and now concludes that it would have been impracticable to measure the proposed pressure drop levels. In view of the problems in measuring small pressure drops, NHTSA has modified the allowable pressure drop requirement so that the pressure drop of a CNG vehicle must not exceed the amount calculated by the pressure drop formula or a pressure drop level of 1062 kPa (154 psi), whichever is greater. As noted above, 1062 kPa (154 psi) is the cumulative potential error ( # 106.1 kPa ( # 15.4 psi)) of a capacitance type transducer, multiplied by 10 (i.e., # 22.8 kPa ( # 3.3 psi) associated with measurement error, # 72.4 ( # 10.5 psi) associated with temperature variation, and # 11.0 kPa ( # 1.6 psi) associated with data conversion). Both a 22.8 kPa (3.3 psi) and a 72.4 kPa (10.5 psi) range would result in a significant percentage of the allowable amount of leakage during a 15-minute period, particularly for vehicles with large fuel systems. The agency believes that by modifying the requirement to specify a floor under the amount of permissible pressure drop determined using the pressure drop formula, the agency will be able to regulate pressure loss from CNG vehicles to the extent permitted by existing pressure drop measurement technology. NHTSA notes that establishing a floor under the amount of permissible pressure drop is especially important for vehicles with large fuel systems, such as school buses, because they will experience extremely small pressure drops. This is so because in the formula for calculating the allowable pressure drop, pressure drop equals the ambient temperature divided by the volume of the fuel system. Since the fuel system volume is the denominator, the allowable pressure drop decreases as the vehicle's fuel system volume increases. Without the floor, the formula would yield pressure drops potentially too small to be measured.
