FR941222-0-00089 FR941222-0-00013 Section 6.11␣Appeals This section establishes procedures under which an applicant for a new, or continued operation of an existing, solid waste disposal site may appeal a Regional Director's decision to the National Park Service Director. Among other issues, an aggrieved operator may appeal a Regional Director's rejection of a request for continued or new operations; or conditions that the Regional Director may attach to an approval; or the amount of the bond set by the Regional Director. Section 6.12␣Prohibited Acts and Penalties This section of the rule clarifies that operating a solid waste disposal site within a unit of the National Park System without a permit is prohibited. Operating a site in violation of a term or condition of a permit, or in violation of 40 CFR parts 257 or 258, or in violation of the equivalent State law or regulation is also prohibited. Violations of these provisions subject operators to the penalty provisions of 36 CFR 1.3 and/or, where applicable, revocation of the permit and/or forfeiture of the bond or security deposit. These penalties apply to operators on nonfederal lands within the boundaries of a unit of the National Park System. Federal Paperwork Reduction Act The collections of information contained in §§6.4, 6.5 and 6.6 of this rule have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501, et seq. and assigned clearance number 1024&hyph;0026. The information will be used to ensure compliance with Congressionally enacted statutes. Response is mandatory in accordance with 16 U.S.C. 460 l &hyph;22. Applicant reporting time for this collection of information is estimated to average 100 hours per response, including the time for reviewing the instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Information Collection Officer, National Park Service, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington DC 20002, and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1024&hyph;0026), Washington, DC 20503. Compliance With Other Laws In compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ), the NPS has prepared an environmental assessment (EA) of these regulations. The EA examines whether the implementation of the regulations will be a major Federal action that would have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment, requiring the preparation of an environmental impact statement. The EA was available for public inspection and comment at the National Park Service Office of Environmental Quality, located in the Department of Interior Building in Washington, DC for a period running concurrently with the comment period for the proposed regulations. The Director of the NPS has signed a Finding Of No Significant Impact (FONSI) declaring the implementation of this regulation not to be a significant Federal action. In accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;511), the NPS is requested to perform a regulatory flexibility analysis for all rules that may have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The NPS has determined that this action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities since the rule deals with the location of future solid waste disposal sites and the number of existing solid waste disposal sites is small. Consequently, there is no necessity for a regulatory flexibility analysis. This rule was not subject to Office of Management and Budget review under Executive Order 12866. The NPS has reviewed this rule as directed by Executive Order 12360, ``Government Actions and Interference with Constitutionally Protected Property Rights,'' to determine if this rule has ``policies that have takings implications.'' The NPS has determined that this rule does not have takings implications because the rule will not deny any private property owner all beneficial use of their land, nor will it significantly reduce their land's value. List of Subjects in 36 CFR Part 6 National parks, Natural resources, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Waste treatment, and disposal. For reasons set out in the preamble, 36 CFR ch. I is hereby amended by adding a new part 6 to read as follows: PART 6_SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITES IN UNITS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM Sec. 6.1␣Purpose. 6.2␣Applicability and scope. 6.3␣Definitions. 6.4␣Solid waste disposal sites not in operation on September 1, 1984. 6.5␣Solid waste disposal sites in operation on September 1, 1984. 6.6␣Solid waste disposal sites within new additions to the National Park System. 6.7␣Mining wastes. 6.8␣National Park Service solid waste responsibilities. 6.9␣Permits. 6.10␣Financial assurance. 6.11␣Appeals. 6.12␣Prohibited Acts and Penalties. Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1, 3, 460 l &hyph;22(c). §6.1 Purpose. (a) The regulations contained in this part prohibit the operation of any solid waste disposal site, except as specifically provided for, and govern the continued use of any existing solid waste disposal site within the boundaries of any unit of the National Park System. (b) The purpose of the regulations in this part is to ensure that all activities within the boundaries of any unit of the National Park System resulting from the operation of a solid waste disposal site are conducted in a manner to prevent the deterioration of air and water quality, to prevent degradation of natural and cultural, including archeological, resources, and to reduce adverse effects to visitor enjoyment. (c) The regulations in this part interpret and implement Pub. L. 98&hyph;506, 98 Stat. 2338 (16 U.S.C. 460 l &hyph;22(c)). §6.2 Applicability and scope. (a) The regulations contained in this part apply to all lands and waters within the boundaries of all units of the National Park System, whether federally or nonfederally owned, and without regard to whether access to a solid waste disposal site requires crossing federally-owned or controlled lands or waters. (b) The regulations contained in this part govern: (1) The use of solid waste disposal sites not in operation on September 1, 1984, including the approval of new solid waste disposal sites; (2) The continued use or closure of solid waste disposal sites that were in operation on September 1, 1984; (3) The continued use or closure of solid waste disposal sites on lands or waters added to the National Park System after January 23, 1995.
