FR941020-2-00023 FR941020-2-00015 Corps of Engineers Intent To Prepare an Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact for a Proposed Public Water Supply Reservoir on Hunting Run in the County of Spotsylvania, VA AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, DOD. ACTION: Revised notice of intent. SUMMARY: An Environmental Assessment (EA) and Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) will be prepared to evaluate project alternatives and the public interest review factors for the proposed public water supply reservoir. ADDRESSES: Corps of Engineers, Norfolk District, 10789 Columbia Drive, Fredericksburg, Virginia 22408. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Hal Wiggins, (703) 898&hyph;3568. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Proposed Action: On October 18, 1991, the Norfolk District Corps of Engineers announced its intent in the Federal Register to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement to evaluate project alternatives and the public interest review factors associated with a proposed public water supply reservoir on the Po River. This proposed reservoir would involve the flooding of 200 acres of wetlands, the reduction of instream flows to 15% of the mean annual flow, impacts to a federally listed endangered species (dwarf wedgemussel), and flooding of National Park Service property. After extensive interagency coordination and review, the County of Spotsylvania amended its plans and now proposes to construct a reservoir in Hunting Run. The project would also involve a pump-over from Rapidan River during high flows in the river and an intake structure in the Rappahannock River approximately 0.25 mile downstream of the confluence with the Rappahannock River and Motts Run. The intake structure would withdraw water from the Rappahannock River that has been released from the proposed Hunting Run Reservoir upstream. The proposed Hunting Run Reservoir would impact 10.8 acres of vegetted palustrine wetlands, 10.3 acres of primarily unvegetated shallow riverine habitat, 1.1 acre of deepwater habitat, and 397.8 acres of predominately forested upland. The proposed reservoir and river withdrawals will provide approximately 8.0 million gallons per day of water for municipal water supply to meet the County's demand throughout the 2040 planning period. 2. Alternatives. Alternatives which will be investigated include, but are not limited to, the Po River Reservoir and the expansion of the existing Motts Run Reservoir. Both of these alternatives are addressed in the County's environmental impact report. 3. Scoping Process. A preapplication scoping meeting was held with State and Federal agencies in September 1988 and formal agency scoping comments were requested in October 1988. Additional scoping meetings were held with State and Federal agencies in June and July 1991, April 1992, and May 1994. Substantive issues identified at these meetings included impacts to wetlands and the reduction of instream flow and its impact on water quality, fisheries, and recreation. Based on these meetings, the County was encouraged to pursue the Hunting Run Reservoir in lieu of the Po River Reservoir. The County subsequently concurred and an interagency effort was initiated to determine the minimum instream flows needed to maintain water quality, fisheries, and recreation for the Po. Rappahannock, and Rapidan Rivers. 4. Public Scoping Meeting: While the Corps of Engineers has not held a public scoping meeting, the public has had several opportunities to provide comments. Specifically, the County has held numerous public meetings and the Corps published a Notice of Intent in the Federal Register and associated public notice and has participated in numerous interest group meetings. At this time, the Corps does not intend to schedule a public scoping meeting. 5. Environmental Document Availability: On August 12, 1994, the County of Spotsylvania submitted an application for a Department of the Army permit for a public water reservoir on Hunting Run and associated water intake structures on the Rappahannock and Rapidan Rivers. Along with the application, the County submitted an environmental impact report. On August 23, 1994, the Corps issued a public notice on the project with a thirty day comment period. These documents can be obtained from Mr. Wiggins by calling or writing him at the telephone number and address listed above. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25983 Filed 10&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;EN&hyph;M
