FR940830-1-00095 FR940830-1-00014 Appendix A_Guidance on Operation and Maintenance Manuals for Waste Sources, Vessels and Receiving Facilities This appendix provides a basic structure for the development of operation and maintenance manuals for the regulated entities. The operation and maintenance manual developed by a vessel permitted under the Shore Protection Act, or associated waste source and receiving facility should be a clear statement of: (1) operation and maintenance procedures for preventing waste from accidentally spilling into coastal waters of the United States, (2) clean up procedures the regulated entity will follow when a waste deposit does occur, and (3) reporting procedures the regulated entity will follow when a waste deposit does occur. Each regulated vessel, or associated waste source and receiving facility should develop an operation and maintenance manual to suit its particular characteristics. I. Applicability A. The owners or operators of the following vessels (unless excluded, as discussed below) are required to develop and submit an operation and maintenance manual (ยง237.2(a)): 1. A vessel transporting municipal or commercial waste in coastal waters; 2. Vessels that regularly transport miscellaneous cargo but are hired, contracted, or used to transport municipal or commercial waste for a specific voyage; and 3. Vessels that transport operational waste from other vessels that meet the definition of municipal or commercial waste_this does not include vessels transporting their own operational wastes. B. The owners or operators of the following vessels, and some others, are excluded from developing and submitting operation and maintenance manuals (ยง237.2(b) for full list of exclusions): 1. Public vessels, defined as vessels that are owned, demise chartered, and operated by the United States Government or a government of a foreign party, and do not engage in commercial service; and 2. Vessels that transport some quantity of waste incidental to the predominant business or purpose of the vessel. For example, a ferry which transports a garbage truck loaded with municipal or commercial waste. C. The owners or operators of waste sources and receiving facilities, as defined below and in section 237.3(g) and (l) are required to develop and submit (upon request) an operation and maintenance manual: 1. A facility, vessel, or operation that receives municipal or commercial waste unloaded from a vessel; and 2. A vessel or a facility from which municipal or commercial waste is loaded onto a vessel, including any rolling stock or motor vehicles from which that waste is directly loaded. II. The Manual The structure and detail of each operation and maintenance manual may vary as the vessel, waste source, or receiving facility will vary and as the type of waste transferred and transported will vary. As a result of the variation in the physical nature of municipal and commercial waste, the structure and requirements provided in this appendix are necessarily generic and will require further elaboration based on the specifics of the operations and maintenance nuances at your facility, source, or vessel. However, it is expected that an operation and maintenance manual meeting the minimum requirements of this regulation need not exceed 20 to 30 pages in length.
