FR940513-0-00082 FR940513-0-00019 Par. 2. An undesignated center heading is added immediately following ยง1.1388&hyph;1 to read as follows: ``Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases'' Par. 3. Sections 1.1398&hyph;1 and 1.1398&hyph;2 are added to read as follows: ยง1.1398&hyph;1 Treatment of passive activity losses and passive activity credits in individuals' title 11 cases. (a) Scope. This section applies to cases under chapter 7 or chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code, but only if the debtor is an individual. (b) Definitions and rules of general application. For purposes of this section_ (1) Passive activity and former passive activity have the meanings given in section 469(c) and (f)(3); (2) The unused passive activity loss (determined as of the first day of a taxable year) is the passive activity loss (as defined in section 469(d)(1)) that is disallowed under section 469 for the previous taxable year; and (3) The unused passive activity credit (determined as of the first day of a taxable year) is the passive activity credit (as defined in section 469(d)(2)) that is disallowed under section 469 for the previous taxable year. (c) Estate succeeds to losses and credits upon commencement of case. The bankruptcy estate (estate) succeeds to and takes into account, beginning with its first taxable year, the debtor's unused passive activity loss and unused passive activity credit (determined as of the first day of the debtor's taxable year in which the case commences). (d) Transfers from estate to debtor _(1) Transfer not treated as taxable event. If, before the termination of the estate, the estate transfers an interest in a passive activity or former passive activity to the debtor (other than by sale or exchange), the transfer is not treated as a disposition for purposes of any provision of the Internal Revenue Code assigning tax consequences to a disposition. The transfers to which this rule applies include transfers from the estate to the debtor of property that is exempt under section 522 of title 11 of the United States Code and abandonments of estate property to the debtor under section 554(a) of such title. (2) Treatment of passive activity loss and credit. If, before the termination of the estate, the estate transfers an interest in a passive activity or former passive activity to the debtor (other than by sale or exchange)_ (i) The estate must allocate to the transferred interest, in accordance with ยง1.469&hyph;1(f)(4), part or all of the estate's unused passive activity loss and unused passive activity credit (determined as of the first day of the estate's taxable year in which the transfer occurs); and (ii) The debtor succeeds to and takes into account, beginning with the debtor's taxable year in which the transfer occurs, the unused passive activity loss and unused passive activity credit (or part thereof) allocated to the transferred interest. (e) Debtor succeeds to loss and credit of the estate upon its termination. Upon termination of the estate, the debtor succeeds to and takes into account, beginning with the debtor's taxable year in which the termination occurs, the passive activity loss and passive activity credit disallowed under section 469 for the estate's last taxable year. (f) Effective date _(1) Cases commencing on or after November 9, 1992. This section applies to cases commencing on or after November 9, 1992. (2) Cases commencing before November 9, 1992 _(i) Election required. This section applies to a case commencing before November 9, 1992, and terminating on or after that date if the debtor and the estate jointly elect its application in the manner prescribed in paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section (the election). The caption ``ELECTION PURSUANT TO ยง1.1398&hyph;1'' must be placed prominently on the first page of each of the debtor's returns that is affected by the election (other than returns for taxable years that begin after the termination of the estate) and on the first page of each of the estate's returns that is affected by the election. In the case of returns that are amended under paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, this requirement is satisfied by placing the caption on the amended return. (ii) Scope of election. This election applies to the passive and former passive activities and unused passive activity losses and passive activity credits of the taxpayers making the election.
