FR940525-0-00046 FR940525-0-00022 Whereas, the goal of the FIA is to develop a program with the insurance industry where, over time, some risk-bearing role for the industry will evolve as intended by the Congress (Section 1304 of the Act); and Whereas, the Program, as presently constituted and implemented, is subsidized, and the insurer (hereinafter the ``Company'') under this Arrangement shall charge rates established by the FIA; and Whereas, this Arrangement will subsidize all flood policy losses by the Company; and Whereas, this Financial Assistance/Subsidy Arrangement has been developed to involve individual Companies in the Program, the initial step of which is to explore ways in which any interested insurer may be able to write flood insurance under its own name; and Whereas, one of the primary objectives of the Program is to provide coverage to the maximum number of structures at risk and because the insurance industry has marketing access through its existing facilities not directly available to the FIA, it has been concluded that coverage will be extended to those who would not otherwise be insured under the Program; and Whereas, flood insurance policies issued subject to this Arrangement shall be only that insurance written by the Company in its own name pursuant to the Act; and Whereas, over time, the Program is designed to increase industry participation, and, accordingly, reduce or eliminate Government as the principal vehicle for delivering flood insurance to the public; and Whereas, the direct beneficiaries of this Arrangement will be those Company policyholders and applicants for flood insurance who otherwise would not be covered against the peril of flood. Now, therefore, the parties hereto mutually undertake the following: Article II_Undertakings of the Company A. In order to be eligible for assistance under this Arrangement the Company shall be responsible for: 1.0 Policy Administration, including 1.1 Community Eligibility/Rating Criteria 1.2 Policyholder Eligibility Determination 1.3 Policy Issuance 1.4 Policy Endorsements 1.5 Policy Cancellations 1.6 Policy Correspondence 1.7 Payment of Agents Commissions The receipt, recording, control, timely deposit and disbursement of funds in connection with all the foregoing, and correspondence relating to the above in accordance with the Financial Control Plan requirements. 2.0 Claims processing in accordance with general Company standards and the Financial Control Plan. The Write Your Own Claims Manual, the Federal Emergency Management Agency Adjuster Manual, the FIA National Flood Insurance Program Policy Issuance Handbook, the Write Your Own Operational Overview, and other instructional material also provide guidance to the Company. 3.0 Reports 3.1 Monthly Financial Reporting and Statistical Transaction Reporting shall be in accordance with the requirements of National Flood Insurance Program Transaction Record Reporting and Processing Plan for the Write Your Own (WYO) Program and the Financial Control Plan for business written under the WYO Program. These data shall be validated/ edited/audited in detail and shall be compared and balanced against Company financial reports. 3.2 Monthly financial reporting shall be prepared in accordance with the WYO Accounting Procedures. 3.3 The Company shall establish a program of self audit acceptable to the FIA or comply with the self audit program contained in the Financial Control Plan for business written under the WYO Program. The Company shall report the results of this self-audit to the FIA annually. B. The Company shall use the following time standards of performance as a guide: 1.0 Application Processing_15 days (Note: If the policy cannot be mailed due to insufficient or erroneous information or insufficient funds, a request for correction or added monies shall be mailed within 10 days); 1.1 Renewal Processing_7 days; 1.2 Endorsement Processing_7 days; 1.3 Cancellation Processing_15 days; 1.4 Correspondence, Simple and/or Status Inquiries_7 days; 1.5 Correspondence, Complex Inquiries_20 days; 1.6 Supply, Materials, and Manual Requests_7 days; 1.7 Claims Draft Processing_7 days from completion of file examination; 1.8 Claims Adjustment_45 days average from receipt of Notice of Loss (or equivalent) through completion of examination. 1.9 For the elements of work enumerated above, the elapsed time shown is from date of receipt through date of mail out. Days means working, not calendar days. In addition to the standards for timely performance set forth above, all functions performed by the Company shall be in accordance with the highest reasonably attainable quality standards generally utilized in the insurance and data processing industries. These standards are for guidance. Although no immediate remedy for failure to meet them is provided under this Arrangement, nevertheless, performance under these standards can be a factor considered by the Federal Insurance Administrator (the Administrator) in determining the continuing participation of the Company in the Program or other action, e.g., limiting the Company's authority to write new business. C. The Company shall coordinate activities and provide information to the FIA or its designee on those occasions when a Flood Insurance Catastrophe Office is established. D. Policy Issuance 1.0 The flood insurance subject to this Arrangement shall be only that insurance written by the Company in its own name pursuant to the Act. 2.0 The Company shall issue policies under the regulations prescribed by the Administrator in accordance with the Act; 3.0 All such policies of insurance shall conform to the regulations prescribed by the Administrator pursuant to the Act, and be issued on a form approved by the Administrator; 4.0 All policies shall be issued in consideration of such premiums and upon such terms and conditions and in such States or areas or subdivisions thereof as may be designated by the Administrator and only where the Company is licensed by State law to engage in the property insurance business; 5.0 The Administrator may require the Company to immediately discontinue issuing policies subject to this Arrangement in the event Congressional authorization or appropriation for the National Flood Insurance Program is withdrawn.
