FR940217-1-00013 FR940217-1-00005 Finally, the reproposed rule would acknowledge that persons who control accounts usually are in possession of most of the information required by Form 13H and required to be disclosed to broker-dealers. Accordingly, reproposed Schedules 7a and 7b to Form 13H and the reproposed LTID disclosure requirements would be specifically designed to capture and disclose information regarding fully disclosed or omnibus accounts controlled by a large trader. The Commission believes that these requirements take into account the existing industry practices and procedures for the maintenance of such information. The Commission also believes that the changes to the proposed definition of control would clarify the obligations of large traders who control accounts owned by others and would minimize their burdens. e. Definition of a transaction. The definition of a transaction or transactions provided in paragraph (a)(7) of the reproposed rule, also would clarify and narrow the scope of the definition of a large trader. The modifications to this definition address technical issues raised in the comments regarding the inclusion of cancellations, corrections, and exercises or assignments of option contracts, within the meaning of the term transaction or transactions. The reproposed rule states that the term transaction or transactions would mean all transactions in publicly traded securities, including cancellations, corrections, exercises, and assignments. 21 The definition of publicly traded securities found in reproposed paragraph (a)(6) would be unchanged, and would mean any national market system security as defined in Rule 11Aa2&hyph;1 under the Exchange Act. 22 21 See infra text accompanying n. 67, for the impact of this definition on the trade reporting requirements of the reproposed rule. 22 17 CFR 240.11Aa2&hyph;1. A national market system security is any security that is subject to an effective real-time transaction reporting plan filed with the Commission, and includes all securities listed on a national securities exchange and all National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., Automated Quotation System (``NASDAQ''), National Market System (``NMS'') securities. See Proposing Release, 56 FR 42552, at text accompanying nn. 16&hyph;19. New paragraph (a)(7)(i) of the reproposed rule was added to exclude from the term ``transaction'' certain activity commonly posted to customer accounts by clearing broker-dealers and passive custodians or nominees. This paragraph would exclude from the definition of a transaction any journal or bookkeeping entry made to an account to record or memorialize the receipt or delivery of funds or securities pursuant to the settlement of a transaction. Three new exclusions to the term transaction also have been added in paragraphs (a)(7)(v), (vi), and (vii) of the reproposed rule. These exclusions track the trading objectives or characteristics, identified in the Proposing Release, of small or otherwise infrequent traders that the Commission did not intend to be included in the definition of a large trader. 23 These new exclusions would include: (1) Transactions effected by a court appointed executor, administrator, or fiduciary pursuant to the distribution of a decedent's estate; (2) transactions effected pursuant to a court order or judgment for distribution of property in a marital proceeding; and (3) a qualified plan or trust rollover afforded favorable tax treatment under section 402(a)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code. 24 23 See Proposing Release, 56 FR 42551, at n. 12 and accompanying text. 24 26 U.S.C. 402(a)(5) (1988). It should be noted that the exclusion for transactions of a decedent or marital estate would include only those transactions effected pursuant to the distribution or liquidation of such estates and would not include transactions effected pursuant to the continuing administration or investment of such estate's assets. The distinction drawn between the distribution and the administration of an estate pursuant to a court order acknowledges that court appointed fiduciaries may be authorized to invest and reinvest in securities for many years. The Commission believes that the exclusion of such estates from the identification requirements of the reproposed rule would be inappropriate. The Commission believes that these new exclusions from the definition of a transaction would indirectly exempt a significant number of those small or otherwise infrequent traders that were not intended to be large traders under the Market Reform Act. Moreover, the Commission believes that the definition of a transaction would reduce the impact of the reproposed rule on registered broker-dealers. f. Identifying activity level. The Commission expressly solicited comment on the appropriateness of the volume, market value, exercise value, and time period proposed for the identifying activity level. Generally, the commenters felt that the threshold was too low and recommended higher levels that ranged from a low of 200,000 shares and $10 million, to a high of 5 million shares and $50 million. A few commenters suggested that only market value should determine large trader status, while others suggested that market price, rather than exercise price, would be more appropriate for valuing options. Finally, many of the commenters expressed support for a calendar day measure because of the inherent difficulty of aggregating transactions effected in different time zones.
