FR940620-1-00114 FR940620-1-00012 Buildings and facilities, Civil rights, Individuals with disabilities, Historic preservation, Transportation. By the authority vested in me as Attorney General by 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, 5 U.S.C. 301, and sections 204 and 306 of the Americans with Disabilities Act, Pub. L. 101&hyph;336, 42 U.S.C. 12134 and 12186, and for the reasons set forth in the preamble, Chapter I of Title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 35_NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT SERVICES 1. The authority citation for 28 CFR part 35 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 42 U.S.C. 12134. 2. In §35.150, paragraph (a)(2) and the third sentence of paragraph (b)(1) are revised to read as follows: §35.150 Existing facilities. (a) *␣*␣* * * * * * (2) Require a public entity to take any action that would threaten or destroy the historic significance of an historic property, as determined under the procedures set out in section 4.1.7 of appendix A to part 37 of this chapter; or * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* A public entity, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet the accessibility requirements of §35.151. The path of travel requirements of §35.153 shall not apply to measures taken solely to comply with the program accessibility requirements of this section. *␣*␣* * * * * * 3. Section 35.151 is revised and §§35.152 through 35.155 are added to read as follows: §35.151 New construction. (a) Design and construction. Each facility or part of a facility constructed by, on behalf of, or for the use of a public entity shall be designed and constructed in such manner that the facility or part of the facility is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities, if the construction was commenced after January 26, 1992. (b) Exception for structural impracticability. (1) Full compliance with the requirements of this section is not required where a public entity can demonstrate that it is structurally impracticable to meet the requirements. Full compliance will be considered structurally impracticable only in those rare circumstances when the unique characteristics of terrain prevent the incorporation of accessibility features. (2) If full compliance with this section would be structurally impracticable, compliance with this section is required to the extent that it is not structurally impracticable. In that case, any portion of the facility that can be made accessible shall be made accessible to the extent that it is not structurally impracticable. (3) If providing accessibility in conformance with this section to individuals with certain disabilities (e.g., those who use wheelchairs) would be structurally impracticable, accessibility shall nonetheless be ensured to persons with other types of disabilities (e.g., those who use crutches or who have sight, hearing, or mental impairments) in accordance with this section. §35.152 Alterations: General. (a) General. (1) Each facility or part of a facility altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of a public entity in a manner that affects or could affect the usability of the facility or part of the facility shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be altered in such manner that the altered portion of the facility is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities, if the alteration was commenced after January 26, 1992. (2) An alteration is deemed to have commenced after January 26, 1992, if the physical alteration of the property begins after that date. (b) Alteration. For the purposes of this part, an alteration is a change to a facility that affects or could affect the usability of the building or facility or any part thereof. (1) Alterations include, but are not limited to, remodeling, renovation, rehabilitation, reconstruction, historic restoration, resurfacing, changes or rearrangement in structural parts or elements, and changes or rearrangement in the plan configuration of walls and full-height partitions. Normal maintenance, reroofing, painting or wallpapering, asbestos removal, or changes to mechanical and electrical systems are not alterations unless they affect the usability of the building or facility. (2) If existing elements, spaces, or common areas are altered, then each such altered element, space, or area shall comply with the applicable provisions of appendix A to part 37 of this chapter. (c) To the maximum extent feasible. The phrase ``to the maximum extent feasible,'' as used in this section, applies to the occasional case where the nature of an existing facility makes it virtually impossible to comply fully with applicable accessibility standards through a planned alteration. In these circumstances, the alteration shall provide the maximum physical accessibility feasible. Any altered features of the facility that can be made accessible shall be made accessible. If providing accessibility in conformance with this section to individuals with certain disabilities (e.g., those who use wheelchairs) would not be feasible, the facility shall be made accessible to persons with other types of disabilities (e.g., those who use crutches, those who have impaired vision or hearing, or those who have other impairments). §35.153 Alterations: Path of travel.
