FR941206-0-00015 FR941206-0-00001 If any single analytical result is more than 0.18 percent, before product from a production lot that is still at the establishment or one subsequently produced would be considered to be in compliance, at least three samples 13 from that lot would be taken and analyzed for calcium, either separately or as a composite (i.e., combining the three samples for analysis), at the option of the establishment. The average of the results or the composite result must comply with the requirement for calcium (i.e., less than or equal to 0.15 percent). Taking three samples from each lot would continue until five consecutive lots 14 have mean or composite results less than or equal to 0.15 percent. Individual results or an average of results would be rounded to the nearest 0.01 percent based on the precision of the methodology for measuring calcium. If the FSIS program official detects any results out of compliance, the program official may undertake normal compliance procedures. 13 Three samples, either analyzed as individual samples or as a composite sample (i.e., combining the three samples), are statistically representative for measuring calcium in a production lot. 14 Sampling five consecutive production lots is based on statistical sampling principles that ensure the process is in control and that mean or composite calcium results are less than or equal to the calcium requirement. FSIS believes that, if the statistical evidence indicates that product derived from advanced meat/bone separation systems is not in compliance with the calcium requirement, the lot must be labeled as MS(S) and meet the requirements for MS(S) in 9 CFR 319.5. In this situation, the process is out of control, and there is the likelihood that too much calcium has been incorporated in the recovered meat and, therefore, it should be identified as MS(S). 5. Handling Requirements FSIS believes that handling requirements are necessary to produce safe and wholesome product, and that potential bacterial hazards are diminished as long as handling accords with good manufacturing practices. Proper raw material and finished product handling is a concern for both the Agency and the meat industry. FSIS believes that it is the manufacturer's responsibility, in concert with FSIS', to assure that wholesome materials are used in the manufacture of its product within sound timeframes, and the safety of such product is not negatively affected. However, meat derived by advanced meat/bone separation machinery and recovery systems and the raw materials from which it is manufactured is not unique; all meat products that result from processes that involve cutting muscle tissue present opportunities for microbiological growth. Therefore, FSIS agrees with the commenters that there is a need to address the issue of handling requirements for all meat products, including meat derived from meat/bone separation techniques. FSIS is currently developing a separate rulemaking that will deal with this issue more fully and will include handling requirements for ground meat and meat trimmings, and the materials from which they are manufactured. These products are ones in which the meat derived from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and recovery systems is used. Therefore, FSIS will not include handling requirements for meat produced from advanced meat/bone separation systems in this rulemaking. Executive Order 12866 15 15 A separate cost/benefit analysis has been prepared and is available from the FSIS Docket Clerk. This final rule has been determined to be significant and has been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866. This rule formalizes the use of relatively new, advanced meat/bone separation machinery that increases the yield of meat trimmings from certain bones from livestock carcasses and probably also reduces the amount or type of hand-separation labor. The rule allows, but does not require, the use of the machinery. Thus, the decision to invest in this machinery rests with official meat establishments. The product of the advanced meat/bone separation process is distinguished from the product identified as MS(S) because the advanced process does not crush or grind the bones, and meat output has characteristics comparable to those of hand-deboned meat. Qualifying product will be defined as ``meat'' and needs no other special designation or standard of identity. The product can be used in hamburger (beef), sausage, ground pork, and other products normally utilizing meat trimmings.
