FR940902-0-00103 FR940902-0-00010 The phrase ``living in a single residence'' with other family members includes temporary, voluntary residence elsewhere ( e.g. , attending school or college, or visiting relatives). It does not include involuntary temporary residence elsewhere ( e.g. , incarceration, or placement as a result of a court order). Family income means ``income'' as defined by the Department of Health and Human Services in connection with the annual poverty guidelines. Such income shall not include unemployment compensation, child support and public assistance (including Aid to Families with Dependent Children, Supplemental Security Income, Emergency Assistance money payments, and non-federally funded General Assistance or General Relief money payments), as provided for at section 4(8) of the Act. In addition, such income shall also exclude foster child care payments, educational financial assistance received under title IV of the Higher Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1087), as amended by section 479(B) of the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1992), needs-based scholarship assistance, and income earned while on active military duty and other benefit payments specified at 38 U.S.C. 4213, items (1) and (3). The Governor may, for the purposes of determining income eligibility for services to older individuals under section 204(d)(5) of the Act, exclude up to 25 percent of Social Security and Old Age Survivors' Insurance benefit payments under title II of the Social Security Act, (42 U.S.C., section 401, et seq.) from the definition of family income. In addition, when a Federal statute specifically provides that income or payments received under such statute shall be excluded in determining eligibility for and the level of benefits received under any other federal statute, such income or payments shall be excluded in JTPA eligibility determinations. Funding period means the period of time when JTPA funds are available for expenditure. Unless a shorter period of time is specified in a title III discretionary award, the JTPA funding period is the 3-year period specified in JTPA section 161(b); the program year in which Federal funds are obligated to the recipient, and the two succeeding program years. Governor means, in addition to the definition at section 4(9) of the Act, the recipient of JTPA funds awarded to the State under titles I through III. Grant means an award of JTPA financial assistance by the U.S. Department of Labor to an eligible JTPA recipient. (Also, see §§627.405 and 627.430 of these regulations). Grantee means the recipient. Individual service strategy (ISS) is defined in §628.520 of this chapter. Job search assistance (also including job search skills training and job club activities ) means the provision of instruction and support to a participant to give the participant skills in acquiring full time employment. The services provided may include, but are not limited to, resume writing, interviewing skills, labor market guidance, telephone techniques, information on job openings, and job acquisition strategies, as well as the provision of office space and supplies for the job search. Job Training Partnership Act means Public Law (Pub. L.) 97&hyph;300, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 1501, et seq. JTPA means the Job Training Partnership Act. Nontraditional employment , as applied to women, means occupations or fields of work where women comprise less than 25 percent of the individuals employed in such occupation or field of work as provided periodically by the Department in the Federal Register . (Pub. L. 102&hyph;235, Nontraditional Employment for Women Act). OALJ means the Office of Administrative Law Judges of the U.S. Department of Labor. Obligations means the amounts of orders placed, contracts and subgrants awarded, goods and services received, and similar transactions during a funding period that will require payment by the recipient or subrecipient during the same or a future period. OIG means the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Labor. PIC means a private industry council. Participant means an individual who has been determined to be eligible to participate in and who is receiving services (except post-termination services authorized under sections 204(c)(4) and 264(d)(5) and followup services authorized under section 253(d)) under a program authorized by the JTPA. Participation shall be deemed to commence on the first day, following determination of eligibility, on which the participant began receiving subsidized employment, training, or other services provided under the JTPA. (section 4(37)). Program year means the 12-month period beginning July 1 of the indicated year. Recipient means the entity to which a JTPA grant is awarded directly from the Department of Labor to carry out the JTPA program. The recipient is the entire legal entity that received the award and is legally responsible for carrying out the JTPA program, even if only a particular component of the entity is designated in the grant award document. For JTPA grants under titles I, II and III, except for certain discretionary grants awarded under title III, part B, the State is the recipient. SDA means a service delivery area designated by the Governor pursuant to section 101(a)(4) of the Act. As used in these regulations, SDA may also refer to the entity that administers the JTPA program within the designated area. SDA grant recipient means the entity that receives JTPA funds for a service delivery area directly from the recipient. Secretary means the Secretary of Labor. Section , as used in this chapter, means a section of the Act unless the text specifically indicates otherwise. Service provider means a public agency, private nonprofit organization, or private-for-profit entity that delivers educational, training, employment or supportive services to JTPA participants. Awards to service providers may be made by subgrant, contract, subcontract, or other legal agreement. Stand-in costs means costs paid from non-Federal sources that a recipient proposes to substitute for Federal costs that have been disallowed as a result of an audit or other review. In order to be considered as valid substitutions, the costs (1) shall have been reported by the grantee as uncharged program costs under the same title and in the same program year in which the disallowed costs were incurred (2) shall have been incurred in compliance with laws, regulations, and contractual provisions governing JTPA, and (3) shall not result in a violation of the applicable cost limitations.
