FR940822-2-00089 FR940822-2-00058 1. Receipt of Differential Compensation in DPP Rollups Not Also Constituting Limited Partnership Rollup Transactions. Congress began to focus on investor protection, fairness and disclosure issues related to rollup transactions in 1990. One of the early abuses on which Congress focussed was payment of compensation to soliciting broker-dealer only when an investor voted in favor of a rollup transaction. The Rollup Reform Act requires the NASD to adopt rules proscribing the receipt by members of ``differential compensation'' when soliciting votes for a limited partnership rollup transaction. The Commission previously had approved an NASD rule regulating its members' receipt of differential compensation in DPP rollups. 35 35 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29582 (Aug. 19, 1991), 56 FR 42095 (Aug. 26, 1991) (approving SR-NASD&hyph;91&hyph;24). Current Subsections (b)(6) (A) and (B) were adopted in that rule change to regulate the participation of members in the solicitation of votes or tenders from participants in a rollup of a DPP. The NASD stated in Amendment No. 7 that at the time of its adoption, the SEC and NASD were aware that the definition of ``rollup of a direct participation program'' was broader than the definition of ``limited partnership rollup transaction'' then pending in Congress (and proposed to be amended in this proposed rule change) because it applies to ``direct participation programs'' rather than ``limited partnerships'' and does not include all of the exclusions that are available from the ``limited partnership rollup'' definition. 36 36 But see H.R. Rep. No. 254, 102d Cong., 1st Sess. 95 (1991), which proposed to define ``partnership'' to include ``such other entity having a substantially economically equivalent form of ownership instrument as the Commission determines, by rule consistent with the purposes of [the Limited Partnership Rollup Reform Act of 1991], to include within this definition.'' The NASD continues to be concerned that it may be confusing to have two definitions of a rollup transaction which are different in scope set forth in Subsection 34(b). 37 Therefore, the NASD is proposing to amend Subsections (b)(6) (A) and (B) by replacing the special rollup definition in those Subsections with the new definition of ``limited partnership rollup transaction'' and by substituting the term ``limited partnership rollup transaction'' wherever the term ``rollup of a direct participation program'' currently appears. The NASD notes that the result of this amendment would be to limit the scope of these Subsections as they would not longer be applicable to almost any DPP rollup, but only to ``limited partnership rollup transactions'' as defined in the proposed rule change. 37 But see e.g. , Fryer, A Rollup Update 6 (Practicing Law Institute Real Estate Law and Practice Course Handbook No. 400, 1994): In September 1991, in Notice to Members 91&hyph;56, the NASD adopted rules which restrict differential compensation in connection with the ``rollup of a direct participation program.'' The term ``rollup of a direct participation program'' is a broader concept than ``limited partnership rollup transactions'' and accordingly the limitations in the receipt of compensation and the allocation of expenses which is addressed in this earlier release will apply even if the transaction is not considered a ``limited partnership rollup transaction.'' The Commission notes that its rules governing roll-up transactions 38 apply to transactions that involve the combination or reorganization of one of more finite-life limited partnerships or similar entities. The Commission is soliciting comment from interested persons concerning the potential impact of the Differential Compensation Amendment on the investing public. 38 See Items 901&hyph;15 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.901&hyph;915 (1993).
