FR941202-0-00092 FR941202-0-00010 (B) Orient a velometer in the direction of the wind current at each of the four corners of the machine. (C) Record the reading for each corner. (D) Average the values obtained at each corner and record the average wind speed. (ii) Monitor on a weekly basis the room parameters established during the initial compliance test that are used to achieve the reduced room draft. (2) If an enclosure (full or partial) is used to achieve a reduced room draft, the owner or operator shall conduct an initial monitoring test and, thereafter, monthly monitoring tests of the windspeed within the enclosure using the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section and a monthly visual inspection of the enclosure to determine if it is free of cracks, holes and other defects. (i) Determine the direction of the wind current in the enclosure by slowly rotating a velometer inside the entrance to the enclosure until the maximum speed is located. (ii) Record the maximum wind speed. (e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator using a carbon adsorber to comply with this subpart shall measure and record the concentration of halogenated HAP solvent in the exhaust of the carbon adsorber weekly with a colorimetric detector tube. This test shall be conducted while the solvent cleaning machine is in the working mode and is venting to the carbon adsorber. The exhaust concentration shall be determined using the procedure specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section. (1) Use a colorimetric detector tube designed to measure a concentration of 100 parts per million by volume of solvent in air to an accuracy of # 25 parts per million by volume. (2) Use the colorimetric detector tube according to the manufacturer's instructions. (3) Provide a sampling port for monitoring within the exhaust outlet of the carbon adsorber that is easily accessible and located at least 8 stack or duct diameters downstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, contraction, or outlet; downstream from no other inlet; and 2 stack or duct diameters upstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, contraction, inlet or outlet. (f) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the idling emission limit standards of ยง63.463 (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii) shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section. (1) If using controls listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the monitoring frequency requirements in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. (2) If using controls not listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish the monitoring frequency for each control and submit it to the Administrator for approval in the initial test report. (g) Each owner or operator using a control device listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section can use alternative monitoring procedures approved by the Administrator. ยง63.467 Recordkeeping requirements. (a) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of ยง63.463 shall maintain records in written or electronic form specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section for the lifetime of the machine. (1) Owner's manuals, or if not available, written maintenance and operating procedures, for the solvent cleaning machine and control equipment. (2) The date of installation for the solvent cleaning machine and all of its control devices. If the exact date for installation is not known, a letter certifying that the cleaning machine and its control devices were installed prior to, or on, November 29, 1993, or after November 29, 1993, may be substituted.
