FR941220-1-00049 FR941220-1-00009 V. Summary of Selected Issues EPA is soliciting public comment and scientific information on all issues presented in or pertaining to this proposed sulfate regulation. In particular, EPA requests comments on the following: (1) Is there a correlation between sulfate concentrations, palatability and consumption of high-sulfate water by the public? (2) Are there new data in support of or opposing the reproposed MCLG of 500 mg/L? Are there new data in support of a higher MCLG? (3) Are there data to support or refute the hypothesis that the decrease in available water resulting from sulfate ingestion may result in dehydration in adults or infants? (4) Are reverse osmosis, ion exchange and electrodialysis reversal appropriate technologies for sulfate removal? (5) Should a higher PQL of 30 mg/L be set in order to retain the colorimetric method of analysis? (6) Are the allotted time periods for provision of Alternative Water, i.e., 20 weeks for infants within the first year of life and 6 weeks for new residents and travelers, appropriate and protective? (7) What should be the means of compliance for unmanned, remote campgrounds in the national parks system, particularly in regard to the provision of Alternative Water? (8) What types of Alternative Water would be likely to be chosen by public water systems of various types and sizes? (9) Are the compliance requirements, that is, Alternative Water and public notification, sufficiently protective of the sensitive population? (10) Should the target population be limited just to infants, or should there be different requirements for protecting infants and adults? (11) Are the proposed options consistent with the purposes and intent of SDWA, and are they feasible? (12) Is a provision to allow the water supply to exceed the sulfate MCL while relying on public notification and self-protection appropriate under SDWA? (13) Is the need for assertive action on the part of the public for self- protection appropriate? (14) Should temporary diarrhea be considered an adverse health effect in adults or infants? (15) Would exemptions provide a mechanism for relief to smaller systems? (16) Should compliance be limited to central treatment? (17) Is it appropriate under SDWA to allow the use of bottled water and POU devices for sulfate MCL compliance? (18) What degree of flexibility is appropriate in the bottled water monitoring requirements and delivery mechanism? (19) In Options 1 and 4, should all the existing regulations regarding use of POU and POE devices be imposed in the case of sulfate levels higher than the MCL, or are more flexible requirements appropriate? (20) Should the generic public notice requirements applicable to variances under ยง141.32 apply under Option 4 to systems who choose central treatment, in lieu of the public notice requirements proposed in Option 1? (21) Are the assumptions used in the analysis of the costs and benefits of the proposed rule reasonable? (22) What flexibility is appropriate or practical in regard to the maintenance of POU/POE devices installed to comply with the sulfate MCL? What flexibility is appropriate regarding a reduction in monitoring if certain types of POU/POE devices were installed? (23) Would most States offer the alternative option to PWS as a means of compliance? VI. Other Requirements A. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis The Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) calls for the Agency to consider the potential impacts of proposed regulations on small businesses, organizations and government jurisdictions. If an analysis shows that regulations would have a significant impact on a substantial number (usually taken as at least 20 percent) of small entities, then a regulatory flexibility analysis (RFA) must be prepared. In an RFA, an agency examines ``any significant alternatives to the proposed rule which accomplish the stated objectives of applicable statutes and which minimize any significant economic impact of the proposed rule on small entities'' (Regulatory Flexibility Act section 603). Today's proposed regulation would affect less than 2,000, or one percent, of the total of 200,000 public water systems (including all community and non-community systems). Nevertheless, EPA's analysis shows that regulating sulfate through standard approaches that assume the need for central treatment would have significant economic impacts that would fall largely on smaller public water systems. Therefore, EPA has conducted a regulatory flexibility analysis by investigating alternative, less burdensome regulatory approaches for those small systems. From these investigations, EPA developed and is considering the innovative options for regulating sulfate described earlier in this notice. These innovative options accomplish the Regulatory Flexibility Act's goal of minimizing the impacts of this regulation on small public water systems while meeting the objectives of the Safe Drinking Water Act by ensuring that drinking water that meets the sulfate MCL will be provided to all persons within the target population.
