FR941017-0-00039 FR941017-0-00011 §880.12 Cooperative agreements. (a) OSM shall, upon application by a State or Indian tribe with an approved abandoned mine reclamation program, enter into a cooperative agreement with the State or Indian tribe to control or extinguish fires in coal formations. (b) OSM may conduct coal formation fire control projects in States not having an approved abandoned mine reclamation program or on Indian lands if the tribe does not have an approved abandoned mine reclamation program. However, upon application by such a State or Indian tribe, OSM may enter into a cooperative agreement with the State or Indian tribe and the local authorities to control or extinguish fires in coal formations. OSM shall require in connection with any project for the control or extinguishment of fires in any inactive coal mine on lands not owned or controlled by the United States or any of its agencies, except where such project is necessary for the protection of lands or other property owned or controlled by the United States or any of its agencies in such a State that: (1) the State or the person owning or controlling such lands contribute on a matching basis 50 percent of the cost of planning and executing such project, or (2) if such State or person furnishes evidence satisfactory to the Secretary of an inability to make the immediately matching contribution herein provided for, that such State or person pay the Government, within such time as the Secretary shall determine, an amount equal to 50 percent of the cost of planning and executing such project. If the project is funded by the Appalachian Regional Commission, the Federal share shall not exceed 75 percent of the cost of the project. (c) OSM is authorized to conduct fire control projects on lands owned or controlled by the United States. However, upon application by another Federal agency having jurisdiction for lands owned or controlled by the United States, or a State or Indian tribe having an approved abandoned mine reclamation program and agreements with Federal agencies to conduct such projects on Federal lands within its boundaries, OSM may enter into an agreement with either the other Federal agency or State or Indian tribe to control or extinguish fires in coal formations. There are no cost sharing requirements for this type of project. 8. Newly designated §880.13 is revised to read as follows: §880.13 Project implementation. (a) Under cooperative agreements with States or Indian tribes having an approved AML reclamation plan: (1) States or Indian tribes will design, plan, and engineer a method of operation for control or extinguishment of the outcrop or underground mine fire, and will execute the project through a project contract, or, if the work is to be done in phases, a series of project contracts. (2) If OSM assistance is required, OSM will be reimbursed by the State or Indian tribe for all costs incurred, including OSM employees' time. (b) In States and on Indian lands under the jurisdiction of tribes not having approved AML reclamation plans and on Federal lands, OSM has the authority to design, plan, and engineer a method of operation for control or extinguishment of the outcrop or underground mine fire, and will execute the project through a project contract, or, if the work is to be done in phases, a series of project contracts. OSM, may, at its discretion, delegate authority to perform this work to States or Indian tribes or other Federal agencies. 9. Newly designated §880.14 is revised to read as follows: §880.14 Administration of contributions. Financial contributions made by a State or Indian tribe, local authorities, or another Federal agency will be deposited in a trust fund in the Treasury of the United States. These contributions can be withdrawn by OSM and expended by the organization executing the project (OSM, a State, Indian tribe, or another Federal agency) pursuant to the cooperative agreement as necessary in performance of the project work. Withdrawals and expenditures from the trust fund will be made only for costs connected with the project. Any part of the money contributed by a State, Indian tribe, local authority, or another Federal agency for an individual project that remains unexpended upon the completion or termination of project will be returned to the State, Indian tribe, local authority, or other Federal agency. 10. Newly designated §880.15 is amended by revising the section heading; by revising the introductory paragraph; and by revising paragraphs (a), (b) and (g) to read as follows: §880.15 Assistance by States or Indian tribes, local authorities, and private parties. States Indian tribes, local authorities, or private parties, as may be appropriate in each particular project, and without cost or charge to project costs may: (a) Provide assistance in planning and engineering the project, as requested by the organization executing the project; (b) Furnish best available information, data, and maps on the location of the project and the location of water, sewer, and power lines within the project area, and maps or plats showing properties and lands on which releases, consents, or rights or interests in lands have been obtained; * * * * * (g) Furnish noncombustible materials suitable for implementing the planned fire control work. This material may be waste or borrow material obtained at the site or brought in from off-site. * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25539 Filed 10&hyph;14&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;05&hyph;M
