FR941019-0-00061 FR941019-0-00008 D. Management Compensation Fund proxy statements are required to include information about the compensation of fund directors and officers in connection with the election of directors or proposals seeking shareholder approval of benefit plans in which directors or officers will participate. These requirements have been included in item 8 of Schedule 14A, which references Regulation S&hyph;K and fund registration statement forms. 24 The Commission proposed amendments to consolidate the disclosure requirements for management compensation paid by funds to directors and officers in paragraph (b) of item 22, to reformat the requirements, and to expand the information provided for directors, in particular, adding disclosure of the aggregate compensation of directors who serve on the board of more than one fund in a fund complex. 25 24 Item 8 of Schedule 14A (by reference to item 402(g) of Regulation S&hyph;K [17 CFR 229.402(g)]). Item 8 also incorporates for funds the management compensation disclosure requirements in fund registration statement forms. Forms N&hyph;1A (item 14), N&hyph;2 (item 18), and N&hyph;3 (item 20). Prior to recent revisions to the management compensation disclosure for operating companies, funds had been subject to the general compensation disclosure requirements of item 402 [17 CFR 229.402]. In the recent revisions, funds were excluded from amended item 402 and instead made subject to the registration statement form requirements. Securities Act Rel. No. 6962 (Oct. 16, 1992) [57 FR 48125 (Oct. 21, 1992)]. 25 The Commission also proposed to amend fund registration statements to require a statement in the prospectus that information about director and officer compensation and the background of fund management is available in the Statement of Additional Information (``SAI''). Upon consideration of the comments, the Commission believes the general statement in the prospectus about the availability of information in the SAI is sufficient notice for shareholders and has not included this requirement in the final rules. Most of these changes were generally supported by the commenters. Commenters, however, were evenly divided on the proposed disclosure of aggregate fund compensation paid to directors. The aggregate compensation disclosure was proposed in recognition that directors often receive substantial annual fees for their service on a number of boards in a fund complex, and that disclosure of only the compensation they receive from a single fund does not provide a complete picture of director compensation. Commenters opposed to the disclosure asserted, among other things, that disclosure of aggregate compensation could overshadow some of the benefits associated with directors serving on a number of fund boards (such as development of expertise in fund issues and cost-savings) or ignore the necessity of paying adequate compensation to attract well-qualified directors. Several commenters noted that because directors determine their level of compensation, which is paid by the fund, the compensation received from other related funds is not indicative of a conflict of interest or lack of independence from the investment adviser. Whether or not they supported disclosure of aggregate fund complex compensation, many of the commenters specifically objected to what they considered to be implications in the Proposing Release that compensation could compromise a director's independence or that directors are not responsibly discharging their statutory and regulatory role. The Commission believes that the nature and amount of a director's aggregate compensation from a fund complex is useful information that funds should provide to shareholders. Whether the amount of compensation affects a director's independence is only one of many possible inferences a shareholder may draw from compensation information. 26 Another inference may be that the fund is overpaying directors; another may be that the fund is not obtaining the best quality directors because they are underpaid; and still another inference may be that the amount of compensation is commensurate with the level of expertise, oversight, and effort that directors provide to the fund. The Commission believes that the possibility that unwarranted inferences may result from the disclosure of compensation information is not an appropriate basis to eliminate a requirement for information about directors that will improve shareholders' understanding of the compensation paid to directors and that is readily available to funds. 27 Therefore, the Commission is adopting the revised compensation disclosure requirements as proposed. 28 26 The Commission believes that the receipt of a substantial amount of compensation from a fund complex is not necessarily determinative of the director's independence. The amount of compensation received, however, could be one factor to be considered in evaluating the independence of a fund director from fund management. 27 Funds can, of course, provide supplemental information about director compensation if there is concern that shareholders may draw incorrect inferences from the disclosure of aggregate compensation received by directors from a fund complex. 28 Subparagraph (b)(6) of item 22. Paragraph (ii) of subparagraph (b)(6) has been revised to make it clear that the material terms of compensation arrangements with directors other than the typical directors' fees disclosed in the compensation table, including, for example, consulting arrangements, must be described. Such arrangements, however, could raise the issue of whether a director has a material business or professional relationship with the fund and could be found to be an ``interested'' director under section 2(a)(19)(A)(vi) of the 1940 Act [15 U.S.C. 80a&hyph;2(a)(19)(A)(vi)]. See Lexington Research Fund, Inc. (pub. avail. Dec. 3, 1977); Variable Stock Fund of Richmond (pub. avail. Feb. 17, 1972). The compensation disclosure required for fund officers would remain the same under the proposed amendments except for minor revisions. Because most funds are externally managed, fund executive officers generally do not have formal management roles and receive no compensation from the fund. As currently required, however, compensation received by the three highest paid executive officers having aggregate compensation from a fund (but not the fund complex) exceeding $60,000 would have to be disclosed in the compensation table. To make the disclosure of management compensation uniform, the compensation disclosure required to appear in the SAI portion of a fund's registration statement is amended to be consistent with item 22. Forms N&hyph;1A (item 14), N&hyph;2 (item 18), and N&hyph;3 (item 20). E. Approval of Investment Advisory Contract The Commission proposed to modify several of the disclosure requirements applicable to proxy statements seeking approval of an investment advisory contract to improve and to update the information provided to shareholders. These modifications included: •eliminating the disclosure of extensive information currently required concerning brokerage allocation and commission practices; 29 29 Current rule 20a&hyph;2(a)(7) requires extensive information concerning brokerage allocation and commission practices. A discussion of soft dollar arrangements benefitting the investment adviser would be required in the proposed discussion of material factors considered by the board of directors in approving the investment advisory contract in item 22(c)(11).
