FR940916-2-00106 FR940916-2-00084 Applicants' Analysis: 1. Section 17(d) of the Act makes it unlawful for an affiliated person of a registered investment company, acting as principal, to effect any transaction in which the registered investment company is a joint or a joint and several participant with such person in contravention of rules and regulations proscribed by the SEC. Rule 17d&hyph;1(a) provides that an affiliated person of a registered investment company, acting as principal, shall not participate in, or effect any transaction in connection with, any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement in which the registered investment company is a participant unless the SEC has issued an order approving the arrangement. 2. Each Portfolio, by participating in the proposed account, and the Adviser, by managing the proposed account, may be joint participants in a transaction within the meaning of section 17(d), and the proposed account may constitute a joint enterprise or other type of joint arrangement within the meaning of rule 17d&hyph;1. Furthermore, each applicant may be an affiliated person of each other applicant. 3. Although not every Portfolio participating in the joint account will have an interest in every instrument purchased through the joint account, to the extent a Portfolio has an interest in a particular repurchase agreement or commercial paper instrument, its interest will be proportionate to its cash contribution to the purchase price of such repurchase agreement or commercial paper instrument, and will be computed on the same basis as every other participant in such repurchase agreement or commercial paper instrument. Accordingly, applicants believe that the requested order is consistent with the provisions, policies, and purposes of the Act. 4. Applicants also believe that the proposed joint account arrangement could result in the following significant benefits for the Portfolios: (a) an increase of approximately 0.5% in the annual rate of return on the Portfolios' short-term investments in repurchase agreements; (b) an increased ability to invest funds that otherwise might not be invested; and (c) an enhanced ability to negotiate reductions in transaction fees. 5. Applicants believe that the method of operating the joint account would not result in any conflicts of interest between any of the Portfolios or between any Portfolio and the Adviser, and that the operation of the joint account would be free of any inherent bias favoring one Portfolio over another. Applicants' Conditions: Applicants agree that any order granting the requested relief will be subject to the following conditions. 1. A separate custodial cash account at the Custodian will be established for the joint account into which each Portfolio may deposit uninvested cash balances at the end of each trading day. The joint account will not be distinguishable from other accounts maintained by any Portfolio with the Custodian except that monies of the Portfolios will be commingled. The account will not have any separate existence with indicia of a separate legal entity. The sole function of the custodial joint account will be to provide a convenient way of aggregating individual transactions necessary for management of the Portfolios' respective daily uninvested cash balances. 2. Cash in the joint account will be invested in one or more repurchase agreement transactions and/or commercial paper transactions. All repurchase agreement and commercial paper transactions will have, with rare exceptions, an overnight, over-the-weekend, or over-the-holiday maturity, and in no even will have a maturity of more than seven days. 3. Each Portfolio will participate in a given investment through the joint account only to the extent consistent with its investment objectives, policies and restrictions. 4. The Adviser and the custodian will maintain records (in conformity with section 31 of the Act and rules and regulations thereunder) documenting, for any given day, such Portfolio's aggregate investment in the joint account and its pro rata share of each investment made through the joint account in which it participates. 5. Repurchase agreements will be ``collateralized fully'' as defined in rule 2a&hyph;7 under the Act and satisfy the uniform standards set by the Portfolios for such investments. The securities subject to the repurchase agreement will be transferred to the Portfolio, the Portfolio's custodian, or a third party that qualifies as a custodian under the Act. The securities will not be held by the Portfolios' repurchase counterparty or by an affiliated person of that counterparty. 6. Each Portfolio relying upon rule 2a&hyph;7 for valuation of its net assets based on amortized cost will use the average maturity of the repurchase agreements purchased by the Portfolio participating in the account when computing the Portfolio's average portfolio maturity with respect to the portion of its assets held in such account on that day. 7. No Portfolio will be allowed to create a negative balance in the joint account for any reason, although it will be permitted to draw down its entire balance at any time. Each Portfolio's decision to invest in the joint account or in any given investment made through the joint account will be solely at its option. Nor Portfolio will be obligated either to invest in the joint account or in any given investment in the joint account or to maintain any minimum balance in the joint account. 8. The Adviser will administer the investment of the cash balances in and operation of the joint account as part of its duties under the general terms of each Portfolio's existing or any future investment advisory contract and will not collect any additional or separate fees for the management of the joint account. 9. The administration of the joint account would be within the fidelity bond coverage required by section 17(g) of the Act and rule 17g&hyph;1 thereunder. 10. Each Fund participating in the joint account will adopt procedures pursuant to which the joint account will operate, which will be reasonably designed to provide that the requirements of the application will be met. The directors of each Fund will make and approve changes they deem necessary to ensure that such procedures are followed. In addition, the directors of each Fund will determine, no less frequently than annually, whether the joint account has been operated in accordance with such procedures. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22974 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
