FR941121-0-00108 FR941121-0-00011 (ii) If any mutually exclusive application filed on the earliest filing date is an application for modification and none of the mutually exclusive applications is a timely-filed application for renewal, a same-day filing group is used. (iii) If all of the mutually exclusive applications filed on the earliest filing date are applications for initial authorization, a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group is used, except that, for Phase I unserved area applications in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service, a one-day window filing group is used (see §22.949). (4) Disposition. If there is only one application in any type of filing group, the Commission may grant that application and dismiss without prejudice any mutually exclusive applications not in the filing group. If there is more than one mutually exclusive application in a filing group, the Commission disposes of these applications as follows: (i) Applications in a renewal filing group. All mutually exclusive applications in a renewal filing group are designated for comparative consideration in a hearing. (ii) Applications in a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group. (A) If all of the mutually exclusive applications in a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group are applications for initial authorization, and none is an application for facilities in the Rural Radiotelephone Service, the Commission shall administer competitive bidding procedures in accordance with subpart Q of part 1 of this chapter. After such procedures, the application of the successful bidder may be granted and the other applications may be dismissed without prejudice. (B) If any of the mutually exclusive applications in a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group is an application for modification or an application for facilities in the Rural Radiotelephone Service, the Commission may attempt to resolve the mutual exclusivity by facilitating a settlement between the applicants. If a settlement is not reached within a reasonable time, the Commission may designate all applications in the filing group for comparative consideration in a hearing. In this event, the result of the hearing disposes of all the applications in the filing group. (iii) Applications in a same-day filing group. If there are two or more mutually exclusive applications in a same-day filing group, the Commission may attempt to resolve the mutual exclusivity by facilitating a settlement between the applicants. If a settlement is not reached within a reasonable time, the Commission may designate all applications in the filing group for comparative consideration in a hearing. In this event, the result of the hearing disposes of all of the applications in the filing group. (iv) Applications in a window filing group. Applications in a window filing group are processed in accordance with the procedures for a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section. (d) Terminology. For the purposes of this section, terms have the following meanings: (1) The filing date of an application is the date on which that application was received in a condition acceptable for filing or the date on which the most recently filed major amendment to that application was received, whichever is later, excluding major amendments in the following circumstances: (i) The major amendment reflects only a change in ownership or control found by the Commission to be in the public interest; (ii) The major amendment as received is defective or otherwise found unacceptable for filing; or (iii) The application being amended has been designated for hearing and the Commission or the presiding officer accepts the major amendment. (2) An application for initial authorization is: (i) Any application requesting an authorization for a new system or station; (ii) Any application requesting authorization for an existing station to operate on an additional channel, unless the additional channel is for paired two-way radiotelephone operation, is in the same frequency range as the existing channel(s), and will be operationally integrated with the existing channel(s) such as by trunking; (iii) Any application requesting authorization for a new transmitter at a location more than 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) from any existing transmitters of the applicant licensee on the requested channel or channel block; or (iv) Any application to expand the CGSA of a cellular system (as defined in §22.911), except during the five-year build-out period. (3) An application for modification is any application other than an application for initial authorization or renewal. 5. Section 22.301 is revised to read as follows: §22.301 Station inspection. Upon reasonable request, the licensee of any station authorized in the Public Mobile Services must make the station and station records available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Commission at any reasonable hour. 6. Section 22.313 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(4), adding a new paragraph (a)(5), and revising paragraphs (b) and (c) to read as follows: §22.313 Station identification. * * * * * (a) *␣*␣* (4) Rural subscriber stations using Basic Exchange Telephone Radio Systems in the Rural Radiotelephone Service; or (5) Nationwide network paging stations operating on 931 MHz channels. (b) For all other stations in the Public Mobile Services, station identification must be transmitted each hour within five minutes of the hour, or upon completion of the first transmission after the hour. Transmission of station identification may be temporarily delayed to avoid interrupting the continuity of any public communication in progress, provided that station identification is transmitted at the conclusion of that public communication. (c) Station identification must be transmitted by telephony using the English language or by telegraphy using the international Morse code, and in a form that can be received using equipment appropriate for the modulation type employed, and understood without the use of unscrambling devices, except that, alternatively, station identification may be transmitted digitally, provided that the licensee provides the Commission with information sufficient to decode the digital transmission to ascertain the call sign. Station identification comprises transmission of the call sign assigned by the Commission to the station, however, the following may be used in lieu of the call sign. (1) For transmission from subscriber operated transmitters, the telephone number or other designation assigned by the carrier, provided that a written record of such designations is maintained by the carrier; (2) For general aviation airborne mobile stations in the Air-Ground Radiotelephone Service, the official FAA registration number of the aircraft;
