FR940919-0-00086 FR940919-0-00016 Two commenters claimed that a careful reading of 40 CFR 268.7(b) indicates that waste which is treated using a specified treatment technology is not subject to further testing to exit Subtitle C and claimed that the rules for debris treated in accordance with the alternative treatment standards specified in 40 CFR 268.45 should be the same. Their interpretation of this section of the CFR is incorrect. With regard to wastes for which technologies have been specified as the treatment standard, 40 CFR 268.7(b) contains the wording of the certification stating that the waste has been treated in accordance with ยง268.42; this certification must be signed before the waste may be land disposed. 40 CFR 268.7(b) does not say that this waste is no longer subject to subtitle C regulation. One commenter suggested that, at a minimum, EPA should establish health based numerical standards for exclusion of hazardous debris from subtitle C. This commenter made no suggestion as to what test method should be used. The issue of basing LDR standards on the basis of risk rather than technology performance is addressed in Section III A 2 a of this rule, ``Risk-based Universal Treatment Standards.'' Finally, one commenter suggested that EPA allow the use of stainless steel as an encapsulant, claiming that its performance would be superior to that of other encapsulants, such as polymeric organics, which allegedly fail due to the radiation effects to their chemical bonds. Conclusions: Although commenters were in general agreement on a number of issues (e.g. inappropriateness of the TCLP for debris, use of a 50 psi structural test as a performance standard, use of a leach test performed on intact debris), no supporting data or other information was submitted to support their claims and requests. Therefore, the Agency is not promulgating any modifications to the debris rule at this time. The Agency is evaluating exclusions as part of the HWIR process and will reassess appropriate action on debris if HWIR does not adequately address debris. VIII. Deep Well Injection Issues A. Prohibition of Dilution of High TOC Ignitable and of TC Pesticide Wastes Injected Into Class I Deep Wells Today's rule prohibits the disposal of two types of waste into deep-well injection via Class I Underground Injection Control (UIC) wells unless the wastes first meet the land disposal restrictions promulgated in today's rule for these wastes, or the wastes are injected into a well that is subject to a no-migration determination. These wastes are nonwastewaters exhibiting the characteristic of ignitability at the point of generation and containing greater than 10 percent Total Organic Carbon (``high TOC ignitable liquids subcategory'') and also TC toxic halogenated pesticide wastes (DO12&hyph;D017). Thus, EPA is promulgating, as proposed, regulations excluding these two wastes from the portion of the rule at 40 CFR 268.1(c)(3) that allows a waste to be injected into a Class I deep injection well if the waste no longer exhibits a characteristic at the point of injection. Today's rule also includes a one-year capacity variance for these injected waste streams. For D001 High TOC ignitables, the treatment standard is expressed as methods of treatment that must be used prior to land disposal: combustion (i.e. incineration or fuel substitution) or recovery of organics. The preamble to the proposed rule stated that high TOC ignitable nonwastewaters contain high concentrations of organics that can either be recovered directly for reuse, or can be burned in combustion devices. These wastes are not injected in significant volumes, so that redirection of the wastes to treatment technologies will not have significant impact on well operators. 58 FR 48118&hyph;48119. EPA received no information to the contrary from commenters. The treatment standards for TC pesticide wastewaters are also expressed as methods of treatment: biodegradation or incineration. On the other hand, the treatment standards for EP pesticide nonwastewaters are expressed as levels that may be achieved by using any treatment technology, other than impermissible dilution. (The Third Third rule had already disqualified these wastes from the exception that allowed dilution of characteristic wastes that were to be managed in Clean Water Act treatment systems including surface land disposal units, ยง268.3(b) and 55 FR 22657.) As discussed at length in the preamble to the proposed rule, the Agency's initial reading of the D.C. Circuit Court's decision is that wastes that are characteristically hazardous at the point of generation must typically be treated to destroy or remove hazardous constituents before land disposal, or be disposed of in a no-migration unit. 976 F.2d at 24. This is certainly a permissible interpretation of the opinion. Furthermore, the decision encompasses underground injection wells, specifically Class I deep wells, since they are permanent land disposal units. 976 F.2d at 25. Thus, under this reading of the court's opinion, these ignitable and pesticide wastes would have to be treated to remove hazardous constituents before injection. EPA's decision to prohibit injection of these untreated wastes, however, is based not only on its initial interpretation of the Chemical Waste Management opinion (which, as noted below, may still evolve), but also on the particular wastes involved here. The wastes at issue are ignitable wastes with potentially very high concentrations of hazardous constituents, and pesticide wastes containing very toxic constituents. Treatment is also warranted to reduce the amounts of these toxic wastes being land disposed. RCRA section 1003(a)(6) (``statutory goal of minimizing the . . . land disposal of hazardous waste by encouraging . . . properly conducted recycling and reuse, and treatment''); Steel Manufacturers' Association v. EPA, XXX F.3d XXX , (D.C. Cir. July 9, 1994) (``We conclude that minimizing the overall volume of slag that is to be disposed is by itself, a sufficient justification for the zinc treatment standard . . .'') (slip op. at 13). Finally, only small volumes of these wastes are injected, and segregation of the wastes should not prove to be unduly difficult. For all of these reasons, the Agency believes it appropriate to prohibit injection of these wastes at this time, unless the wastes are treated to satisfy section 3004(m) or are disposed in a no-migration unit. In this regard, the Agency emphasizes that no-migration petitions for Class I nonhazardous wells receiving decharacterized wastes may be submitted to EPA or the Authorized States for evaluation at this time. The petitions may encompass not only the pesticide and high-TOC ignitable wastes prohibited in this rule, but other types of decharacterized wastes (which are not yet prohibited but are scheduled to be addressed in Phase III) as well. Most comments to the proposed rule requested independent consideration of Class I injection wells, because they believed that underground injection differs from other forms of land disposal, such as landfills and impoundments. Other comments questioned EPA's interpretation of the Third Third court decision and the Agency's belief that treatment of these waste streams should be the preferred management approach for them. These commenters indicated that aggregation of waste streams meets the minimize threat standard and expressed their opinion that segregation of these wastes for treatment poses substantial risks to the environment and that underground injection is an inherently safer waste management practice. The Agency intends to consider all the above arguments (e.g., risks posed by wastes going to deep well injection) in the identification of alternatives for land disposal standards. The Agency will continue to investigate any and all information received concerning these comments, and intends to address land disposal standards for underground injection of characteristic wastes in a comprehensive manner in the Phase III rulemaking. Until these treatment standards become effective one year from the date of publication of this rule, they may continue to be injected into Class I injection wells without prior treatment.
