FR940106-2-00131 FR940106-2-00076 Since Honda offers a lifetime warranty for seat belts, it will replace, free of charge, any unit that has a functional problem at any time during the life of the vehicle. In this instance, Honda will notify owners of the subject vehicles that it will replace the sensor in the noncompliant seat belt retractors if the customer experiences the locking problem. Honda concluded by stating that, although the noncomplying retractors may, in certain situations, result in the belt not being able to be pulled out of the retractor, this is a temporary condition which is remedied if the vehicle is moved from an uphill position of greater than 11 degrees or a lateral angle of greater than nine degrees. There is no risk to safety once the belt has been successfully fastened, since the performance of the belts is equal to those which are in total compliance with Standard No. 209. Because the seat belts have a lifetime warranty, any complaint concerning the ability to activate the belts will result in Honda replacing the belt with no cost to the consumer. No comments were received on the petition. Occupant protection has been a primary safety goal of the agency since its inception. Therefore, noncompliances with occupant protection requirements are treated with particular concern. The noncompliance described in the petition is one that occurs only under specific circumstances of vehicle attitude. That these circumstances are not isolated and occur with a degree of frequency is borne out by the number of complaints that Honda has received. Generally, a petitioner for a determination of inconsequentiality supports its arguments with the statement that no complaints have been received. In this instance, there have been sufficiently numerous expressions of concern to cause Honda to formulate a ``Product Improvement Campaign''. Honda has submitted to NHTSA a draft of its proposed letter to owners. The letter does not address the safety issue to NHTSA's satisfaction. The agency is concerned that the average recipient will not understand the safety-relatedness of the problem described in the letter. As a result, the recipient would be less likely to respond to it than to a letter meeting the requirements of Part 577. NHTSA has concluded that the noncompliance is one that will have the immediate effect of creating frustration when the rear seat passenger is unable to pull the belt out of its retractor. This can deter the passenger from further efforts to wear the belt until the vehicle is once more at an attitude at which the belt may be fastened, or even create the impression that the belt is broken and that further attempts to dislodge it will be useless. Another possibility is that a parent may be unable initially to secure a child safety seat, then neglect to get out of the car to secure it when the vehicle is moved. Alternatively, the parent may respond by moving the child seat from the rear seat position to the front. This would be contrary to the agency's policy of encouraging parents to install child safety seats in the rear in view of the greater safety of that location. In NHTSA's view, any noncompliance that has the potential to decrease the chances of use of a seat belt is not one that is inconsequential. Therefore, both the notification letter and the remedy must be in accordance with Federal requirements. In consideration of the foregoing, it is hereby found that the petitioner has not met its burden of persuasion that the noncompliance herein described is inconsequential as it relates to motor vehicle safety, and its petition is denied. (15 U.S.C. 1417; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.50 and 49 CFR 501.8) Issued on: January 3, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;240 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M
