FR940825-2-00021 FR940825-2-00013 Comments Received on the 1994 Proposed List of Fisheries Ten comments were received in response to the request for comments on the proposed List of Fisheries for 1994. The comments were mixed in their support for and opposition to the changes proposed and are summarized below. Washington, Oregon Lower Columbia River Salmon Drift Gill Net Fishery Several comments were received in support of the proposed recategorization of the Columbia River commercial gill net fishery from a Category I to a Category III fishery, based on the relatively low level of incidental marine mammal mortality. NMFS has reclassified this fishery as proposed. Alaska Copper River and Bering River Salmon Drift Gill Net Fishery A number of the comments favored the proposed recategorization of the Alaska Copper River and Bering River (adjacent to Prince William Sound) salmon drift gill net fishery from a Category I to a Category II fishery. Until recently, take rates for this fishery were based on the total number of interactions, which included momentary interactions with the nets as well as serious injuries and mortalities. For this fishery, NMFS recognizes that many entanglements recorded by observers resulted in the animals freeing themselves from the net without assistance from fishermen. NMFS has reclassified the Alaska Copper River and Bering River (adjacent to Prince William Sound) drift gill net fishery to Category II as proposed. Alaska Prince William Sound and Alaska Southern Bering Sea, Aleutian Islands and Western Gulf of Alaska Sablefish Longline Fisheries One comment was received recommending reclassification of the Alaska Prince William Sound and Alaska Southern Bering Sea, Aleutian Islands and Western Gulf of Alaska sablefish longline fisheries from a Category II to a Category III fishery. The commenter stated that although fishermen chase away killer whales from sablefish caught on longline gear, this action does not meet the definition of incidental take under the MMPA interim exemption. Under section 114 of the MMPA and based on congressional guidance, takes include the harassment, entanglement, injury or mortality of a marine mammal. NMFS believes that the deterring killer whales from catch and gear in sablefish longline fisheries constitutes harassment. Therefore, under section 114, these takes qualify the fishery for Category II classification. Section 118 of the MMPA's recent amendments has directed NMFS to consider only incidental mortality and serious injury takes when categorizing fisheries under the new regime that is to replace the interim exemption by September 1995. The amendment also prohibits intentional lethal takes of marine mammals, except when necessary to save human life. Therefore, NMFS will reevaluate Alaska sablefish longline fisheries for possible reclassification to Category III when it prepares a List of Fisheries under the provisions of Section 118. Gulf of Maine Atlantic Salmon Aquaculture Fishery One comment was received in support of the proposal to reclassify the Gulf of Maine Atlantic salmon aquaculture fishery from a Category III to a Category II fishery. The commenter cited admissions by industry representatives of high kill rates and potential under-reporting of marine mammal mortalities in this fishery, and recommended recategorization as a Category I fishery, in lieu of the original proposal for change to Category II. List of Fisheries criteria for a Category I classification require: (1) Documented information indicating a ``frequent'' incidental taking of marine mammals in the fishery or (2) the expressed intention of Congress to place the fishery in Category I (50 CFR 229.3). Due to the limited documented evidence of incidental takings and the absence of definitive guidance from Congress regarding this fishery, only a Category II classification is warranted at this time. NMFS will enhance efforts to obtain better information on current take levels and the degree to which marine mammals are deterred from aquaculture operations in this fishery.
