FR940620-2-00033 FR940620-2-00020 The applicant in performing the TST program for employees on a routine basis will be required to: (1) Use a two-step Mantoux test for all initial tests to minimize the likelihood of interpreting a boosted reaction as a true conversion due to recent infection. (2) Place and read a TB skin test on all HCWs. This will include measures or incentives likely to enhance workers' compliance with such testing; (3) Perform subsequent Mantoux testing annually (or more frequently if appropriate for the level of risk in the occupational group or facility) of all employees whose initial skin tests were negative. (4) Directly observe the reading of the TB skin test (in mm of induration) by personnel trained in correct placement and reading of Mantoux skin tests. (5) Confidentially assess potential pertinent demographic factors, (such as, sex, race/ethnicity, country of birth, and history of receipt of Bacille Calmette-Guerin) and occupational factors, (such as, occupation and worksite) which may place HCWs at risk for TB exposure. 2. Pilot CDC-developed software to assist in the collection, tracking, management, and analysis of data from tuberculin skin testing programs. 3. Follow CDC guidelines for tuberculin skin testing. A copy of the guidelines will be included in the application kit. 4. Implement a research protocol jointly developed with CDC for the TST demonstration project. 5. Use CDC-developed skin test software to enter all tuberculin skin test information onto the software and send a diskette of the database to CDC on a monthly basis. 6. Develop forms appropriate to their sites for the collection of data including HCW's demographics, occupational information, tuberculin skin test information, and results of follow-up clinical evaluations for persons with reactive skin tests. 7. Ensure that all data are kept confidential and in secured files. B. CDC Activities 1. Jointly develop a research protocol for the TST demonstration project. 2. Provide technical assistance in implementation of the TST program. 3. Provide one or more version of microcomputer software for use in the project. 4. Train health department personnel in the use of the software. 5. Develop a plan for data management and for data transfer to CDC. 6. Review site performance and ensure compliance with the study protocol. 7. Conduct data analysis and summarize and present findings. Evaluation Criteria 1. Study on Hospitalization of TB Patients Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria. (100 total points maximum) A. The extent of the problem of TB, HIV, and MDR&hyph;TB in the applicant's area. (25 Points) B. The extent to which the applicant's proposed staff and description of duties meet project requirements; the extent to which the applicant can demonstrate that institutional barriers will not impede the initiation, implementation, and completion of the project. (25 Points) C. The ability of the applicant to manage local data and ensure the quality of the data collected. The ability of the applicant to ensure that the data will be received at CDC in a timely manner. (25 Points) D. The extent to which the evaluation plan is appropriate to assess the study objectives. (25 Points) In addition, consideration will be given to the extent to which the budget is reasonable, clearly justifiable, and consistent with the intended use of funds. 2. Tuberculin Skin Testing Demonstration Projects Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria. (100 total points maximum) A. The extent of the problem of TB, HIV, MDR TB, and TB/AIDS in the applicant's area. (10 Points) B. The extent to which an efficient and effective tuberculin skin testing program exists in the facility proposed for the project. This includes the compliance rate with the tuberculin skin testing program. If compliance rates are sub-optimal, the extent to which the applicant's plan for improving compliance during the project period is likely to succeed. (30 Points) C. Agreement by the applicant to pilot test CDC-developed software and provide diskettes of the database to CDC on a monthly basis. The extent to which the applicant's data management plan demonstrates an ability to ensure the integrity of the data. (30 Points)
