FR941013-1-00099 FR941013-1-00014 (A) The bond equivalent rate of the 91-day Treasury bills auctioned at the final auction prior to June 1; and (B) 3.25 percent in the case of a loan described in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section or 3.10 percent in the case of a loan described in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section. (iii) (A) In connection with the conversion specified in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section for any period prior to the conversion for which a rebate has not been provided under paragraph (a)(6) of this section, a lender or holder shall convert the interest rate to a variable rate. (B) The interest rate for each period shall be reset quarterly and the applicable interest rate for the quarter or portion shall equal the sum of_ ( 1 ) The average of the bond equivalent rates of 91-day Treasury bills auctioned for the preceding 3-month period; and ( 2 ) 3.25 percent in the case of loans as specified under paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section or 3.10 percent in the case of loans as specified under paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section. (iv) (A) The holder of a loan being converted under paragraph (a)(7)(iii)(A) of this section shall complete such conversion on or before January 1, 1995. (B) The holder shall, not later than 30 days prior to the conversion provide the borrower with_ ( 1 ) A notice informing the borrower that the loan is being converted to a variable interest rate; ( 2 ) A description of the rate to the borrower; ( 3 ) The current interest rate; and ( 4 ) An explanation that the variable rate will provide a substantially equivalent benefit as the adjustment otherwise provided under paragraph (a)(6) of this section. (iv) The notice may be provided as part of the disclosure requirement as specified under ยง682.205. (v) The interest rate as calculated under this paragraph may not exceed the maximum interest rate applicable to the loan prior to the conversion. * * * * * 3. Section 682.207 is amended by removing the word ``or'' at the end of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A); removing the semicolon at the end of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B), and adding, in its place, a period and a new sentence; and by adding a new paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) to read as follows: ยง682.207 Due diligence in disbursing a loan. * * * * * (b)(1) * * * (ii) * * * (B) * * * A disbursement made by electronic funds transfer must be accompanied by a list of the names, social security numbers, and loan amounts of the borrowers who are receiving a portion of the disbursement; or (C) A master check from the lender to the eligible institution to a separate account maintained by the school as trustee for the lender. A disbursement made by a master check must be accompanied by a list of the names, social security numbers, and loan amounts of the borrowers who are receiving a portion of the disbursement;
