FR940524-0-00031 FR940524-0-00007 (3) Contain specific allegations of fact which, except for facts of which official notice may be taken, shall be supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof, and which shall be sufficient to demonstrate that the petitioner (or respondent) is a party in interest and that a grant of, or other Commission action regarding, the application would be prima facie inconsistent with the public interest; (4) Be filed within thirty (30) days after the date of public notice announcing the acceptance for filing of any such application or major amendment thereto (unless the Commission otherwise extends the filing deadline); and (5) Contain a certificate of service showing that it has been mailed to the applicant no later than the date of filing thereof with the Commission. (b) A petition to deny a major amendment to a previously filed application may only raise matters directly related to the amendment which could not have been raised in connection with the underlying, previously filed application. This does not apply to petitioners who gain standing because of the major amendment. §24.431 Mutually exclusive applications. (a) The Commission will consider applications to be mutually exclusive if their conflicts are such that the grant of one application would effectively preclude by reason of harmful electrical interference, or other practical reason, the grant of one or more of the other applications. The Commission will presume ``harmful electrical interference'' to mean interference which would result in a material impairment to service rendered to the public despite full cooperation in good faith by all applicants or parties to achieve reasonable technical adjustments which would avoid electrical conflict. (b) Mutually exclusive applications filed on Form 175 for the initial provision of narrowband PCS service are subject to competitive bidding in accordance with the procedures in subpart F of this part and in 47 CFR part 1, subpart Q. (c) An application will be entitled to comparative consideration with one or more conflicting applications only if the Commission determines that such comparative consideration will serve the public interest. §24.432 Consideration of applications. (a) Applications for an instrument of authorization will be granted if, upon examination of the application and upon consideration of such other matters as it may officially notice, the Commission finds that the grant will serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity. See also §1.2108. (b) The grant shall be without a formal hearing if, upon consideration of the application, any pleadings or objections filed, or other matters which may be officially noticed, the Commission finds that: (1) The application is acceptable for filing, and is in accordance with the Commission's rules, regulations, and other requirements; (2) The application is not subject to a post-auction hearing or to comparative consideration pursuant to §24.431 with another application(s); (3) A grant of the application would not cause harmful electrical interference to an authorized station; (4) There are no substantial and material questions of fact presented; and (5) The applicant is qualified under current FCC regulations and policies. (c) If the Commission should grant without a formal hearing an application for an instrument of authorization which is subject to a petition to deny filed in accordance with §24.430, the Commission will deny the petition by the issuance of a Memorandum Opinion and Order which will concisely report the reasons for the denial and dispose of all substantial issues raised by the petition. (d) Whenever the Commission, without a formal hearing, grants any application in part, or subject to any terms or conditions other than those normally applied to applications of the same type, it shall inform the applicant of the reasons therefor, and the grant shall be considered final unless the Commission should revise its action (either by granting the application as originally requested, or by designating the application for a formal evidentiary hearing) in response to a petition for reconsideration which: (1) Is filed by the applicant within thirty (30) days from the date of the letter or order giving the reasons for the partial or conditioned grant; (2) Rejects the grant as made and explains the reasons why the application should be granted as originally requested; and, (3) Returns the instrument of authorization. (e) The Commission will designate an application for a formal hearing, specifying with particularity the matters and things in issue, if, upon consideration of the application, any pleadings or objections filed, or other matters which may be officially noticed, the Commission determines that: (1) A substantial and material question of fact is presented (see also §1.2108); (2) The Commission is unable for any reason to make the findings specified in paragraph (a) of this section and the application is acceptable for filing, complete, and in accordance with the Commission's rules, regulations, and other requirements; or (3) The application is entitled to comparative consideration (under §24.431) with another application (or applications). (f) The Commission may grant, deny or take other action with respect to an application designated for a formal hearing pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section or part 1 of this chapter. (g) [Reserved] (h) Reconsideration or review of any final action taken by the Commission will be in accordance with Subpart A of part 1 of this chapter. §24.433&hyph;24.438 [Reserved]. §24.439 Transfer of control or assignment of station authorization. (a) Approval required. Authorizations shall be transferred or assigned to another party, voluntarily (for example, by contract) or involuntarily (for example, by death, bankruptcy, or legal disability), directly or indirectly or by transfer of control of any corporation holding such authorization, only upon application and approval by the Commission. A transfer of control or assignment of station authorization in the narrowband Personal Communications Service is also subject to §24.309 (Designated Entities) and §1.2111 (Assignment or transfer of control: unjust enrichment). (1) A change from less than 50% ownership to 50% or more ownership shall always be considered a transfer of control. (2) In other situations a controlling interest shall be determined on a case-by-case basis considering the distribution of ownership, and the relationships of the owners, including family relationships. (b) Form required_(1) Assignment. (i) FCC Form 490 shall be filed to assign a license or permit. (ii) In the case of involuntary assignment, FCC Form 490 shall be filed within 30 days of the event causing the assignment. (2) Transfer of control. (i) FCC Form 490 shall be submitted in order to transfer control of a corporation holding a license or permit. (ii) In the case of involuntary transfer of control, FCC Form 490 shall be filed within 30 days of the event causing the transfer. (3) Form 430. Whenever an application must be filed under paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section, the assignee or transferee shall file FCC Form 430 (``Common Carrier Radio License Qualification Report'') unless an accurate report is on file with the Commission. (4) Notification of completion. The Commission shall be notified by letter of the date of completion of the assignment or transfer of control. (5) If the transfer of control of a license is approved, the new licensee is held to the original build-out requirement of §24.103. (c) In acting upon applications for transfer of control or assignment, the Commission will not consider whether the public interest, convenience, and necessity might be served by the transfer or assignment of the authorization to a person other than the proposed transferee or assignee. (d) [Reserved]
