FR940503-2-00115 FR940503-2-00079 Thus, radiological releases will not differ from those determined previously and the proposed exemption does not otherwise affect facility radiological effluent or occupational exposures. The proposed exemption will not increase the probability or consequences of any reactor accidents. The proposed exemption does not affect plant nonradiological effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no measurable radiological or nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed exemption. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission concluded that there are no significant environmental effects that would result from the proposed action, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impacts need not be evaluated. The principal alternative would be to deny the requested exemption and amendment and to require rigid compliance with the requirements of paragraphs III.D.2.(a) and III.D.3 of appendix J to 10 CFR part 50. Such action would not enhance the protection of the environment and would result in unjustified burdens and costs for the licensee and greater occupational exposure to plant personnel. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not previously considered in connection with the Commission's Final Environmental Statement for D.C. Cook, Units 1 and 2, dated August 1973. Agencies and Persons Consulted The staff consulted with the State of Michigan regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. The State had no comments. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the staff concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For further details with respect to this proposed action, see the licensee's application and request for exemption dated March 9 and April 13, 1994. This document is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the local public document room located at the Maud Preston Palenske Memorial Library, 500 Market Street, St. Joseph, Michigan 49085. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 22nd day of April 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John B. Hickman, Acting Director, Project Directorate III&hyph;1, Division of Reactor Projects_III/IV, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10527 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
