FR940303-2-00104 FR940303-2-00058 The WDNR is proposing to develop a plan for the operation of an experimental forest on state managed lands on the Olympic Peninsula. This planning effort is encouraged by federal legislation (Pub. L. 102&hyph;436 Title II) that allows the WDNR to develop an integrated plan for species conservation, research, and commodity production across the 264,000 acres of state managed forested lands on the Olympic Peninsula. The plan is intended to enable the WDNR to implement an experimental management and research program while continuing some timber harvest in a way that is consistent with the Act. The plan is to provide necessary guidance in the implementation of cooperative research projects, monitoring programs, and forest land management. The plan will be developed in consultation with the Washington State Department of Wildlife and the University of Washington's Olympic Natural Resources Center. The WDNR will seek federal approval of its plan as called for in Public Law 102&hyph;436 Title II and as necessary to meet the applicable requirements of the Act, as necessary. Upon submission of the plan and public review and comment, the Secretary shall determine whether the plan provides for the conservation of the northern spotted owl in the experimental forest and whether it is consistent with northern spotted owl recovery goals. If the WDNR's plan for the experimental forest is approved by the Secretary, actions to implement it will not be considered a prohibited ``taking'' of the northern spotted owl pursuant to Public Law 102&hyph;436, title II, section 204(d). One issue to be examined during the scoping is the effect of the plan on other listed species, such as the marbled murrelet ( Brachyramphus marmoratus marmoratus ) and bald eagle ( Haliacetus leucorephalus ), and possible methods of addressing these effects under the Act. Another issue to be examined is the effect of the plan on anadromous fish stocks found in this part of the Olympic Peninsula. The environmental review of this project will be conducted in accordance with the requirements of NEPA, 42 U.S.C., and implementing regulations. (Notice: Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for the Proposed Olympic Experimental State Forest Management and Research Plan.) Dated: February 24, 1994. Don Weathers, Acting Regional Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Portland, Oregon. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4836 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
