FR940328-2-00011 FR940328-2-00008 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Proposed Relocation of the San Francisco Weather Service Forecast Office; Availability SUMMARY: The National Weather Service (NWS) is publishing its proposed certification for the proposed relocation of the San Francisco Weather Service Forecast Office, Redwood City, to Monterey, California, as required by Public Law 102&hyph;567. In accordance with this law, the public will have 60-days in which to comment on this proposed certification. The proposed certification is summarized in this notice but the entire package is too voluminous to publish in its entirety in the FR and much of the supporting documentation is, therefore, available by contacting the addressees below. DATES: Comments are requested by May 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Requests for copies of the proposed relocation package should be sent to Senator Raygor, Wx21, 1325 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910 or Norman Hoffmann, MIC, 660 Price Avenue, Redwood City, California 94063. All comments should be sent to Senator Raygor. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Senator Raygor at 301&hyph;713&hyph;0391. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The National Weather Service (NWS) anticipates relocating its forecast office for Northern California from Redwood City to Monterey. This is the first modernization action which requires a certification of no degradation of service under the Weather Service Modernization Act (the Act). In accordance with section 706 of Public Law 102&hyph;567, the Secretary of Commerce must certify that this relocation will not result in any degradation of service and must publish the proposed relocation certification in the FR. The proposed certification documentation includes the following: (1) A draft memorandum by the meteorologist in charge recommending the certification, the final of which will be endorsed by the Regional Director and the Director of the National Weather Service if appropriate, after consideration of public comments and completion of consultation with the Modernization Transition Committee; (2) A description of local weather characteristics and weather-related concerns which affect the weather services provided within the service area; (3) A detailed comparison of the services provided within the service area and the services to be provided after such action; (4) A description of any recent or expected modernization of National Weather Service operation which will enhance services in the service area; (5) An identification of any area within any State which would not receive coverage (at an elevation of 10,000 feet) by the next generation weather radar network; (6) Evidence, based upon operational demonstration of modernized NWS operations, which was considered in reaching the conclusion that no degradation in service will result from such action including the relocation checklist and evidence from similar moves; and (7) A letter appointing the liaison officer. The proposed certification will not include any report of the Modernization Transition Committee (the Committee) which could be submitted in accordance with sections 706(b)(6) and 707(c) of the Public Law. At its March 16&hyph;17 meeting the Committee concluded that the information presented by that date did not reveal any potential degradation of service and decided not to issue a report. As stated earlier, some of the documentation included in the certification is too voluminous to publish, e.g. the description of weather characteristics and the detailed comparison of services, and a number of the attachments to the MICs evaluations. These items can be obtained through either of the contacts listed above. Attached to this notice is (1) the draft memorandum from Norman C. Hoffman, Meteorologist in Charge, WSFO San Francisco to Dr. Thomas D. Potter, Director, Western Region, summarizing the basis for his recommendation for relocation certification; (2) the Relocation Checklist; (3) memorandum from (a) Dean P. Gulezian, Meteorologist in Charge, Detroit, (b) James D. Belville, Meteorologist in Charge, WSFO Washington, DC (c) G.C. Henricksen, Jr., Meteorologist in Charge, WSFO Philadelphia, all evaluating recent office moves for which they were responsible and providing evidence for the present relocation. Once all public comments have been received and considered, the NWS will complete consultation with the Committee and determine whether to proceed with the final certification. If a decision to certify is made, the Secretary of Commerce must publish the final certification in the Federal Register and transmit the certification to the appropriate Congressional committees prior to relocating the office. Dated: March 22, 1994. Elbert W. Friday, Jr., Assistant Administrator for Weather Services.
