FR940830-1-00102 FR940830-1-00015 Section 13932 of the Leland Act amended the Food Stamp Act to provide Food Stamp Program eligibility to children living with their eligible parent(s) in a drug or alcohol treatment center regardless of whether or not the center provides the majority of the children's meals. The children would be considered part of the parent's household. Under the household definition stated in section 13931 of the Leland Act, parents and their natural, adopted or stepchildren 21 years of age or younger are considered one household except when the child under 21 is living with his/her children or is married and living with his/her spouse. Then the child's household can be considered a separate household from that of the parent(s). In the case of parents and children living in a drug or alcohol treatment center, the circumstances are different. In the course of discussion during the January 20, 1994 public hearing, one State agency representative asked that children and parents living in residential drug or alcohol treatment programs be considered separate households. The State agency representative explained that the State agency provided different funding amount for meals served to adults and children living in residential drug or alcohol treatment centers. Permitting separate household status for the parents and children residing in these treatment centers would provide the State agency with an easy method for calculating and issuing food stamp benefits. The Department has considered these comments and believes that there are significant problems with this suggested policy of granting separate household status to parents and children living in residential drug or alcohol treatment centers even though such a policy may be less complicated for a particular State agency. The revised household definition of section 13931 of the Leland Act requires parents and children under 21 years of age to be considered one household with two exceptions. Therefore, to provide separate household status to parents and children under 21 who live together in a residential drug or alcohol treatment center would violate section 13931 of the Leland Act. Moreover, under current regulations at 7 CFR 273.1(f)(2), residents of drug or alcohol treatment centers are permitted to apply for food stamps through an authorized representative. If parents and children living in a drug or alcohol treatment program were treated as separate households, problems resulting from the need for authorized representatives for both the parent and child could become very confusing. Under 7 CFR 273.1(f)(2), the authorized representative for residents of a drug or alcohol treatment center must be an employee of the institution administering the treatment program. The Department believes that it was the intent of Congress to include parents and children in the same household even when the parent is in a drug or alcohol treatment center. By including the parent and child in the same household, the parent's income would be counted only once and no authorized representative would be needed for the child. Currently, residents of a drug or alcohol treatment center are certified through an authorized representative of the center. The Department believes that the authorized representative of the center should represent the entire household while the household lives in the center and the center provides the majority of its meals. Therefore, the Department is proposing to amend 7 CFR 273.1(e)(1)(ii) to extend food stamp eligibility to children of narcotic addicts or alcoholics who are residents of drug or alcohol treatment centers. Conforming language is also being proposed to include children of narcotic addicts or alcoholics in the ``Eligible foods'' definition of 7 CFR 271.2 so that these children will become eligible for meals served to eligible households by drug or alcohol rehabilitation centers. A conforming amendment is also being proposed to 7 CFR 273.1(f)(2). Vehicles Necessary to Carry Fuel or Water Currently, a vehicle is totally exempt from being counted as a resource if it is used primarily (over 50 percent of the time) for income producing purposes; annually produces income consistent with its fair market value; necessary for long-distance travel, other than daily commuting, that is essential to the employment of a household member; used as the household's home; or is necessary to transport a physically disabled household member. Section 13923 of the Leland Act amended section 5(g)(2) of the Act to exclude from resources the value of a vehicle that a household depends upon to carry fuel for heating or water for home use when such transported fuel or water is the primary source of fuel or water for the household. It is the intent of Congress that households without heating fuel or piped water into their homes receive this resource exclusion without having to meet any additional tests concerning the nature, capabilities, or other uses of the vehicle. House Report No. 111, 103rd Congress, 1st Session, p. 33. This proposed rule mirrors the language of section 13924 of the Leland Act and the accompanying legislative history. The Department believes the proposed regulation is general enough to permit State agencies the greatest flexibility. During the January 20, 1994 public hearing, some individuals illustrated the need for flexibility by stating that in remote areas of Alaska, households bring in their fuel and water by boat. Under this proposed rule, the State agency would have the flexibility to determine if the boat meets the vehicle exclusion requirement of section 13923 of the Leland Act because the Department does not define the term ``vehicle''. The Department is not proposing any specific verification requirements for determining if the value of a vehicle should be excluded under section 13924. However, the Department expects that State agencies will verify the need for a vehicle to carry fuel and water for the household's use and is soliciting comments on the best means of verification. Some State agencies may decide to add a question to their food stamp applications that asks if a household depends on a vehicle to carry water or fuel for heating. Other State agencies may instruct its eligibility workers to ask such a question at a household's certification interview.
