FR940728-2-00073 FR940728-2-00049 Dated: July 20, 1994. Janis Hastings, Associate Director, Water Division. Attachment 1._Finding of No Significant Impact (FNSI) To All Interested Government Agencies, Public Groups, and Individuals: In accordance with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) procedures for complying with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 40 CFR Part 6, Subpart F, EPA has conducted an environmental review of the following proposed action: Reissuance of general National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit no. AK&hyph;G52&hyph;000 to owners and operators of facilities engaged in the processing of seafood, both floating and onshore facilities, in certain waters of the State of Alaska and waters of the United States adjacent to the Alaska State Waters The general NPDES permit requirements, including effluent limitations, monitoring provisions, and other conditions applicable to the operations covered are specified in the proposed permit. The permit fact sheet describes the basis for the permit provisions. An environmental assessment (EA) for this proposed action has been prepared. Under the proposed action, those new source seafood processing facilities which are excluded from the general NPDES permit will continue to be subject to individual NEPA reviews, involving preparation of an EA and, if impacts could be significant, an environmental impact statement (EIS). Based on the EA, and in accordance with the guidelines for determining the significance of federal actions (40 CFR 1508.27) and EPA criteria for initiating an EIS (40 CFR 6.605), EPA has concluded that reissuance of the General NPDES Permit will not result in a significant effect on the human environment. This action will not significantly affect land use patterns or population, wetlands or floodplains, threatened or endangered species, farmlands, ecologically critical areas, historic resources, air quality, water quality, noise levels, fish and wildlife resources, nor will it conflict with approved local, regional, or state land use plans or policies. For the above reasons EPA has determined that an EIS will not be prepared. A copy of the EA evaluating the potential impacts of the proposed action and explaining why an EIS is not required is available upon request by calling (206) 553&hyph;1761, or at the above address, and is incorporated into this FNSI by reference. Comments supporting or disagreeing with this FNSI may be submitted to EPA at the above address for consideration. After evaluating the comments received, EPA will make a final decision. No administrative action will be taken on the proposed reissuance for at least 30 days after the release date (indicated above) of this FNSI. EPA will fully consider all comments received during this public notice period before taking final action. ␣␣Sincerely, Janice Hastings for Charles E. Findley, Director, Water Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18325 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
