FR940916-2-00115 FR940916-2-00088 The Coast Guard will promulgate implementing regulations when the ISM Code becomes mandatory. At present, U.S. certification is voluntary. Authorized classification societies currently issues SMS certifications under the provisions of Navigation and Vessel Inspection Circular (NVIC) No. 2&hyph;94 (March 15, 1994). These certificates have neither force nor effect under U.S. law. They indicate only that a company and its vessels comply with the terms of the ISM Code as interpreted by NVIC 2&hyph;94, as determined by the authorized class society. Implementing regulations would provide for Coast Guard examination of shipping companies and ships to which the ISM Code applies to determine their compliance. The Coast Guard would authorize the issuance of certificates to companies and ships found to be in compliance. Once the IIM Code comes into effect, port states around the world will check foreign flag vessels for compliance as port calls are made. Companies which own or operate non-SOLAS vessels would be encouraged to voluntarily adopt practices which comply with the provisions of the ISM Code. If such companies were determined to be in compliance, these companies and vessels would be certified. The Coast Guard is interested in receiving comments on the potential costs and benefits of this implementation and on the issues discussed in this notice. Specifically, the Coast Guard is interested in receiving comments on methods by which the Coast Guard can ensure effective compliance with ISM Code standards, while minimizing the burden and costs to the maritime industry. Implementation of the Code will entail a significant philosophical shift in the approach to safety at sea and environmental protection. Because of this, the Coast Guard has decided to hold a public meeting in order to gather public and industry input at early stages of the development of its implementing regulations. Dated: September 12, 1994. J.C. Card, Rear Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23019 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
