FR941012-0-00196 FR941012-0-00013 (b) Reporting and publishing requirements. Each State or Indian tribe, through its routing agency, shall provide information identifying all NRHM routing designations which exist within their jurisdictions on November 14, 1994 to the FHWA, HHS&hyph;30, 400 7th St., SW., Washington, D.C. 20590&hyph;0001 by March 13,1995. The State or Indian tribe shall include descriptions of these routing designations, along with the dates they were established. This information may also be published in each State's official register of State regulations. Information on any subsequent changes or new NRHM routing designations shall be furnished within 60 days after establishment to the FHWA. This information will be available from the FHWA, consolidated by the FHWA, and published annually in whole or as updates in the Federal Register . Each State may also publish this information in its official register of State regulations. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2125&hyph;0554) ยง397.75 Dispute resolution. (a) Petition. One or more States or Indian tribes may petition the Administrator to resolve a dispute relating to an agreement on a proposed NRHM routing designation. In resolving a dispute under these provisions, the Administrator will provide the greatest level of safety possible without unreasonably burdening commerce, and ensure compliance with the Federal standards established at ยง397.71 of this subpart. (b) Filing. Each petition for dispute resolution filed under this section must: (1) Be submitted to the Administrator, Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590&hyph;0001. Attention: HCC&hyph;10 Docket Room, Hazardous Materials Routing Dispute Resolution Docket. (2) Identify the State or Indian tribe filing the petition and any other State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe whose NRHM routing designation is the subject of the dispute. (3) Contain a certification that the petitioner has complied with the notification requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, and include a list of the names and addresses of each State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe official who was notified of the filing of the petition. (4) Clearly set forth the dispute for which resolution is sought, including a complete description of any disputed NRHM routing designation and an explanation of how the disputed routing designation affects the petitioner or how it impedes through highway routing. If the routing designation being disputed results in alternative routing, then a comparative risk analysis for the designated route and the resulting alternative routing shall be provided. (5) Describe any actions taken by the State or Indian tribe to resolve the dispute. (6) Explain the reasons why the petitioner believes that the Administrator should intervene in resolving the dispute. (7) Describe any proposed actions that the Administrator should take to resolve the dispute and how these actions would provide the greatest level of highway safety without unreasonably burdening commerce and would ensure compliance with the Federal standards established in this subpart. (c) Notice. (1) Any State or Indian tribe that files a petition for dispute resolution under this subpart shall mail a copy of the petition to any affected State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe, accompanied by a statement that the State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe may submit comments regarding the petition to the Administrator within 45 days. (2) By serving notice on any other State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe determined by the Administrator to be possibly affected by the issues in dispute or the resolution sought, or by publication in the Federal Register , the Administrator may afford those persons an opportunity to file written comments on the petition.
