FR940912-1-00023 FR940912-1-00010 F. Format for the Standards As authorized under section 111 of the Act, the proposed standards consist of a combination of emission standards and equipment, design, and work practice standards. Emission standards are used whenever feasible; however, such standards are not feasible in all circumstances. In some cases, alternative emission standards are also proposed. Separate standards for tanks, surface impoundments, containers, individual drain systems, oil-water separators, treatment processes, and control devices are proposed. G. Proposed Standards Under the proposed standards, SOCMI process unit wastewater streams with a volatile organic concentration (measured using Reference Method 25D, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A) greater than or equal to 500 ppmw and flow rates greater than or equal to 1.0 liter per minute (Lpm) are required to be controlled. In addition, any wastewater stream with a volatile organic concentration greater than 10,000 ppmw would be controlled under the regulation, regardless of flow rate. Process units that generate wastewater with a total annual volatile organic mass of less than 1 Mg are exempt from the wastewater control requirements of the proposed rule. The proposed wastewater treatment standard involves the application of a controlled collection and treatment system to individual wastewater streams that fail the cut off criteria. The treatment requirements are designed to reduce the VOC content in the wastewater prior to placement in units without air emission controls. The proposal includes a variety of compliance options in order to meet the treatment process standard. These include a recycling option involving recycling of the wastewater to a process unit, an equipment design and operation standard, a numerical emission standard formatted as an effluent concentration limit, and a numerical emission standard format in terms a mass removal requirement. Prior to treatment, the wastewater must be managed in units equipped with air emission controls, and wastewater collection and treatment systems must be designed and operated without leaks, as defined in the standards. Following is a summary of the specific standards for each of the individual types of SOCMI wastewater units. 1. Standards for Tanks Under the proposed standards, owners and operators would be required, with two exceptions, to place wastewater streams in one of the following types of tanks depending on the tank capacity and vapor pressure of the stored material: (1) A tank equipped with a cover (e.g., a fixed roof) and a closed vent system and control device that meets certain design, inspection, and measurement specifications specified in the rules; (2) a tank equipped with a fixed roof and internal floating roof that meets the design requirements specified under the existing volatile organic liquid (VOL) storage NSPS (40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb); (3) a tank equipped with an external floating roof that meets the design, inspection, and measurement requirements specified under the existing VOL storage NSPS; or (4) a pressure tank that is designed and operated with no pressure releases during normal operations including waste loading and unloading. The proposed rules would provide two exceptions to the tank control requirements described above. First, when an affected stream (i.e., one in which the wastewater has a mass-weighted average volatile organic concentration equal to or greater than 500 ppmw) is managed in certain size tanks and possesses certain vapor pressure characteristics, an owner or operator would be allowed to place the waste in a tank equipped with a fixed roof. Second, when the waste is placed in a biological treatment tank that meets the biological organic degradation performance requirements (i.e., 95-percent destruction efficiency), no additional air emission controls would be required. Each cover opening not vented to a control device would be required to be maintained in a closed, sealed position except at those times when a specific opening is used to add, remove, inspect, or sample the waste in the tank or to inspect, maintain, repair, or replace equipment located underneath the cover. Safety devices that vent directly to the atmosphere could be used on the cover or closedvent system with control device provided that the safety device is not used for planned or routine venting of organic vapors and the safety device remains in a closed, sealed position at all times except when an unplanned event requires the opening of the device. 2. Standards for Surface Impoundments The owner or operator of an affected surface impoundment is required to install and use emission control equipment. The proposed rules would require owners or operators to place waste in a surface impoundment equipped with a cover (e.g., air-supported structure) and a closed- vent system with control device or, when applicable, a surface impoundment equipped with a floating membrane cover as the air emission control. If the surface impoundment is used for biological treatment that meets the same organic biodegradation performance requirements described above for tanks, no additional air emission controls would be required to be used on the surface impoundment. The proposed operating and venting requirements for surface impoundment air emission control equipment are consistent with the rule requirements for tanks. 3. Standards for Containers The proposed standards would not apply to a container that has a design capacity less than or equal to 0.1 cubic meter (m 3 ) (26.4 gallons (gal)). The owner or operator of an affected container would be required to place the waste material either into a container equipped with a cover that operates with no detectable organic emissions when all openings are secured in a closed, sealed position or to meet the alternative requirements discussed below. Alternative requirements under the proposed standards for a drum with a design capacity less than or equal to 0.42 m 3 (110 gal) would allow an owner or operator to place the waste in a drum meeting the Department of Transportation (DOT) specifications and testing requirements under 49 CFR part 178. For a drum meeting these DOT regulations, neither Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, leak monitoring, nor recordkeeping of cover design documentation is required under the proposed standards. Another alternative for containers under the proposed standards would require the owner or operator of any container that attaches to or forms a part of any truck, trailer, or rail car to show that the container has been tested for organic vapor tightness within the preceding 12 months in accordance with the requirements of Method 27 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Method 27 is a pressure test procedure originally developed by the EPA for determining the vapor-leak tightness of a tank truck into which gasoline is placed. The EPA also considers the use of Method 27 to be appropriate for determining vapor-leak tightness of trucks, trailers, and rail cars into which wastes containing volatile organics are placed. Neither Method 21, leak monitoring, nor recordkeeping of cover design documentation is required for trucks, trailers, or rail cars complying with this provision of the rules.
