FR940607-2-00043 FR940607-2-00035 Social Security Administration Privacy Act of 1974; Computer Matching Programs: SSA and the Department of Education AGENCY: Social Security Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice of Computer Matching Programs to comply with Public Law (Pub. L.) 100&hyph;503, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988. SUMMARY: This notice announces a computer matching program that SSA will conduct that is subject to the requirements of Pub. L. 100&hyph;503. The purpose of this publication is to meet the publication requirements of Pub. L. 100&hyph;503. DATES: We will file a report of the subject SSA matching program with the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget. The matching program will be effective as indicated below. ADDRESSES: Interested parties may comment on this notice by writing to the Associate Commissioner for Program and Integrity Reviews, 860 Altmeyer Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21235. All comments received will be available for public inspection at this address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The Associate Commissioner for Program and Integrity Reviews at the address above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. General Pub. L. 100&hyph;503, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, amended the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) by adding certain protections for individuals applying for and receiving Federal benefits. Section 7201 of Pub. L. 101&hyph;508, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Amendments of 1990, further amended the Privacy Act regarding protections for such individuals. The Privacy Act, as amended, regulates the use of computer matching by Federal agencies when records in a system of records are matched with other Federal, State, and local government records. It requires Federal agencies involved in computer matching programs to: (1) Negotiate written agreements with the other agency or agencies participating in the match; (2) Notify applicants and beneficiaries that their records are subject to matching; (3) Verify match findings before reducing, suspending, terminating, or denying an individual's benefits or payments; (4) Furnish detailed reports about matching programs to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget; and (5) Establish a Data Integrity Board that must approve match agreements. B. SSA Computer Matches Subject to Pub. L. 100&hyph;503 We have taken action to ensure that all of SSA's computer matching programs comply with the requirements of the Privacy Act, as amended. Below is a brief description followed by a detailed notice of a match that SSA will be conducting as of April 1994 or later. SSA Matching With Department of Education (ED) Purpose: To ensure that the requirements of title IV, section 484(q), of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) are met. Computerized access to SSA master files of Social Security number (SSN) holders enables ED to ensure that the SSN of an applicant for assistance under title IV of the HEA is valid at the time of the application. Applicant records will be matched against SSA's Numident Index Record File. Dated: May 26, 1994. Shirley S. Chater, Commissioner of Social Security. Notice of Computer Matching Program, Social Security Administration (SSA) Numident Index Record File Matching With the Department of Education (ED) A. Participating Agencies SSA and ED. B. Purpose of the Matching Program Section 484(q) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA), requires ED to verify the Social Security numbers (SSNs) of applicants for assistance under title IV of that Act. The purpose of this matching program is to enable ED to verify applicants SSNs. C. Authority for Conducting the Matching Program Section 484(q) of the HEA; Section 1106(a) of the Social Security Act. D. Categories of Records and Individuals Covered by the Match ED will submit for validation SSNs and other identifying information for applicants for assistance from its Central Processing Systems files. The SSA Numident contains the SSN and identifying information for all SSN holders. E. Inclusive Dates of the Match The matching program shall become effective 40 days after a copy of the agreement, as approved by the Data Integrity Boards, is sent to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) (or later if OMB objects to some or all of the agreement), or 30 days after publication of this notice in the Federal Register , whichever date is later. The matching program will continue for 18 months from the effective date and may be extended for an additional 12 months thereafter, if certain conditions are met. F. Address for Receipt of Public Comments or Inquiries Individuals wishing to comment on this matching program should submit comments to the Associate Commissioner for Program and Integrity Reviews, 860 Altmeyer Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21235. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13814 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;M
