FR941012-0-00064 FR941012-0-00011 Another commenter proposed that a different testing standard be adopted in OSHA's final rule: I propose to replace ``ballistic nylon or equivalent protection covering each leg from the upper thigh to boot top or shoe top'' by ``leg protective device in conformity with the standard NQ 1923&hyph;450 ``Protective pad for chain saw operators' trousers and leggings. 6 6 NQ 1923&hyph;450 is a test standard developed in Quebec Province, Canada. This performance standard covers all the requirements for safety leggings such as the minimum coverage and a minimum performance level. This performance level is measured in conformity with the standard NQ 1923&hyph;450 ``Protective pads for chain saw operators' trousers and leggings_Determination of stopping speed and cut-through time.'' These two standards have been adopted by a consensus of employers, workers, manufacturers of fabrics and PPE, government and workers' compensation boards. Other participants opposed specific criteria for leg protection performance for several reasons (Tr. W2 206&hyph;07, OR 472&hyph;75, 496&hyph;98, 513&hyph;14). First, some argued that there were no national consensus or State standard to provide guidance on specification standards. Second, others commented that a specification standard limited to ``ballistic nylon'' was too restrictive (Ex. 5&hyph;30; Tr. W2 189&hyph;90). Third, others stated that there are no standards establishing specific performance criteria of the material for leg protection. For example, APA testified: APA does not know of any state leg protection apparel standard in existence or under development. I can report to you that our association has a special committee working on the development of a safety apparel standard, and this committee has generally accepted the Quebec Research Institute testing method, and now it's kind of rewriting this testing method to meet the American Society of Testing Materials guidelines. So the committee is close to completing its work on endorsing an approved test procedure. The next step in the committee's charge is to develop a voluntary performance testing standard that would apply for leg protection, safety boots and other apparel. That's going to be a little way down the road. It's own opinion that the work of this committee is not yet mature and that OSHA should probably not attempt to include any specific performance testing standard for leg protection or other safety items at this time. They're recommending that you defer the inclusion of a specific leg protection performance testing standard until the next revision of the OSHA logging regulations, whenever that might be. It may be ten years from now or fifteen years from now. At this point in time, we feel it's much more important to get any safety equipment worn, rather than to worry about whether or not it meets specific performance standard (Tr. OR 472&hyph;75). APA also testified that regional differences in chain-saw operations also precludes a specification standard for leg protection: I would also say in general our feeling is that logging is so different obviously in every part of the country that often we've got to have lead-way for the types of leg protection that might be appropriate for a person working in the swamps of Louisiana as opposed to the mountains of Montana. Not that we know what those differences might be, but that in general we feel like the loggers in those areas should be able to have the opportunity to design or approve a leg protection that would be appropriate for their situation (Tr. OR 207&hyph;08). The record shows that leg protection for chain-saw operators is essential to prevent injuries. According to the WIR survey, 64 percent of injuries to chain-saw operators were due to kickback, an accident that usually results in injury to the leg (Ex. 2&hyph;1). The WIR survey also indicates that 22 percent of all injuries reported were to the leg. OSHA believes that leg protection made of ballistic nylon or equivalent material is effective in preventing injuries to the leg. A study by the French Farmers' Mutuality indicates that ballistic leg protection was effective in preventing 12 leg injuries in 91 loggers studies over an eight-month period (Ex. 37). Testimony and comments show, however, that there is no accepted testing measurements standard in this country on leg protection performance. In addition, the foreign standards that do exist have not been generally accepted or used in this country. Nonetheless, OSHA believes that a performance-based requirement for leg protection to provide protection against contact with a moving saw chain will provide flexibility for employers while encouraging technological innovation, such as the work by APA.
