FR940916-2-00105 FR940916-2-00084 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20544; File No. 812&hyph;9066] Composite Bond & Stock Fund, Inc.; Notice of Application September 12, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption Under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: Composite Bond & Stock Fund, Inc., Composite Growth Fund, Inc., Composite Northwest 50 Fund, Inc., Composite U.S. Government Securities, Inc., Composite Income Fund, Inc., Composite Tax-Exempt Bond Fund, Inc., Composite Cash Management Company, Composite Deferred Series, Inc. (collectively, the ``Funds''), and Composite Research & Management Co. (the ``Adviser''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 17(d) of the Act and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants request an order to permit the Funds to pool uninvested cash in joint accounts and invest the cash in short-term repurchase agreements and commercial paper. FILING DATE: The application was filed on June 24, 1994, and was amended on September 6, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on October 7, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit, or for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 5th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The Funds: 601 West Main Avenue, Suite 801, Spokane, WA 99201&hyph;0613. The Adviser: 1201 Third Avenue, 12th Floor, Seattle, WA 98101. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bradley W. Paulson, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0147 or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. APPLICANT'S REPRESENTATIONS: 1. Each Fund is a registered open-end management investment company. The Funds and any series thereof are collectively referred to as ``Portfolios.'' The Adviser provides investment advisory and management services to the Portfolios, Murphey Favre Securities Services, Inc. provides administrative services to the Portfolios, and Investors Fiduciary Trust Company (the ``Custodian'') is the Portfolios' custodian. Applicants request relief for themselves, future series of the Funds, and all other registered management investment companies and series thereof that in the future are advised by the Adviser. 2. At the end of each trading day, most of the Portfolios usually have uninvested cash balances in their accounts at the Custodian. Applicants request an order to permit the Portfolios to deposit some or all of their uninvested cash in a single joint account. The cash in the account then would be invested in short-term repurchase agreements and commercial paper. 3. The joint account would enter into repurchase agreements collateralized only by U.S. Government or agency securities. Each repurchase agreement investment would satisfy the investment criteria of any Portfolio participating in such investment. The joint repurchase transactions will be effected in accordance with Investment Company Act Release No. 13005 (Feb. 2, 1983) and with other existing and future positions the Commission or its staff may take by rule, interpretive release, no-action letter, release adopting any new rule, release adopting any amendments to any existing rule, or otherwise. 4. The joint account also would invest in interest bearing or discounted commercial paper. All commercial paper purchased by the joint account will be a ``First-Tier security'' as defined in rule 2a&hyph;7 under the Act. Each commercial paper investment also would satisfy the investment criteria of any Portfolio participating in such investment. As with repurchase agreements, applicants acknowledge they have an obligation to monitor published statements of the SEC on commercial paper transactions, and in the event the SEC sets forth guidelines with respect to commercial paper, each Portfolio participating in commercial paper transactions made through the joint account will conform its investments to such guidelines and will adopt any appropriate standards and guidelines. 5. The Adviser would decide whether to invest cash balances in the joint account in repurchase agreements and/or commercial paper. The joint account may invest in more than one repurchase agreement or commercial paper instrument. Each Portfolio participating in the joint account would not necessarily have its cash balances invested in every repurchase agreement or commercial paper instrument purchased through the joint account: Certain Portfolios' investment restrictions may preclude their participation in a given repurchase agreement or commercial paper instrument. Moreover, some Portfolios' cash balances may become available too late in the day to be included in repurchase agreements that already have been negotiated. 6. The directors of each Fund have considered the proposed joint account and determined that participation in the joint account would benefit each participating Portfolio. Although the Adviser will gain some benefit through administrative convenience and a possible reduction in clerical costs, the primary beneficiaries will be the Portfolios because the joint account will be a more efficient way of administering investment transactions.
