FR941019-1-00003 FR941019-1-00001 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary M. Holahan, Director, Division of Systems Safety and Analysis, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555&hyph;0001, Telephone: (301) 504&hyph;2884. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Over the past several years, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) staff has become increasingly concerned about the safety of operations during the shutdown of nuclear power reactors. The loss of decay heat removal (DHR) during shutdown and refueling has been a continuing problem. In 1980, DHR was lost at the Davis-Besse plant when one residual heat removal (RHR) pump failed and the second pump was out of service. After reviewing the Davis-Besse event and studying the operating requirements that existed at the time of the event, the NRC issued Bulletin 80&hyph;42 and Generic Letter (GL) 80&hyph;43 calling for new technical specifications to ensure that one RHR system is operating and a second is available (i.e., operable) for most shutdown conditions. The Diablo Canyon event of April 10, 1987, highlighted the fact that midloop operation was a particularly sensitive condition with respect to operability of the residual heat removal pumps. In this event, the reactor coolant system was overdrained during midloop operation. The resulting low water level in the reactor vessel caused vortexing and air entrainment and loss of both residual heat removal pumps. After reviewing the event, the staff issued GL 88&hyph;17, recommending that licensees address numerous generic deficiencies to improve the reliability of the DHR capability. More recently, the incident investigation team's report on the loss of AC power at the Vogtle plant (NUREG&hyph;1410) emphasized the need for risk management of shutdown operations. Furthermore, discussions with foreign regulatory organizations (i.e., French and Swedish authorities) about their evaluations regarding shutdown risk have reinforced previous NRC staff findings that the core-damage probability (CDP) for shutdown operation can be a fairly substantial fraction of the total CDP. Because of these concerns regarding operational safety during shutdown, the NRC conducted a careful, detailed evaluation of safety during shutdown and low-power operations which is documented in NUREG&hyph;1449. Objective The NRC staff's comprehensive evaluation of shutdown and low-power operations, documented in NUREG&hyph;1449, included observations and inspections at a number of plants, analysis of operating experience, deterministic safety analysis, and insights from probabilistic risk assessments. It was observed that shutdown risks have been reduced at many plants through improvements to outage programs. However, the improvements have been unevenly and inconsistently applied across the industry. From this evaluation, the NRC has concluded that public health and safety have been adequately protected during the period that plants have been in shutdown and low power conditions; but that substantial safety improvements are possible and NRC requirements are warranted for the following reasons: (1) A regulatory requirement would set minimum standards for all plants and would ensure that safety improvements already made by industry will be applied consistently throughout the industry and will not be eroded in the future. (2) A regulatory requirement would further reduce risk by improving safety in the areas of fire protection for all plants and midloop operation for PWRs. (3) Significant precursor events involving loss of DHR capability continue to occur despite efforts to resolve the problem. (4) Some controls, including regulatory controls, have been significantly lacking and have in the past allowed plants to enter circumstances that would likely challenge safety functions with minimal mitigation equipment available and containment integrity not established.
