FR940104-2-00101 FR940104-2-00057 (2) OMB Standard Forms 424 (Application for Federal Assistance), Form 424A (Budget), Form 424B (Non-Construction Assurances) and Budget Summary; (3) Statement of Work and Project Management System Baseline Plan (HUD 441.1 and accompanying narrative); (4) A description of how the ``Responsibilities'' in Section I.E.1. will be met. (5) Evidence of how the matching requirement in section I.E.2. will be met. (6) Narrative statement addressing each of the rating factors in section II. B. Certifications and Exhibits Applications must also include the following: (1) Drug-Free Workplace Certification. (2) Form SF-LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, if applicable. (3) Form HUD&hyph;2280, Applicant/Recipient Disclosure/Update Report. V. Corrections to Deficient Applications After the submission deadline date, HUD will screen each application to determine whether it is complete. If an application lacks certain technical items or contains a technical error, such as an incorrect signatory, HUD will notify the applicant in writing that it has 14 calendar days from the date of HUD's written notification to cure the technical deficiency. If the applicant fails to submit the missing material within the 14-day cure period, HUD will disqualify the application. This 14-day cure period applies only to non-substantive deficiencies or errors. Any deficiency capable of cure will involve only items not necessary for HUD to assess the merits of an application against the factors specified in this NOFA. VI. Other Matters A. Environmental Review In accordance with 40 CFR 1508.4 of the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality and 24 CFR 50.20(b) of the HUD regulations, the policies and procedures in this document relate only to the provision of research, training and technical assistance which do not result in physical change and therefore are categorically excluded from the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act. B. Federalism Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that the policies and procedures contained in this notice will not have substantial direct effects on States or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the federal government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. As a result, the notice is not subject to review under the Order. Specifically, the notice solicits participation in an effort to provide assistance to institutions of higher education for establishing and carrying out research and outreach activities addressing the problems of urban areas. The Centers established under this notice will work with local communities to help resolve urban problems. The notice does not impinge upon the relationships between the Federal government and State or local governments. C. Impact on the Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family, has determined that this notice will likely have a beneficial impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being. The assistance to be provided by the funding under this NOFA is expected to help local residents to become self-sufficient by improving living conditions and standards. Accordingly, since the impact on the family is beneficial, no further review is considered necessary. D. Documentation and Public Access Requirements: HUD Reform Act HUD will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted pursuant to this NOFA are sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. This material, including any letters of support, will be made available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of the assistance. Material will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. In addition, HUD will include the recipients of assistance pursuant to this NOFA in its quarterly Federal Register notice of all recipients of HUD assistance awarded on a competitive basis. (See 24 CFR 12.14(a) and 12.16(b), and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these requirements.) E. Prohibition Against Advance Information on Funding Decisions HUD's regulation implementing section 103 of the HUD Reform Act was published on May 13, 1991 (56 FR 22088) and became effective on June 12, 1991. That regulation, codified as 24 CFR part 4, applies to the funding competition announced today. The requirements of the rule continue to apply until the announcement of the selection of successful applicants.
