FR941021-0-00159 FR941021-0-00022 f. System amendments. 58. Several of the commenters question whether applicants will be permitted to change their system designs when amendments are filed. TRW, for example, asks us to clarify that a change in transmission techniques from CDMA to TDMA/FDMA following adoption of service rules will not constitute a major amendment under Commission rules. This concern apparently stems from Section 25.116(c) of our rules, which provides, in general, that any pending application is to be considered a newly filed application if it is amended by a major amendment after a ``cut-off'' date. The rule contains several exceptions, including instances where the amendment resolves frequency conflicts with other pending applications, but does not create new or increased frequency conflicts. 67 67 47 CFR 25.116(c)(1). 59. We have repeatedly emphasized that MSS Above 1 GHz applicants who filed by the cut-off date will be afforded an opportunity to amend their applications, if necessary, to bring them into conformance with any requirements and policies that are adopted for satellite systems in these bands. 68 Thus, a change from a GSO system configuration to a LEO system configuration to meet our satellite system design requirement or a change in coverage patterns to conform with our satellite visibility requirements would be permitted without affecting a particular application's status in this processing group. However, a change that is not necessary to bring the application into conformance with our rules and which would increase frequency conflicts, such as a change from a CDMA to a TDMA/FDMA architecture, would render the application a newly filed application to be considered in a future processing group. 69 We recognize that if all six of the pending applicants are found qualified under our Big LEO rules, our five-system sharing plan will not be able to accommodate all of them. We discuss in a succeeding section of this Report and Order the procedures that will apply to applicants in these circumstances and that we will follow to decide among the mutually exclusive applications. 70 68 See Notice, note 2, supra, at para. 18 Public Notice, note 16, supra. 69 We note that the three CDMA applicants participating in the Joint Proposal have agreed not to change to a TDMA/FDMA architecture. 70 See paras. 88&hyph;97, infra. g. Inter-system coordination. 60. Several commenters also suggest that we institute formal, but not necessarily codified, procedures or guidelines for CDMA inter-system coordination in the context of adopting a domestic sharing plan. Some suggest that we use the initial sharing proposal submitted to the Negotiated Rulemaking Committee by the CDMA applicants as the basis for a domestic framework. Indeed, the three CDMA applicants participating in the Joint Proposal agree to coordinate their systems in accordance with this framework expeditiously and in good faith. 61. We applaud the CDMA applicants for their good faith efforts to develop a framework for coordination. We have decided, however, not to incorporate these procedures in the Commission's rules. Historically, we have left domestic and separate international system inter-system coordination to the satellite licensees themselves, since they are in the best position to weigh the technical and economic trade-offs inherent in any coordination agreement. 71 This approach has proven successful. Since the CDMA applicants have represented that sharing is feasible, we expect that good faith efforts to resolve any outstanding coordination issues expeditiously in accordance with the Joint Proposal will commence after this Report and Order is issued. If the parties believe that any entity is not negotiating in good faith or if an impasse is reached on any issue, we will, upon request, become involved in the process and, if necessary, will devise a solution. 71 See, e.g., Hughes Communications Galaxy, Inc., 7 FCC Rcd 4672 (1992), at para. 8; GE American Communications, Inc. 3 FCC Red 6871 (1988), at para. 2; Assignment of Orbital Locations to Space Stations in the Domestic Fixed-Satellite Service, 50 Fed. Reg. 35228 (1985), at para. 19; RDSS Licensing Order, note 37, supra, at para. 19. 62. Another coordination issued raised by some of the commenters is whether and the extent to which a guardband is necessary between CDMA and TDMA/FDMA systems and, if so, which architecture would bear the burden. The parties to the Joint Proposal have agreed to develop an emissions mask between the CDMA and TDMA/FDMA band segments that spreads the burden between them. LQP, in contrast, suggests that an emissions mask may override the allocations made at WARC&hyph;92 because a mask will, in essence, protect Motorola's secondary downlink transmissions in the 1.6 GHz band.
