FR940804-0-00105 FR940804-0-00024 Many commenters opposing the proposed rule dismissed as unnecessary the creation of a uniform set of rules for Department attorneys. Some commented that the ex parte contact rules currently in place do not vary significantly, given that virtually every jurisdiction has adopted some version of the ABA's anti-contact rule. Other commenters argued that, in any event, state and local ethics rules do not interfere substantially with federal law enforcement activities because only in rare instances have federal prosecutors actually been investigated by a state disciplinary authority. Although an anti-contact rule is in effect in nearly all jurisdictions, it is not interpreted uniformly. Among other things, jurisdictions differ as to whether the anti-contact rule applies in the investigatory stage, compare United States v. Ryans, 903 F.2d 731, 739 (10th Cir.), cert. denied, 498 U.S. 855 (1990) with United States v. Hammad, 858 F.2d 834, 839 (2d Cir. 1988), cert. denied, 498 U.S. 871 (1990); whether the rule applies to prosecutors, compare Matter of Doe, 801 F. Supp. 478 (D.N.M. 1992) with District of Columbia Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 4.2 cmt. ¶ 8; whether the rule applies to former employees of a represented corporate party, compare Public Serv. Elec. & Gas v. Associated Elec. & Gas, 745 F. Supp. 1037, 1042 (D.N.J. 1990) with Polycast Technology Corp. v. Uniroyal, Inc., 129 F.R.D. 621, 628 (S.D.N.Y. 1990); and whether the rule applies to all corporate employees who could make admissions on behalf of the corporation or only to employees who belong to a so-called ``control group.'' Compare Model Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 4.2 cmt. (1983) with Wright by. Wright v. Group Health Hosp., 691 P.2d 564 (Wash. 1984). The lack of uniformity in interpreting existing anti-contact rules has created concern among government attorneys of inadvertently running afoul of state court or federal district court rules. The threat of disciplinary proceedings (and the possible resulting loss of license and livelihood) against a government attorney engaged in legitimate law enforcement activities has had a chilling effect on the responsible exercise of law enforcement duties. Many federal prosecutors who submitted comments in connection with the earlier versions of this rule stated that they feel compelled to refrain from authorizing or participating in legitimate and ethical law enforcement activities because of the current uncertainty as to the acceptability of various ex parte contacts. To add to the confusion inherent in the current situation, the Department's attorney staff consists of members of many different state bars who commonly appear in multiple jurisdictions. Under the Model Rule's approach, an attorney practicing in a jurisdiction in which he or she is not a member of the bar remains subject to the jurisdiction of the bar of which he or she is a member, but if the rules in the two places differ, principles of conflict of laws may apply. Model Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 8.5 and cmt. (1983). As a result, when state anti-contact rules purport to govern the conduct of federal attorneys, the question of which rule governs the conduct of Department lawyers may often be complicated. Indeed, as was noted in the ``Background'' section of this commentary, government attorneys may be subject to substantially different rules when they are working alongside one another on the same case. One commenter proposed that instead of issuing a uniform contacts rule for Department attorneys, the Department should encourage its attorneys to practice only in a given jurisdiction and to obtain bar membership in that jurisdiction. However, Congress has made clear that Department attorneys should be able to practice in different jurisdictions so long as they are a member of some state bar, and there is a significant federal interest in preserving the Department's ability to assign its attorneys wherever there are law enforcement needs to be met. This uniform rule regarding contacts with represented persons achieves consistency and high ethical standards without hampering federal law enforcement activity.
