FR941102-1-00053 FR941102-1-00015 We propose that: (a) Customers of mobile radio services be able to obtain access to emergency services by dialing 911 without having to dial additional digits; (b) such callers be able to place 911 calls without meeting any mobile radio service user validation requirements; and (c) mobile radio service calls to 911 be placed at the beginning of any queue of calls awaiting availability of radio or network resources. The NPRM proposes to require that mobile radio services furnish information necessary for emergency service providers to locate a 911 caller who is using a mobile radio unit, and that mobile radio services permit PSAPs to call back immediately a mobile unit from which a 911 call has been received. The NPRM seeks comment on a proposal that mobile radio equipment that does not conform to the performance criteria proposed in the NPRM must be labelled with a warning that access to 911 is limited and a description that specifies those limitations. Further, the NPRM seeks comment on whether mobile radio services should provide PSAPs with common channel signalling information elements, including subscriber's name and routing information, to direct the call to the proper PSAP. In addition, the NPRM requests comment on ensuring access to 911 service by text telephone devices (TTY) that use wireless services. The NPRM seeks comment on when these requirements should be imposed, and seeks analysis of the technical and cost considerations involved. 4. Additional Considerations The NPRM seeks comment on whether or what privacy considerations should apply to the provision of enhanced 911 services, and seeks analysis of any additional issues that should be considered to ensure that the benefits of 911 services are not diminished by new developments. Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Reasons for Action This Notice of Proposed Rule Making responds to the petitions submitted by TX&hyph;ACSEC and Adcomm to address issues raised by the provision of enhanced 911 services through commercial mobile radio systems, private branch exchanges, and other dispersed private telephone system equipment. Telephone stations for wireline stations served by PBX or similar equipment and for wireless services are not adequately identifying caller location to permit a timely response by emergency services personnel. Objectives The objective of this proposal is to ensure access to enhanced 911 emergency systems on the public switched telephone network for callers served by private branch exchange other dispersed private telephone systems, and for callers served by certain mobile services. Legal Basis The proposed action is authorized under sections 47 U.S.C. 151, 154, 155, 201&hyph;05, 208, 215, 218, 226, 227, 302, 303, 313, 314, 332, 403, 404, 410, 522. Reporting, Record Keeping and Other Compliance Requirements Private branch exchanges and other dispersed private telephone systems will be required to maintain records for calling number identification, caller location identification, and a call-back number for each of their calling stations. Commercial mobile radio services will be required to identify the location of mobile transmitters and provide call-back numbers for them. Equipment used for private branch exchanges and other dispersed private systems and commercial mobile radio services will have to be capable of providing this information to the local telephone exchanges to which they are connected. Local telephone exchanges will incur costs storing and relaying this information to enhanced 911 public service answering points.
