FR941007-1-00014 FR941007-1-00001 The Department also solicits comment on the possibility that the current binding national cap on SO 2 emissions will become non-binding during the time period affected by appliance standards as a result of technology improvements or cost reduction. With regard to economic externalities, the Department notes that changes in electricity demand could affect the market price of allowances. A change in allowance prices might affect the manner in which external parties elect to meet their control obligations, but would not affect the obligations themselves. b. Nitrogen Dioxides Nitrogen oxide (NO X ) emissions are implicated in environmental effects at both the local and regional levels. NO X is a precursor of tropospheric (ground-level) ozone, one of the Clean Air Act criteria pollutants. NO X is also an acid rain precursor. Finally, changes in tropospheric ozone levels, by changing total column ozone, may affect the amount of ultraviolet-B (UVB) radiation reaching the earth's surface. Based on its present information, the Department believes that attention in this rulemaking should address all three of these externality pathways. According to EPA (1993), the primary ambient air quality standard for tropospheric ozone is violated more than one time per year in areas where 66 million Americans live. As noted in the discussion of sulfur dioxide, acid precipitation is another issue of significant national and international concern. The potential importance of the UVB issue is underlined by the fact that concern surrounding the potential damages from a projected increase in UVB at the earth's surface was the major reason motivating the phaseout of chlorofluorocarbons (CFC's), required by the Montreal Protocol to the Vienna Convention and the CAAA of 1990. With respect to acid precipitation, the Department would consider the same factors and information sources as outlined above for sulfur dioxide. However, the regulatory structure for NO X emissions outlined in Title IV of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 is built around low NO X burner technology requirements rather than an emissions cap. Therefore, the Department would not presume that national NO X emissions were insensitive to changes in electricity demand. With respect to the ambient air quality standards, the Department believes that three main issues must be considered. •The regulatory structure and damages from emissions changes in attainment areas (those areas not violating the ambient air quality standards) •The regulatory structure and damages from emissions changes in non-attainment areas.
