FR940830-2-00101 FR940830-2-00056 VIII Plaintiff Access A. For the purpose of determining or securing compliance with this Final Judgment, and for no other purpose, duly authorized representatives of plaintiff shall, upon written request of the Attorney General or the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division, and on reasonable notice to the defendant, be permitted, subject to any legally recognized privilege: 1. Access during the defendant's office hours to inspect and copy all records and documents in the possession or under the control of defendant, which may have counsel present, relating to any matters contained in this Final Judgment. 2. To interview the defendant's officers, employees and agents, who may have counsel present, regarding any such matters. The interviews shall be subject to the defendant's reasonable convenience. B. Upon the written request of the Attorney General or the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division made to defendant at its principal office, defendant shall submit such written reports, under oath if requested, with respect to any of the matters contained in this Final Judgment as may be requested, subject to any legally recognized privilege. C. No information or documents obtained by the means provided in this Section VIII shall be divulged by any representative of the Department of Justice to any person other than a duly authorized representative of the Executive Branch of the United States, except in the course of legal proceedings to which the United States is a party, or for the purpose of securing compliance with this Final Judgment, or as otherwise required by law. D. If at the time information or documents are furnished by defendant to plaintiff, defendant represents and identifies in writing the material in any such information or documents to which a claim of protection may be asserted under rule 26(c)(7) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and defendant marks each pertinent page of such material, ``Subject to claim of protection under Rule 26(c)(7) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,'' then ten (10) days notice shall be given by plaintiff to defendant prior to divulging such material in any legal proceeding (other than a grand jury proceeding), so that defendant shall have an opportunity to apply to this Court for protection pursuant to Rule 26(c)(7) of the Federal Rule of Civil Procedure. E. Within ten (10) days after receiving any request under Sections VIII A or VIII B, defendant may apply to this Court for an order to quash or limit the scope of the request, and after providing plaintiff with an opportunity to respond to such application, this Court shall enter such order or directions as may be necessary or appropriate for carrying out and ensuring compliance with this Final Judgment. IX Duration of Final Judgment Except as otherwise provided hereinabove, this Final Judgment shall remain in effect until ten (10) years from the date of entry. X Construction, Enforcement, Modification and Compliance Jurisdiction is retained by the Court for the purpose of enabling any of the parties to this Final Judgment to apply to this Court at any time for such further orders or directions as may be necessary or appropriate for the construction or carrying out of this Final Judgment, for the modification of any of its provisions, for its enforcement or compliance, and for the punishment of any violation of its provisions. XI Public Interest Entry of this Final Judgment is in the public interest. Dated: XXXXX United States District Court Judge
