FR940930-0-00224 FR940930-0-00029 FRA is therefore revising this section to provide that interference with normal functioning of the warning system includes trains, locomotives or other railroad equipment standing within the system's approach circuit where the warning system is not designed to accommodate those activities. Normal train movements or switching operations are not considered to be interference with the warning system operations. This revision is directed to situations such as when a car or other rail equipment is set out on an approach circuit thereby activating the warning system. If the warning system at that crossing is equipped with a time-out circuit, cut-out circuit, motion detector, or motion sensor, the system will deactivate, permitting traffic to proceed through the crossing. This provision affects operations at those crossings not so equipped. Standing railroad equipment not involved in active switching will not be allowed to keep a warning system activated. Maine DOT suggested that FRA consider requiring track gangs performing maintenance activities within crossing circuitry to disconnect the warning system when working. Many crossings are equipped with cut-out switches which enable a worker to disable the automatic warning system in such a situation. FRA supports the use of these devices provided they are utilized under appropriately rigorous controls established by the railroad. Other than use of such cut-out circuits designed to enable a worker to safely disable a warning system, FRA is strongly opposed to allowing railroad employees unfamiliar with warning system circuitry to actually adjust and modify operation of the warning system. Allowing unqualified employees to modify the circuitry would jeopardize the safety of both employees and the travelling public. Final Rule The rule requires that the normal functioning of any system shall not be interfered with in testing or otherwise without first taking measures to provide for the safety of highway traffic. Interference includes, but is not limited to: (1) Trains, locomotives or other railroad equipment standing within the system's approach circuit, other than normal switching operations, where the warning system is not designed to accommodate those activities; and (2) Not providing alternative methods of maintaining safety for the highway user while testing or performing work on the warning systems or on track and other railroad systems or structures which may affect the integrity of the warning system. The intent of the rule is to ensure that railroads provide alternative methods of maintaining safety whenever the normal functioning of a warning system is interfered with. Those situations include testing or performing other work on the warning systems or on track and other railroad systems or structures which may affect the integrity of the warning system. As stated in the NPRM, ``in some circumstances, nearby track work could activate a crossing warning system. FRA does not believe that `taking measures to provide for the safety of highway traffic' in this context includes chaining a gate in the `up' position while allowing warning lights to continue.'' Section 234.211␣Locking of Warning System Apparatus This section as proposed provides that highway-rail grade crossing warning system apparatus shall be secured against unauthorized entry. The rule provides the carrier with discretion as to the specific manner in which the warning system housings are secured. The rule requires that all external housings of warning system apparatus be kept locked or sealed. This includes warning system houses, flashing light signals, gate mechanisms, and bell or stationary audible warning system housings. The labor/management group supports this section as proposed. There were no other specific comments. Final Rule This section is adopted as proposed. Section 234.213␣Grounds This section as proposed requires that each circuit that affects the proper functioning of a highway-rail grade crossing warning system be kept free of any ground or combination of grounds which will permit a flow of current equal to or in excess of 75 percent of the release value of any relay or electromagnetic device in the circuit. This requirement does not apply to circuits that include track rail, alternating current power distribution circuits that are grounded in the interest of safety, and any common return wires of grounded common return single break circuits.
