FR940511-2-00180 FR940511-2-00111 1. (a) To the extent that a Partnership has funds available for investment, the board of directors of the General Partner will review, among other investments, co-investments with Affiliated Co-investors that may be brought to the attention of the General Partner. The board of directors of the General Partner will make a determination as to whether each particular investment meets applicable investment criteria and is consistent with the existing composition of the Partnership's portfolio in terms of diversification of investments. (b) The General Partner will commit to a co-investment with an Affiliated Co-investor only if the board of directors of the General Partner, by a majority vote at a properly called and held meeting of the board of directors prior to making the investment, concludes, after consideration of all information deemed relevant, that: (i) The terms of the transaction, including the consideration to be paid, are reasonable and fair to the limited partners of the Partnership and do not involve overreaching of the Partnership or such partners on the part of any person concerned; (ii) The transaction is consistent with the interests of the limited partners of the Partnership and is consistent with the Partnership's investment objectives and policies as recited in filings made by the Partnership under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, its registration statement, and reports to its limited partners; and (iii) The investment by an Affiliated Co-Investor, or, as permitted by these terms, ML & Co. or an affiliate thereof, in such transaction would not disadvantage the Partnership in the making of its investment, maintaining its investment position, or disposing of the investment and will be made on the same basis as the Affiliated Co-investors and ML & Co. or any of its affiliates. 2. Purchases of an investment pursuant to these conditions in a transaction in which ML & Co. or an affiliate is a participant shall consist of a class of securities also acquired by ML & Co. and/or its affiliate on the same terms (excluding terms as to aggregate purchase price, but including terms as to registration rights, if any, and other rights provided to the purchasers of such investments). Investments made pursuant to the order by a Partnership with an Affiliated Co-investor or with ML & Co. or one of its affiliates will be acquired by the partnership on the same settlement date as acquired by the Affiliated Co-investor and ML & Co. or its affiliates. 3. No investment will be made by a Partnership in any entity in which any other Partnership, ML & Co., or any subsidiary thereof (such three categories being referred to as ``Affiliates'' for this condition) has previously acquired an interest, provided that this prohibition shall not be applicable to (a) any investment specifically permitted by any other order of the SEC, (b) any investment in a publicly-traded security that is permissible under the Act or the rules thereunder, (c) any investment in an entity in which one or more Affiliates have a prior investment if the securities offered are of the same or senior class of securities held by each such Affiliate and each such Affiliate invests in the subsequent offering on the same terms as a Partnership which does not have a prior investment in that entity, or (d) any investment by a Partnership in an entity in which an Affiliate has made a prior investment, if an institutional investor with total assets of at least $100 million that is not an affiliated person of the Partnership makes an initial investment with the Partnership on the same terms as the Partnership making its initial investment in that entity. 4. If ML & Co. or one of its affiliates 2 elects to sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of an investment acquired pursuant to these terms that also is held by one or more of the Partnerships, notice of the proposed disposition will be given to the Partnership at the earliest practical time and the Partnership will be given the opportunity to participate in such disposition on a proportionate basis on the same terms as those applicable to ML & Co. or such affiliate. Each Partnership will participate in such disposition if such action is determined by a majority vote at a properly called and held meeting of the board of directors of the General Partner to be in the best interests of the Partnership. Each Partnership will bear its own expenses associated with the disposition of such an investment. 2 For purposes of conditions 4 and 5, the term ``affiliate'' of ML & Co. refers to direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of ML & Co. and to other entities with respect to which ML & Co. or any such subsidiary is authorized to cause such entity to provide the opportunity for a Partnership to participate in the sale of an investment with such entity as contemplated by condition 4 or a purchase of a follow-on investment as contemplated by condition 5. 5. If the board of directors of the General Partner, with respect to a Partnership, or ML & Co. or one of its affiliates determines to make a ``follow-on'' investment ( i.e., an additional investment in the same entity) in a particular portfolio company whose securities are held by an Affiliated Co-investor or to exercise warrants or other rights to purchase securities of such an issuer, notice of such transaction will be provided to each Partnership owning securities of such issuer at the earliest practical time. Each Partnership owning securities in an issuer in which the opportunity to make follow-on investments becomes available will participate in such a follow-on investment if the board of directors of the General Partner determines, in the manner required by these conditions, that such action is in the best interests of such Partnership. The acquisition of follow-on investments as permitted by this condition will be subject to the other conditions set forth in the application. 6. The board of directors of the General Partner will review quarterly all information concerning co-investment transactions by the Partnerships with Affiliated Co-investors to determine whether all such investments made during the preceding quarter complied with the conditions set forth above. 7. At least annually, the General Partner will provide to the Partnerships' limited partners a written list of co-investment transactions by the Partnerships with Affiliated Co-investors. 8. The General Partner will maintain the records required by section 57(f)(3) of the Act and will comply with the provisions of section 57(h) of the Act, as if each Partnership were a business development company, all of which will be available for inspection by the limited partners of each respective Partnership. All records referred to or required under these conditions will be available for inspection by the SEC. All such records, as they relate to a particular Partnership, will be available for review by limited partners of that Partnership. 9. In any case where co-investments are made with an Affiliated Co-investor, any individual involved in the management of both the Partnerships and the Affiliated Co-investor will not participate in the Partnerships' determination of whether to effect any co-investment transaction. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11342 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
