FR940513-0-00113 FR940513-0-00029 VII. Conclusion 55. In summary, the rules and procedures we adopt in this Fourth Report and Order for auctioning licenses in the IVDS are designed to minimize the regulatory burdens on both applicants and the Commission, reduce the potential for delay of service to the public, and maintain safeguards to preserve the integrity of the bidding process. The rules also seek to meet Congressional objectives and serve two basic goals: promoting economic growth, and enhancing access to telecommunications service offerings for consumers, producers, and new entrants. We also take account of Congress' desire that designated entities previously underrepresented in the provision of telecommunications services be afforded preferences to encourage their participation. We expect that these procedures will lead to the development and rapid deployment of IVDS offerings across the country. VIII. Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis 56. Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. 604, the Commission's final analysis is as follows: A. Need For, and Purpose of, This Action As a result of the Budget Act referenced above, the Commission may utilize competitive bidding mechanisms in the granting of certain initial licenses. The Commission published an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, see generally 5 U.S.C. 603, within the Notice of Proposed Rule Making in this proceeding, and published a Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis within the Second Report and Order (at ¶¶299&hyph;304). As noted in that previous final analysis, this proceeding will establish a system of competitive bidding for choosing among certain applications for initial licenses, and will carry out Congressional mandates that certain designated entities be afforded an opportunity to participate in the competitive bidding process and the provision of spectrum-based services. B. Summary of the Issues Raised by the Public Comments in Response to the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis In regard to the specific IVDS issues addressed by this Fourth Report and Order, no comments were submitted in response to our Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis. C. Significant Alternatives Considered Although, as described in (B) above, no comments were received pertaining to IVDS, the Second Report and Order addressed at length the general policy considerations raised as a result of the new legislation.
