FR941110-0-00156 FR941110-0-00016 Response: While the Act does not allow for bans on all admissions under these or any other circumstances, it is possible for the State or HCFA to impose State monitoring as an additional remedy. While large civil money penalties are also allowed, they may not be as likely to result in immediate corrections, since they may not be collected until the facility has the opportunity for a hearing. Comment: Several commenters believed that the regulation as proposed does not promote the use of alternative remedies in situations involving immediate jeopardy and argued that this approach does not follow the spirit of OBRA '87. Response: The Act makes a clear distinction between how cases involving immediate jeopardy will be handled as opposed to how all other cases will be handled. The Act requires immediate action to remove the jeopardy and correct the deficiencies through the use of temporary management or termination, or both. While it allows for the use of other remedies which are in addition to temporary management or termination, it is clear that the penalty for a facility with noncompliance which constitutes immediate jeopardy is intended to be swift and severe. The regulation reflects the intent of the Act; therefore, the use of alternative remedies in addition to temporary management is allowed but not stressed for immediate jeopardy situations. Comment: Several commenters asked for a better definition of immediate and serious threat. Others indicated that the scope and severity scale, as issued for comment in the proposed rule, would lead to many more instances of immediate jeopardy than are now being identified. Response: In response to the many comments received regarding the proposed scope and severity scale, we are amending the definition of immediate jeopardy in the final regulation (see §488.301). In making decisions on the existence of immediate jeopardy, HCFA and the States will continue to refer to the traditional guidance on this subject which is contained in Appendix Q of the State Operations Manual. Comment: One commenter pointed out that the proposed regulation does not address who will prevail (HCFA or the State) about whether or not immediate jeopardy exists in a facility, and asked for clarification. Response: HCFA always has the option of reviewing the State's compliance determination and making its own decision based on the survey agency's survey findings. It is not necessary for HCFA to conduct its own survey of a facility in order to make a decision as to whether immediate jeopardy does or does not exist. Whether HCFA's decision is based on its own survey or on a review of the State's findings, the decision as to whether or not immediate jeopardy exists is made pursuant to section 1919(h)(5) of the Act. Specifically, the determination of immediate jeopardy, whether it is the survey agency's or the Secretary's, will prevail. Comment: One commenter asked that the facility and not the State be responsible for notifying attending physicians and licensure boards, as outlined in §§488.410(e) and 488.325(h). Response: As indicated in sections 1819(g)(5)(C) and 1919(g)(5)(C) of the Act, Disclosure of Results of Inspections and Activities, the responsibility for this notification lies with the State; it may not be redelegated to the facility. Comment: One commenter asked that we clarify §488.410(e) to indicate that the notice should go to the licensing authority of the nursing home administrator. Response: We agree, and this comment is reflected in the final regulation. Comment: Two commenters asked that the text of §488.410(c)(2)(i) be amended to indicate that the use of temporary management is for the purpose of correcting the deficiencies that resulted in a finding of immediate jeopardy. Response: We are not adopting these comments, as we believe they would provide for a more narrow interpretation than the Act specifies at sections 1819(h)(4) and 1919(h)(5). These sections state that the appointment of a temporary manager shall be for the purpose of removing the jeopardy and correcting the deficiencies. Further, as indicated in the comments and responses for §488.415, temporary management will be removed when the facility is terminated, or when HCFA or the survey agency has determined that the facility is in substantial compliance and has the management capability to ensure continued substantial compliance with all requirements. Consistent with sections 1819(h)(2), 1919(h)(2) and (h)(3) of the Act, temporary management would not necessarily end as soon as deficiencies causing the immediate jeopardy have been corrected. Comment: Four commenters indicated that HCFA should adopt a procedure utilized in Louisiana, whereby a facility may request sanctions other than a temporary manager and the request may be granted if the State determines that an adequate plan to correct has been devised by the facility and the State can monitor the implementation of the facility's plan. Response: As presented, this procedure does not appear to meet the requirements of the Act which call for immediate action to remove the immediate jeopardy through termination or appointment of temporary management, or both. It would appear that the proposed procedure would allow something similar to a directed plan of correction and State monitoring to replace termination or temporary management as the remedies for immediate jeopardy cases. Such a policy would constitute a violation of the Act. Section 488.412␣Action When There Is No Immediate Jeopardy Comment: Many commenters said that the requirement for the State or the facility to repay funds received from the Federal government if corrective action was not taken in accordance with the approved plan of correction conflicts with HCFA's intent to promote the use of alternative remedies. Response: Comments regarding the State and facility repayment provision of §488.412(a) will be answered in our discussion of proposed §488.232 (redesignated as §488.450, Continuation of payments to a facility with deficiencies). Comment: Several commenters objected to the requirement that a denial of payment for new admissions be imposed if any deficiency remains uncorrected 90 days after the survey. They believed that it is illogical to cut off funds after 90 days because the funds might be needed to make the corrections. Other commenters said that the regulations should allow continued participation with substantial compliance because the 100 percent compliance is impossible to achieve. Still other commenters made the following points: •Major physical environment deficiencies may take longer than 90 days to correct; •The regulations should permit an appeal of the decision to deny payments for new admissions;
