FR941207-0-00014 FR941207-0-00002 A total of twelve comments was received on this proposal, with ten commenters being in favor of the provision, one commenter being opposed, and one commenter possibly misunderstanding the proposed provision. Six of the ten commenters supported the provision exactly as proposed, while the remaining four made additional suggestions for inclusion in the provision. The additional suggestions were as follows: 1) the Department must develop specific objective guidelines to follow when reviewing alternate value pass-through systems to ensure that all systems are evaluated under the same criteria; 2) the Department must consider the burden an alternate system would place on smaller processors, since they would probably have to use that system in a State where it had been approved; and 3) any alternate value pass-through system should be piloted for one year before receiving full approval and reviewed every year thereafter to ensure that it is an accountable and efficient system. The Department believes that one commenter may have misunderstood the provisions, since concern was expressed that the Department was proposing to eliminate the option of allowing alternate value pass-through systems. Finally, the one commenter who was opposed to the provision stated that there was no need for this proposal, since the Department already has the authority to approve or deny alternative value pass-through systems. The Department supports the continued use of alternate value pass-through systems with FCS approval under the State processing and NCP Programs. The Department also supports the proposal that the paperwork and resource burden associated with an alternate value pass-through system are extremely important factors that must be taken into consideration when determining whether an alternate system should be approved. The Department believes that distributing agencies, recipient agencies, and processors do not have the time or resources to dedicate to alternate systems that are more labor-intensive and provide no greater accountability than systems currently described for use by the regulations. Furthermore, since there has been little interest expressed by distributing agencies in using alternate value pass-through systems, the Department does not believe it would be practical to develop specific guidelines for use in evaluating such systems. Historically, there have only been three requests to use alternate systems. While two of these systems were approved for use in the State processing program, only one is currently in use. Instead, the Department finds that it is more effective to evaluate all requests to use alternate system value pass-through systems on a case-by-case basis, making sure that, at a minimum, the alternate system under consideration complies with the verification requirements contained in section 250.19(b)(2) of the Food Distribution Program regulations. This final rule adopts section 250.30(d)(1)(iii) of the proposed State processing regulations and section 252.4(c)(4)(iii) of the NCP regulations without change. Invoice Information The proposed rule would eliminate the requirement under sections 250.30(d)(2) and 250.30(e)(2) of the State processing regulations and section 252.4(c)(4) of the NCP regulations that processor/distributor invoices must indicate the amount of the discount included or refund due the recipient agencies for the end products purchased, regardless of the type of value pass-through system used. Sections 250.30.(d)(3) and 250.30(e)(2) of the proposed rule would also require processors to provide pricing information summaries to contracting agencies. Contracting agencies would be required to provide these pricing information summaries to recipient agencies as soon as possible after contract approval by the distributing agency. If any pricing information changed during the contract year, processors would be required to provide updated pricing information summaries to the contracting agencies 30 days prior to the effective date. The contracting agencies, in turn, would be required to provide the updated summaries to the recipient agencies. Section 250.30(c)(4)(xvii) of the proposed State processing regulations would create the affirmative duty of the processor to provide these pricing summaries and updated pricing summaries. Under the NCP program, section 252.4(c)(4) of the proposed rule would require processors to provide pricing information summaries directly to the recipient agencies as soon as possible after FCS contract approval. Also, section 252.4(c)(4) of the proposed rule would require that if any pricing information changes during the contract year, the processor must provide updated pricing information summaries to FCS and the recipient agencies 30 days prior to the effective date of such change.
