FR941227-2-00143 FR941227-2-00093 [Investment Company Act Release No. 20785; 812&hyph;9358] PaineWebber Incorporated; Temporary Order and Notice of Application for Permanent Order December 19, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Temporary order and notice of application for permanent order of exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANT: PaineWebber Incorporated (``PaineWebber''). RELEVANT ACT SECTION: Exemption from section 9(a) under section 9(c). SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicant has been granted a conditional temporary order, and has requested a conditional permanent order, under section 9(c) exempting applicant from section 9(a) to the extent necessary to permit applicant to employ an individual who is subject to a securities related injunction. The temporary order will expire on the earlier of ninety days from the entry of the temporary order, the date on which the SEC sets PaineWebber's application for permanent relief for a hearing, or the date on which the SEC takes final action on the application. The notice gives interested persons until January 12, 1995 to request a hearing on PaineWebber's request for a permanent order. FILING DATE: The application was filed on December 12, 1994 and amended on December 16, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicant with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on January 12, 1995, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the applicant, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicant, 14th Floor, 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10019. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary Kay Frech, Senior Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0579, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. PaineWebber, a Delaware corporation, is a registered broker-dealer and registered investment adviser. PaineWebber is a wholly owned subsidiary of Paine Webber Group Inc. (``PWG''). PaineWebber serves as the investment adviser and principal underwriter of registered investment companies and proposes to act as investment adviser and principal underwriter to additional investment companies in the future. A wholly owned subsidiary of PaineWebber, Mitchell Hutchins Asset Management Inc. (``Mitchell Hutchins'') serves as sub-advisor and sub-administrator to the registered investment companies underwritten and advised by PaineWebber. In addition, Mitchell Hutchins is the investment adviser and principal underwriter for a number of open-end and closed-end registered investment companies, and anticipates serving in similar capacities with regard to additional registered investment companies in the future. PaineWebber is also the sole depositor, or a co-depositor, and/or underwriter of numerous unit investment trusts. 2. General Electric Company (``GE''), the parent company of Kidder, Peabody & Co. Incorporated (``Kidder''), and Kidder have entered into an asset purchase agreement, dated October 17, 1994, with PWG. The asset purchase agreement provides for the purchase by PWG and certain of its subsidiaries of certain assets of Kidder and its subsidiaries, and contemplates the employment by PaineWebber of Kidder employees. 3. PaineWebber currently is not disqualified from acting in any of the capacities specified in section 9(a) of the Act. 1 Subject to receiving the requested exemption, however, PaineWebber proposes to employ Stanley S. Trotman, Jr. (``Mr. Trotman'') in the health sciences group within its investment banking department. Mr. Trotman is subject to a securities related injunction. Absent relief, Mr. Trotman's employment would cause PaineWebber to become disqualified under section 9(a) of the Act from acting in any of the capacities specified in that section. Accordingly, PaineWebber seeks the requested relief so that applicant, and any affiliated person of applicant, will not be disqualified from acting in any of the capacities specified in section 9(a) by reason of employing Mr. Trotman. 1 In 1990, the Commission exempted PaineWebber from the disqualification provisions of section 9(a) with respect to issues unrelated to this application. PaineWebber Incorporated, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 17588 (July 16, 1990) (Notice) and 17789 (Oct. 10, 1990) (order). 4. Mr. Trotman currently co-heads the health care group within the investment banking department of Kidder. Prior to holding this position, Mr. Trotman was a director of Charter Medical Corporation, T2 Medical, Inc., and Salick, Healthcare, Inc. Until February 16, 1990, when Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, the parent of Drexel Burnham Lambert, Incorporated (``Drexel''), filed for bankruptcy protection, Mr. Trotman was a managing director of Drexel in charge of the health care group in its corporate finance department.
