FR941021-0-00188 FR941021-0-00022 218. In addition, we are not seeking to extend §310 restrictions on the proposed systems with the intention of inhibiting European investment. In fact, §310(b) restrictions will not necessarily apply to the systems because we are not requiring them to operate on a common carrier basis. 308 This policy will permit investment by European industry and other non-government interests. Some of the proposed systems already anticipate significant non-U.S. investment and continue to seek additional such participation. We recognize multinational participation as an integral part of developing a global system. 308 See paras. 171&hyph;181, supra. 219. With regard to the EC's concern that we are advancing trade and industrial policy arguments by moving ahead with the proposed systems, we note that a report prepared by PKMG Peat Marwick on behalf of the European Commission suggests that (with regard to Europe), ``*␣*␣* the immediate priority is international trade and policy issues;'' 309 the very issues the EC accuses the United States of advancing. Notwithstanding the EC's views, the United States has every right under established ITU procedures to move forward with licensing systems that are necessary to satisfy domestic demand for new communication services. Other administrations have the right to decide whether these or any other non-U.S. licensed systems will operate in their countries and whether to participate in the provision of services. Participation in providing these MSS services will give their industries the opportunity to share in the global economic benefits we believe these systems will bring. 309 See ``Satellite Personal Communications and their Consequences for European Telecommunications Trade and Industry,'' KPMG Peat Marwick, at 4, emphasis added. 220. The EC also argues that the Notice proposes unilateral solutions to orbit, frequency and coverage issues that have global implications. Further, it contends that the Notice fails to discuss requirements necessary to effect the application of ITU Resolution Nos. 46 and 70. 221. With regard to orbit considerations 310 and the use of 1.6/2.4 GHz frequencies, we note that as a matter of course the United States engages in good faith negotiations with respect to whatever non-U.S. systems have been filed with the ITU at the time U.S. systems are ready to begin coordination. 311 Consequently, the use of the orbits and of frequencies by U.S.-licensed systems will be subject to the outcome of the ITU coordination process. The worldwide coverage conditions proposed in the Notice 312 result from our desire that these systems be capable of providing coverage to all areas of the world. This could further U.S. participation in the global information infrastructure and potentially benefit developing countries. Again, however, whether U.S.-licensed systems provide services outside the United States would be subject to the agreement of and authorization by other administrations. 310 We assume here that the EC refers to non-geostationary vs. geostationary orbits. 311 We note that the following administrations have proposed MSS systems in the 1.6/2.4 GHz bands that have been advance published, coordinated or notified with the ITU: France (2 systems); Germany; INMARSAT; Russian Federation (2 systems); Tonga (4 systems); and the United States (2 systems). 312 Notice, note 2, supra , at para. 23. 222. With regard to the application of Resolutions No. 46 and 70, we note that Resolution No. 46 relates to ``interim'' procedures for the coordination and notification of non-geostationary satellite networks. As an interim procedure it is subject to further development and will likely evolve. Nevertheless, U.S.-licensed systems will be subject to whatever coordination procedures are in effect at the time, including Resolution 46 or its successor. In the Notice we stated explicitly that we would follow coordination procedures prescribed by the ITU, and in fact we reference Resolution No. 46 and its applicability to Big LEO systems. 313 We also note that each Big LEO applicant will be required to provide us all information necessary to advance publish, notify and coordinate their proposed systems. Implicitly, all applicants will be required to assist us in effecting whatever coordination procedures the ITU requires. 314 313 Notice, note 2, supra, at para. 92 and n. 149. 314 This requirement applies to all FCC-licensed satellite systems and is codified in the FCC rules. See 47 CFR 25.111(b). 223. On the other hand, Resolution 70 relates to ``establishment'' of standards for low-orbit satellite systems and has no requirements per se. It seeks to begin the process of establishing standards for low-orbit satellite systems and invites the appropriate ITU organs to begin studies in this regard. The United States participates in these ITU activities and will continue to do so. However, as Resolution No. 70 has not resulted in any specific ITU recommendations, it is not possible to address ``requirements'' in a domestic licensing proceeding. 224. Finally, the EC contends that the Notice fails to address issues related to access to 2 GHz MSS bands 315 and the relation between access to those bands and the bands under consideration here. First, we note that the 2 GHz bands have not yet been allocated for MSS in the United States. Therefore, these bands will be the subject of another proceeding. In such a proceeding, all matters relevant to the use of 2 GHz bands would be discussed. Nevertheless, we note the increasing demand for access to MSS spectrum worldwide and the potential value of the 2 GHz bands for the provision of MSS. We are also aware of proposals to use the 2 GHz bands for services similar and competitive to those envisaged by the Big LEO applicants. 316 The United States would like to facilitate access to these bands, as does the EC. We believe that WRC&hyph;95 and future multi-lateral consultations would present the appropriate fora to discuss access to and use of 2 GHz MSS bands. 315 The ``2 GHz'' MSS bands were allocated at WARC&hyph;92 as follows: 1970&hyph;1980 MHz and 2160&hyph;2170 MHz: (Regions 1 and 3)_Fixed, Mobile; (Region 2)_Fixed, Mobile, Mobile-Satellite*. 1980&hyph;2010 MHz and 2170&hyph;2200 MHz: (Regions 1, 2 and 3)_Fixed, Mobile, Mobile-Satellite*. (*=These MSS allocations are available for use after Jan. 1, 2005, except in the U.S., when they will be available after Jan. 1, 1996.) 316 For example, the FCC has received two petitions (names) to provide MSS services in this range. In addition, spectrum in this range has been identified for a satellite component of FLMPTS.
