FR940617-0-00023 FR940617-0-00005 Comments Public comments were received from Alcatel Network Systems, Inc., AT&T Network Systems, Mitel Public Switching, Northern Telecom Inc., Redcom Laboratories, Inc., and Seimens Stromberg-Carlson. The comments, recommendations and responses are summarized as follows: General Comments One commenter remarked that a telephone central office switch is a computer and should be purchased using a supply type contract rather than a construction contract and therefore, REA Form 525 should not apply. Response: REA feels that due to the very complex nature and individuality of each central office and the immense amount of coordination and development that must be done prior to, during, and after the installation a supply type contract would not be a suitable instrument to achieve the desired results. Further, REA feels a supply type contract does not provide the Borrower the same degree of protection as the REA Form 525 Contract. This lack of protection could be devastating to the Borrower and consequently, jeopardize REA loan security. The required use of REA Form 525, Central Office Equipment Contract (Including Installation), remains. Notice and Instructions to Bidders Item 4: One commenter remarked that the Owner should be responsible for providing a notice that the state requires a license for bidding, if such a requirement exists. Response: Since the Bidder is the party who ultimately will have to abide by the State's licensing requirements, REA believes the Bidder should bear the responsibility for determining whether a license is required for bidding. Item 6: One commenter remarked that the method of bidding in the existing REA Form 525 makes bid bonds optional and the proposed REA Form 525 removes this option. They feel that the option should remain. Response: The existing REA Form 525, Notice and Instructions to Bidders, Item 5, and the proposed REA Form 525, Notice and Instructions to Bidders, Item 6, specifically state that each proposal must be accompanied by a Bid Bond or a certified check. No other option exists. The wording in both documents is essentially the same. Item 14: (b) One commenter remarked that this requirement adds complexity and administrative burden because the manufacturers are already required to comply with REA Form 525, Article VI. Response: Item 14(b) is required by the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) requirement. Bidder's Proposal To Engineer, Furnish, Deliver, and Install Equipment, Materials and Software Article I, Bid Price Section 1: Two commenters questioned the use of the term ``Delivery Acceptance'' in column five of this section. Response: Column five is the time in calendar days between approval of the Contract and delivery of equipment. The term ``Acceptance'' has been removed from this column to more clearly define the requirement. Section 1: One commenter remarked that there should be some instruction as to how to identify each project. Response: REA agrees. REA has added Note 3 to Article I, section 1, as an instruction to leave a blank line between each Project listed in section 1.
