FR941028-0-00098 FR941028-0-00009 * * * * * 10. Section 773.21 is further amended by deleting paragraph (c). 11. Section 773.22 is added as follows: §773.22 Verification of ownership or control application information. (a) In accordance with §773.15(c)(1) of this part, prior to the issuance of a permit, the regulatory authority shall review the information in the application provided pursuant to §778.13 of this chapter to determine that such information, including the identification of the operator and all owners and controllers of the operator, is complete and accurate. In making such determination, the regulatory authority shall compare the information provided in the application with information from other reasonably available sources, including_ (1) Manual data sources within the State in which the regulatory authority exercises jurisdiction, including: (i) The regulatory authority's inspection and enforcement records and (ii) State corporation commission or tax records, to the extent they contain information concerning ownership or control links; and (2) Automated data sources, including: (i) The regulatory authority's own computer systems and (ii) the Applicant/Violator System. (b) If it appears from the information provided in the application pursuant to §778.13(c) through (d) of this chapter that none of the persons identified in the application has had any previous mining experience, the regulatory authority shall inquire of the applicant and investigate whether any person other than those identified in the application will own or control the operation (as either an operator or other owner or controller). (c) If, as a result of the review conducted under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the regulatory authority identifies any potential omission, inaccuracy, or inconsistency in the ownership or control information provided in the application, it shall, prior to making a final determination with regard to the application, contact the applicant and require that the matter be resolved through submission of (1) An amendment to the application or (2) a satisfactory explanation which includes credible information sufficient to demonstrate that no actual omission, inaccuracy, or inconsistency exists. The regulatory authority shall also take action in accordance with the provisions of §843.23 of this chapter (or the State program equivalent), where appropriate. (d) Upon completion of the review conducted under this section, the regulatory authority shall promptly enter into or update all ownership or control information on AVS. 12. Section 773.23 is added as follows: §773.23 Review of ownership or control and violation information. (a) Following the verification of ownership or control information pursuant to §773.22(b) of this part, the regulatory authority shall review all reasonably available information concerning violation notices and ownership or control links involving the applicant to determine whether the application can be approved under §773.15(b) of this part. Such information shall include_ (1) With respect to ownership or control links involving the applicant, all information obtained under §§773.22 and 778.13 of this chapter; and (2) With respect to violation notices, all information obtained under §778.14 of this chapter, information obtained from OSM, including information shown in the AVS, and information from the regulatory authority's own records concerning violation notices.
