FR940503-0-00042 FR940503-0-00009 §285.18 Adding to or modifying an established LAP. (a) Established or developing LAPs may be added to, modified, or realigned based on either a written request from any person wishing to add or delete specific standards, calibration or test methods, or types of calibration or test methods or a need identified by NIST. (b) NVLAP may choose to make the additions or modifications available for accreditation under a LAP when: (1) The additional standards, calibration or test methods, or types of calibration or test methods requested are directly relevant to the LAP; (2) It is feasible and practical to accredit calibration or testing laboratories for the additional standards, calibration or test methods, or types of calibration or test methods; and (3) It is likely that laboratories will seek accreditation for the additional standards, calibration or test methods, or types of calibration or test methods. 18. Section 285.19(a) is revised to read as follows: §285.19 Termination of a LAP. (a) The Director of NIST may terminate a LAP when the Director of NIST determines that a need no longer exists to accredit laboratories for the services covered under the scope of the LAP. In the event that the Director of NIST proposes to terminate a LAP, a notice will be published in the Federal Register setting forth the basis for that determination. * * * * * 19. Section 285.21 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (c) to read as follows: §285.21 Applying for accreditation. (a) A laboratory may complete and remit an application for accreditation in any of the established LAPs. * * * * * (c) Accreditation of laboratories outside of the United States may require: (1) Translation of laboratory documentation into English; and (2) Payment of additional traveling expenses for on-site assessments and proficiency testing. 20. Section 285.22 is revised to read as follows: §285.22 Assessing and evaluating a laboratory. (a) Information use to evaluate a laboratory's compliance with the conditions for accreditation set out in §285.32, the criteria for accreditation set out in §285.33, and the technical requirements established for each LAP will include (not necessarily in this order): (1) Application and other material submitted by the laboratory (§285.32(b)); (2) On-site assessment reports; (3) Laboratory performance on proficiency tests; (4) Laboratory responses to identified deficiencies; and (5) Technical evaluation. (b) NVLAP shall arrange the assessment and evaluation of applicant laboratories in such a way as to minimize potential conflicts of interest. (c) NVLAP shall inform each applicant laboratory of any additional action(s) that the laboratory must take to qualify for accreditation. 21. Section 285.23 is amended by removing paragraph (d), and by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: §285.23 Granting and renewing accreditation. (a) NVLAP will take action to: (1) Grant initial accreditation, or (2) renew, suspend, or propose to deny or revoke accreditation of an applicant laboratory, based on the degree to which the laboratory complies with the specific NVLAP requirements. (b) If accreditation is granted or renewed, NVLAP shall: (1) Provide a Certificate of Accreditation and a Scope of Accreditation to the laboratory; (2) Provide guidance on referencing the laboratory's accredited status, and the use of the NVLAP logo by the laboratory and its clients, as needed; and
