FR940928-0-00028 FR940928-0-00007 Finally, with regard to the suggestion to ``sunset'' the monthly reporting requirement, INS seriously considered this comment. However, INS believes this to be an ongoing requirement which is needed to adequately manage the account. Should the information become available from other sources, or should some other matters arise, INS will reevaluate the requirement and modify the regulations as appropriate. B. Record Retention Period Three commenters addressed the proposed 5-year record-retention period. Each commenter indicated the extended retention period was burdensome and costly, and that it exceeded the requirements of other Federal agencies. In view of the comments received, the current 2-year retention period will remain in effect. One commenter noted that the proposed rule did not specify the type of records and documents which must be kept. In response to this comment, INS provides the following guidance. Each collector and remitter should maintain records necessary for the carrier to demonstrate to the INS the accuracy of fees collected and remitted, and to otherwise determine compliance with applicable statutes and regulations. Modern technology available to achieve this result may be utilized. C. Fourth Quarter Remittance of Fees Two commenters addressed the remittance deadline for fourth quarter immigration user fees. One commenter objected to the September 20 due date for the remittance of fourth quarter fees. A second suggested that the final rule clarify that the fourth quarter remittance should include collections from the months of July and August for that year. The rule establishes the fourth quarter remittance due dates in order to make the regulation consistent with a statutory change. The 1991 Department of Justice Appropriations Act (Public Law 101&hyph;515, November 5, 1990), as amended by section 309(a)(2)(b) of Miscellaneous and Technical Immigration and Naturalization Amendments of 1991 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;232, December 12, 1991), changed the remittance schedule for the fourth quarter. D. Change in the Immigration User Fee One commenter urged that the Immigration User Fee not be raised from $5.00 to $6.00 per passenger. The change in the User Fee is mandated by statute. The 1994 Department of Justice Appropriations Act (Pub. L. 103&hyph;121, October 27, 1993) increased the fee to $6.00 per passenger. The regulation is being changed to be consistent with the law. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed this regulation, and by approving it, certifies that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because of the following factors. Most of the regulation updates the CFR to conform with current law. The reporting requirement is constructed so that only major entities are required to report. Further, the information required under this rule should be readily available from business records which must be maintained as a routine business practice. Executive Order 12866 This rule is not considered by the Department of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization Service, to be a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, ยง3(f), Regulatory Planning and Review, and the Office of Management and Budget has waived its review process under section 6(a)(3)(A). Executive Order 12612 The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, the relationship between the National Government and the States, or the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
