FR941220-1-00047 FR941220-1-00009 It is estimated that approximately 1.2 million people will have reduced exposure to sulfates as a result of PWSs' compliance with the sulfate MCL. The low and high estimates of reduced population exposure, based on uncertainty in occurrence data, are 0.9 million and 1.7 million people, respectively. Evaluating benefits is limited to estimating reduced population exposure because there are inadequate dose-response data to estimate cases of adverse health effects avoided. Consequently, potential benefits per case of diarrhea avoided are estimated rather than total benefits. Exposed population is usually calculated by multiplying the number of systems failing the MCL by the average population served by each system. A different approach was used for sulfate, since only unacclimated persons and infants are affected. The affected population is in areas served by systems with sulfate levels of 500 mg/L or more, and includes resident infants under one year of age, travellers, including infants, of all ages visiting the area, new residents and houseguests that stay with residents. Infants were assumed to accompany parents on pleasure trips but not on business trips. Sources of population data were the National Travel Data Center and the U.S. Census Bureau Current Population Reports and fertility statistics. The Agency used the 1991 census data for the number of infants born in a year. The number of persons exposed is calculated by multiplying the estimated 250 million people served by all water systems with the probability that the average traveler will visit a system with elevated sulfate levels. The Agency used the National Travel Data Center estimate of approximately 1.27 billion person-trips made nationally each year for travelers. The number of diarrhea cases avoided is based on the estimate of person-trips because each un-acclimatized individual is assumed to face multiple exposures to sulfate and potentially contract diarrhea more than once a year. This estimate of people exposed has uncertainty based on two variables: the number of systems with elevated sulfate levels, and the data used to model the traveling population. The best estimate of the number of travellers and resident infants with reduced exposure to sulfate at an MCL of 500 mg/L is 1.2 million people (including 27,000 infants). A logistic response function was used to characterize the statistical relationship between sulfate levels in drinking water and the probability of an exposed individual experiencing a laxative effect. One weakness of this approach is that it assumes that consumption of either sodium sulfate or magnesium sulfate results in equivalent laxative effects. It has been reported that magnesium sulfate is a better purgative than sodium sulfate. Uncertainty is also associated with the lack of toxicological data on the relationship between various sulfate levels and the resulting laxative effect. There are insufficient data to plot a dose-response function. As a result, the Agency is limiting its estimate of benefits to an individual case basis. The assumptions made in estimating benefits on a case by case basis are shown in Table 10. The value of an outpatient case in Table 10 is between $218&hyph;$273. For example, the value of a case of diarrhea in a resident infant who is not hospitalized would be $55+$11 for the doctor and medication, plus 8 hours of the care giver's time ($19×8=$152), since it is assumed the caretaker would miss work. The total value for the case is $66+$152=$218. An additional $55 would be added in the case of a traveling infant for hotel and travel expenses lost. The range accounts for the difference between residents and travelers. The infant hospitalization cases cost between $3,608 and $3,828 per case. The Agency is requesting comment on the assumptions used in the analysis of the benefits of the proposed rule.
