FR940713-2-00107 FR940713-2-00062 Hartford Life Insurance Company (Hartford Life) and Hartford Investment Management Company (HIMCO) Located in Hartford, Connecticut [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;55; Exemption Application Nos. ␣␣D&hyph;9458 ␣␣and D&hyph;9459] Exemption The restrictions of sections 406(a), 406 (b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to sales and transfers of assets of employee benefit plans (the Plans) to Hartford Life pursuant to the terms of a synthetic guaranteed investment contract (Synthetic GIC) entered into by the Plan with Hartford Life and HIMCO, provided the following conditions have been met: (a) prior to the execution of such Synthetic GIC, an independent fiduciary of such Plan receives a full and detailed written disclosure of all material features of the Synthetic GIC, including all applicable fees and charges; (b) following receipt of such disclosure, the Plan's independent fiduciary approves in writing the execution of the Synthetic GIC on behalf of the Plan; (c) all fees and charges imposed under such Synthetic GIC are reasonable; (d) each Synthetic GIC will specifically provide for an objective means for determining the fair market value of the securities owned by the Plan pursuant to the Synthetic GIC; (e) Hartford Life will maintain books and records of all transactions which will be subject to annual audit by independent certified public accountants selected by and responsible solely to the Plan; and (f) the Synthetic GIC will be offered only in principal amounts of $50 million or more. For a more complete statement of the facts and representations supporting the Department's decision to grant this exemption, refer to the notice of proposed exemption published on May 12, 1994 at 59 FR 24731. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary H. Lefkowitz of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8881. (This is not a toll-free number.) General Information The attention of interested persons is directed to the following: (1) The fact that a transaction is the subject of an exemption under section 408(a) of the Act and/or section 4975(c)(2) of the Code does not relieve a fiduciary or other party in interest or disqualified person from certain other provisions to which the exemptions does not apply and the general fiduciary responsibility provisions of section 404 of the Act, which among other things require a fiduciary to discharge his duties respecting the plan solely in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of the plan and in a prudent fashion in accordance with section 404(a)(1)(B) of the Act; nor does it affect the requirement of section 401(a) of the Code that the plan must operate for the exclusive benefit of the employees of the employer maintaining the plan and their beneficiaries; (2) These exemptions are supplemental to and not in derogation of, any other provisions of the Act and/or the Code, including statutory or administrative exemptions and transactional rules. Furthermore, the fact that a transaction is subject to an administrative or statutory exemption is not dispositive of whether the transaction is in fact a prohibited transaction; and (3) The availability of these exemptions is subject to the express condition that the material facts and representations contained in each application are true and complete and accurately describe all material terms of the transaction which is the subject of the exemption. In the case of continuing exemption transactions, if any of the material facts or representations described in the application change after the exemption is granted, the exemption will cease to apply as of the date of such change. In the event of any such change, application for a new exemption may be made to the Department. Signed at Washington, D.C., this 8th day of July, 1994. Ivan Strasfeld, Director of Exemption Determinations, Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16979 Filed 7&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;29&hyph;P
