FR940816-1-00070 FR940816-1-00010 3. §17.84 be amended by adding paragraph (␣) following the last paragraph to read as follows: §17.84 Special Rules_Vertebrates. * * * * * (␣) Gray wolf ( Canis lupus ). (1) The gray wolf (wolf) population identified in paragraph (␣)(6) of this section is a nonessential experimental population. This population will be managed in accordance with the respective provisions of this section. (2) No person may take this species in the wild in an experimental population area except as provided in paragraphs (␣)(2), (4), and (7) of this section. (i) Landowners on their private land and livestock producers (i.e., producers of cattle, sheep, horses, and mules or as defined in State and Tribal wolf management plans as approved by the Service) that are legally using public land (Federal land and any other public lands designated in State and Tribal wolf management plans as approved by the Service) may harass any adult wolf (a wolf that does not exceed 50 lbs in weight is not considered an adult for these purposes) in an opportunistic noninjurious manner at any time, Provided that all such harassment is by methods that are not lethal or physically injurious to the gray wolf and is reported within 7 days to the Service project leader for wolf reintroduction or agency representative designated by the Service. (ii) Any livestock producers on their private land may take (including to kill or injure) adult wolves in the act of killing, wounding, or biting livestock (cattle, sheep, horses, and mules or as defined in State and Tribal wolf management plans as approved by the Service), Provided that such incidents must be reported immediately but no later than within 24 hours to the Service project leader for wolf reintroduction or agency representative designated by the Service, and livestock freshly (less than 24 hours) wounded (torn flesh and bleeding) or killed by wolves must be evident. Service or other Service authorized agencies will confirm if livestock were wounded or killed by wolves. The taking of any wolf without such evidence may be referred to the appropriate authorities for prosecution. A gray wolf that does not exceed 50 lbs in weight is not considered an adult and can not be taken. (iii) Any livestock producer or permittee with livestock grazing allotments on public land may receive a written permit from the Service or other agencies designated by the Service, to take (including to kill or injure) adult wolves that are in the act of killing, wounding, or biting livestock (cattle, sheep, horses, and mules or as defined in State and Tribal wolf management plans as approved by the Service), Provided that 6 or more breeding pairs of wolves have been documented in that experimental population area and that the Service or other agencies authorized by the Service has confirmed that the livestock losses have been caused by wolves and has unsuccessfully attempted to resolve the problem and subsequent livestock losses are documented. Such take must be reported immediately but no later than within 24 hours to the Service project leader for wolf reintroduction or agency representative designated by the Service and livestock freshly wounded or killed by wolves must be evident. Service or other Service authorized agencies will confirm if livestock were wounded or killed by wolves. The taking of any wolf without such evidence may be referred to the appropriate authorities for prosecution. (iv) The potentially affected States and Tribes may move wolves to other areas within an experimental population area as described in paragraph (␣)(6), Provided that the level of wolf predation is having unacceptable impacts on localized ungulate populations and to the extent that those impacts could inhibit wolf recovery. The States and Tribes will define such unacceptable impacts, how they would be measured, and identify other possible mitigation in their State or Tribal wolf management plans. These plans must be approved by the Service through cooperative agreement before such movement of wolves may be conducted. (v) The Service, or agencies authorized by the Service may promptly remove (place in captivity or kill) any wolf the Service or agency authorized by the Service determines to present a threat to human life or safety. (vi) Any person may harass or take (kill or injure) a wolf in self defense or in defense of others, Provided that all such take is reported immediately (within 24 hours) to the Service reintroduction project leader or Service designated agent. The taking of any wolf without such evidence of an immediate and direct threat to human life may be referred to the appropriate authorities for prosecution.
