FR940505-1-00480 FR940505-1-00012 (v) The NO X standard, in grams per brake horsepower-hour, to which the engine is certified. (2) For 1998 and earlier model year nonroad engines, the equipment owner shall affix a permanent label, that is provided by EPA to the equipment owner along with the certificate of compliance described in paragraph (h)(5) of this section, to the appropriate piece of nonroad equipment specified on the label. The label shall be permanently affixed to the exterior of the equipment at the highest location, and shall be affixed in such a manner that it is readily visible from the ground. The equipment owner shall apply the most recent label directly over the previously existing labels for that piece of equipment. §§52.2976&hyph;52.2998 [Reserved] §52.2999 Employee commute options program rule (Sacramento). (a) Applicability. This section applies to all employers in the Sacramento ECO program area as defined in paragraph (c) of this section who employ 100 or more employees at a work location unless exempted under the provisions of paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (b) Purpose. The purpose of this section is to reduce work trips by requiring employers of 100 or more employees to implement work trip reduction plans designed to attain an average passenger occupancy (APO) target which is 25% over the average occupancy for all peak period work trips in the area. This section will increase the average vehicle occupancy (AVO) of work-related trips and reduce the number of work-related trips and miles traveled. (c) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply: Administrator means the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a designated and delegated representative. Average passenger occupancy (APO) means the average passenger occupancy of commuting vehicles arriving at an employer's work location during the peak travel period. The APO is equal to the number of employees arriving at the location during the peak travel period divided by the number of vehicles in which employees arrive at the same location during the peak travel period. Average passenger occupancy survey (APO survey) means the survey of employees' commute patterns required to be conducted at a work location by employers in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. Average vehicle occupancy or AVO means the average occupancy of all commuting vehicles arriving at all work locations within the Sacramento ECO Program Area during the peak travel period. Carpool means a group of two to eight employees commuting to and from work by means of a vehicle. Clean Air Act means the Federal Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) Commute alternative means the mode of travel between a person's place of residence and place of employment, which is other than in a motor vehicle occupied by one person. Commute alternatives include, but are not limited to, public transportation, carpools, vanpools, buspools, ferries, bicycling, and walking, which may be used independent of or in conjunction with compressed work week schedules, telecommuting and like measures. For purposes of this section, telecommuting is considered a commuting alternative. Compliance plan means the specific plan an employer is required to submit before March 1, 1997 and subsequently implement demonstrating that the employer will reach the APO target before March 1, 1999. Compressed work week means a schedule in which employees work 35 or more hours in fewer than five work days or more than 70 hours in fewer than ten work days. Compressed work week refers to schedules that include but are not limited to: ``4 day-40 hour'', ``3 day-36 hour'', 9 day-80 hour'', ``9 day-72 hour'' schedules, and other work schedules that reduce the number or frequency of required commute trips. Employee means a partner or limited partner in a partnership, or any person employed by an employer, in a full-time or part-time, permanent, temporary or contract position, excluding volunteers, who either reports to work or is assigned primarily to a work location 80 or more hours per 28-day period for at least two months in any four consecutive months. A contract position is one in which the employee reports to the work location for a period of at least two months and whose work hours and assignments are defined by the employer at any time after the effective date of this section.
