FR941006-0-00019 FR941006-0-00004 (iii) Growth allocation . (A) If additional funds remain available after the allocation of funds under (c)(3)(ii) of this section, each State agency which has a stability allocation, as calculated in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, which is less than its fair share allocation shall receive additional funds based on the difference between its stability allocation and fair share allocation. Each State agency's difference shall be divided by the total of the differences for all such State agencies, to determine the percent share of the available growth funds each State agency shall receive. In the event a State agency declines any of its allocation in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section or this paragraph, the funds declined shall be allocated to the remaining State agencies which are still under their fair share. (B) In the event funds still remain after completing the distribution in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, these funds shall be allocated to all State agencies including those with a stability allocation at, or greater than, their fair share allocation. Each State agency which can document the need for additional funds shall receive additional funds based on the difference between its prior year grant level and its fair share allocation. State agencies closest to their fair share allocation shall receive first consideration. (iv) Migrant services . At least 9/10 of one percent of appropriated funds for each fiscal year shall be available first to assure service to eligible members of migrant populations. For those State agencies serving migrants, a portion of the grant shall be designated to each State agency for service to members of migrant populations based on that State agency's prior year reported migrant participation. The national aggregate amount made available first for this purpose shall equal 9/10 of one percent of all funds appropriated each year for the Program. (v) Special provisions for Indian State agencies . The Department may choose to adjust the allocations and/or eligibles data among Indian State agencies, or among Indian State agencies and the geographic State agencies in which they are located when eligibles data for the State agencies' population is determined to not fairly represent the population to be served. Such allocations may be redistributed from one State agency to another, based on negotiated agreements among the affected State agencies approved by FNS. * * * * * (e) Recovery and reallocation of funds. * * * * * (2) Performance standards. *␣*␣* (i) The amount allocated to any State agency for food benefits in the current fiscal year shall be reduced if such State agency's food expenditures for the preceding fiscal year do not equal or exceed 96 percent of the amount allocated to the State agency for such costs for fiscal year 1995 and fiscal year 1996 and 97 percent for fiscal year 1997 and beyond. Such reduction shall equal the difference between the State agency's preceding year food expenditures and the performance expenditure standard amount. For purposes of determining the amount of such reduction, the amount allocated to the State agency for food benefits for the preceding fiscal year shall not include food funds expended for food costs incurred under the spendback provision in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section or conversion authority in paragraph (g) of this section. Temporary waivers of the performance standard may be granted at the discretion of the Department. * * * * * Dated: September 30, 1994. Ellen Haas, Assistant Secretary for Food and Consumer Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24673 Filed 10&hyph;4&hyph;94; 11:08 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;30&hyph;U
