FR940128-2-00011 FR940128-2-00005 Foreign Market Value In order to determine whether there were sufficient sales of WSSP in the home market to serve as a viable basis for calculating FMV, we compared the volume of home market sales of WSSP to the volume of third country sales of the same product, in accordance with section 773(a)(1)(B) of the Act. KT had a viable home market with respect to sales of WSSP during the POI. As stated in our preliminary determination, the Department initiated an investigation under section 773(b) of the Act to determine whether KT made home market sales at less than their COP. If over 90 percent of respondent's sales of a given model were at prices above the COP, we did not disregard any below-cost sales because we determined that the below-cost sales were not made in substantial quantities. If between ten and 90 percent of the sales of a given model were made at prices below the COP, and such sales were made over an extended period of time, we discarded only the below-cost sales. Where we found that more than 90 percent of respondent's sales were at prices below the COP, and such sales were over an extended period of time, we disregarded all sales of that model and calculated FMV based on CV. No evidence was presented to indicate that below-COP prices would permit recovery of all costs within a reasonable period of time in the normal course of trade. In order to determine that below-cost sales were made over an extended period of time, we performed the following analysis on a model-specific basis: (1) If respondent sold a model in only one month of the POI and there were sales in that month below the COP, or (2) if respondent sold a model during two months or more of the POI and there were sales below the COP during two or more of those months, then below-cost sales were considered to have been made over an extended period of time. In order to determine whether home market prices were below the COP, we calculated the COP based on the sum of the respondent's cost of materials, fabrication, and general expenses. We corrected the reported COP and CV data for errors and omissions found at verification. We relied on the submitted COP and CV data, except in the following instances where the costs were not appropriately quantified or valued: 1. We increased KT's general and administrative expenses (G&A) to (1) account for G&A incurred by KT's parent company because KT was unable to demonstrate that it had included these expenses in its reported G&A, (2) account for the amortization of pre-operating expenses which were not included in the submission, and (3) adjust for a clerical error found at verification. (See, Comment 5 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) 2. We increased KT's cost of materials to offset the gain on foreign exchange reported by KT that was related to the acquisition of machinery used to produce non-subject merchandise. (See, Comment 8. ) In accordance with section 773(e)(1)(B)(i) of the Act, we included in CV the greater of respondent's reported general expenses, adjusted as detailed above, or the statutory minimum of ten percent of the COM. For profit, we used the actual profit on home market sales because this amount was greater than the statutory minimum of eight percent of COM and general expenses. See, section 773(e)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act. In cases where we made price-to CV comparisons, we made circumstances-of-sale adjustments, where appropriate, for bank charges and credit expenses. Regarding credit expenses, KT calculated both home market and U.S. credit expenses using its respective average short-term interest rates in Malaysian Ringitts during the POI. We recalculated home market credit expenses using the consolidated short-term interest rate of KT and its parent company, which was based upon KT and its parent company's borrowings denominated in Malaysian Ringitts. In addition, KT failed to deduct discounts from the gross unit price in its home market credit calculation. We made the appropriate deductions in our recalculation. Regarding U.S. credit expenses, we recalculated KT's U.S. interest rate using the amounts of all U.S. dollar-denominated loans stated in U.S. dollars. (See, Comment 13. ) We also recalculated the payment period for each transaction as the time between the date of shipment from KT's factory and the date of payment by the U.S. customer. (See, Comment 14. ) We then recalculated U.S. credit expenses using the revised interest rate and payment period.
