FR941003-0-00071 FR941003-0-00013 5. Section 314.70 is amended by adding new paragraph (f) to read as follows: §314.70 Supplements and other changes to an approved application. * * * * * (f) Claimed exclusivity. If an applicant claims exclusivity under §314.108 upon approval of a supplemental application for a change to its previously approved drug product, the applicant shall include with its supplemental application the information required under §314.50(j). 6. Section 314.94 is amended by adding a new paragraph (a)(12) to read as follows: §314.94 Content and format of an abbreviated application. (a) *␣*␣* (12) Patent certification_ (i) Patents claiming drug, drug product, or method of use. (A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(12)(iv) of this section, a certification with respect to each patent issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office that, in the opinion of the applicant and to the best of its knowledge, claims the reference listed drug or that claims a use of such listed drug for which the applicant is seeking approval under section 505(j) of the act and for which information is required to be filed under section 505(b) and (c) of the act and §314.53. For each such patent, the applicant shall provide the patent number and certify, in its opinion and to the best of its knowledge, one of the following circumstances: ( 1 ) That the patent information has not been submitted to FDA. The applicant shall entitle such a certification ``Paragraph I Certification''; ( 2 ) That the patent has expired. The applicant shall entitle such a certification ``Paragraph II Certification''; ( 3 ) The date on which the patent will expire. The applicant shall entitle such a certification ``Paragraph III Certification''; or ( 4 ) That the patent is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the drug product for which the abbreviated application is submitted. The applicant shall entitle such a certification ``Paragraph IV Certification''. This certification shall be submitted in the following form: I, ( name of applicant ), certify that Patent No. XXXXXX ( is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of ) ( name of proposed drug product ) for which this application is submitted. The certification shall be accompanied by a statement that the applicant will comply with the requirements under §314.95(a) with respect to providing a notice to each owner of the patent or their representatives and to the holder of the approved application for the listed drug, and with the requirements under §314.95(c) with respect to the content of the notice. (B) If the abbreviated new drug application refers to a listed drug that is itself a licensed generic product of a patented drug first approved under section 505(b) of the act, the appropriate patent certification under paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section with respect to each patent that claims the first-approved patented drug or that claims a use for such drug. (ii) No relevant patents. If, in the opinion of the applicant and to the best of its knowledge, there are no patents described in paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section, a certification in the following form: In the opinion and to the best knowledge of ( name of applicant ), there are no patents that claim the listed drug referred to in this application or that claim a use of the listed drug. (iii) Method of use patent. (A) If patent information is submitted under section 505(b) or (c) of the act and §314.53 for a patent claiming a method of using the listed drug, and the labeling for the drug product for which the applicant is seeking approval does not include any indications that are covered by the use patent, a statement explaining that the method of use patent does not claim any of the proposed indications. (B) If the labeling of the drug product for which the applicant is seeking approval includes an indication that, according to the patent information submitted under section 505(b) or (c) of the act and §314.53 or in the opinion of the applicant, is claimed by a use patent, an applicable certification under paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section. (iv) Method of manufacturing patent. An applicant is not required to make a certification with respect to any patent that claims only a method of manufacturing the listed drug. (v) Licensing agreements. If the abbreviated new drug application is for a drug or method of using a drug claimed by a patent and the applicant has a licensing agreement with the patent owner, a certification under paragraph (a)(12)(i)(A)( 4 ) of this section (``Paragraph IV Certification'') as to that patent and a statement that it has been granted a patent license.
