FR940805-1-00120 FR940805-1-00013 (21) Key and tool control. The administrator shall govern the control, issuance, use and storage of keys, tools and culinary and medical equipment. (22) Use of force and firearms. The facility shall comply with 25 CFR 11.304 with regard to the use of force, firearms, chemical agents, or any other weapon. (b) Safety and emergency procedures_ (1) Fire prevention. The administrator shall govern the storage and use of all flammable, toxic and caustic materials, the use of non-combustible receptacles for smoking materials, the amount of personal items, including reading materials, which inmates may keep in their living units and the amount and location of items stored in the facility. (2) Preventive maintenance. The administrator or designee shall develop a written plan for preventive maintenance of the facility. The administrator shall review the plan annually and update it as needed. If tribally operated, the plan shall be supported by a Memorandum of Agreement between the tribe and the Agency. (3) Emergency generator testing. In compliance with 29 CFR 1910.38, emergency power generators shall be inspected weekly and tested under load at intervals of not more than thirty days. (4) Evacuation plan. The administrator shall develop a written evacuation plan prepared in case of fire or major emergency. The plan shall comply with 29 CFR 1910.38 or comparable tribal code. The applicable Safety Officer or designee shall review and approve the plan initially and annually. The administrator shall update and reissue the plan if necessary. The plan shall include: (i) means of immediate release of inmates from locked areas; (ii) location of floor plans; (iii) use of exit signs and directional arrows for traffic flow; (iv) location of a publicly posted plan; (v) at least quarterly drills in all facility locations; and (vi) coordination with the fire department which services the facility. (5) Emergency plans. The administrator or designee shall develop written plans that specify procedures to be followed in emergency situations. The administrator shall make these plans available to applicable personnel and shall review and update them at least annually. All facility personnel shall be trained in the implementation of these plans. Emergency situations shall include but not be limited to: (i) riots and disturbances; (ii) hunger strikes; (iii) hostage situations; (iv) work stoppages; (v) unattended deaths, including successful suicides; (vi) attempted suicides; (vii) escapes and unauthorized absences; and (viii) other threats to the security of the facility. (6) Incident reporting. The administrator shall require the immediate reporting of all incidents that result in physical harm to any person, threaten the safety of any person, result in the need for emergency care, result in damage to the facility or facility property, threaten the security of the facility, or involve the commission of a criminal offense. The administrator shall forward the reports to the Agency Superintendent through the appropriate chain of command. (7) Medical treatment (incident). The administrator or designee shall ensure that all persons injured in an incident receive an immediate medical examination and treatment. (8) Notification of family. The administrator shall provide for the notification of persons designated by the inmate in the event of serious illness, injury or death. (c) Rules and discipline_ (1) Rules of conduct. The administrator shall develop written rules of inmate conduct that specify acts prohibited within the facility and penalties that may be imposed for various degrees of violations. The administrator or designee shall provide these rules to all inmates and shall ensure that all inmates understand them. All personnel who deal with inmates shall receive sufficient training prior to working in the facility to be thoroughly familiar with the rules of inmate conduct, the sanctions available and the rationale for the rules. The administrator shall review the written rules of inmate conduct annually and update them, if necessary to ensure that they are consistent with constitutional and legal principles and BIA and tribal standards and codes. (2) Minor infractions. The administrator shall provide guidelines for the informal resolution of minor inmate misbehavior. (3) Grievance procedure. The administrator or designee shall make a written grievance procedure available to all inmates. The procedure shall include at least one level of appeal. (4) Criminal violations. In instances in which an inmate is alleged to have committed a crime, the administrator or designee shall refer the case to the appropriate law enforcement officials for possible prosecution. (d) Immediate segregation_ (1) Types. The administrator of the facility or designee may order immediate segregation when it is necessary to protect the inmate or others. When immediate segregation occurs, the administrator shall govern the supervision of inmates in the following categories: administrative segregation, protective custody and medical segregation. (2) Medical/mental health segregation. The administrator shall place inmates in immediate segregation for medical reasons only at the direction of the health authority. (3) Daily contact. A supervisor and program staff, on request, shall make a daily visit to inmates in segregation. (4) Release from segregation. A review process shall be used to release an inmate from segregation. (5) Supervision. An officer shall personally observe all inmates in segregation at least every fifteen minutes on an irregular schedule. An officer shall personally observe inmates who are violent, mentally disordered, have medical conditions requiring a higher degree of supervision, or who demonstrate unusual or bizarre behavior more frequently. An officer shall continuously observe suicidal inmates. The facility shall maintain a permanent log of significant events and activities in the segregation unit.
