FR940428-1-00006 FR940428-1-00003 D. Other Revisions Finally, the proposed rule would eliminate the special provision regarding PRIMUS and NAVCARE clincis, which are DOD's contractor owned and operated freestanding clinics. Under special demonstration program authority, these clinics have functioned under rules applicable to military medical treatment facilities. The proposed change would conform with other proposed regulatory action of DOD, which would make the PRIMUS/NAVCARE clinic program permanent under the auspices of the CHAMPUS program. With this action, CHAMPUS coordination of benefits procedures, rather than Third Party Collection Program procedures, will become applicable. III. Regulatory Procedures This proposed rule is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866. It would not have an impact of $100 million or other significant economic impacts. Similarly, the rule does not significantly affect a substantial number of small entities within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. As stated above, for the most part, this proposed rule would simply incorporate into the third party collection program regulation more precise cost calculation methods. In addition, this rule does not impose new information collection requirements for purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act. This is a proposed rule. We invite public comments on all matters covered by this proposal. For the reasons stated in the preamble, 32 CFR Part 220 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 220_COLLECTION FROM THIRD PARTY PAYERS OF REASONABLE COSTS OF HEALTHCARE SERVICES 1. The authority citation for part 220 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301: 10 U.S.C. 1095. 2. Section 220.8 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (a), the heading and first sentence of paragraph (c), introductory text, and by paragraphs (e), (g), (h), (i), and (1) to read as follows: §220.8 Reasonable costs. * * * * * (a) Diagnosis related group (DRG)-based method for calculating reasonable costs for inpatient services. (1) In general. As authorized by 10 U.S.C. 1095(f)(3), the calculation of reasonable costs for purposes of collections for inpatient hospital care under 10 U.S.C. 1095 and this part shall be based on diagnosis related groups (DRGs). Costs shall be based on the inpatient full reimbursement rate per hospital discharge, weighted to reflect the intensity of the principal diagnosis involved. The average cost per case shall be published annually as an inpatient standardized amount. A relative weight for each DRG shall be the same as the DRG weights published annually for hospital reimbursement rates under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) pursuant to 32 CFR 199.14(a)(1). (2) Standardized amount. The Standardized amount shall be determined by dividing the total costs of all inpatient care in all military medical treatment facilities by the total number of discharges. This will produce a single national standardized amount. The Department of Defense is authorized, but not required by this part to calculate three standardized amounts, one each for large urban areas, other urban areas, and rural areas, utilizing the same distinctions in identifying those areas as is used for CHAMPUS under 32 CFR part 199, paragraph 199.14(a)(1). (3) DRG relative weights. Costs for each DRG will be determined by multiplying the standardized amount per discharge by the DRG relative weight. For this purpose, the DRG relative weights used for CHAMPUS pursuant to 32 CFR part 199, paragraph 199.14(a)(1) shall be used. (4) Adjustments for outliers, area wages, and indirect medical education. The Department of Defense may, but is not required by this part, to adjust cost determinations in particular cases for length-of-stay outliers (long stay and short stay), cost outliers, area wage rates, and indirect medical education. If any such adjustments are used, the method shall be comparable to that used for CHAMPUS hospital reimbursements pursuant to 32 CFR part 199, paragraph 199.14(a)(1)(iii)(E), and the calculation of the standardized amount under paragraph (a)(2) of this section will reflect that such adjustments will be used. (5) Identification of professional and hospital costs. For purposes of billing third party payers other than automobile liability and no-fault insurance carriers, billings will be subdivided into three categories: (i) Hospital charges (which refers to routine services charges associated with the hospital stay). (ii) Professional charges (which refers to professional services provided by physicians and certain other providers). (c) Clinical groups per diem rates for care provided on or after October 1, 1992, and prior to October 1, 1994. For inpatient hospital care provided on or after October 1, 1992, and prior to October 1, 1994, the computation of reasonable costs shall be based on the per diem full reimbursement rate applicable to the clinical category of services involved.*␣*␣* (d) Special rule for partnership program providers. In cases in which the professional provider services are provided under the Partnership Program (or similar program operated under the authority of 10 U.S.C. 1096), the professional charges component of the total standard rate will be deleted, as applicable, from the claim from the facility of the Uniformed Services. The third party payer will receive a claim for professional services directly from the individual healthcare provider, who is not an employee or agent of the Department of Defense. Such claims are not covered by 10 U.S.C. 1095 or this part, but are governed by statutory and regulatory requirements of the CHAMPUS program (see 32 CFR part 199). The same is true for professional services provided on an outpatient basis under the Partnership Program.
