FR940418-2-00135 FR940418-2-00074 Finally, the NASD argues that the Series 42 is a substantively adequate examination which will not result in regulatory confusion. The NASD states that the Series 42 was developed by the same industry participants responsible for the development and maintenance of the Series 4 Registered Options Principal (``ROP'') Examination. The NASD represents that these individuals are ROPs at general securities firms which are members of all the option exchanges. 48 48 Id. The NASD believes that its modular qualification program is fully comparable to the Series 7 and that it provides needed flexibility in meeting appropriate qualification standards for the NASD's diverse membership. 49 The NASD states that candidates electing the NASD modular approach are subject to five tests totaling 450 questions compared to the 250-question Series 7 examination. 50 The NASD further believes that requiring candidates to take the Series 62 prior to taking the Series 42 adequately addresses the derivative nature of the options markets. 51 The NASD, for these reasons, does not believe that implementation of the Series 42 will lessen the basic qualification standards for registered representatives. 49 Id. 50 Id. 51 Id. IV. Discussion A. General After a careful review of the proposal, the comment letters received, and the NASD's responses to these comment letters, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act. Specifically, the Commission believes that implementation of the Series 42 examination is a proper exercise of the NASD's responsibility under section 15A(g)(3) of the Act 52 to prescribe standards of training, experience, and competence for persons associated with NASD members. 52 15 U.S.C. 78o&hyph;3(g)(3) (1988). The Commission notes that Article III, section 33 of the NASD Rules of Fair Practice grants NASD members or persons associated with NASD members the authority to effect transactions in options contracts if those transactions are effected in accordance with the rules, regulations, and procedures adopted by the NASD's Board of Governors. Further, each person associated with an NASD member whose activities in the investment banking or securities business include the solicitation and/or sale of options contracts is required, by paragraph 1785(2)(d) of Schedule C to the NASD By-Laws, to be certified as a registered options representative and pass an appropriate certification examination. For these reasons, the NASD has the responsibility, under section 15A(g)(3) of the Act, to prescribe standards of competence for persons associated with NASD member firms who effect transactions in options. The Commission believes that the Series 42, in conjunction with the Series 62, satisfies the NASD's responsibility for prescribing these standards for competence. As described below, the Series 42 has been reviewed by the Commission's Division of Market Regulation and found to be substantively adequate. 53 As also discussed below, the Commission does not agree with the commentator's assertions that the usefulness of the Series 42 is limited or that implementation of the examination will cause regulatory or investor confusion, or will limit access to the options markets. 53 The Commission notes, however, that due to the length of time since the submission of this proposal, the SEC's approval of the use of the Series 42 is contingent upon the NASD updating the Series 42, and review by the Commission staff of such changes in the exam, to ensure that it covers all types of options products currently listed and trading on the options exchanges. B. Utility of the Series 42 The Series 42 will complete the NASD's modular examination program and provide an alternative route to the Series 7 examination for NASD-only members to achieve a general securities representative status. As such, the Series 42 is within the NASD's discretion for providing adequate qualification mechanisms for persons associated with its members.
