FR940525-2-00126 FR940525-2-00064 Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: Specifically, operation of [North Anna] Power Station in accordance with the [proposed] Technical Specification changes will not: [1] involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The safety analysis demonstrates that the proposed reactor vessel protection philosophy, and the associated pressure/temperature limits, LTOPS setpoints, and component operability requirements, ensure that reactor vessel integrity will be maintained during normaloperation and design basis accident conditions. Specifically, adherence to the heatup/cooldown rate-dependent pressure/temperature operating limits ensures that the assumed design basis flaw will not propagate during normal operation. Below the LTOPS enabling temperature, automatic actuation of the PORVs ensures that the assumed design basis flaw will not propagate under design basis low-temperature overpressurization accident conditions. Two pressurizer safety valve[s] are sufficient to relieve the overpressurization due to the inadvertent startup of two charging pumps at water solid conditions without propagation of the assumed design basis flaw. The proposed changes to address the concerns of Generic Letter 90&hyph;06 (Generic Issues 70 and 94) improve LTOPS availability and reliability by instituting requirements for PORV, block valve, and control system testing and allowed outage times for these components. Although these changes do not reduce the probability of occurrence or the consequences of the LTOPS design basis (mass and heat addition) transients, the changes provide increased assurance that pressure relieving devices will perform their design function when required. [2] create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed Technical Specifications modify pressure/temperature operating limits, LTOPS setpoints and enabling temperatures, and component operability requirements. The revised pressure/temperature operating limits, and LTOPS setpoints and enabling temperatures are only slightly different than those currently in the Technical Specifications. No operating limits or setpoints are added or deleted by the proposed changes. Therefore, it may be concluded that the operating limits and setpoint changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident. With regard to component operability requirements, restrictions on the number of charging pumps which may be operable, the number of PORVs which must be operable, and the allowable temperature difference between the steam generator primary and secondary remain unchanged. Only the setpoint temperature at which these restrictions apply have been modified. The proposed changes are entirely consistent with the reactor vessel integrity protection philosophy which ensures that the design basis reactor vessel flaw will not propagate under normal operation or postulated accident conditions. Further, the proposed changes do not invalidate .␣.␣. any component design criteria or the assumptions of any UFSAR [Updated Final Safety Analysis Report] Chapter 15 accident analyses. In addition, modifications have been made to the Technical Specifications to improve availability and reliability of PORVs and associated block valves. These changes have been made in accordance with NRC guidance in Generic Letter 90&hyph;06. It may be concluded that none of the proposed changes creates the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. [3] involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. As described above, the reactor vessel integrity protection philosophy ensures that the design basis assumed flaw will not propagate under normal operation or design basis accident conditions. Adherence to the Technical Specification pressure/temperature operating limits ensures that the margin to vessel fracture provided by the ASME Section XI methodology is maintained. With regard to LTOPS protection, the safety analysis demonstrates that the proposed LTOPS design ensures margins consistent with those provided by ASME Section XI Appendix G methods. This conclusion is based on industry experience with LTOPS events and engineering evaluation. Specifically, both industry experience and engineering evaluation demonstrate that LTOPS design basis events may be expected to occur at essentially isothermal conditions. Engineering evaluation demonstrates that any reduction in allowable pressure due to thermal stresses which may be expected to occur during low temperature operation is insignificant when compared to margins provided by the ASME Section XI Appendix G methods for calculating pressure/temperature operating limits. Use of the isothermal pressure/temperature limit curve as the design limit for establishing low temperature PORV lift setpoints has been approved for other utilities by the NRC. This design maximizes the operating margin above the minimum RCS pressure for reactor coolant pump (RCP) operation, thereby minimizing the probability of undesired PORV lifts during RCP startup. The proposed changes to address the concerns of Generic Letter 90&hyph;06 (Generic Issues 70 and 94) improve LTOPS availability and reliability by instituting requirements for PORV, block valve, and control system testing and allowed outage times for these components. Although these changes do not increase the margin of safety demonstrated by the analysis of the LTOPS design basis (mass and heat addition) transients, the changes provide increased assurance that pressure relieving devices will perform their design function when required. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: The Alderman Library, Special Collections Department, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22903&hyph;2498. Attorney for licensee: Michael W. Maupin, Esq., Hunton and Williams, Riverfront Plaza, East Tower, 951 E. Byrd Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219. NRC Project Director: Herbert N. Berkow. Virginia Electric and Power Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;338 and 50&hyph;339, North Anna Power Station, Units No. 1 and No. 2, Louisa County, Virginia Date of amendment request: April 19, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed changes would revise the Technical Specifications (TS) for the North Anna Power Station, Units No. 1 and No. 2 (NA&hyph;1&2). Specifically, the proposed changes would modify the surveillance frequency of the control rod motion testing from monthly to quarterly in accordance with NRC Generic Letter (GL) 93&hyph;05, ``Line-Item Technical Specifications Improvements to Reduce Surveillance Requirements for Testing During Power Operation'' dated September 27, 1993.
