FR940406-2-00026 FR940406-2-00011 Export Trade Certificate of Review ACTION: Notice of Issuance of an Export Trade Certificate of Review, Application No. 93&hyph;00003. SUMMARY: The Department of Commerce has issued an Export Trade Certificate of Review to American Trade Partners, Inc. This notice summarizes the conduct for which certification has been granted. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Friedrich R. Crupe, Acting Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, 202&hyph;482&hyph;5131. This is not a toll-free number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title III of the Export Trading Company Act of 1982 (15 U.S.C. 4001-21) authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to issue Export Trade Certificates of Review. The regulations implementing Title III are found at 15 CFR Part 325 (1993). The Office of Export Trading Company Affairs (``OETCA'') is issuing this notice pursuant to 15 CFR 325.6(b), which requires the Department of Commerce to publish a summary of a Certificate in the Federal Register . Under Section 305 (a) of the Act and 15 CFR 325.11(a), any person aggrieved by the Secretary's determination may, within 30 days of the date of this notice, bring an action in any appropriate district court of the United States to set aside the determination on the ground that the determination is erroneous. Description of Certified Conduct Export Trade l. Products All products. 2. Services All Services. 3. Technology Rights All Technology rights. 4. Export Trade Facilitation Services (as They Relate to the Export of Products, Services and Technology Rights) All export trade facilitation services. Export Markets The Export Markets include all parts of the world except the United States (the fifty states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands). Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation American Trade Partners, Inc. may: a. Export specific Products and/or Services in response to specific orders and contact individual Suppliers as to competitive prices, quality, and availability of specific Products or Services for export; b. Provide and arrange for Export Trade Facilitation Services; c. Exchange information only in one-on-one discussions with specific Suppliers on specific orders or market conditions relating to the export of specific Products and or Services for export; d. Enter into exclusive licensing and distributorship agreements with Suppliers for the export of Products, Services, and Technology Rights to the Export Markets; e. Allocate export sales or divide the Export Markets among Suppliers for the sale, licensing or distribution of Products, Services, and Technology rights in the Export Markets; f. Establish the price of Products, Services, and Technology Rights for sale, licensing or distribution in the Export Markets; g. Negotiate and manage licensing agreements for the export of Technology Rights; and h. Collect information on trade opportunities in the Export Markets and distribute such information to clients. Terms and Conditions of Certificate a. In engaging in Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation, American Trade Partners, Inc. will not intentionally disclose, directly or indirectly, to any Supplier any information about any other Supplier's costs, production, capacity, inventories, domestic prices, domestic sales, or U.S. business plans, strategies, or methods that is not already generally available to the trade or public. b. American Trade Partners, Inc. will comply with requests made by the Secretary of Commerce on behalf of the Secretary of Commerce or the Attorney General for information or documents relevant to conduct under the Certificate. The Secretary of Commerce will request such information or documents when either the Attorney General or the Secretary of Commerce believes that the information or documents are required to determine that the Export Trade, Export Trade Activities, and Methods of Operation of a person protected by this Certificate of Review continue to comply with the standards of Section 303(a) of the Act. Definitions ``Supplier'' means a person who produces, provides, licenses, or sells a Product, Service, or Technology Right. A copy of this certificate will be kept in the International Trade Administration's Freedom of Information Records Inspection Facility, Room 4102, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Dated: March 30, 1994. Friedrich R. Crupe. Acting Director, Office of Export Trading, Company Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8249 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DR&hyph;P
