FR940128-2-00210 FR940128-2-00136 The revisions to clarify CFCU configurations that satisfy the [limiting condition for operation] LCO and action statements and the removal of cycle specific information from the containment cooling TS are administrative changes that do not affect the operating methodology of Diablo Canyon. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. (2) Does the change create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated? The revision to the minimum CCW flow requirement to the CFCU cooling coils updates a requirement currently in the TS. The new flow requirement assures that the maximum containment design pressure will not be exceeded during a DBA and assures that the CCW system is not overheated. The changes do not result in any physical modification to any plant system. The revisions to clarify CFCU configurations that satisfy the LCO and action statements and the removal of cycle specific information from the containment cooling TS are administrative changes that do not affect the operating methodology of Diablo Canyon. Therefore, the proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. (3) Does the change involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety? Revising the CCW flow rates to the CFCUs clarifies the expected CCW flow rates during normal operation that satisfy the assumptions in the containment design basis accident described in FSAR Update Section 6.2B.3. The revision is an administrative change that clarifies the intent of the TS. PG&E analysis has determined that with three CFCUs available for containment heat removal, adequate CCW flow will be available with both RHR heat exchangers in service to provide assurance that the maximum design pressure of containment is not exceeded, assuming a single failure does not occur. The revisions to clarify CFCU configurations that satisfy the LCO and action statements and the removal of cycle specific information from the containment cooling TS are administrative changes that do not affect the operating methodology of Diablo Canyon. Therefore the proposed change does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. The Commission is seeking public comments on this proposed determination. Any comments received within 30 days after the date of publication of this notice will be considered in making any final determination. Normally, the Commission will not issue the amendment until the expiration of the 30-day notice period. However, should circumstances change during the notice period such that failure to act in a timely way would result, for example, in derating or shutdown of the facility, the Commission may issue the license amendment before the expiration of the 30-day notice period, provided that its final determination is that the amendment involves no significant hazards consideration. The final determination will consider all public and State comments received. Should the Commission take this action, it will publish in the Federal Register a notice of issuance and provide for opportunity for a hearing after issuance. The Commission expects that the need to take this action will occur very infrequently. Written comments may be submitted by mail to the Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, and should cite the publication date and page number of this Federal Register notice. Written comments may also be delivered to room P&hyph;223, Phillips Building, 7920 Norfolk Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland, from 7:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. Federal workdays. Copies of written comments received may be examined at the NRC Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555. The filing of requests for hearing and petitions for leave to intervene is discussed below. By February 28, 1994, the licensee may file a request for a hearing with respect to issuance of the amendment to the subject facility operating license and any person whose interest may be affected by this proceeding and who wishes to participate as a party in the proceeding must file a written request for a hearing and a petition for leave to intervene. Requests for a hearing and a petition for leave to intervene shall be filed in accordance with the Commission's ``Rules of Practice for Domestic Licensing Proceedings'' in 10 CFR part 2. Interested persons should consult a current copy of 10 CFR 2.714 which is available at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555 and at the local public document room located at California Polytechnic State University, Robert F. Kennedy Library, Government Documents and Maps Department, San Luis Obispo, California 93407. If a request for a hearing or petition for leave to intervene is filed by the above date, the Commission or an Atomic Safety and Licensing Board, designated by the Commission or by the Chairman of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel, will rule on the request and/or petition; and the Secretary or the designated Atomic Safety and Licensing Board will issue a notice of hearing or an appropriate order. As required by 10 CFR 2.714, a petition for leave to intervene shall set forth with particularity the interest of the petitioner in the proceeding, and how that interest may be affected by the results of the proceeding. The petition should specifically explain the reasons why intervention should be permitted with particular reference to the following factors: (1) The nature of the petitioner's right under the Act to be made party to the proceeding; (2) the nature and extent of the petitioner's property, financial, or other interest in the proceeding; and (3) the possible effect of any order which may be entered in the proceeding on the petitioner's interest. The petition should also identify the specific aspect(s) of the subject matter of the proceeding as to which petitioner wishes to intervene. Any person who has filed a petition for leave to intervene or who has been admitted as a party may amend the petition without requesting leave of the Board up to 15 days prior to the first prehearing conference scheduled in the proceeding, but such an amended petition must satisfy the specificity requirements described above.
