FR940106-0-00021 FR940106-0-00007 For reasons set forth in the preamble, title 15, part 295 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 295_ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM 1. The authority citation for part 295 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 278n. 2. Section 295.1 is revised to read as follows: §295.1 Purpose. (a) The purpose of the Advanced Technology Program (ATP) is to assist United States businesses to carry out research and development on pre-competitive generic technologies. These technologies are: (1) Enabling, because they offer wide breadth of potential application and form an important technical basis for future commercial applications; and (2) high value, because when applied, they offer significant benefits to the U.S. economy. Precompetitive technology is defined in §295.2(n) and generic technology is defined in §295.2(e). (b) In the case of joint research and development ventures involving potential competitors, the willingness of firms to commit significant amounts of corporate resources to the venture is evidence that the proposed research and development is precompetitive. For joint ventures that involve firms and their customers or suppliers or for single firms not proposing cooperative research and development, a quantified description of the expected broad applicability of the technology and adequate assurances that the technology being developed will be utilized widely can provide evidence that the proposed research and development is pre-competitive. (c) These rules prescribe policies and procedures for the award of cooperative agreements under the advanced Technology Program in order to ensure the fair treatment of all proposals. While the Advanced Technology Program is authorized to enter into grants, competitive agreements, and contracts to carry out its mission, these rules address only the award of cooperative agreements. The Program employs cooperative agreements rather than grants because such agreements allow ATP to exercise appropriate management oversight of projects and also to link ATP-funded projects to ongoing R&D at the National Institute of Standards and Technology wherever such linkage would increase the likelihood of success of the project. 3. Section 295.2 is amended by revising paragraph (a), redesignating paragraphs (d) through (i) as paragraphs (k) through (p), redesignating paragraph (b) as paragraph (e) , redesignating paragraph (c) as paragraph (h), and adding new paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (i), and (j) to read as follows: §295.2 Definitions. (a) For the purposes of the ATP, the term award means Federal financial assistance made under a grant or cooperative agreement. * * * * * (b) The term cooperative agreement refers to a Federal assistance instrument used whenever the principal purpose of the relationship between the Federal Government and the recipient is the transfer of money, property, or services, or anything of value to the recipient to accomplish a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal statute, rather than acquisition by purchase, lease, or barter, of property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government; and substantial involvement is anticipated between the executive agency, acting for the Federal Government, and the recipient during performance of the contemplated activity. (c) The term direct costs means costs that can be identified readily with activities carried out in support of a particular final objective. Because of the diverse characteristics and accounting practices of different organizations, it is not possible to specify the types of costs which may be classified as direct costs in all situations. However, typical direct costs could include salaries of personnel assigned to the ATP project and associated normal fringe benefits such as medical insurance. Direct costs might also include supplies and materials, special equipment required specifically for the ATP project, and travel associated with the ATP project. ATP shall interpret direct costs in accordance with 48 CFR part 31 or OMB Circular A&hyph;122, attachment B. (d) The term foreign-owned company means a company other than a United States-owned company as defined in §295.2(r). * * * * * (f) The term grant means a Federal assistance instrument used whenever the principal purpose of the relationship between the Federal Government and the recipient is the transfer of money, property, services, or anything of value to the recipient in order to accomplish a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal statute, rather than acquisition by purchase, lease, or barter, of property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government; and no substantial involvement is anticipated between the executive agency, acting for the Federal Government, and the recipient during performance of the contemplated activity.
