FR941025-2-00023 FR941025-2-00019 CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE Solicitation and Acceptance of Donations AGENCY: Corporation for National and Community Service. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Corporation for National and Community Service (the Corporation) is announcing that it is soliciting cash donations and donations of goods and services from private sector companies, foundations, and individuals in order to leverage federally appropriated resources in carrying out its national service program. ADDRESSES: Responses to this notice should be mailed to the Office of Private Sector Outreach, 7th Floor, 1100 Vermont Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20525. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The Office of Private Sector Outreach at (202) 606&hyph;5000, ext. 260. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Corporation is a new government corporation that encompasses the work and staff of two previously existing federal agencies, the Commission on National and Community Service and ACTION. The Corporation's mission is to engage Americans of all ages and backgrounds in community-based service. This service will address the nation's education, public safety, human, and environmental needs to achieve direct and demonstrable results. In doing so, the Corporation will foster civic responsibility, strengthen the ties that bind us together as a people, and provide education opportunity for those who make a substantial commitment to service. The Corporation funds a new national service initiative called AmeriCorps that includes a wide variety of programs operated by grantees, the National Civilian Community Corps, and the Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) program. The Corporation also supports service-learning initiatives for elementary and secondary schools and institutions of higher education called Learn and Serve America, and operates the senior volunteers programs previously supported by ACTION. Pursuant to the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 (the Act), the Corporation may ``solicit, accept, hold, administer, use, and dispose of, in furtherance of [the purposes of national service], donations of any money, or property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, received by gift, devise, bequest, or otherwise.'' 42 U.S.C. 12651g(a)(2)(A). Such donations ``shall be considered to be a gift, devise, or bequest to, or for the use of, the United States,'' 42 U.S.C. 12651g(a)(2)(B), and therefore may be allowable as a charitable tax deduction under the Internal Revenue Code. 26 U.S.C. 170. The Corporation may also ``solicit and accept the voluntary services of individuals'' to assist the Corporation in carrying out the national service program. 42 U.S.C. 12651g(a)(2)(A). The Corporation is striving to build innovative public/private partnerships that support national and community service programs throughout the country. The Corporation's primary goal is to foster strategic linkages between private sector companies, foundations, government agencies, and community service organizations, in order to multiply their combined abilities to address shared community problems. To this end, the Corporation seeks to leverage its federally appropriated resources with donations of goods and services from private sector companies, foundations, and individuals. Such goods and services include, but are not limited to, the following: •apparel; •footwear; •food and beverages; •communication equipment and services; •transportation (air, bus, train tickets) •print and broadcast media services; •transportation equipment and services; •computer equipment and services; •gardening and building supplies; •office equipment and supplies; •books and other printed material; •printing and duplication services; •facilities for training and special events; •audiovisual equipment and services; •sporting equipment; •arts and crafts supplies; •marketing, public relations, and advertising services; •financial, accounting, and legal services; •any other goods and services that will further the mission and goals of the Corporation. The Corporation is also interested in receiving cash donations.
