FR940318-2-00131 FR940318-2-00078 Grants or special allotments will be made under this announcement with special but not exclusive regard to the following IHS research emphases for FY 1995. 1. Studies of documented high importance to the community in which the research is to be done. 2. Studies with high relevance for the AI/AN populations. (The series ``The Research Agenda for Indian Health'' in the IHS Primary Care Provider, lists many relevant research subjects. Reprints are available from the IHS Research Program and the Area Research Offices.) 3. For studies that involve problems that are both social and medical (e.g., dysfunctional families), research on factors that enable the community or individuals to overcome the problems. 4. Competing continuations of previously-funded research projects. D. Fund Availability, Period of Support, and Funding Level Subject to the availability of FY 1995 funds, $300,000 will be available to support approximately 15 research grants to tribes and special allotments to IHS components and up to 5 demonstrative cooperative agreements to tribes. (Cooperative agreements are financial assistance awards that require the substantial programmatic involvement of the Federal Government. Specific programmatic involvement by the IHS in a project will be negotiated with an approved applicant before award of a cooperative agreement. This involvement will include the statement of the study question(s) and objective(s); the adequacy of the research literature; the research design and methods proposed; the management, quality control, and analysis of the data sources; the development of new methods and information; the importance of community involvement; the applicability of the research to AI/AN people; the budget sufficiency; and the adequacy of the principal investigator and research team.) The detail required in a research project application and funding needs for the project differ widely between experienced and inexperienced researchers. Therefore, we anticipate two levels of project application and funding. This will allow both the inexperienced and experienced researchers to apply for grants and to compete with others of similar expertise. The grant application must designate for which level the researcher is applying. (1) The first level is for a one year pilot research project. This level is for less experienced researchers and for less complex and detailed applications. A less experienced researcher is defined as an investigator who has never received a funded research award in his or her own right. The Research Plan and Importance & Utility sections of the pilot research project application should be of less detail and complexity than expected for the small grant research project application; only biographical sketches, not Curriculum Vitae, are required. The anticipated maximum funding for a pilot research project is $15,000. (2) The second level is for a small grant research project. This level is for more experienced researchers. A more experienced researcher is defined as an investigator who has received at least one funded research award in his or her own right. The Research Plan and Importance and Utility sections of the small grant research project application must be complete and discussed in detail. The small grant project application should be more complete, and have more detail and complexity, than the pilot research project application. The anticipated maximum funding for a small grant research project is $50,000 per year. The project may be planned for up to three years with a competing continuation application for each succeeding year. Research projects are normally funded for a 1 year project period. No cost extensions can be requested by the researcher to finish work that has encountered unanticipated delays. All applicants must compete annually; however, among applications of similar merit, priority will be given to applicants for a competing continuation of a previously-funded research project. No projects may be funded for more than 3 years. E. The Complete Application
