FR940524-2-00072 FR940524-2-00048 OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET Office of Federal Procurement Policy Policy Letter on Management Oversight of Service Contracting AGENCY: Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Office of Federal Procurement Policy. ACTION: The Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) is reissuing Policy Letter 93&hyph;1 on the ``Management Oversight of Service Contracting.'' The Policy Letter includes appropriate changes from proposed Supplement No. 1 which was issued on January 26, 1994 and published in the Federal Register on February 2, 1994 (59 FR 4955). SUMMARY: OFPP Policy Letter 93&hyph;1, ``Management Oversight of Service Contracting,'' was signed by the former OFPP Administrator on November 19, 1993 and published in the Federal Register on December 2, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 63593). The Policy Letter is being reissued in its entirety to replace the November 19, 1993 version. The Policy Letter is being reissued to provide agencies with a more ``results-oriented'' approach to managing and administering service contracts through the ``best practices'' concept. One way to achieve excellence in contractor performance is to improve the acquisition, management, and administration of service contracts. OFPP has several initiatives underway that should help to achieve excellence in contractor performance, e.g., emphasizing past performance in source selection, stressing the need for more performance-based service contracts, and developing best practices in contract administration. This Policy Letter provides guiding principles through the ``best practices'' concept that should help agencies develop, analyze, and perfect requirements for service contracts which, in turn, should improve contract management and administration. Other ``best practices'' models in contract management and administration will be issued as separate guidance. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposed Supplement No. 1 and requests for comments was published in the February 2, 1994 Federal Register (59 FR 4955). Twenty-one comment letters were received in response to the Federal Register notice, of which, one was from the private sector. A summary of the more significant comments received and OFPP response to them follows: 1. Best practices in Lieu of Mandated Written Management Control Procedures and a Single Management Official Several Inspectors General (IGs) commented that changing to the ``best practices'' concept will not promote the improvements that are needed in managing and administering service contracts. The commenters suggested that eliminating the requirement for management control procedures and the single management official will increase the vulnerability of the procurement system to waste, fraud, and abuse. Traditionally, OFPP has taken an ``input-oriented'' approach to managing and administering service contracts to respond to concerns raised in Congressional hearings and reports that better controls are needed to prevent abuses from occurring in the acquisition and use of service contracts. We believe that this input-oriented approach, i.e., developing procedures, designating a single official, and adding reporting requirements, has not added significant value to management practices being used in the federal government. Hence, we believe that a more ``results-oriented'' approach that suggests best practices that add value in contract management and administration should help to streamline the procurement process and achieve excellence in contractor performance. Therefore, the proposed revisions in Supplement No. 1 to section 8 (Responsibilities) has been incorporated in this reissued Policy Letter. We have included a definition of ``best practices'' to clarify our intent of this concept. 2. Use of Best Practices as Mandatory Guidance for Audit Purposes Several IGs expressed concern that they are unable to use ``best practices'' as mandatory regulatory guidance for audit purposes. OFPP believes that the guidelines in section 7 and the questions in appendix A should be viewed as warning signals to help agencies analyze and perfect requirements for service contracts to prevent abuses from occurring. As we continue to work with the agencies and industry to develop ``best practices'' in contract management and administration agencies should be able to use these guiding principles to make improvements that add value to the procurement system. In keeping with the principles of the National Performance Review, we believe that the IGs should work with the procurement community to help achieve needed improvements in service contracting. Therefore, the proposed changes to section 8(d) in Supplement No. 1 will be incorporated in this reissued Policy Letter.
