FR941121-0-00021 FR941121-0-00001 vii. Services offered through a group purchasing plan or a credit union service organization (CUSO). 4. Options. All dividend-bearing and interest-bearing accounts are either fixed-rate or variable-rate accounts. 5. Use of synonyms. Generally, it is not the purpose of part 707 to prohibit specific descriptive terms for accounts. For example, credit unions can use adjectives and trade names to describe accounts such as ``Best Share Draft Account,'' or ``Ultra Money Market Share Account.'' Synonyms for share, share draft, money market share, and term share accounts may be used to describe various types of credit union share and deposit accounts as long as the synonym is accurate and not misleading. For example, the following synonyms may be used: i. The term ``checking account'' may be used to describe share draft accounts. ii. The term ``money market account'' may be used to describe money market share accounts. iii. The term ``savings account'' may be used to describe regular share and share accounts. iv. The terms ``share certificate,'' ``certificate account,'' or ``certificate'' may be used to describe share certificates and other dividend-bearing term share accounts. v. However, under no circumstances may a credit union describe a share account as a deposit account, or vice versa. For example, the term ``certificate of deposit'' or ``CD'' may not be used to describe share certificates and other dividend-bearing term share accounts. Similarly, the terms ``time account'' (used in Regulation DD, 12 CFR 230.2(u)) and ``time deposit'' (used in Regulation D, 12 CFR 204.2(c)) may not be used to describe term share accounts. (b) Advertisement 1. Covered messages. Advertisements include commercial messages in visual, oral, or print media that invite, offer, or otherwise announce generally to members and potential members the availability of member accounts such as: i. Telephone solicitations. ii. Messages on automated teller machine (ATM) screens (including any printout). iii. Messages on a computer screen in a credit union's lobby (including any printout) other than a screen viewed solely by the credit union's employee. iv. Messages in a newspaper, magazine, or promotional flyer or on radio or television. v. Messages promoting an account that are provided along with information about the member's existing account at a credit union and that promote another account at the credit union (such as account promotional messages on the periodic statement). 2. Other messages. Examples of messages that are not advertisements are: i. Rate sheets published in newspapers, periodicals, or trade journals (unless the credit union or share and deposit broker that offers accounts at the credit union pays a fee to have the information included or otherwise controls publication). ii. Telephone conversations initiated by a member or potential member about an account. iii. An in-person discussion with a member about the terms for a specific account. iv. Information provided to members about their existing accounts, such as on IRA disbursements, notices for automatically renewable term share accounts sent before renewal, or current rates recorded on a voice response machine. (c) Annual Percentage Yield. 1. General. The annual percentage yield (APY) is required for disclosures for new accounts, oral responses to inquiries about rates; disclosures provided upon request; initial disclosures (if the credit union chooses to provide full disclosures instead of the abbreviated notice); notices prior to the renewal of a term share account, if known at the time the notice is sent, and in advertising. The annual percentage yield shows the total amount of dividends for a 365 day period (or a 366 day period for a leap year) on an assumed principal amount based on the dividend rate and frequency of compounding as a percentage of the assumed principal (for accounts such as share or share draft accounts) or for the total amount of dividends over the term of the account for term share accounts. The annual percentage yield assumes the principal amount remains in the account for 365 days (366 days for leap year) or for the term of the account. 2. How Annual Percentage Yield Differs from Annual Percentage Yield Earned. The annual percentage yield (APY) differs from the annual percentage yield earned (APYE). The annual percentage yield earned is required for periodic statements only. The annual percentage yield earned shows the total amount of dividends earned for the dividend or statement period as a percent of the actual average daily balance in the member's account. Unlike the annual percentage yield, the annual percentage yield earned is affected by additions and withdrawals during the period. The annual percentage yield and the annual percentage yield earned must be calculated according to the formulas provided in Appendix A to this rule. (d) Average Daily Balance Method 1. General. One of the two required methods (the daily balance is the other) of determining the balance upon which dividends must be accrued and paid. The average daily balance method requires the application of a periodic rate to the average daily balance in the account for the average daily balance calculation period. The average daily balance is determined by adding the full amount of principal in the account for each day of the period and dividing that figure by the number of days in the period. (e) Board. 1. General. The NCUA Board.
