FR940126-2-00045 FR940126-2-00020 (20) Expenditures made after end of jurisdiction's program. (21) Gas or repairs for client-owned transportation. (22) Prescription medication or medical supplies. (23) Clothing (except underwear/diapers for clients of mass shelters, if necessary). (24) Payments for expenses not incurred (i.e., where no goods or services have been provided during new program period). (25) Emergency assistance for natural disaster victims. (i) Supplies bought for and in anticipation of a natural disaster. (26) Telephone costs, except as administrative allowance and limited to the total allowance (2 percent). (27) Salaries, except as administrative allowance and limited to the total allowance (2 percent). (28) Office equipment, except as administrative allowance and limited to the total allowance (2 percent). (29) LRO may not operate as a vendor for itself or other LROs, except for shared maintenance fee for food banks. (30) Direct expenses associated with new or expanded services or to prevent closing. (31) Increased utility costs due to expansion of service. (32) Encumbrance of funds for shelter, emergency repairs, utilities, that is, payments for goods or services that are purchased and are to be delivered at a later date. Also, withholding assistance in anticipation of a future need (e.g., holiday events, special programs). (33) Supplementing foster care costs, where an LRO has already received payment for basic boarding of a client. Comprehensive foster care costs beyond food and shelter are not allowed. (34) No fee for service may be charged to individuals or families in order to receive service. (c) Administrative allowance. (1) There is an administrative allowance limitation of two percent (2%) of total funds received by the Local Board, excluding any interest earned. This allowance is a part of the total award, not in addition to the award. The local administrative allowance is intended for use by LROs or Local Boards and not for reimbursement of the program or administrative costs that a recipient's parent organization (its State or regional offices) might incur as a result of this additional funding. (2) The Local Board may elect to use, for its own administrative costs, all or any portion of the 2 percent allowance. The decision on distribution of the allowance among LROs rests with the Local Board. No LRO may receive an allowance greater than 2 percent of that LROs award amount unless the LRO is providing the administrative support for the Local Board and it is approved by the National Board.
