FR941116-0-00119 FR941116-0-00022 (1) Producers who have wheat and feed grain CAB's on a farm are not required to enroll all wheat and feed grain CAB's into the VPLP; (2) The acreage for payment for which deficiency payments shall be earned shall be the smaller of the maximum payment acreage (MPA) or the acreage of the crop planted for harvest on the farm; i.e. for corn and grain sorghum, the sum of the corn and grain sorghum payment acres for a farm shall be prorated to corn and grain sorghum based on the ratio of the MPA for each crop to the total of the corn and grain sorghum MPA's; (3) The P&CP acreage for an enrolled crop shall equal the CAB of the respective crop if the crop is in compliance with the VPLP provisions; and (4) The crop acreage plantings of all enrolled crops shall be limited to the sum of the crop acreage bases for all crops enrolled in the VPLP. To ensure compliance with the provisions of the VPLP, producers participating in this pilot program will be required to certify for each enro lled crop: (1) The quantity of the previous year's commodity on hand at the beginning of the marketing year (June 1 for wheat, barley, and oats; September 1 for corn and grain sorghum); (2) The quantity of the current year commodity harvested; and (3) The quantity of the crop on hand at the end of the marketing year (May 31 for wheat, barley, and oats; August 31 for corn and grain sorghum). If the sum of number (1) and number (2) less number (3) is equal to or less than the PLQ and eligible carryover, then the producer has complied with the production limitation. Producers not complying with the production limitations will be assessed penalties on all bushels disposed of by the producer in excess of the PLQ. Graduated penalties will be assessed based on the percentage of bushels disposed of in excess of the sum of the PLQ and eligible carryover as follows: (1) 5 percent or less, the penalty is the larger of the loan rate or the current market price times the excess bushels; (2) 6 to 10 percent, the penalty is the larger of the loan rate or 1.2 times the current market price times the excess bushels; and (3) Over 10 percent, the penalty is the larger of the target price or 1.5 times the current market price times the excess bushels at the time the violation occurred. A penalty will be assessed against producers for certifying inaccurate quantities for the inventory of enrolled crop of wheat or feed grain on hand at the beginning of the marketing year, the quantity of current year crop harvested from acreage enrolled in the VPLP, and the quantity of commodities on hand at the end of the marketing year. The penalty per bushel for discrepancies will be the higher of the target price for the commodity or 1.5 times the market price for the commodity on the date of the inaccurate report. Example: corn target price = $3.00; market price on date of report = $2.90 per bu.; excess bushels of corn = 300 bu.; therefore, $3.00 times 300 bu. = $900.00. Producers on a farm who are participating in an ARP or a land diversion program may market, barter, or use excess wheat or feed grains in a year subsequent to the year they were produced, in an amount that reflects what would be expected to be produced on acreage that the producers agree to devote to approved conservation uses (in excess of any acreage reduction or land diversion requirements) during a crop year. The total current year production from enrolled wheat and feed grain crops shall be eligible for nonrecourse loans and entry into the farmer owned reserve (FOR) if the FOR becomes available. Any commodity that is forfeited to CCC is considered marketed. This interim rule establishes 7 CFR part 1416 to set forth the terms and conditions of the VPLP with which a producer must comply in order to be eligible for benefits of the wheat and feed grains programs for the 1994 and 1995 crop years. List of Subjects 7 CFR Part 718 Acreage allotments, Marketing quotas, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
