FR940419-0-00003 FR940419-0-00001 When other codes and/or standards are found acceptable, such as the ASCE 7&hyph;93 Standard (for seismic loads), the DOE will initiate appropriate changes to the Financial Assistance Rules. II. Changes to 10 CFR Part 600 Section 600.12(c) is revised to identify additional building codes which would meet the seismic safety requirements of the Executive Order. III. Discussion of Comments on Proposed Rule One comment was received. The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) stated that the DOE should adopt ASCE Standard 7&hyph;93 for seismic loads in the Financial Assistance Rules. The Department is unable to adopt the ASCE comment at this time. The ASCE proposal can be considered when ASCE Standard 7&hyph;93 has been found by the Interagency Committee on Seismic Safety in Construction (ICSSC) to provide a level of seismic safety that is substantially equivalent to the Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulations for New Buildings. The ASCE comment has been forwarded to the Chairman of the ICSSC of the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program for consideration. IV. Review Under Executive Order 12612 Executive Order 12612 requires that regulations, rules, legislation, and any other policy actions be reviewed for any substantial direct effects on States, on the relationship between the Federal Government and the States, or in the distribution of power and responsibilities among various levels of Government. If there are sufficient substantial direct effects, then the Executive Order requires preparation of a federalism assessment to be used in all decisions involved in promulgating and implementing a policy action. Today's rule will revise certain policy and procedural requirements. However, DOE has determined that the revision will not have a substantial direct effect on the institutional interests or traditional functions of States. V. Regulatory Review Today's regulatory action has been determined not to be a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review,'' (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993). Accordingly, today's action was not subject to review under the Executive Order by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. VI. Review Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule was reviewed under the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, Public Law 96&hyph;354, 94 Stat. 1164, which requires preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis for any regulation that will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities; i.e., small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions. DOE has concluded that the final rule would only affect small entities as they apply for and receive financial assistance, and does not create additional economic impact on small entities as a whole. DOE certifies that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities and, therefore, no regulatory flexibility analysis has been prepared. VII. Review Under the Paperwork Reduction Act No information collection or recordkeeping requirements are imposed upon the public by this rulemaking. Accordingly, no OMB clearance is required under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501, et seq ., or OMB implementing regulations at 5 CFR part 1320. VIII. Review Under the National Environmental Policy Act DOE has concluded that promulgation of this final rule clearly would not represent a major Federal action having significant impact on the human environment under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321, et seq . (1976)), the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508), and DOE guidelines (10 CFR part 1021) and, therefore, does not require an environmental impact statement pursuant to NEPA. IX. Review Under Executive Order 12778 Section 2 of Executive Order 12778 instructs each agency to adhere to certain requirements in promulgating new regulations and reviewing existing regulations. These requirements, set forth in sections 2(a) and (b)(2), include eliminating drafting errors and needless ambiguity, drafting the regulations to minimize litigation, providing clear and certain legal standards for affected conduct, and promoting simplification and burden reduction. Agencies are also instructed to make every reasonable effort to ensure that the regulation specifies clearly any preemptive effect, effect on existing Federal law or regulation, and retroactive effect; describes any administrative proceedings to be available prior to judicial review and any provisions for the exhaustion of such administrative proceedings; and defines key terms. DOE certifies that today's final rule meets the requirements of sections 2(a) and (b) of Executive Order 12778. List of Subjects in 10 CFR Part 600 Cooperative agreements/energy; Educational institutions; Energy; Grants/energy; Non-profit organizations. In consideration of the foregoing, the Department of Energy amends part 600 of chapter II of title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations as set forth below. Issued in Washington, DC, April 4, 1994. Richard H. Hopf, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Procurement and Assistant Management.
