FR941128-1-00014 FR941128-1-00001 (h) The Agency may employ an abbreviated process for refusing to provide continued funding to an SBDC for actions other than an SBDC's poor performance. If a District Director has reason to believe an SBDC or its key personnel is engaged in any of the conduct referred to in §130.700(b) (1) through (9) or any other serious and flagrant violation of these regulations or the terms and conditions of a prior agreement, the AA/SBDCs, upon approval from the General Counsel, may shorten response times in the best interests of the Agency and the public. (i) Effect of action on subcenter. If competing applications are being accepted, nothing shall preclude a subcenter of the previously funded recipient organization from applying for designation as the recipient organization, as long as the subcenter is not involved in the conduct leading to non-renewal of the former recipient organization. §130.700 Suspension and Termination Causes and Procedures. (a) General. After the SBA has entered into a Cooperative Agreement with a recipient organization, it shall not suspend, terminate or fail to renew any such agreement unless the SBA provides the recipient organization with written notification setting forth the reasons therefor and affording the recipient organization an opportunity for a hearing, appeal or other administrative proceeding under the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553 et seq. Subject to this requirement, and except as provided in this paragraph and the provisions of §§130.630, 130.640 and 130.650 regarding Dispute resolution, Conflict resolution and non-renewal procedures, the applicable general procedures for suspension and termination are contained in 13 CFR 143.43 and 143.44, Enforcement and Termination for Convenience, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments and in OMB Circular A&hyph;110, Attachment L, Suspension and Termination Procedures for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Nonprofit Organizations, Uniform Administrative Requirements. (b) Causes. Causes which may lead to the initiation of suspension, termination, or failure to renew procedures include disregard or material violation of these regulations, or any of the following reasons: (1) A willful or material failure to perform under the Cooperative Agreement or under this part; (2) Conduct reflecting a lack of business integrity or honesty; (3) A conflict of interest causing real or apparent detriment to any small business concern, any contractor, the SBDC or the SBA; (4) Improper use of Federal funds; (5) Failure of a Lead Center or its subcenters to consent to audits or investigation or to maintain required documents or records; (6) Failure of the SBDC Director to work at the SBDC Lead Center on a full-time basis; (7) Failure to promptly suspend or terminate the employment of an SBDC Director, subcenter Director or key SBDC employee upon notice that such individual has a criminal conviction for a felony; a criminal conviction for a misdemeanor involving fraud, bribery, embezzlement, false claims, false statements, falsification or destruction of records, forgery, obstruction of justice, receiving stolen property, or theft; or a civil judgment resulting from any conduct which reflects adversely upon his or her business integrity. (8) Violation of the SBDC's standards of conduct as specified in these rules and as established by the SBDC pursuant to this part; or (9) Any other cause not otherwise specified which seriously and adversely affects the operation or integrity of an SBDC or the SBDC program. §130.800 Oversight of the SBDC Program. [Reserved] §130.810 SBA review authority. (a) The SBA shall monitor and oversee the Cooperative Agreement and ongoing operations of the SBDC network to ensure the effective and efficient use of SBA funds for the benefit of the small business community. (b) Required on-site reviews. A periodic on-site evaluation of the SBDC network shall be conducted by the SBA with SBDC participation, as required by law. This evaluation will include a thorough analysis of the records, procedures, organizational structure, management, and services of the SBDC. The evaluation shall be both qualitative and quantitative, shall measure the effectiveness of the program and shall include an assessment of the benefits accruing to the areas served. The resulting on-site report by the SBA will review the strengths and weaknesses of the SBDC network and contain recommendations for improving the management and operation of the SBDC. SBDC Directors shall work with their SBA Project Officer and other appropriate SBA personnel to develop responses in writing within 30 working days to the recommendations contained in the On-site Review Report, with timeliness for any remedial action to be taken. (c) Site visits. The AA/SBDCs, or a representative, is authorized to make programmatic and financial review visits to Lead Centers and SBDC service providers to inspect SBDC records and client files, and to analyze and assess training, counseling and any other SBDC related activities. These visits shall be coordinated, in advance, with the SBDC Director. (d) SBA examiners reviews. (1) From time to time, SBA examiners shall perform limited scope reviews of SBDC operations. Reviews may be financially related, programmatically related or a combination of both, and shall consider ways to improve the efficiency of the program as well as to monitor compliance with laws, regulations and other general guidance, and shall be conducted according to published guidelines. (2) The reviews by the SBA examiners shall not substitute for audits required of Federal grantees under the Single Audit Act of 1984 or Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;110, A&hyph;128 or A&hyph;133. Nor shall such internal review substitute for audits to be conducted by the SBA Office of Inspector General under authority of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended. §130.820 Recordkeeping requirements. (a) In order to comply with OMB circulars which require recordkeeping, as well as to monitor the SBDC Program properly, the SBDC network shall keep records, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, and shall submit quarterly, semiannual and annual performance and financial reports as outlined in this section. Those reports and the clients' evaluations of services provided shall be reviewed by SBA to: (1) Determine the quality of services provided by the SBDC network; (2) Determine the completeness and accuracy of SBDC records; and (3) Compare the actual SBDC network accomplishments with the SBDC network performance objectives, such as the Planned Milestone Accomplishment Chart submitted with the proposal for initial or subsequent funding which is listed in the Cooperative Agreement. (b) Client control records. The recipient organization shall maintain control records, as necessary, for a thorough Lead Center audit and shall provide required SBA reports. SBDC service providers and Lead Centers which provide services to small business shall maintain detailed, complete and accurate client activity files, specifying counseling, training and other assistance provided. (c) Performance reports. For those recipient organizations in the SBDC program for more than three years, interim reports shall be due 30 days after completion of six months of operation; for those recipient organizations in the program three years or less, reports shall be due 30 days after completion of each of the first three quarters. The annual report shall include the second semiannual or the fourth quarter report and shall be due 90 days after the applicable period (December 30 for Fiscal Year and March 30 for Calendar Year SBDCs). These reports shall reflect accurately the activities, accomplishments and deficiencies of the SBDC network. (d) Financial reports. The recipient organization shall provide three quarterly and one annual financial report to the appropriate SBA Project Officer. The required financial reports will be set forth in the Program Announcement and the Cooperative Agreement, in compliance with the OMB Circulars governing such reports. (e) Availability of records. As required by OMB Circular A&hyph;133, all Lead Center and subcenter records shall be made available to the SBA for review upon request. §130.830 Audits and Investigations. (a) Access to records. OMB Circulars A&hyph;128 and A&hyph;133 set forth the requirements concerning record access and retention.
