FR941006-2-00129 FR941006-2-00088 6. The applicable sales charge upon the initial investment in the Rollover Trust will be 2.95% of the public offering price, while the reduced sales charge applicable to Rollover Unit Holders will be no more than 2.0% of the public offering price. Applicant's Legal Analysis 1. Section 11(a) requires SEC approval of an offer to exchange securities between open-end investment companies if the exchange occurs on any basis other than the relative net asset values of the securities to be exchanged. Section 11(c) makes section 11(a) applicable to any type of exchange offer of securities of registered unit investment trusts for the securities of any other investment company, irrespective of the basis of exchange. 2. Applicants represent that Rollover Unit Holders will not be induced or encouraged to participate in the Rollover Option through an active advertising or sales campaign. Insight recognizes its responsibility to its customers against generating excessive commissions through churning and claims that the sales charge collected will not be a significant economic incentive to salesmen to promote inappropriately the Rollover Option. Applicants further believe that the Rollover Option is appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. Applicant's Conditions If the requested order is granted, applicants agree to the following conditions: 1. Whenever the Rollover Option is to be terminated or its terms are to be amended materially, any holder of a security subject to that privilege will be given prominent notice of the impending termination or amendment at least 60 days prior to the date of termination or the effective date of the amendment, provided that: a. No such notice need to be given if the only material effect of an amendment is to reduce or eliminate the sales charge payable at the time of a rollover; and b. No notice need to be given if, under extraordinary circumstances, either i. There is a suspension of the redemption of units of the Rollover Trust under section 22(e) of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, or ii. A Reinvestment Trust Series temporarily delays or ceases the sale of its units because it is unable to invest amounts effectively in accordance with applicable investment objectives, policies and restrictions. 2. The sales charge collected at the time of any rollover shall not exceed 2.0% of the public offering price of the unit being acquired on each rollover. 3. The prospectus of each Reinvestment Trust Series and any sales literature or advertising that mentions that existence of the Rollover Option will disclose that the Rollover Option is subject to modification, termination or suspension. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24799 Filed 10&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
