FR941221-2-00016 FR941221-2-00011 supplementary information: In March, 1993, President Clinton and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin announced their intention to create the U.S.-Israeli Science and Technology Commission (the ``Commission'') to promote U.S.-Israeli cooperative science and technology activities that could benefit the two nations' civilian high technology commercial sectors, and create jobs and economic growth. Funding is intended for projects (1) that will have significant economic benefits for both the United States and Israel and (2) that in general are in the areas of the environment, energy, health, biotechnology, information processing/telecommunications or agriculture, or in the commercialization of defense technologies. This program announcement has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866. Authority _The Under Secretary for Technology, pursuant to the authority delegated to her by Section 3706 of Title 15 of the U.S. Code, as well as §§2.02 and 4.03(d) of Department Organization Order 10&hyph;17, dated July 14, 1992, is implementing this activity. Program Description _The Program will assist eligible U.S.-based industrial firms that have entered into U.S.-Israeli joint ventures (partnerships of United States-based and Israeli-based companies) to carry out research and development of long-term, medium- to high-risk technologies that offer significant economic benefits, that are focused on commercialization and that are not appropriately funded by other U.S. and Israeli government-funded research and development efforts. This assistance will take place through the use of cooperative agreements. U.S. Commerce Department assistance is offered to promote the economy of the U.S. via the creation of new technologies and the commercialization of new and existing technologies. Funding Availability _The U.S. Government and the Government of Israel are each making available up to $5 million for this pilot Program for qualified projects. It is expected that a number of awards will be announced before the end of February 1995. Within the limits of available funding, there is no predetermined minimum or maximum award. The funds may be spent toward research and development activities consistent with the goals set forth in this Notice. Matching Funding Requirements _Federal financial assistance must be accompanied by at least an equal matching investment by the U.S.-based firm(s) party to each U.S.-Israeli joint venture. In the event there are multiple U.S.-based firms in a given U.S.-Israeli joint venture, the aggregate investment of the U.S. partners must at least equally match the Federal investment in that project. Eligibility Requirements _The Program will accept proposals only from U.S.-Israeli joint ventures led by one U.S.-based industrial partner and one Israeli-based industrial partner. In general, awards will not be made to a joint venture composed of affiliated U.S.- and Israeli-based partners. Concerns are considered to be affiliates of each other when either directly or indirectly (a) one concern controls or has the power to control the other, or (b) a third party or parties controls or has the power to control both, or (c) an identity of interest between or among parties exists such that affiliation may be found. Federal financial assistance will be given only to U.S.-based industrial partner or to a consortia led by U.S.-based industrial partners. A U.S.-based industrial partner, or a consortia led by U.S.-based industrial partners, shall be eligible to receive assistance under this Program only if the U.S.-based industrial partner, or each member of the consortia, is incorporated in the United States and has its principal place of business in the United States. Project Eligibility Proposed projects must meet the following criteria: •Must be in one of the following areas: the environment, energy, health, biotechnology, information processing/telecommunications, the commercialization of defense technologies, or agriculture. Further, the project must be for research and development activities in long term, medium- to high-risk technologies, and which show a plan to commercialization within 48 months. •Must include technical innovation, significant commercial potential, and economic benefit to both countries. Award Period _The duration of Federal financial assistance to a U.S.-based industrial firm will not exceed four years. Indirect Costs _Indirect costs will not be funded under this Program.
