FR941117-2-00051 FR941117-2-00040 •Monitors the impact of capital and graduate medical education payment methodologies on hospital classes and program payments. •Analyzes and recommends legislative or administrative remedies to improve payment policies for graduate medical education and capital-related costs. •Coordinates with staff on the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission and prepares an analysis and response to Commission recommendations pertaining to capital and graduate medical education. •Formulates, maintains and evaluates national policies pertaining to the exclusion of certain categories of hospitals and hospital costs from the prospective payment system. (3) Division of Cost Principles and Reporting (FKA33) •Develops and evaluates national policies, regulations and instructions for payment/reimbursement of the costs incurred by providers of services and other classes of facilities under the health insurance program. •Initiates and collaborates in the development and review of legislative proposals on general Medicare payment policies, interprets law and develops policy directives and basic payment policy decision statements. •Reviews alternative payment and rate-setting systems for potential adaptation to the health insurance program. •Establishes policies, principles, and guidelines related to circumstances requiring atypical payment practices. •Plans, develops and maintains a continuing program of surveillance and evaluation of HCFA general payment policies in order to identify emerging problems and to develop and promulgate corrective policies and procedures. •Formulates and evaluates national policies for all Medicare program provider financial filing and reporting requirements. •Develops policies pertaining to the use of all cost reporting forms, schedules, and related instructions necessary for paying health care institutions. •Develops policies pertaining to the validity of accounting policies and procedures. •Formulates the basic principles and policies for developing and applying limitations to the costs of health care. (4) Division of End Stage Renal Disease (FKA34) •Develops, evaluates and reviews policies, regulations and instructions concerning the coverage of renal dialysis and organ transplant services for Medicare beneficiaries, including the reasonableness, necessity and effectiveness of services furnished by these providers. •Coordinates with other components, such as the Health Standards and Quality Bureau, the development and evaluation of health and safety standards for renal dialysis facilities and organ transplant centers. •Analyzes payment data, develops, maintains and updates payment rates for End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) services and covered, or related, transplantation services. •Maintains continuing liaison with ESRD provider groups, organ procurement organizations, industry associations, patient organizations, medical associations, and other parties that relate to these specialty delivery systems. •Participates in the development and evaluation of proposed legislation pertaining to the ESRD program and organ transplant issues. •Establishes policies, procedures, and criteria for payment exceptions for ESRD facilities. •Processes such requests and determines which ESRD facilities should be granted exceptions to national payment rates. •Develops and evaluates policies and regulations governing coverage and payment for transplants as well as the conditions to be met for Medicare approval of transplant centers. f. Office of Physician and Ambulatory Care Policy (FKA4) •Develops, evaluates and reviews national Medicare payment and coverage policy for physician and ambulatory care services, including physician and other practitioner services; radiology and diagnostic services; clinical laboratory, ambulance, drugs and other medical services; hospital outpatient and ambulatory surgical center (ASC) services; and special delivery systems, including rural health clinics (RHCs) and federally qualified health centers (FQHCs). •Assists in the development and evaluation of related legislation concerning payment and coverage policies, including health and safety and utilization effectiveness standards, for physician and ambulatory care services.
