FR940727-2-00104 FR940727-2-00057 [Docket Nos. 50&hyph;317 and 50&hyph;318] Baltimore Gas & Electric Co.; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an exemption from certain requirements of its regulations to Facility Operating License Nos. DPR&hyph;53 and DPR&hyph;69, issued to Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (the licensee), for operation of the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, located in Calvert County, Maryland. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The proposed action is in accordance with the licensee's application dated March 23, 1994, for an exemption from certain requirements of 10 CFR 73.55, ``Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities in nuclear power plant reactors against radiological sabotage.'' The requested exemption would allow the implementation of a hand geometry biometric system of site access control in conjunction with photograph identification badges, and would allow the badges to be taken offsite. The Need for the Proposed Action Pursuant to 10 CFR 73.55(a), the licensee is required to establish and maintain an onsite physical protection system and security organization. The Code of Federal Regulations at 10 CFR 73.55(d), ``Access Requirements,'' specifies in part that: ``The licensee shall control all points of personnel and vehicle access into a protected area.'' The Code of Federal Regulations at 10 CFR 73.55(d)(5), specifies in part that: ``A numbered picture badge identification system shall be used for all individuals who are authorized access to protected areas without escort.'' It further indicates that an individual not employed by the licensee (e.g., contractors) may be authorized access to protected areas without an escort provided the individual, ``receives a picture badge upon entrance into the protected area which must be returned upon exit from the protected area.'' Currently, unescorted access for both employee and contractor personnel into the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, is controlled through the use of picture badges. Positive identification of personnel who are authorized and request access into the protected area is established by security personnel making a visual comparison of the individual requesting access and that individual's picture badge. The picture badges are issued, stored, and retrieved at the entrance/exit location to the protected area. These picture badges are not taken offsite. This current practice is in accordance with the applicable requirements of 10 CFR Part 73 discussed above. The licensee proposes to implement an alternative unescorted access control system which would eliminate the need to issue and retrieve picture badges at the entrance/exit location to the protected area. The proposal would also allow all individuals, including contractors, who have unescorted access to keep their picture badges in their possession when departing the Calvert Cliffs site. Thus, an exemption is required from 10 CFR 73.55(d)(5) to allow contractors who have unescorted access to keep their picture badges in their possession when departing the Calvert Cliffs site. Environmental Impact of the Proposed Action The Commission has completed its evaluation of the proposed action. In addition to their picture badges, all individuals with authorized unescorted access will have the physical characteristics of their hand (hand geometry) registered with their picture badge number in a computerized access control system. Therefore, all authorized individuals must not only have their picture badges to gain access into the protected area, but must also have their hand geometry confirmed. All other access processes, including search function capability and access revocation, will remain the same. A security officer responsible for access control will continue to be positioned within a bullet-resistant structure. The proposed system is only for individuals with authorized unescorted access and will not be used for individuals requiring escorts. The underlying purpose for requiring that individuals not employed by the licensee must receive and return their picture badges at the entrance/exit is to provide reasonable assurance that the access badges could not be compromised or stolen with a resulting risk that an unauthorized individual could potentially enter the protected area. Although the proposed exemption will allow individuals to take their picture badges offsite, the proposed measures require not only that the picture badge be provided for access to the protected area, but also that verification of the hand geometry registered with the badge be performed as discussed above. Thus, the proposed system provides an identity verification process that is equivalent to the existing process. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that the exemption to allow individuals not employed by the licensee to take their picture badges offsite will not result in an increase in the risk that an unauthorized individual could potentially enter the protected area. Consequently, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological impacts associated with the proposed action. The proposed exemption does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed action, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impact need not be evaluated. The principal alternative to the proposed action would be to deny the requested action. Denial of the requested action would not significantly enhance the environment in that the proposed action will result in a process that is equivalent to the existing identification verification process. Alternate Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the April 1973 Final Environmental Statement for the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Unit Nos. 1 and 2. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the State of Maryland, Department of Natural Resources, regarding the environmental impact of this proposed action. The State official had no comments. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. For further details with respect to this action, see the licensee's letter dated March 23, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, The Gelman Building, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the local public document room located at the Calvert County Library, Prince Frederick, Maryland 20678. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 19th day of July 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Francis J. Williams, Acting Project Director, Project Directorate I&hyph;1, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18248 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
