FR941216-1-00076 FR941216-1-00012 (a) The contractor shall develop and submit to the ACO a written mishap report by the end of the second working day after the mishap occurrence. At a minimum, this written report shall include the following: (1) Contractor's name and location; (2) Date, local time, and plant/facility location of the accident; (3) Category of accident (explosion, fire, and so forth); (4) Contract, subcontract, or purchase order; (5) Item nomenclature, hazard classification, lot number; (6) Narrative (or abstract) of events pertaining to the mishap; (7) Number of injuries/fatalities, degree of injuries; (8) Description of property damage and approximate damage cost; (9) Quantity of explosives involved (pounds, units, rounds, and so forth); (10) Probable cause(s); (11) Corrective action taken or planned; (12) Effect on production; (13) Name, title or position, and phone number of person submitting report; and (14) Remarks. (b) Information not furnished in the initial written report shall be provided to the ACO within 30 days of the mishap. §184.16 On-site government assistance. To help determine the cause or causes of the mishap, DoD representatives may monitor the contractor's mishap investigation on-site. Additional investigation or reporting may be required by the PCO. §184.17 Technical mishap investigation and report. If determined by the PCO, a technical mishap investigation may be conducted by a panel chaired by DoD personnel. Otherwise, the contractor will conduct the investigation at the PCO's request. In either case, a document will be produced that provides details such as missile fragmentation maps, photographs, description of mishap, effects on adjacent operations, structural and equipment damage, Q/D drawings, detailed description of occurrence, findings, and conclusions. The technical mishap investigation report shall be forwarded to the PCO through the ACO within 60 days of the official establishment of the investigative panel or, in the case of the contractor's investigation, from the date of the accident. The contractor will be informed immediately upon determination that the Department of Defense will form a panel to go on-site for an accident investigation. Subpart C_Safe Practices §184.19 General. This subpart provides general safe practices for all A&E operations addressed in this part. When these practices exceed or differ from local or national codes or requirements, the more restrictive shall apply. §184.20 Personnel and materials limits. (a) The cardinal rule to be observed in any location or operation involving explosives, ammunition, severe fire hazards, or toxic materials is to limit exposure to a minimum number of personnel, for a minimum amount of time, to the minimum amount of the hazardous material consistent with safe and efficient operations. All operations shall be examined to devise methods for reducing the number of people exposed, the time of exposure, and the quantity of material subject to a single incident. Determination of personnel limits requires that jobs not essential to a particular hazardous operation be performed elsewhere; that no unnecessary personnel visit the location; and that frequent, consecutive operations shall not be permitted in the same room or building without adequate dividing walls, firewalls, or operational shields, depending upon the nature of the hazard. Personnel limits should allow for necessary supervision, workers, and transient workers. (b) Determination of limits for hazardous materials requires a careful analysis of all facts including operation timing, intraplant transportation methods, size of the items, and the chemical and physical characteristics of the material. Lower limits are required for the more sensitive or hazardous materials. Limits should be established for each operation, so that each worker may be charged with the responsibility of not exceeding the established limit. Limits need not be expressed in units of weight or in the number of items as such. They may be given in terms of trays, boxes, racks, or other units more easily observed and controlled. Limits shall not be based on the maximum quantity of explosives allowed by the existing quantity/distance separations when lesser quantities of explosives will suffice for the operations. (c) The maximum number of personnel and quantity of explosives permitted at any one time shall be prominently displayed in all buildings, cubicles, cells, and rooms containing A&E. These limits shall be kept current, and enforced by the supervisor, foreman, or worker in charge. The personnel and explosives limits for all operations shall be recorded in the applicable standing operating procedure (SOP). Personnel limits need not be posted in storage magazines, magazine areas, or transfer points. Explosives limits need only be posted in storage magazines for which the limit differs from that for other magazines in the block, or when unusual circumstances prevent the limit from being readily apparent. §184.21 Standing operating procedures (SOPs). Prior to starting any operation involving hazardous materials, adequate SOPs shall be developed, reviewed, and approved by qualified personnel. The SOPs shall be clearly written to avoid confusion and ensure process control at all times. (a) Preparation . All aspects of a procedure shall be examined to determine a safe and orderly course of action for accomplishing the work. Controlled tests may be necessary in order to establish SOPs for certain operations. The SOP shall include, at a minimum, such items as safety requirements; specific emergency procedures; personal protective clothing and equipment; personnel and explosives limits for each operation; equipment designation; location and sequence of operations; and the particulars regarding how, when, where, and by whom each task of the operation shall be performed. (b) Dissemination . Supervisors shall be responsible for explaining duties prescribed by the SOP to all personnel involved in an A&E operation. (c) Posting . Those portions of the approved SOP, determined by the managing authority to be necessary to facilitate operations, shall be posted in a spot convenient to all stations involved in the operation. This need not be at the work station if the worker could be distracted, causing an accident. Supervisory personnel shall assume responsibility for enforcing provisions of the SOP; and should maintain copies of the entire document. (d) Emergency procedures . Action to be taken in the event of electrical storms, utility or mechanical failures and the like, occurring during the manufacturing, handling, or processing of A&E and other hazardous materials, shall be set forth in the SOP as described in the preceding paragraphs, or shall be set forth in separate SOPs prepared specifically for such purposes. (e) Recertification . SOPs shall be constantly reviewed by qualified personnel, changed and recertified by the managing authority as often as necessary to reflect improved methods, equipment substitutions, facility modification, or process revisions.
