FR940728-2-00053 FR940728-2-00041 V. Review of Relationship to State or Local Regulatory Agencies Effective Federal/state partnerships are critical to accomplishing the mutual goal of achieving and maintaining high levels of compliance with environmental laws and regulations. The greater the consistency between state and local policies and the Federal response to environmental auditing, the greater the degree to which sound auditing practices might be adopted and compliance levels improved. State and local regulatory agencies, of course, have independent jurisdiction over regulated entities. EPA encourages them to adopt these or similar policies on environmental auditing, in order to advance the use of effective environmental auditing in a consistent manner. The 1986 Policy emphasizes this point further: EPA recognizes that some states have already undertaken environmental auditing initiatives that differ somewhat from this policy. Other states also may want to develop auditing policies that accommodate their particular needs or circumstances. Nothing in this policy statement is intended to preempt or preclude states from developing other approaches to environmental auditing. EPA encourages state and local authorities to consider the basic principles that guided the Agency in developing this policy: •Regulated entities must continue to report or record compliance information required under existing statutes or regulations, regardless of whether such information is generated by an environmental audit or contained in an audit report. Required information cannot be withheld merely because it is generated by an audit rather than by some other means. •Regulatory agencies cannot make promises to forgo or limit enforcement action against a particular facility or class of facilities in exchange for the use of environmental auditing systems. However, such agencies may use their discretion to adjust enforcement actions on a case-by-case basis in response to honest and genuine efforts by regulated entities to assure environmental compliance. •When setting inspection priorities, regulatory agencies should focus to the extent possible on compliance performance and environmental results. •Regulatory agencies must continue to meet minimum program requirements (e.g., minimum inspection requirements, etc). •Regulatory agencies should not attempt to prescribe the precise form and structure of regulated entities' environmental management or auditing programs. VI. Conclusion All of the policies referenced in this notice remain in effect. The Agency intends, however, to re-examine these policies comprehensively and remains open to suggestions for changes and improvements regarding all aspects of existing auditing policy. The information presented here is intended for the convenience of interested parties, in preparation for the July 27&hyph;28, 1994 public meeting. The Agency hopes that this information will clarify EPA's current activities and policies related to environmental auditing. The Office of Compliance will respond to written requests for copies of the documents referenced in this notice. Send all requests to: U.S. EPA, Office of Compliance, Attn: Ira R. Feldman, Special Counsel, 401 M Street, NW (5503), Washington, DC 20460. Steven A. Herman, Assistant Administrator, Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18327 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
