FR940930-0-00228 FR940930-0-00029 Section 234.225␣Activation of Warning System As proposed, this section requires that a warning system activate to provide no less than 20 seconds warning time before the crossing is occupied by rail traffic. The labor/management group recommended that this section refer to a maintenance, rather than a design requirement. Accordingly, they suggested that the rule be modified to require that the system be maintained to activate in accordance with the design of the warning system. FRA has determined that while drafting this section in terms of maintenance requirements may be appropriate, there remains a need to maintain a minimum activation standard for warning systems. We note that the 20 second period is consistent with the design requirement of the MUTCD. In light of the labor/management group comments FRA is revising this section to provide that the warning system be maintained to activate in accordance with the design of the warning system, but in no event shall it provide less than 20 seconds warning time. Final Rule This section requires that a highway-rail grade crossing warning system be maintained to activate in accordance with the design of the warning system, but in no event shall it provide less than 20 seconds warning time. Section 234.227␣Train Detection Apparatus Subsection (a) of this section as proposed requires that train detection apparatus detect the presence of a train or car when any part of a train detection circuit is occupied. In addition, subsection (b) of the proposed rule requires that when a grade crossing equipped with a warning system is fouled by a train or car, the warning system would continue to operate until such train or car clears the roadway. Subsection (c) of the proposal requires that when there are no other movements within the limits of the warning circuit, the warning system shall discontinue operation after the train or car passes the point of fouling the crossing. Subsection (d) requires that if the presence of sand, rust, dirt, grease, or other foreign matter is known to prevent effective shunting, appropriate action under §234.105 must be taken to safeguard motor vehicle operation. Various parties suggested that different portions of the rule be modified. The labor/management group recommended that the rule be modified to reflect the requirement for maintenance of train detection apparatus rather than addressing ``design standards.'' FRA has considered this suggestion and revised the rule to provide that the train detection apparatus be maintained to detect the presence of rail equipment in any part of a train detection circuit, in accordance with the design of the warning system. This new subsection (a) replaces proposed subsections (a), (b), and (c). It will serve the same purpose as the sections replaced, but will do so in a clearer and more straightforward manner. There were no comments regarding proposed paragraph (d) which provides that if the presence of sand, rust, dirt, grease, or other foreign matter is known to prevent effective shunting, a railroad shall take appropriate action under §234.105 to safeguard vehicle operation. This section, renumbered as paragraph (b), remains unchanged. Final Rule Subsection (a) requires that train detection apparatus be maintained to detect a train or railcar in any part of a train detection circuit, in accordance with the design of the warning system. Subsection (b) provides that if the presence of sand, rust, dirt, grease, or other foreign matter is known to prevent effective shunting, a railroad shall take appropriate action under §234.105, ``Activation failure,'' to safeguard highway users. Section 234.229␣Shunting Sensitivity As proposed, this section requires that each train detection circuit that controls a highway-rail grade crossing warning system will detect the presence of a shunt of 0.06 ohm resistance when the shunt is connected across the track rails of the circuit, including fouling sections of turnouts. The labor/management group commented that the proposed rule should be modified to reflect the testing requirements of warning systems based on certain technologies. The group noted that certain types of constant warning time systems may not detect the ``presence'' of a shunt. The group believes it would be more appropriate to require that the detection systems be maintained to detect the ``application'' of a shunt. The group believes that warning systems currently in use are designed so that they will meet that criteria. Southern Pacific also commented that constant time warning devices should be taken into account in drafting this section. FRA agrees with the commenters and has modified the section accordingly. ``Application of a shunt'' is replacing ``presence of a shunt'' in the final rule. In the interest of clarity the text ``including fouling sections of turnouts'' has been deleted and ``of any part'' of the circuit added to the final rule. FRA notes that the labor/management group stated that they believe warning systems currently in use ``could be tested for compliance without using multiple shunts to simulate train movements or performing other complex tests of questionable value.'' We agree that multiple shunts may not be necessary to test for compliance with this section, however, multiple shunts may indeed be needed to perform operational tests. Final Rule This section requires that each highway-rail grade crossing train detection circuit shall detect the application of a shunt of 0.06 ohm resistance when the shunt is connected across the track rails of the circuit.
