FR941222-2-00065 FR941222-2-00054 Wilderness management and recommendations on wilderness designation have been considered in previous documents and are not addressed in this draft EIS. DATES: Written comments will be accepted for 90 days following the date the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) publishes the filing of the draft EIS for the Grass Creek RMP in the Federal Register . This filing notice is expected to be published about mid or late December 1994. Open houses will be held in communities within the planning area to provide opportunities for the public to meet with the BLM and comment on the draft EIS. These open houses will be held during January 1995. Media releases will provide information on the locations and times of the meetings when these are determined. ADDRESSES: Copies of the draft EIS for the Grass Creek Resource Management Plan are available from the BLM Worland District Office and the Grass Creek Resource Area Office at P. O. Box 119, 101 South 23rd Street, Worland, Wyoming 82401&hyph;0119. Comments and requests to be placed on the Grass Creek RMP mailing list should be sent to Bob Ross, RMP Team Leader, P. O. Box 119, Worland, Wyoming 82401&hyph;0119. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joseph T. Vessels, Grass Creek Resource Area Manager or Bob Ross, RMP Team Leader at the above address or by telephone (307) 347&hyph;9871. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Grass Creek Resource Area is responsible for managing the BLM-administered public lands in portions of Big Horn, Hot Springs, Park, and Washakie counties in Wyoming. Within the Grass Creek RMP planning area there are varied and intermingled land surface ownerships and overlapping mineral ownerships. Therefore, the administrative jurisdictions for land use planning and for managing the land surface and minerals are also varied, intermingled, and sometimes overlapping. For this reason, it is important to understand that the draft EIS does not address management of lands (about 302,000 acres) or minerals (about 8,000 acres) within the planning area that are privately-owned or owned by the State of Wyoming or local Governments. It also does not address those Federally-owned minerals within the planning area that are under Federal land surface managed by other agencies (about 4,700 acres). The draft EIS for the Grass Creek RMP presents four alternative, multiple use resource management plans for managing the BLM-administered public lands in the planning area. Alternative A (continuation of current management) and three other alternatives that suggest different combinations and emphases for managing the various resource and land uses on the BLM-administered public lands, on the basis of needs, opportunities, and public demand. The four alternative plans focus on allocating public lands and resources among their valid uses and prescribing general management actions that would be taken. The preferred alternative is a combination of parts of alternatives A, B, and C and represents what BLM believes is the best balance between the public lands and resource uses and environmental protection in the planning area. The various impacts that would be expected from implementing each of the alternatives is also presented in the draft EIS. Dated: December 5, 1994. Alan L. Kesterke, Associate State Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31460 Filed 12&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;22&hyph;P
