FR941216-1-00128 FR941216-1-00012 (h) When compounded with oxidizing agents, powdered metals present a dangerous fire and explosion hazard. (i) Very fine suspended dust from powdered metals is an explosion hazard comparable to that of explosive gases and may be initiated easily by discharges of static electricity. (j) Powdered metals exposed to air are dangerous fire hazards and burn with intense heat. Metallic oxide formed by the burning within drums effectively blankets such fires, confining them, if undisturbed, to the place of origin. (k) Fires shall not be fought with ordinary streams of water because of the danger of liberating large quantities of hydrogen gas, a severe explosion hazard. Fires involving small quantities of powdered metals may be combated with a fog nozzle or specially designed commercial extinguishing powders gently applied to prevent the fire from spreading. If large quantities of powdered metals become involved in a fire and escape from their storage containers, firefighting efforts shall be directed primarily to prevention of fire spreading to other facilities. Where friction sensitivity is not a concern, smothering fire with sand may be effective. (l) Trained personnel shall repair or maintain buildings or equipment where metallic powders are involved, and then only with the following precautions: powder or dust shall be removed, nonsparking tools shall be used, hammer impacts that could cause sparks shall be avoided, flashlights shall be of approved type, equipment shall be grounded, undue friction shall be prevented, and open flames shall not be used. (m) Zirconium powder can explode violently when in contact with cupric oxide or lead oxide. Other metallic powders exhibit this property under certain conditions. National Fire Prevention Association, 491M, 14 Hazardous Chemical Reactions, provides information regarding reactions between metallic powders and other chemicals. 14 Copies may be obtained from the National Fire Protection Association, Batterymarch Park, Attn: National Fire Codes Subscription_Service Department, Quincy, MA 02269. §184.126 Charcoal. (a) Charcoal is subject to spontaneous ignition in the presence of moisture, although pit charcoal is less likely than the chemical byproduct charcoal, and soft wood charcoal less so than hardwood charcoal. The following conditions promote the spontaneous ignition of charcoal: forced cooling after burning; drying after absorbing moisture; and contact with alcohols and oils (particularly for charcoal in which a fire has been extinguished). Pulverized charcoal is a definite fire hazard. The gases from burning charcoal contain carbon monoxide and are toxic. (b) Permanent or reserve storage of large quantities of charcoal is not recommended. Charcoal should be stored in airtight containers or in bags piled in tiers with skeleton or gridwork floors between tiers to provide ventilation. It should be isolated and remove from oxidizing agents. Bulk storage of charcoal is prohibited. §184.127 Sulfur. (a) Sulfur compounded with chlorates and several other oxidizing agents forms highly sensitive explosive mixtures. Sulfur presents a spontaneous ignition hazard when mixed with carbon, lamp black, fats, and oils. Burning sulfur produces toxic gases and fumes. (b) Sulfur may be stored in wooden boxes, kegs, or barrels. Large quantities may be stored in bulk. It should be isolated and remote from oxidizing agents with which it forms highly sensitive explosive mixtures. §184.128 Flammable solids. Guanidine nitrate, dinitrophenol, DNT, and dinitrobenzene are examples of flammable solids. These materials may be stored in wooden boxes or barrels lined with moisture-proof paper. They should be stored in fire-resistant locations, preferably in magazines. When strongly initiated they may act as explosives. Dinitrophenol may explode at elevated temperatures. §184.129 Volatile flammable liquids. (a) Common examples of volatile flammable liquids are ether acetone, gasoline, ethyl alcohol, methyl alcohol (wood alcohol), benzene, toluene, xylene, and amyl acetate. These volatile liquids may, if unconfined, evolve vapor in explosive concentrations. Ethyl and isopropyl ethers tend to form explosive peroxides, especially when anhydrous. Evaporation to near dryness shall be prevented. Volatile flammable liquids shall not be used to wash or clean equipment or parts of buildings except when specifically authorized as process requirements. (b) Some flammable liquids such as paints, varnishes, and enamels may, under certain conditions, be subject to spontaneous ignition. They shall therefore be isolated from sources of heat, in locations where any heat produced shall readily dissipate. Only noncombustible sweeping compounds should be used for cleaning up materials of this type. §184.130 Calcium carbide. Small quantities of calcium carbide may be stored in general warehouses in airtight tin cans or iron drums. Large quantities should be stored only in separate noncombustible buildings or detached weatherproof sheds. The storage place should be dry and well ventilated. Calcium carbide, in itself a slight fire hazard, reacts violently with water, liberating large quantities of acetylene gas which, with air, forms explosive mixtures. §184.131 Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda) and potassium hydroxide. These materials may be stored in general warehouses in airtight iron drums. Permanent storage of large stocks is not recommended. These chemical products may become a fire hazard when mixed with nitro compounds or other materials. Their action is corrosive and caustic; mixed with water, they create heat. §184.132 Metallic sodium. Metallic sodium may be stored in airtight steel drums and may be stored under kerosene or nitrogen, but not under chlorinated hydrocarbons. Its violent reaction with water liberates hydrogen and causes heat, producing a serious fire and explosion hazard.
