FR940627-0-00034 FR940627-0-00009 K N Energy similarly contends that pipelines may not provide a market-justified discount to affiliates given the extra obligations and heightened scrutiny created by the provision. KGPC maintains the requirement seriously restricts negotiations between pipelines and affiliates because the parties must be continuously concerned about whether a conversation could be construed as an offer. K N Energy and Tenneco contend the requirement is not needed because the Commission has sufficient mechanisms to monitor and prevent undue discrimination. They point out the pipelines are required to file discount reports under Part 284, which enable non-affiliates to monitor discounts and file complaints of undue discrimination. The Commission will not delete Standard H, because requiring pipelines to make discounts contemporaneously available to similarly situated non-affiliates is needed to ensure equal treatment. Standard H does not substantially inhibit the provision of justified discounts to affiliates. When pipelines offer discounts to affiliates, they must only be able to provide a valid explanation for why another shipper requesting a comparable discount is not similarly situated to the affiliate. The discount information required to be filed under Part 284 is not a substitute for Standard H. Standard H requires pipelines to make offers contemporaneously available to similarly situated shippers. In contrast, the Part 284 discount information is not filed until 15 days after the close of the billing period, which is not equivalent to the contemporaneous notice required under Standard H. 2. Revision of the Standard to Eliminate Duplicative Posting Requirements The Commission is revising the standard to eliminate duplicative postings of information about affiliate discounts. Section 250.16 currently requires the pipelines to post information about affiliate discounts on their EBBs. This information includes the duration of a discount, the discounted rate, the maximum rate, and the quantity of gas scheduled at the discounted rate during the billing period for each delivery point. A number of commenters requested that the Commission reduce or eliminate the §250.16 reporting requirement. Former Standard I required pipelines to make discounts available to similarly situated non-affiliates. 36 In Colorado Interstate Gas Company (CIG), 37 the Commission sought to eliminate any potential ambiguity about the way in which pipelines are to determine similarly situated shippers under the standard. The Commission found that pipelines could make a determination of similarly situated only if the pipelines first informed non-affiliates of the terms of the affiliate offer so the non-affiliates would have the opportunity to request a comparable discount if they thought they were similarly situated. 38 Since all pipelines are now required by Order No. 636 to maintain EBBs, the Commission provided that the pipelines needed, at a minimum, to provide notice of affiliate discounts by posting them on the pipelines' EBBs. The information to be posted is virtually identical to that required under §250.16, including the date of the offer, the discount rate, the quantity of gas scheduled to be moved at the discounted rate, and the delivery points in the offer. Most pipelines now comply with the standard by using EBB posting. 36 Although the standard did not state the method for making discounts contemporaneously available to non-affiliates, the Commission suggested EBB posting as a means for communicating such information. Order No. 497&hyph;A, FERC Stats. & Regs. [Regulations Preambles 1986&hyph;1990] at 31,596. 37 65 FERC ¶61,264 at 62,224&hyph;25 (1993). 38 For example, a pipeline cannot determine on its own whether the non-affiliate was willing to abide by the terms and conditions contained in the affiliate offer. It needs to provide the non-affiliate with notice of the terms and the opportunity to comply with them. The Commission has determined that the duplicative posting requirements for affiliate discounts are not necessary. The Commission, therefore, will modify Standard H to clarify that pipelines are to comply with the Standard by contemporaneously posting information about affiliate discounts on their EBBs and permitting non-affiliates to request such discounts if they conclude they are similarly situated. The Commission will then eliminate the requirement to make similar EBB postings under §250.16. These revisions do not add a new reporting requirement. They essentially eliminate duplicative postings by moving the affiliate discount posting requirement from §250.16 to Standard H.
