FR941026-1-00032 FR941026-1-00013 (e) Definition. For purposes of this part, the term former spouse shall have the same meaning as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8401(12). ยง1653.3 Processing retirement benefits court orders. (a) The Board's review of retirement benefits court orders is governed solely by the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act (FERSA), 5 U.S.C. Chapter 84, and by the terms of this part. The Board will honor retirement benefits court orders properly issued by a court of any state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Virgin Islands, and any Indian court. However, those courts have no jurisdiction over the Board and the Board cannot be made a party to the underlying domestic relations proceedings. (b) Retirement benefits court orders should be submitted to the Board's recordkeeper at the following address: Thrift Savings Plan Service Office, National Finance Center, P.O. Box 61500, New Orleans, Louisiana 70161&hyph;1500. Receipt by the recordkeeper will be considered receipt by the Board. (c) Upon receipt of a document that purports to be a qualifying retirement benefits court order, including preliminary and subsequent court orders, the participant's account will be frozen. After an account is frozen, no withdrawals or loans will be allowed until the account is unfrozen. All other account activity, including contributions, adjustments, and interfund transfers, will be permitted. The parties will be notified that the participant's account has been frozen. (d) The following documents will not be treated as purporting to be qualifying retirement benefits court orders. Therefore accounts of participants to whom such orders relate will not be frozen and these documents will not be reviewed by the Board: (1) A document that does not indicate on its face (or accompany a document that establishes) that it has been issued or approved by a court; (2) A court order relating to a TSP account that has been closed; (3) A court order dated prior to June 6, 1986; (4) A court order that fails to award all or any part of the TSP account to anyone other than the participant; (5) A court order that does not mention retirement benefits. (e) After the participant's account is frozen, the document will be reviewed initially to determine if it is a complete original or copy of a retirement benefits court order. (f) It it is determined that the document is not complete, a complete document will be requested. If it is not received within 30 days of the date of such request, the account will be unfrozen and no further action will be taken with respect to the document. (g) Upon receipt of a complete order that is either an original or a copy of a retirement benefits court order, the Board will review the order and will determine whether it is a qualifying order as described in ยง1653.2 and, if it awards an amount to be paid from a participant's TSP account, the amount of the entitlement. The Board will advise all parties in writing of its decision. (h) The Board's decision will contain the following information: (1) The Board's determination regarding whether the court order is qualifying; (2) A statement of the applicable statute or regulations; (3) If the order is determined to be qualifying, a statement regarding the effect that compliance with the court order will have on the participant's TSP account; (4) If the order requires payment, a description of the method by which the entitlement under the court order was calculated and the circumstances under which payment will be made. (i) The Board's decision will be final. There is no administrative appeal from the decision. (j) An account frozen under this section will be unfrozen as follows: (1) If a complete document has not been received within 30 days from the date of a request described in paragraph (f) of this section, upon expiration of the 30-day period.
