FR941216-0-00037 FR941216-0-00011 C. Disease or Predation Over the past 20 years, at least 60 species of fishes have been introduced to the western U.S. States, 59 percent of which are predatory (Hayes and Jennings 1986; Jennings 1988). The introduction of exotic predators to southern California waters has been facilitated, in part, by the interbasin transport of water (e.g., California Aqueduct). Introduced predators had substantial impacts on the sizes of extant populations of arroyo toads and may have contributed to regional extinctions (Hayes and Jennings 1986). Virtually all rivers that contain or once contained arroyo toads support populations of introduced predatory fish, such as green sunfish ( Lepomis cyanellus ), largemouth bass ( Micropterous salmoides ), mosquitofish ( Gambusia affinis ), black bullhead ( Ictalurus nebulosus ), arroyo chub ( Gila orcutti ), prickly sculpin ( Cottus asper ), rainbow trout ( Oncorhynchus mykiss ), oriental gobies ( Tridentiger sp.), and red shiners ( Notropis lutrensis ) (Sweet 1992). All of these introduced fish prey on tadpoles and have been observed inducing high arroyo toad larval mortality in breeding pools on the Piru, Sespe, and Santa Ynez drainages. It is probable that predation by introduced fish species occurs elsewhere (Sweet 1992). Arroyo toads occur in streams with perennial or near perennial flow. Most streams with populations of arroyo toads also have populations of introduced bullfrogs ( Rana catesbeiana ). Adult bullfrogs are highly predatory and have been observed to prey on adult arroyo toads (Sweet 1993). Habitat for bullfrogs has been enhanced within the existing range of the arroyo toad via diversions and artificially maintained perennial flows below dams. Increased bullfrog populations in these permanent water areas threaten the survival of arroyo toad populations. D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) is responsible for administering section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (Clean Water Act) and has authority to regulate the placement of dredged and fill materials into waters of the United States. Individual actions under nationwide permits undergo minimal outside agency review. Individual permits, which are subject to more extensive review, are required for projects that affect greater than 4 hectares (10 acres). The Corps cannot issue a nationwide or individual permit where a federally proposed or listed species may be affected, without first conferring or consulting with the Service under section 7 of the Endangered Species Act. In addition, the Service, as part of the section 404 review process, provides comments on both pre-discharge notices for nationwide permits and public notices for individual permits. Most construction projects in or near arroyo toad habitat would require a permit from the Corps pursuant to section 404 of the Clean Water Act. In practice, the Corps' actions under section 404 have not adequately protected arroyo toads, as the Corps has rarely required individual permits where impacts to the toad would occur. The Corps has either approved the projects under nationwide permits, or there have been repeated unauthorized activities. Federal listing of this species will ensure greater consideration of the effects of permitted actions during the review process, as well as provide the protection of section 7 of the Act. The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) require an intensive environmental review of projects that may adversely affect Federal candidate species. However, project proponents are not required to avoid impacts to these species, and proposed mitigation measures are frequently not adequately implemented. As with section 404 permits, the Service's comments through these environmental review processes are only advisory. Forest Service policy, as described in the National Forest Management Act, states ``Fish and wildlife habitat shall be managed to maintain viable populations of existing native and desired non-native vertebrate species in the planning area'' (36 CFR 219.19). The Los Padres National Forest has recently funded studies on the ecology of arroyo toads (Sweet 1992, 1993). The Los Padres and Cleveland National Forests have begun to use this information to develop a riparian habitat conservation strategy to provide better protection for arroyo toads and other sensitive riparian species on the two forests. This positive step may address the impacts associated with road maintenance, off-highway vehicle use, placer mining, recreation, and the issuance of special use permits for dam and water diversion construction, all of which have contributed to the decline of the arroyo toad on national forests lands in southern California. Conservation actions by the Forest Service and the State of California will assist in the recovery of the species. Recovery of the species can not be assured, however, without the implementation of protective measures for arroyo toad populations on private lands. Alteration of the natural intermittent flow regimes by dams has had significant adverse impacts to arroyo toads. Prior to 1992, the California Department of Water Resources, which operates Pyramid Dam on Piru Creek in the Los Padres and Angeles National Forests, frequently discharged excess flows from the reservoir resulting in the depressed population of arroyo toads on lower Piru Creek. Recent coordination among the Department of Water Resources, Forest Service, and Fish and Wildlife Service have resulted in releases from the dam that more closely mimic natural flows, benefitting the arroyo toad. Water releases of several million gallons per day from Barrett Dam on Cottonwood Creek during the period when larval arroyo toads were metamorphosing negatively affected the population in San Diego County in summer 1993. Although the arroyo toad is classified as a ``Species of Special Concern'' by the State of California (Steinhart 1990) and may not be taken without an approved scientific collecting permit, this designation provides no special, legally mandated protection of the species and its habitat.
