FR940513-0-00149 FR940513-0-00034 e. Noise and interference factors. Several comments suggested requiring disclosure of warning-type information, such as the possibility that compact fluorescent lamps will interfere with some remote control and other electronic devices. 142 One comment recommended requiring the disclosure of power quality and noise factors. 143 Although noise interference warnings appear on packaging for at least some compact fluorescent lamps, there was insufficient information presented on the rulemaking record about how significant these factors are. In light of this, as well as the practical necessity to limit required disclosures to the most important information consumers need, the Commission has determined not to require disclosure of these factors. To the extent manufacturers wish to disclose information about any of these factors in a truthful and non-deceptive way, they will be free to do so. 142 MA AG, GG&hyph;8, 1&hyph;3, (Supp.), GG&hyph;24, 1&hyph;2; NEPS, GG&hyph;11, 3; LBL, GG&hyph;7, 2. 143 ORSU, GG&hyph;14, 3. 5. Location and Format of Packaging Disclosures a. Location. As described in the NPR, NEMA proposed that the disclosures discussed above for general service incandescent (nonreflector) lamps and medium base compact fluorescent lamps appear on at least one panel of the outer sleeve of lamp packages. NEMA suggested that the Commission specify both type size and relative size specifications for the disclosures, and that the Commission require that the supplemental disclosures NEMA proposed (the energy index and estimated annual operating cost) be disclosed in a square at least one inch by one inch. 144 144 58 FR at 60153&hyph;54. ACEEE's suggestions, as described in the NPR, did not contain specific format recommendations. ACEEE suggested, however, that the Commission specify label content and size, while allowing manufacturers flexibility to design their own customized labels within the specified parameters. 145 145 Id. at 60154. The Commission did not propose specific formats in the NPR for the size or location of the disclosures under consideration. The Commission stated, however, that it would consider requiring that the principal disclosures be featured on the front panel of a package label, perhaps within a graphic box, while permitting other disclosures to be placed elsewhere. 146 146 Id. at 60156. Accordingly, the Commission has determined to require that the basic disclosures 147 and the Advisory Disclosure be made on the principal display panel of packages for these two types of lamps. The comments that addressed where these disclosures should be made agreed that key disclosures should be on the front panel, or on ``at least one panel.'' 148 The Commission has determined that it is unnecessary to prescribe exact specifications for all aspects of the required disclosures. But, to ensure prominent display of the light output figure as well as the word, ``lumens,'' the Commission is specifying format requirements for these and the other performance disclosures. 149 See §§305.11(e)(1)(A) and 305.11(e)(1)(B) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 147 The basic disclosures are: design voltage (if other than 120), energy used (expressed in watts), light output (expressed in lumens), life (expressed in hours), and number of bulbs in package (if more than one). 148 See, e.g., OR DOE, GG&hyph;13, Enclosure (showing proposed disclosures for front and back package panels); Osram (Supp.), G&hyph;11, 1 (disclosures should be made on the main panel); Philips (Supp.), G&hyph;12, 1 (disclosures should be on at least one panel of the lamp package); NEMA, G&hyph;3, 39, (Supp.), G&hyph;10, 10 (the main disclosures should be on at least one panel of the package). Although its comment was directed at the disclosure of an energy efficiency range, NIST's remarks on disclosure location are pertinent: The side of the package is not in a prominent display situation since the customer must remove the package in order to examine the sidebar information. That is probably too late in the decision process for many purchasers. It would seem to be more advantageous to show such information on the front of the package. Then the buyer could more readily determine that there is another option before removing from the shelf. As GE noted, the crowded display areas can become confusing, if not overwhelming, for a wise choice to be made from the many offerings displayed. Therefore, it seems to be even more important to get the information displayed up front. NIST (Supp.), GG&hyph;23, 2. 149 See NEMA, G&hyph;3, 6 (package design plays an important part in the sale of lamps, package has limited space, specific words and formats matter greatly). b. Type size, pominence, and graphic enclosures. Many comments stressed the importance of making the light output disclosure with prominence that is equal or similar to the energy used (wattage) disclosure. These comments agreed that, to encourage consumers to shop for lamps based on efficiency, the disclosure requirements should direct consumers' attention to light output in lumens. To accomplish this, the comments generally recommended that the lumens number be disclosed in a size that is at least 50% as large as the wattage number and that it be disclosed with prominence equal to the disclosure of watts. 150 150 See, e.g., Angelo (Tr.), 156; GE, G&hyph;2, 7, (Ans.), 9. (Tr.), 179 (does not believe that lumens should be larger than watts on the package); NEMA, G&hyph;3, 39 (wherever wattage is displayed, light output must be disclosed in close proximity, in type that is at least 50 percent the size of the wattage figure); 42 (Commission should consider requiring all disclosures of wattage be accompanied by a reference to light output of equal size and prominence), (Supp.), G&hyph;10, 12 (disclosure of light output in lumens should be at least the same size and no less prominent that the disclosure of wattage); Philips, G&hyph;5, 2 (the words Light Output should appear in close proximity to the wattage, in print at least 50% that of the wattage); MO DNR, GG&hyph;10, 3 (brightness (lumens), yearly energy costs, and lamp life should be more prominent than other required information such as watts, volts, and size); WA SEO, GG&hyph;18, 1&hyph;2 (to begin steering consumers to lumens, lumens disclosure should be larger in comparison to watts than is presently required; it should perhaps be of equal size and prominence); Osram (Supp.), G&hyph;11, 1 (light output disclosure should be no smaller than the wattage disclosure); ACEEE (Supp.), GG&hyph;21, 1 (agrees with the proposal forwarded by Angelo that the lamp package have both lumens and watts printed in equal size).
