FR940613-0-00119 FR940613-0-00015 STATE: UTAH COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units_LCV LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 129,000 pounds OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: WEIGHT : Weight limits are as follows: Single axle: 20,000 pounds Tandem axle: 34,000 pounds Gross weight: 129,000 pounds Vehicles must comply with the Federal Bridge Formula Tire loading on vehicles requiring an overweight or oversize permit shall not exceed 500 pounds per inch of tire width for tires 11 inches wide and greater, and 450 pounds per inch of tire width for tires less than 11 inches wide as designated by the tire manufacturer on the side wall of the tire. Tire loading on vehicles not requiring an overweight or oversize permit shall not exceed 600 pounds per inch of tire width as designated by the tire manufacturer on the sidewall. DRIVER: The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement. Carriers must certify that their drivers have a safe driving record and have passed a road test administered by a qualified safety supervisor. VEHICLE: While in transit, no trailer shall be positioned ahead of another trailer which carries an appreciably heavier load. An empty trailer shall not precede a loaded trailer. Vehicles shall be powered to operate on level terrain at speeds compatible with other traffic. They must be able to maintain a minimum speed of 20 miles per hour under normal operating conditions on any grade of 5 percent or less over which the combination is operated and be able to resume a speed of 20 miles per hour after stopping on any such grade, except in extreme weather conditions. Oversize signs are required on vehicles in excess of 75 feet in length on two-lane highways. A heavy-duty fifth wheel is required. All fifth wheels must be clean and lubricated with a light-duty grease prior to each trip. The fifth wheel must be located in a position which provides adequate stability. Pick-up plates must be of equal strength to the fifth wheel. The kingpin must be of a solid type and permanently fastened. Screw-out or folding-type kingpins are prohibited. All hitch connections must be of a no-slack type, preferably a power-actuated ram. Air-actuated hitches which are isolated from the primary air transmission system are recommended. The drawbar length should be the practical minimum consistent with the clearances required between trailers for turning and backing maneuvers.
