FR941202-2-00176 FR941202-2-00098 3.4.6␣Assessment Team Coordination When the identity of the assessment team is known, the lead assessor should contact each person and begin planning the conduct of the assessment. As early as possible the lead assessor should: (a) Coordinate travel plans, including the hotel and transportation arrangements; (b) Notify each team member of the dates of the assessment and pre-assessment team meeting; (c) Ensure that each team member has been briefed on specific procedures for the assessment; (d) Define the time allotted for the assessment. The lead assessor should be careful not to underestimate the time needed to conduct the assessment; and (e) Confirm for those individuals who will be conducting the records review, their familiarity with the records to be reviewed. Each member of the assessment team should be aware of their responsibilities during the assessment. The lead assessor should also arrange to provide copies of applicable NELAP/State standard operating procedures (SOPs) to team members who do not already possess these documents. In addition, the lead assessor may need to assure that the assessment team is aware of proper procedures for receipt and handling of confidential business information (CBI). The lead assessor should determine the level of experience of each team member in conducting laboratory evaluations or records reviews under NELAP/State requirements. The lead assessor may need to guide less experienced team members, both prior to and during the assessment as well as with report preparation. The lead assessor should assemble the team just prior to the assessment to attend to last minute details. 3.4.7␣Gathering Assessment Documents and Equipment Besides preparing the assessment plan and reviewing accrediting body records and laboratory submissions prior to conducting the assessment, the lead assessor should gather and prepare the necessary documents and equipment to be used during the assessment. No single list of documents and equipment can be appropriate for all assessments. The lead assessor's experience in the field and information obtained during pre-assessment planning should assist in preparing lists tailored to specific assessment sites and needs. Specific needs will be determined by the requirements of the assessment, the availability of equipment, conditions at the laboratory, NELAP/State policies, and whether advance notification of an assessment is given. 3.4.7.1␣Types of Documents Documents necessary for the assessment should be prepared before the assessment, whenever possible. The lead assessor should obtain copies of the required assessment forms. Several spare copies of each form should always be carried. Assessments may require: _Notice of assessment; _Assessment confidentiality notice; _Conflict of interest form; _Assessor credentials; _Assessment assignment; _Assessment notification letter; _Attendance sheet, opening and closing conference; and _assessment appraisal form. In addition, the lead assessor should be certain to take the following documents and materials on an assessment:
