FR940318-0-00193 FR940318-0-00023 Despite the varied end uses of sterilants, the Agency did not divide its analysis and regulation of the sterilants sector into distinct end uses. This is because alternatives to 12/88 are consistent across end uses, and the sterilant sector as a whole represents one of the smallest use sectors for Class I substances being considered in the SNAP program. On an ODP-weighted basis, US consumption of CFC&hyph;12 for sterilization represented less than 4 percent of the total US consumption of ozone depleting substances in 1990. Several alternatives to 12/88 are currently in widespread use, but each is limited in applicability by material properties of the devices to be sterilized. These currently available alternatives are unlikely to serve as widespread substitutes for 12/88. Steam sterilizers, for example, are used in many applications and are less expensive to purchase and operate than 12/88 systems. However, steam can only be used to sterilize equipment that can resist high temperatures and high humidity. Pharmaceutical manufacturers already use steam to the maximum extent possible, but hospitals may be able to shift some of their current 12/88 use to steam by separating heat and moisture-resistant devices from sensitive ones. Other alternatives such as radiation, peracetic acid, and glutaraldehyde are also in use, but, like steam, are incompatible with many of the materials now sterilized with 12/88. For example, 30 to 50 percent of new products are initially sterilized with gamma radiation, but it is not possible to re-sterilize hospital surgical equipment with gamma radiation. Rather, 12/88 must be used. Several other alternatives, such as chlorine dioxide, gaseous ozone, vapor phase hydrogen peroxide, and ionized gas plasma, are currently under development. Many of these alternatives are also incompatible with materials currently sterilized with 12/88. Those that may be applicable as partial substitutes for 12/88, such as hydrogen peroxide, are not expected to be commercially available in the near term. Alternatives such as radiation and other currently available technologies should be used wherever applicable, but are not specifically addressed in this rule due to their limited potential to be widespread substitutes for 12/88. Additional information on such alternatives and on specific uses of 12/88 can be found in the supporting documentation retained in the public docket. The determinations in this section are based on the risk screen described in the background document titled ``Risk Screen on the Use of Substitutes for Class I Ozone-Depleting Substances: Sterilization.'' Responses to comments received on the sterilants sector can be found in the ``Response to Comment'' document, also found in the public docket. 2. Substitutes for Sterilization a. Halocarbons . A number of halocarbon substitutes have been suggested as alternatives to CFC&hyph;12 in EtO blends for sterilization. These include HCFC&hyph;123, HCFC&hyph;124, HFC&hyph;125, HCFC&hyph;141b, and HFC&hyph;134a and HFC&hyph;227ea. At present, however, only HCFC&hyph;124, a blend of HCFCs, and HFC&hyph;227ea have been proposed as near-term candidates. While HCFC&hyph;124 has been fully evaluated by the Agency in this rule, final determinations on the HCFC Blend and HFC&hyph;227ea will be made as soon as complete data is available and the products are approved under FIFRA. Additional research will be required to determine the suitability of the other agents in EtO blends. Many of the proposed halocarbons offer good potential as EtO diluents. They demonstrate good flame retardation, low ODPs, low GWPs, low toxicity, materials compatibility, acceptable vapor pressures, and good blending properties. Mixtures of halocarbons with EtO would most likely be at ratios similar to 12/88, or with a slightly lower EtO content. HCFC&hyph;124 has been tested with 8.6 percent EtO, for example. Such properties would make halocarbon blends virtual drop-in replacements for 12/88 in existing systems. The blends would also be far less damaging to stratospheric ozone than is 12/88. b. Carbon dioxide . Carbon dioxide is already in widespread use as a sterilant in blends with EtO. Previously, the most common blend contained 10 percent EtO and 90 percent CO 2 and was referred to as ``10/90''. However, on October 1, 1993 the Department of Transportation (DOT) issued regulations on the transport of hazardous materials which listed EtO/CO 2 mixtures as flammable if they contain more than 9 percent EtO. To avoid changing safety and handling procedures, manufacturers of this blend are changing the formulation of the EtO/CO 2 blend to 8.5/91.5.
