FR940524-2-00055 FR940524-2-00032 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Land Management [ID&hyph;931&hyph;4070&hyph;03] Closure of Wild Horse Herd Management Areas to Harassment; Idaho May 11, 1994. AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Bureau of Land Management proposes to close certain public lands to protect wild free-roaming horses and burros from malicious or negligent injury or harassment, and to protect persons, property, public lands, and resources and enhance wild horse herds located in portions of Custer, Elmore, Gem, Owyhee, Payette, and Washington Counties within Idaho. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Harold D. Sherrets, BLM Idaho State Office, 3380 Americana Terrace, Boise, Idaho, 83706&hyph;2500, 208&hyph;384&hyph;3065. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Malicious harassment means any intentional or negligent act which demonstrates a deliberate disregard for the well-being of wild free-roaming horses and burros and which creates the likelihood of injury, or is detrimental to the normal behavior patterns of free-roaming horses and burros including feeding, watering, resting, breeding, and foaling. Such acts include, but are not limited to, unauthorized chasing, pursuing, herding, roping, or attempting to gather or catch wild free-roaming horses and burros. It does not apply to lawfully conducted activities by or on behalf of the Bureau of Land Management in implementation or performance of duties and responsibilities under the Wild Horse and Burro Act. Negligently means the failure to exercise the standard of care that would be expected of a normally reasonable and prudent person. The areas generally affected by this closure are described as follows: (1) Salmon District, Challis Resource Area, Challis Herd Management Area; consists of the Salmon River on the north; the East Fork of the Salmon River on the west; U.S. Alternate Highway 93, and the watershed boundary separating the Big Lost Drainage from the Salmon River Drainage on the east; the ridge line between Herd Creek and Road Creek on the south. (2) Boise District, Jarbidge Resource Area, Saylor Creek Herd Management Area; beginning at the junction of State Highway 78 and the Pot Hole Road; southerly along the Pot Hole Road to its junction with the East-West Line road; easterly along the East-West Line Road to its junction with Crows Nest Road; northeasterly along the Crows Nest Road to its intersection with Owyhee County and Twin Falls County line to its intersection with the Snake River; westerly along the Snake River to its intersection with State Highway 78; State Highway 78 to the point of beginning. (3) Boise District, Owyhee Resource Area, Sands Basin, Black Mountain and Hardtrigger Herd Management Areas; from the confluence of Succor Creek and the Snake River; east along the Snake River to the Township line between Townships 3 South and 4 South; west along the Township line to the Idaho and Oregon State Line; north along the Idaho and Oregon State line to Succor Creek, then along Succor Creek to its confluence with the Snake River. (4) Boise District, Cascade Resource Area, Four-Mile Herd Management Area; beginning at the junction of Four-Mile Road and Big Willow Road; northwesterly approximately three miles to the center of section 13, Township 9 North, Range 2 West; north to Four-Mile Road then northerly along Four-Mile to Crane Creek Drainage; easterly approximately five miles to Big Willow Creek Road; southerly along Big Willow Creek Road to its junction with Four-Mile Road, to the point of beginning. From the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register , the lands herein described will be closed as described on a year round basis. This Closure Order is effective immediately in accordance with all parts of title 43 Code of Federal Regulations subpart 8364.1. Removal of domestic horses from the above identified Wild Horse Management Areas will require the authorization of the Bureau of Land Management authorized officer. This closure order does not affect all recognized lawful uses and activities on these lands. For maps of Wild Horse Herd Management Areas, refer to the Challis, Jarbidge, Cascade, and Owyhee Resource Management Plans. Additional information may be obtained by contacting: Salmon District Manager, Bureau of Land Management, P.O. Box 430, Salmon, Idaho 83467; or Boise District Manager, Bureau of Land Management, 3948 Development Avenue, Boise, Idaho 83705. Delmar D. Vail, State Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12564 Filed 5&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;GG&hyph;M
