FR940826-0-00131 FR940826-0-00020 70. The National Telephone Cooperative Association (NTCA) requests that the Commission amend the definition of rural telephone company to include any local exchange carrier with annual revenues of less than $100 million or serving no more than 100,000 access lines. NTCA also indicates that the term ``independently owned'' should not exclude small rural telephone companies that are affiliated with each other and that rural telephone company consortia should be permitted. USIN similarly advocates a ``rural telephone company'' definition based annual revenues of less than $100,000,000 or less than 100,000 access lines. According to USIN a revenue-based test is more accurate than net worth/net profit test. 71. The Rural Cellular Association (RCA), South Dakota Network, Inc. (SDN) and NTCA ask that the Commission amend the definition of rural telephone companies to include any independently owned and operated local exchange carriers (``LECs'') that either operate 50,000 access lines or less or serve communities of 10,000 or fewer inhabitants. According to NTCA and RCA, the existing definition needlessly excludes many small independent telephone companies that serve rural areas. SDN alternatively requests that we revise the definition to include carriers with 100,000 or fewer access lines or up to $100 million in annual revenues. 72. Finally, Anchorage Telephone Utility (ATU) requests that the Commission modify the definition of rural telephone companies to include government-owned telephone companies. According to ATU, such a modification is necessary to achieve congressional intent. ATU notes that the Senate bill included municipally-owned telephone companies in its definition of rural telephone companies. ATU's argues that the Senate Bill mandates special consideration for rural telephone companies and directed the FCC to grant ``rural program licenses'' to ``qualified'' common carriers and explicitly said that the category of ``qualified'' carriers included all state-owned and municipally-owned telephone companies. 113 As evidence Congress' intent to include these provisions in the enacted version of Budget Act, ATU asserts that the Conference Report declares that the Senate's ``findings'' are incorporated by reference. 113 See ATU Petition at 2&hyph;3. 73. Oppositions and Replies. In its Comment on Petitions for Reconsideration, BET supports retention of the Commission's existing generic rural telephone company definition. 114 BET maintains that adoption of RCA's proposal to define rural telephone companies as LECs that have 50,000 access or fewer or serve communities with no more than 10,000 inhabitants will allow large LECs that ``happen to serve rural areas'' to qualify for designated entity provisions. In response to BET's Comments, RCA asserts that the ``independently owned and operated'' requirement for rural telephone company eligibility will prevent large LECs from qualifying for rural telephone company provisions. RCA also restates its request for an amendment to the general rural telephone company definition to include LECs that serve 100,000 access lines or fewer. 115 114 BET Comments at 2. 115 RCA Reply at 2. 74. In light of the Commission's decision in Fifth Report and Order in this proceeding, which adopted an alternative rural telephone company definition, NTCA argues that the Commission should abandon its generic rural telephone company definition and instead establish rural telephone company eligibility criteria on a service-specific basis. Alternatively NTCA proposes that we define rural telephone companies to include LECs that have annual revenues not in excess of $125 million or that serve no more than 100,000 access lines. 116 Tri-County Telephone Company, Inc. (Tri-County) supports SDN's proposed rural telephone company definition (50,000 access lines or serves no community with more than 10,000 inhabitants or alternatively 100,000 access lines or less). 117 116 NTCA Reply Comments at 4. 117 Tri-County Reply at 3. 75. Discussion. We are persuaded by petitioner's arguments that the current generic ``rural telephone company'' definition is overly restrictive and effectively excludes many independently owned telephone companies that serve rural areas. 118 In the Fifth Report and Order we departed from our generic definition of rural telephone companies in the context of broadband PCS by adopting a definition that includes any local exchange carrier having 100,000 or fewer access lines, including all affiliates. 119 In adopting this definition of a ``rural telephone company,'' we sought to achieve the congressional goal of promoting the rapid deployment of service in rural areas by targeting only those telephone companies whose service territories are predominantly rural in nature, and who are thus likely to use their wireline telephone networks to build infrastructures to serve rural America. 120 For purposes of our rules governing broadband PCS licenses, we indicated our belief that this goal could best be achieved if we defined ``rural telephone companies'' as those local exchange carriers having 100,000 or fewer access lines, including all affiliates. We concluded that this definition included virtually all telephone companies whose service areas are predominantly rural. 118 See RCA Petition at 4&hyph;5; USIN Petition at 10; NTCA Petition at 2. 119 See Fifth Report and Order at ¶198. 120 We also note that the unique technological requirements and the capital intensive nature of broadband PCS dictated that we adopt this definition of ``rural telephone company.'' 76. For the foregoing reasons, we also believe that using the 100,000 access line definition as our standard rural telephone company definition will better serve our goals of encouraging the provision of service to rural areas than the definition previously adopted in the Second Report and Order. Accordingly, we will amend our standard definition of ``rural telephone company'' to include all local exchange carriers with 100,000 access lines or fewer, including affiliates. In general, we believe that this definition will more precisely capture those carriers that are truly rural in nature, while excluding the largest telephone carriers that do not face similar capital formation problems. We believe that this definition will also better achieve Congress' goal for fostering the development and rapid deployment of new technologies and services to rural areas by making special measures available to legitimate rural telephone companies that require such provisions in order to meaningfully participate in the provision of service to rural areas without giving such benefits to large companies that do not require such assistance. Rural telephone companies that satisfy this definition thus will be eligible for rural telephone company provisions in each service where such provisions are established. 121 121 Such companies also will be eligible for special treatment under our cellular attribution rules for broadband PCS. See 47 CFR 24.204(d)(2)(ii). 77. As indicated above, Blooston, SDN and NTCA request that we eliminate the phrase ``independently owned and operated'' from the definition of ``rural telephone company.'' These petitioners assert that the ``independently owned and operated'' restriction in the rural telephone company definition was intended to prevent large telephone companies from taking advantage of rural telephone company benefits, but that this purpose is served by the access line limit. In this regard, SDN argues that such language unduly penalizes holding companies of nonregulated services and entities created by groups of telephone companies to provide equal access, SS7, and other services.
