FR941012-2-00021 FR941012-2-00008 (A&hyph;583&hyph;823) Initiation of Antidumping Duty Investigation: Wheel Inserts from Taiwan AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michelle Frederick or John Brinkmann, Office of Antidumping Investigations, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20230; telephone: (202) 482&hyph;0186 or (202) 482&hyph;5288, respectively. Initiation of Investigation The Petition On September 15, 1994, we received a petition filed in proper form by Consolidated International Automotive, Inc. (petitioner). At the request of the Department of Commerce (the Department), petitioner filed supplements to support and clarify the petition's data on September 30 and October 3, 1994. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.12 (1994), petitioner alleges that wheel inserts from Taiwan are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value within the meaning of section 731 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act), and that these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry. Petitioner states that it has standing to file the petition because it is an interested party, as defined under section 771(9)(C) of the Act, and because the petition is filed on behalf of the U.S. industry producing the product subject to this investigation. If any interested party, as described under paragraphs (C), (D), (E), or (F) of section 771(9) of the Act, wishes to register support for, or opposition to, this petition, such party should file a written notification with the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. Under the Department's regulations, any producer or reseller seeking exclusion from a potential antidumping duty order must submit its request for exclusion within 30 days of the date of publication of this notice. The procedures and requirements regarding the filing of such requests are contained in 19 CFR 353.14. Scope of Investigation The products covered by this investigation are wheel inserts, also referred to as lug hole inserts and insert bushings, made from steel, aluminum, brass or zinc. A wheel insert is a washer-like product with a circular collar that protrudes into a stud hole to provide a protective seat between a lug nut and an aluminum or alloy wheel mounted on ground transportation vehicles. A wheel insert can be heat-treated or non heat-treated, with or without knurls, and with or without surface coatings. Surface coatings include, but are not limited to, chrome plating, nickel plating, zinc plating (with or without wax coating), oxide coating and powder coating. The products under investigation are currently classifiable under subheading 8708.70.6060 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS). Although the HTSUS subheading is provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this investigation is dispositive. United States Price and Foreign Market Value Petitioner based United States Price (USP) on a November 1993 price quotation obtained for a standard black zinc plated wheel insert. The terms of the price quotation were FOB Kaohsiung, Taiwan, with payment based on an irrevocable sight letter of credit (L/C). Petitioner made a deduction for credit. Credit was calculated using the short term interest rate published by Taiwanese banks for September of 1993 and a credit period of 55 days, the average of the 50&hyph;60 days stated on the price quotation for delivery after receipt of the L/C. Petitioner based its estimate of foreign market value (FMV) on constructed value (CV) claiming that no producers in Taiwan sell the subject merchandise in Taiwan or to any third country markets. According to 19 CFR 353.12(b)(7), if petitioner is unable to furnish information on foreign sales or costs, it must provide information on production costs in the United States and then adjust these costs to reflect for differences in the production costs between the United States and the home market country of exportation.
