FR940404-2-00147 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to Non-Debt-Creating Finance for Development: New Mechanisms for Increasing Investment and Financial Flows, First Session, Ad Hoc Working Group on Investment and Financial Flows, Trade and Development Board, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Geneva, November 9&hyph;13, 1992 Representative G. Clay Nettles, Economic Counselor, United States Mission, Geneva Alternate Representative Raymond G. McGrath, Office of Investment Affairs, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Advisers Robert Konrath, Economics Officer, United States Mission, Geneva Elizabeth W. Shelton, Office of International Economic Policy, Bureau of International Organization Affairs, Department of State Private Sector Adviser John Charlton, Managing Director, Chase Manhattan Bank, New York United States Delegation to the Seventeenth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, Venice, Italy, November 9&hyph;20, 1992 Representative R. Tucker Scully, Director, Office of Oceans Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Advisers Raymond V. Arnaudo, Division of Polar Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State John Behrendt, United States Geological Survey, Department of the Interior, Denver, Colorado Robert J. Hofman, Marine Mammal Commission James Hughes, Director of Congressional Affairs, Department of the Interior Jeffrey D. Kovar, Office of the Legal Adviser, Department of State Thomas Laughlin, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Brian Muehling, Office of International Activities, Environmental Protection Agency Private Sector Advisers Ron Naveen, Oceanities Foundation, Cooksville, Maryland Susan Sabella, Greenpeace, Washington, DC Darrell Schoeling, Travel Dynamics, New York, New York Jack Talmadge, Division of Polar Programs, National Science Foundation, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the Chemicals Group and Management Committee, 19th Joint Meeting, Environment Policy Committee (EPOC), Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris, November 10&hyph;13, 1992 Representative Linda J. Fisher, Assistant Administrator, Office of Prevention, Pesticides and Toxic Substances, Environmental Protection Agency Advisers Charles Auer, Director, Existing Chemicals Assessment Division, Environmental Protection Agency Mark A. Greenwood, Director, Office of Toxic Substances, Environmental Protection Agency Breck Milroy, Office of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State David A. Ogden, Office of International Activities, Environmental Protection Agency Private Sector Advisers Fran Irwin, Senior Associate, Conservation Foundation, Washington, DC Kenneth Murray, Exxon Corporation, East Brunswick, New Jersey
