FR940203-2-00118 FR940203-2-00068 (k) Assisting participating employers, including small- and medium-size businesses, to identify and train workplace mentors and to develop work-based learning components; (l) Designing local strategies to provide adequate planning time and staff development activities for teachers, school counselors, and related services personnel; (m) Enhancing linkages between after school, weekend, and summer jobs, and opportunities for career exploration and school-based learning; and (n) Conducting outreach to all students in a manner that most appropriately meets their needs and the needs of their communities. Safeguards The Secretaries apply the following safeguards to School-to-Work Opportunities programs funded under this priority: (a) No student shall displace any currently employed worker (including a partial displacement, such as a reduction in the hours of non-overtime work, wages, or employment benefits). (b) No School-to-Work Opportunities program shall impair existing contracts for services or collective bargaining agreements, except that no program under this priority that would be inconsistent with the terms of a collective bargaining agreement shall be undertaken without the written concurrence of the labor organization and employer concerned. (c) No student shall be employed or job opening filled_ (1) When any other individual is on temporary layoff from the participating employer, with the clear possibility of recall, from the same or any substantially equivalent job; or (2) When the employer has terminated the employment of any regular employee or otherwise reduced its workforce with the intention of filling the vacancy so created with a student. (d) Students shall be provided with adequate and safe equipment and a safe and healthful workplace in conformity with all health, safety, and labor standards of Federal, State, and local law. (e) Nothing in this priority shall be construed so as to modify or affect any Federal or State law prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color, ethnicity, national origin, gender, age, or disability. (f) Funds awarded under this priority shall not be expended for wages of students. (g) The grantee shall implement and maintain such other safeguards as the Secretaries may deem appropriate in order to ensure that School-to-Work Opportunities participants are afforded adequate supervision by skilled adult workers, or, otherwise, to further the purposes of this program. An applicant must provide an assurance, in the application, that the foregoing safeguards will be implemented and maintained throughout all program activities. Selection Criteria for Evaluating Applications Under the School-to-Work Opportunities Implementation Grant competition, the Secretaries will use the following selection criteria in evaluating applications. The Secretaries will evaluate applications using a two-phase review process. In the first phase of the review process, the Secretaries will use peer reviewers to evaluate applications using the selection criteria and the associated point values. In the second phase, review teams will visit high-ranking States to gain further information and further assess State plans. The second-phase review teams will use the criteria, but not necessarily the associated point values, in their information-gathering and assessment activities. Final funding decisions made by the Secretaries will be based on information gained during the site visits, the ranking of applications during the first-phase review, and such other factors as geographic balance and diversity of program approaches, replicability, sustainability, and innovation. (a) Comprehensive Statewide System. (25 points) Is the School-to-Work Opportunities plan described in the application likely to produce systemic statewide change that will have substantial impact on the preparation of youth for a first job in a high-skill, high-wage career and in increasing their opportunities for further education? Does the plan provide information reflecting the needs of each local labor market area in the designated geographic areas of the State? Does the State propose a feasible plan for expanding the system to ensure that all geographic areas of the State, including communities with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth, will have an opportunity to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs within a reasonable period of time? Is the process for assessing skills and issuing skill certificates likely to lead to portable credentials for students and are the skills adequately benchmarked to high quality standards such as those envisioned in the Goals 2000: Educate America Act? Does the State's process for assessing skills reflect the needs of high performance workplaces and meet the requirements of broad clusters of related occupations and industries, rather than those of individual jobs or occupations? Has the State described State and local performance standards that should lead to statewide systemic reform of secondary education? (b) Collaboration and Involvement of Key Partners. (25 points)
