FR940317-2-00046 FR940317-2-00034 In funding the President's Environmental Technology Initiative, the House Committee on Appropriations directed EPA, ``*␣*␣* to develop a comprehensive environmental technology strategy characterized by innovation and a nonbureaucratic approach.'' 1 1 House of Representatives, 103rd Congress, Committee on Appropriations report, June 22, 1993, Report 103&hyph;150, p.47. EPA's draft Strategy provides a plan to directly and indirectly support private sector innovation and diffusion activities sponsored by the public and private sector and close coordination among Federal agencies. It focuses on creating incentives for the development and use of innovative technologies in federal and state environmental regulations, reducing barriers to technology innovation and use, and improving the competitiveness of the environmental technology industry in domestic and international markets. EPA and other Federal, state and local agencies, universities, trade associations and consortia, and numerous private companies are already working in many of the areas identified in the Strategy . EPA is seeking public comment on the Strategy to focus and target efforts to accelerate environmental technology development, commercialization and use. The Agency's Innovative Technology Council plans to revise and update the Strategy based on the comments received. The definition of ``environmental technologies'' being addressed in the Strategy varies widely for a number of reasons. The ``environmental technology industry'' has only recently become a focal point for market analysts and policy-makers, and it is highly diversified in terms of the current demand for and supply of technologies, goods and services. Demand often varies based on local environmental conditions. ``Environmental technologies'' include technologies, goods, and services whose development is triggered primarily by environmental improvement objectives. Sometimes referred to as ``dark green'' technologies, these include: products and services to monitor and assess pollutant releases and exposure levels; innovative technologies which prevent pollution, control air and water pollution levels, safely manage waste and remediate contaminated soil and groundwater; and, manage environmental data. EPA's Strategy also addresses ``light green'' technologies that are developed primarily for non-environmental reasons; those technologies can have indirect, but important consequences for improving environmental quality. An example, would be local area computer networks designed to enhance office communication, but which also reduce paper use. EPA is interested in promoting all phases of technological change such as: the research and development of new concepts; preliminary design testing and pilot applications of evolving technologies; performance demonstrations and testing; evaluations of early commercial applications; and diffusion into domestic and international markets. The draft `` Technology Innovation Strategy '' outlines the general principles that guide EPA in its efforts to foster innovation in its existing programs and new projects being initiated under the President's Environmental Technology Initiative in FY1994 and FY1995 to foster the development and use of environmental technologies in solving the nation's environmental problems. It outlines four objectives: 1. Adapt EPA's policy, regulatory, and compliance framework to promote innovation; 2. Strengthen the capacity of technology developers and users to succeed in environmental technology innovation; 3. Strategically invest EPA funds in the development and commercialization of promising new technologies; and 4. Accelerate diffusion of innovative technologies at home and abroad. EPA invites comments on the draft Strategy and the following questions:
