FR941110-2-00022 FR941110-2-00009 Timken concludes that Koyo has provided no reason for the Department to modify its present approach, and urges the Department to continue to split home-market TRB sets into individual cup and cone components for the final results of these reviews. Department's Position: We agree with Timken. In its most recent decision on this matter, the CIT again reaffirmed the Department's practice of set splitting ( NTN I ). In Timken II the CIT pointed out that these split sales are not ``fictitious'' sales, but real sales made to real customers. The CIT upheld the Department's decision to split sales of sets because, otherwise, respondents could have forced the Department to use CV in its analysis by simply selling sets in one market and cups and cones in the other: ``the Court declines to read section 1677b(a)(1) to permit such control by foreign manufacturers of the manner in which FMV is determined'' ( Timken II, at 495, 504&hyph;505). In addition, the CIT has also stated in NTN I that, if NTN's interpretation of the statute were followed, ``such interpretations would encourage importers to circumvent the antidumping laws by simply using divergent invoicing methods'' ( NTN I, 726, 741). The Department considers set-splitting to be necessary for these reviews; cups and cones split from sets are potentially the most similar merchandise to the products sold in the United States. Because they may be the most similar products, it is appropriate to include this merchandise in the pool of home-market sales. Comments Regarding Calculation of FMV Comment 10: Timken argues that the adjustment to FMV for early-payment discounts as direct selling expenses, which the Department granted NSK in the preliminary results of the 1984/85 and 1985/86 reviews, is unsupported. Timken contends that the discounts were not related to specific merchandise and notes that, under identical circumstances, the Department has in the past denied a respondent's claim for a direct adjustment. NSK concedes that, using its present methodology, the Department requires discounts to be reported on a transaction-specific basis. However, NSK argues that in this case the Department's 1986 questionnaire did not require NSK to report early-payment discounts on a transaction-specific basis, reflecting the Department's practice at the time. Furthermore, NSK notes the company was unable to tie its cash discounts to specific merchandise because the same discounts were granted on all merchandise. NSK explains that its allocation of total discounts over total sales was consistent with its record-keeping at the time. Department's Position: The Department's current practice is indeed to require that discounts be reported on a transaction-specific basis (see AFBs III, 39729, 39759). However, in our original questionnaires for these reviews we did not require NSK to report discounts on such a basis, and we did not issue supplementary instructions when our practice changed. Therefore, because NSK's submitted discount information represents the only information on the record, we have continued to rely on these data for these final results of review. Comment 11: Timken contends that the Department incorrectly treated Koyo's post-sale price adjustments (PSPAs) and rebates as direct selling expenses in the home market when, in fact, Koyo reported these adjustments as aggregate amounts, attributable to all products, and, therefore, did not report them on a transaction-specific basis. Timken states that at verification the Department determined that Koyo calculated (a) a lump-sum discount amount, and (b) a part-number-specific debit/credit PSPA, and then reported a PSPA ratio based on the aggregate of these two values. Timken notes that 19 CFR 353.56(a) requires that billing adjustments bear ``a direct relationship to the sales compared'' in order to be treated as a direct selling expense. In addition, Timken notes that, according to several court decisions, the burden of proving entitlement to adjustments rests with respondents. Further, Timken cites Torrington Company v. United States, 818 F.Supp. 1563, 1579 (1993) ( Torrington ), as evidence that the CIT disallowed a methodology which would include PSPAs and rebates on out-of-scope merchandise in calculating an FMV.
