FR941110-1-00122 FR941110-1-00011 Category 5._Insulation Boards, Panels and Pipe Covers These goods have to be classified according to their composition and presentation. For example, if the insulation materials are made of polyurethane, polystyrene, polyolefin and phenolic plastics, then they may be classified Chapter 39, for ``Plastics and articles thereof''. The exact description of the products at issue is necessary before a classification can be given. 6 6 This category may include insulating board for building panels and windows and doors. It also includes rigid appliance insulation for pipes, tanks, trucks, trailers, containers, train cars & ships, refrigerators, freezers, beverage vending machines, bulk beverage dispensers, water coolers and heaters and ice machines. ␣ 1Heading/subheading 1Article description 3917.21 to 3917.39 Tubes, pipes and hoses of plastics. 3920.10 to 3920.99 Plates, sheets, film, foil and strip made of plastics, non-cellular and not reinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combine with other materials. 3921.11 to 3921.90 Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, made of plastics. 3925.90 Builders' ware made of plastics, not elsewhere specified or included. 3926.90 Articles made of plastics, not elsewhere specified or included. Category 6._Pre-Polymers According to the Explanatory Notes to the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System, ``prepolymers are products which are characterized by some repetition of monomer units although they may contain unreacted monomers. Prepolymers are not normally used as such but are intended to be transformed into higher molecular weight polymers by further polymerization. Therefore the term does not cover finished products, such as di-isobutylenes or mixed polyethylene glycols with very low molecular weight. Examples are epoxides based with epichlorohydrin, and polymeric isocyanates.'' ␣ 1Heading/subheading 1Article description 3901 Pre-polymers based on ethylene (in primary forms). 3902 Pre-polymers based on propylene or other olefins (in primary forms). 3903, 3907, 3909 Pre-polymers based on styrene (in primary forms), epoxide and phenols. Appendix E to Subpart A_Article 5 Parties Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bosnia and Hertsegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cote Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Fiji, Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, Lebanon, Libya, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Myranmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Senegal, Seychelles, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
