FR940919-2-00100 FR940919-2-00046 Treating Source Preference SSA will give primary emphasis to obtaining medical information from treating sources that provides brief, but specific, diagnostic information regarding an individual's medically determinable impairments and the functional consequences of those impairments. Treating source statements will include diagnostic information about a claimant's impairments, the clinical and laboratory findings which provide the basis for the diagnosis, onset and duration, response to treatment, and the functional limitations that can reasonably be linked to the clinical and laboratory findings. Depending on the nature and extent of an individual's impairments and treating sources, statements from multiple medical sources may be appropriate. Once the standardized measurement criteria described earlier are widely available, a standardized functional assessment available from a treating source will be accepted as probative evidence. Treating sources or another examining source may perform the standardized functional assessment at SSA's expense. Standardized Request Form SSA will develop a standardized form which effectively tailors a request for evidence to the specific diagnostic and functional assessment information necessary to make a disability decision. Such information includes but is not limited to diagnostic information about a claimant's impairments, the clinical and laboratory findings which provide the basis for the diagnosis, onset and duration, response to treatment, and the functional limitations that can reasonably be linked to the clinical and laboratory findings. Treating sources will be encouraged to submit such information electronically. Standardizing requests for evidence in this manner will facilitate the participation of claimants, representatives and third parties in the evidence collection process. The form will permit treating sources to provide necessary diagnostic and functional assessment information in summary form on a single document. In appropriate circumstances, SSA will accept a treating source's statements on the standardized form as to history and diagnosis, the clinical and laboratory findings which provide the basis for the diagnosis, onset and duration, response to treatment, and the functional limitations that can reasonably be linked to the clinical and laboratory findings, without resorting to the traditional, wholesale procurement of actual medical records. In completing standardized forms, treating sources will certify that they have in their possession the medical documentation referred to in the statement and that said documentation will be promptly submitted at the request of SSA. The certification approach does not relieve treating sources from providing objective evidence in support of their diagnoses and opinions; rather it is designed to streamline the collection of necessary evidence. The approach is also consistent with evidence collection methods used by private disability insurance carriers, which request specific medical records in individual claims, when necessary and appropriate to the individual circumstances, or at random as part of a quality assurance program. Treating source completion of the standardized forms will be monitored to prevent fraud. Decisionmakers will verify treating source statements by obtaining underlying medical records when appropriate. The automated claim processing system will facilitate effective monitoring of the evidence submission practices of individual treating sources by permitting random and/or targeted selection of claim files involving that treating source for quality assurance and program integrity reviews. Treating Source Incentives As in the current process, SSA will pay for the reasonable cost of providing existing medical evidence. SSA will acknowledge the value of treating source information by establishing a national fee reimbursement schedule for medical evidence. The fee reimbursement schedule will utilize a sliding-scale mechanism to reward the early submission of medical information; additionally, the sliding scale will be adjusted to reflect the quality of the evidence received. A national, sliding-scale fee schedule will provide incentives for treating sources to cooperate in the evidentiary development process and invest quality time to provide medical certifications on behalf of their patients. SSA will provide resources to focus professional educational efforts and medical relations outreach at the local and/or regional level to ensure that treating sources are given up-to-date information on program requirements and made aware of specific evidentiary needs or problems as they arise in the adjudication process. SSA will conduct educational outreach on the national level on an ongoing basis with the medical community to provide a better understanding of the SSA disability programs, the medical and functional requirements for eligibility, and the best ways to provide medical information needed for decisionmaking. Consultative Examination If a claimant has no treating source, or a treating source is unable or unwilling to provide the necessary evidence, or there is conflict in the evidence that can not be resolved through evidence from treating sources, the decisionmaker will refer the claimant for an appropriate consultative examination. Because the standardized measurement criteria for assessing function will be widely available, consulting sources will be able to perform functional assessments that, in the absence of adequate treating source information or where there are unresolved conflicts in the evidence, will be considered probative evidence. Depending on the service area, SSA will consider contracting with large health care providers to furnish consultative examinations for a specified geographic location. As part of an ongoing training and medical relations program, SSA will ensure that providers of consultative examinations are provided adequate training on disability requirements. Those medical providers who conduct consultative examinations for SSA will also need ongoing training regarding changes in the disability program. SSA will prepare training programs for this audience which will utilize written, audiotape, videotape, and computerized training methods. Administrative Appeals Process Simple, Accessible Process To eliminate the public perception that multiple, mandatory appeal steps are obstacles to receiving timely, fair, and accurate decisions, SSA will reduce the number of mandatory appeals steps in the administrative process. Streamlining the appeals process will not only promote more timely decisions but also ensure that claimants do not inappropriately withdraw from the claim process based on a perception that it is too difficult or time-consuming to pursue their appeal rights.
