FR941021-0-00078 FR941021-0-00013 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 76 [MM Docket No. 92&hyph;266, FCC 94&hyph;254] Cable Television Act of 1992 AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Commission has adopted a Fourth Order on Reconsideration to revise and adopt further Commission cable rate regulations. The Fourth Order on Reconsideration addresses issues regarding external cost treatment of Commission cable television system regulatory fees and franchise fees. It is intended to provide for external cost treatment of Commission cable television system regulatory fees and permit cable operators to adjust rates for regulated cable services to reflect Commission regulatory fees and changes in franchise fees upon 30 days' notice without receiving prior franchising authority or Commission approval, but subject to refund. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 21, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Leora Hochstein, (202) 416&hyph;0800. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a synopsis of the Fourth Order on Reconsideration in MM Docket No. 92&hyph;266, FCC 94&hyph;254, adopted September 30, 1994 and released October 5, 1994. The complete text of this Fourth Order on Reconsideration is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Reference Center (room 239), 1919 M Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., and also may be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription service at (202) 857&hyph;3800, 2100 M Street, N.W., Suite 140, Washington, D.C. 20037. Synopsis of the Fourth Order on Reconsideration I. Franchise Fees 1. Cable systems are franchised by state or local governments or by a combination thereof or, in certain circumstances, by other governmental entities such as federal military installations. The payment of fees under the terms of any franchise is authorized by Section 622(a) of the Communications Act, is limited as to amount by Section 622(b), and such fees are to be accounted for in the establishment of rates under Section 623(b)(2)(c)(V). 2. Under the Commission's price cap rules, a cable operator is permitted to adjust its maximum monthly charge for regulated service tiers to reflect changes in certain categories of external costs, including franchise fees. If an operator's basic service tier is being regulated in a particular franchise area by the franchising authority or by the Commission, the operator generally is not allowed under our rules to increase its rates for the basic service tier or related equipment and installations without first submitting the proposed increase to the franchising authority or the Commission, as the case may be, for review. Under our rules, a franchising authority reviewing a proposed increase in basic rates has an initial 30 day period to make its decision. The franchising authority may extend this period for an additional 90 days in a non-cost-of-service case or 150 days in a cost-of-service case. During this period, the operator's proposed increase is not in effect. When the Commission is regulating basic rates, filings regarding rate increases must be made 30 days prior to the proposed effective date and such rate increases are effective on the date proposed unless the Commission issues an order deferring the effective date or denying the rate proposal. With respect to cable programming service (CPS) rates, an operator must file rate increases for prior review by the Commission if the Commission has ordered the operator to reduce its CPS rates within the prior 12 months or some other period specified by the Commission in a particular case. In addition, when a CPS complaint against the operator is pending before the Commission, an operator must give the Commission 30 days' notice of changes in any rates, including increases in rates attributable to increases in franchise fees. 3. On reconsideration, on our own motion, we determine that we should permit adjustments to capped rates to reflect increases in franchise fees without prior regulatory approval. Since it is the franchising authority which has set the franchise fee, prior regulatory review appears less necessary from a consumer protection standpoint than it is for other categories of external costs. This decision supersedes Answer No. 5 in the Questions and Answers released by the Cable Services Bureau on May 18, 1994 which interpreted the Commission's price cap rules as requiring prior approval before franchise fee increases could be passed through.
