FR940916-0-00020 FR940916-0-00006 (cc) At KRS 350(29), Kentucky is requiring that the monitoring and reporting of ground water quality include the parameters used in the baseline characterization of ground water specified in subsection (22), unless the State requires different parameters. (dd) At KRS 350(30), Kentucky is requiring that the monitoring and reporting of surface water quality include the parameters used in the baseline characterization of surface water specified in subsection (23), unless the State requires different parameters. (ee) At KRS 350(31), Kentucky is requiring that applications submitted under this section be processed in the same manner as other applications submitted under KRS Chapter 350. (ff) At KRS 350(32), Kentucky is authorizing the promulgation of administrative regulations under this section pertaining to the disposal of coal combustion by-products. There are no direct Federal counterparts to the provisions of the proposed amendment. However, the Director finds that provided the proposed provisions are in addition to, not in place of or to establish a variance from existing Kentucky program provisions, the proposed revisions to KRS Chapter 350 are not inconsistent with the requirements of SMCRA and the Federal regulations. IV. Summary and Disposition of Comments Public Comments The Director solicited public comments and provided an opportunity for a public hearing on the proposed amendment. Because no one requested an opportunity to speak at a public hearing, no hearing was held. Two public comments were received. The first commenter supported the amendment. The second generally supported the amendment provided that the provisions of the amendment are supplemental to the requirements of the approved state program and impose additional, rather than exclusive, permitting and performance obligations on mine operators. The commenter also felt clarification should be sought in the areas of characterization requirements for surface and ground water and variances in contemporaneous reclamation obligations. The Director notes that the proposed amendment is being approved with the provision that the statutes will be implemented in addition to, and not in place of, existing State program provisions. Therefore, because the provisions of the proposed amendment are in addition to the requirements of SMCRA and are not inconsistent with the SMCRA, and because OSM is approving the proposed regulations to the extent that the additional characterization requirements for surface and ground water are required to be collected in the same manner and for the same duration as the baseline hydrologic information required under SMCRA and no delays in contemporaneous reclamation will be permitted based on waste disposal, additional clarification is not required. Federal Agency Comments Pursuant to 30 CFR 732.17(h)(11)(i), the Director solicited comments on the proposed amendment from various Federal agencies with an actual or potential interest in the Kentucky program. The U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, and the U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, concurred without comment. The U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Mines, suggested that certain provisions be required in the implementing regulations relating to type of fill, testing procedures, baseline data characterization and monitoring, and hydrologic models. The Director notes that the comments will be forwarded to the State for consideration. However, the proposed statutes, as submitted, are not inconsistent with the provisions of SMCRA. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Pursuant to 30 CFR 732.17(h)(11)(ii), OSM is required to obtain the written concurrence of the EPA with respect to those provisions of the proposed program amendment that relate to air or water quality standards promulgated under the authority of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq .) or the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq .). On May 20, 1994, OSM solicited EPA's concurrence with the proposed amendment. On June 9, 1994, EPA gave its written concurrence (Administrative Record No. KY&hyph;1291). V. Director's Decision Based on the above findings, the Director approves the proposed amendment as submitted by Kentucky on April 18, 1994.
