FR940304-1-00150 FR940304-1-00014 Of the standard levels analyzed, level 6 will save the most energy per unit but, because of fuel switching from gas to electric, this level has negative overall energy savings (^0.02 quad between 1996 and 2030). In order to meet this standard, the Department assumes that all mobile home furnaces will be condensing furnaces with full modulation. At nearly triple the purchase price to consumers, this level produces negative life-cycle cost savings compared to the base case of $154 and has a payback of 13.0 years, which is more than half of the average product lifetime. The level also reduces manufacturer short-run return on equity by over 70 percent and has a negative net present value of $8.9 billion, as well as increasing all three environmental atmospheric emissions studied. The Department therefore, concludes that the burdens of standard level 6 for mobile home furnaces outweigh the benefits, and rejects the standard level. The next most stringent standard level is standard level 5. This standard level is projected to save the most energy of any of the mobile home furnace trial standard levels, 0.11 quad, but the savings here are also reduced by fuel switching. This level produces the highest life-cycle cost savings compared to the base case of $239 and has a payback of 7.6 years, which is slightly more than one third of the average product lifetime. However, the level reduces manufacturer short-run return on equity by over 50 percent and has a negative net present value of $4.6 billion, as well as increasing all three atmospheric emissions studied. The Department therefore concludes that the burdens of standard level 5 for mobile home furnaces outweigh the benefits, and rejects the standard level. The three next most stringent standard levels, 4, 3, and 2, are projected to have energy savings ranging from .03 to .05 quad, but the savings here are also reduced by fuel switching. These levels also produce life-cycle cost savings compared to the base case ranging from $108 to $210 with payback ranging from 7.5 to 3.0 years and have little or no impact on manufacturer return on equity. However, these levels all have negative net present values ranging from negative $1.39 billion to negative $.175 billion, as well as increasing one or more of the three atmospheric emissions studied. The Department therefore concludes that the burdens of standard levels 4, 3 and 2 for mobile home furnaces outweigh their benefits, and rejects the standard levels. After carefully considering the analysis, the Department is amending the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act-imposed 1990 standard for mobile home furnaces with standard level 1 for mobile home furnaces. The Department concludes that standard level 1 for mobile home furnaces saves a significant amount of energy and is technologically feasible and economically justified. There would be small but significant energy savings at this level of efficiency. During the period 1996&hyph;2030, these savings are calculated to be 0.02 quad of primary energy and are essentially not affected by fuel switching. In addition, the standard could have a slight positive effect on the environment by reducing the emissions of NO 2 and SO 2 by as much as 1,000 tons each by the year 2030. Furthermore, the standard will reduce emissions of CO 2 by 1 million tons over the forecast period. The technology that is necessary to meet this standard, improved fan motor efficiency, is presently available. The Department finds the level to be economically justified. The consumer payback of this standard level is 0.6 years. This standard is expected to result in a reduction in life-cycle cost of approximately $102. Additionally, the standard is expected to have ’essentially no impact on the prototypical manufacturer's return on equity of 7.3 percent. Since this standard does not involve substantial redesign or retooling, the Department expects that it will not have negative impacts on the two competitors. e. Kitchen Ranges and Ovens 1. Efficiency Levels Analyzed The Department examined a range of standard levels for kitchen ranges and ovens. Table 4&hyph;9 presents the five efficiency levels that had been selected for analysis for the eight classes of kitchen ranges and ovens. Level 5 corresponds to the highest efficiency level, max tech, considered in the engineering analysis.
