FR940110-1-00084 FR940110-1-00006 Proposed ยง960.20(c) provides that by January 31 of each year, the Board will notify the Banks of the total amount of funds, if any, available in the Affordable Housing Reserve Fund. Section 960.12(d) of the Board's existing regulation governing how any Reserve Funds would be made available to the Banks, is deleted in the proposed rule. See 12 CFR 960.12(d). The Act states that such provisions would be determined pursuant to regulations issued by the Board. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(7). Since there currently are no Reserve Funds and it is not anticipated that there will be any Reserve Funds in the near future, it is not necessary at this time to include provisions in the proposed rule dealing with this issue. The Board can issue regulations on this issue at a future date if such eventuality should arise. P. Advisory Councils Section 960.21 of the proposed rule sets forth provisions governing the appointment, operation, and responsibilities of the Advisory Councils to the Banks. Section 960.21(a)(1) of the proposed rule carries forward the requirement in the Board's existing AHP regulation that each Bank shall appoint an Advisory Council of seven to 15 persons who shall reside in the Bank's District and shall be drawn from community and nonprofit organizations actively involved in providing or promoting low- or moderate-income housing in the Bank's District. See 12 CFR 960.14(a). In addition, ยง960.21(a)(1) of the proposed rule provides that the size of the Advisory Council shall be stated in the Bank's AHP implementation plan. Section 960.21(a)(2) of the proposed rule carries forward the requirement in the Board's existing AHP regulation that the Bank must actively solicit nominations from Bank members and community and nonprofit organizations and shall allow sufficient time for response, so that the nomination and appointment process is as broad and as participatory as possible. See 12 CFR 960.14(b), (d). The Bank also should solicit nominations from any other interested parties. In addition, ยง960.21(a)(3) of the proposed rule provides that Advisory Council members shall be appointed by the Banks giving consideration to the size of the District and the diversity of low-income housing needs within the District. The Board's existing AHP regulation provides that officials of state and local housing finance agencies may serve as members of an Advisory Council, provided that such officials do not constitute an undue proportion of the membership of the Advisory Council. See 12 CFR 960.14(c). It has been suggested that such officials should only be able to serve as non-voting members of an Advisory Council, unless the officials also are employed or associated with a private community or nonprofit organization actively involved in providing or promoting low- or moderate-income housing in the Bank's District. This suggestion is based on the view that the Advisory Councils are intended to serve as vehicles for private sector community and nonprofit organizations, not public agencies, to advise the Banks on low- and moderate-income housing programs and needs in the District and on the utilization of Bank advances for such purposes. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(11). While acknowledging that officials of state and local housing finance agencies make valuable contributions to the Advisory Councils, the supporters of this viewpoint argue that these agencies have opportunities to influence the allocation of housing finance credit through means other than by voting representation on the Advisory Councils. The Board specifically requests comments on whether or not officials of state and local housing finance agencies should be able to vote on the Advisory Councils and whether their representation should be limited so that it does not constitute an undue proportion of the Advisory Council membership. Section 960.21(a)(4) of the proposed rule provides that Advisory Council members shall serve for terms of two or three years, as determined by the Bank and set forth in its AHP implementation plan. The Board is proposing to give the Banks the option of appointing Advisory Council members for three-year terms in order to allow the Banks to benefit from the experience and familiarity with the AHP that Advisory Council members develop the longer they serve on an Advisory Council. In addition, ยง960.21(a)(4) of the proposed rule carries forward the requirement in the Board's existing AHP regulation that terms of Advisory Council members shall be staggered to provide continuity and experience in service. See 12 CFR 960.14(f). The proposed rule requires the Banks to explain in their AHP implementation plans how Advisory Council member terms will be staggered. Section 960.21(a)(4) of the proposed rule contains a new provision limiting an Advisory Council member to six years of consecutive service. The Bank may set its own limits on consecutive terms within the six-year limit. This provision is intended to ensure that the membership of the Advisory Councils reflects the diverse and changing viewpoints of private sector community and nonprofit organizations on the low-income housing programs and needs of the Bank Districts.
