FR940404-2-00138 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Committee on Human Settlements, 53rd Session, Economic Commission for Europe (ECE), Lisbon, September 15&hyph;17, 1992 Representative James McGlinchey, Counselor for Economic Affairs, United States Embassy, Lisbon Private Sector Advisers Cushing N. Dolbeare, Consultant in Housing and Urban Policy, Washington, DC Kate Griffin, Amherst, Massachusetts Mary E. Paumen, Urban Planner, Anthony J. Dunleavy Associates, Inc., Upper Darby, Pennsylvania United States Delegation to the Study Group II/1 and II/3 Working Parties and Rapporteur Groups International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee (CCITT), International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, Switzerland, September 15&hyph;18, 1992 Representative Kathryn A. Martin, Engineer, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Private Sector Advisers Stephen Engleman, Senior Staff member, MCI, Richardson, Texas Fred Gaechter, Member Technical Staff, North American Numbering Plan Administration, Bellcore, Livingston, New Jersey Ben Levitan, Principal Engineer, ARINC, Annapolis, Maryland James Longua, Ameritech Services, Hoffman Estates, Illinois Robert W. Madden, Manager, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, Morristown, New Jersey Gayle Murdock, Manager, U.S. West Communications, Seattle, Washington United States Delegation to the 36th Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Vienna, September 21&hyph;25, 1992 Representative The Honorable Richard T. Kennedy, Ambassador-at-Large, United States Representative to the IAEA, Department of State Alternate Representative The Honorable Jane E. Becker, Ambassador, Deputy United States Representative to the IAEA, U.S. Mission, Vienna Advisers Victor Alessi, Director, Office of Arms Control and Non-Proliferation Policy, Department of Energy Kevin Burke, International Programs, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Susan Burk, International Nuclear Affairs, Nuclear Weapons Control Bureau, Arms Control and Disarmament Agency Salvador N. Ceja, Acting Director, Office on Non-Proliferation Policy, Department of Energy G. Frank Cole III, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and Management, Office of Nuclear Energy, Department of Energy Bruce Cooper, Counselor for Nuclear Technology, U.S. Mission, Vienna Gail de Planque, Commissioner, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Harold Denton, Director, Office of International Programs, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Linda Gallini, Special Assistant to the Ambassador-at-Large, Department of State The Honorable Bradley Gordon, Assistant Director, Bureau of Non-Proliferation Policy, Arms Control and Disarmament Agency Richard W. Hoover, Political Adviser, U.S. Mission, Vienna Michael Lawrence, IAEA Counselor for Nuclear Policy, U.S. Mission, Vienna Janice Dunn Lee, Special Assistant to Commissioner de Planque, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Joel Lubenau, Technical Assistant to Commissioner de Planque, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Thomas G. Martin, Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Mission, Vienna John P. McGuinness, Office of Scientific Programs, Bureau of International Organization Affairs, Department of State Antonio F. Perez, Attorney Adviser, Office of the Legal Adviser to Nuclear Affairs, Department of State
