FR940706-0-00089 FR940706-0-00015 §74.36 Intangible property. (a) The recipient may copyright any work that is subject to copyright and was developed, or for which ownership was purchased, under an award. ED and any other Federal awarding agency reserve a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable right to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the work for Federal purposes, and to authorize others to do so. (b) Recipients are subject to applicable regulations governing patents and inventions, including government-wide regulations issued by the Department of Commerce at 37 CFR Part 401_Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative Agreements. (c) Unless waived by the Secretary, the Federal Government has the right to_ (1) Obtain, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the data first produced under an award; and (2) Authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use these data for Federal purposes. (d) Title to intangible property and debt instruments acquired under an award or subaward vests upon acquisition in the recipient. The recipient shall use that property for the originally-authorized purpose, and the recipient shall not encumber the property without approval of the Secretary. When no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, disposition of the intangible property shall occur in accordance with the provisions of §74.34(g). (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.37 Property trust relationship. Real property, equipment, intangible property, and debt instruments that are acquired or improved with Federal funds must be held in trust by the recipient as trustee for the beneficiaries of the project or program under which the property was acquired or improved. The Secretary may require recipients to record liens or other appropriate notices of record to indicate that personal or real property has been acquired or improved with Federal funds and that use and disposition conditions apply to the property. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) Procurement Standards §74.40 Purpose of procurement standards. Sections 74.41 through 74.48 contain standards for use by recipients in establishing procedures for the procurement of supplies and other expendable property, equipment, real property, and other services with Federal funds. These standards are designed to ensure that these materials and services are obtained in an effective manner and in compliance with the provisions of applicable Federal statutes and executive orders. The Secretary does not impose additional procurement standards or requirements upon recipients, unless specifically required by Federal statute or executive order or as authorized in §§74.4 or 74.14. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.41 Recipient responsibilities. The standards contained in this section do not relieve the recipient of the contractual responsibilities arising under its contract(s). The recipient is the responsible authority, without recourse to the Secretary, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in support of an award or other agreement. This includes disputes, claims, protests of award, source evaluation, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of statute are to be referred to Federal, State or local authority that may have proper jurisdiction. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.42 Codes of conduct. The recipient shall maintain written standards of conduct governing the performance of its employees engaged in the award and administration of contracts. No employee, officer, or agent shall participate in the selection, award, or administration of a contract supported by Federal funds if a real or apparent conflict of interest would be involved. A conflict would arise when the employee, officer, or agent, any member of his or her immediate family, his or her partner, or an organization which employs or is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for an award. The officers, employees, and agents of the recipient shall neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors, or parties to subagreements. However, recipients may set standards for situations in which the financial interest is not substantial or the gift is an unsolicited item of nominal value. The standards of conduct shall provide for disciplinary actions to be applied for violations of these standards by officers, employees, or agents of the recipient. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.43 Competition. All procurement transactions shall be conducted in a manner to provide, to the maximum extent practical, open and free competition. The recipient shall be alert to organizational conflicts of interest as well as noncompetitive practices among contractors that may restrict or eliminate competition or otherwise restrain trade. In order to ensure objective contractor performance and eliminate unfair competitive advantage, contractors that develop or draft specifications, requirements, statements of work, invitations for bids or requests for proposals shall be excluded from competing for procurements. Awards must be made to the bidder or offeror whose bid or offer is responsive to the solicitation and is most advantageous to the recipient, price, quality and other factors considered. Solicitations shall clearly establish all requirements that the bidder or offeror shall fulfill in order for the bid or offer to be evaluated by the recipient. Any and all bids or offers may be rejected when it is in the recipient's interest to do so. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.44 Procurement procedures. (a) All recipients shall establish written procurement procedures. These procedures must provide for, at a minimum, that_ (1) Recipients avoid purchasing unnecessary items; (2) Where appropriate, an analysis is made of lease and purchase alternatives to determine which would be the most economical and practical procurement for the Federal Government; or (3) Solicitations for goods and services provide for all of the following: (i) A clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product, or service to be procured. In competitive procurements, a description shall not contain features which unduly restrict competition. (ii) Requirements which the bidder/offeror must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals. (iii) A description, whenever practicable, of technical requirements in terms of functions to be performed or performance required, including the range of acceptable characteristics or minimum acceptable standards.
