FR941216-1-00030 FR941216-1-00010 Explanation of Provisions In general The proposed regulations in this document contain new rules for the treatment of contingent payment debt instruments (§1.1275&hyph;4). The proposed regulations provide separate rules for debt instruments that are issued for cash or publicly traded property and for debt instruments that are issued for nonpublicly traded property. The proposed regulations also provide special rules for tax-exempt obligations. Section 1.1275&hyph;4, as proposed on April 8, 1986, and amended on February 28, 1991, is superseded as of December 16, 1994. The proposed regulations provide a rule to determine the imputed principal amount of a contingent payment debt instrument issued for nonpublicly traded property. The proposed regulations also provide rules for the integration of certain debt instruments with related hedges (§1.1275&hyph;6). In addition, the proposed regulations amend the rules for variable rate debt instruments in §1.1275&hyph;5 of the final OID regulations. Finally, the proposed regulations make conforming changes to certain provisions of the final OID regulations, such as the regulations under section 483. Section 1.1275&hyph;4␣Contingent payment debt instruments. A. Applicability Section 1.1275&hyph;4 of the proposed regulations generally applies to any debt instrument that provides for one or more contingent payments. The proposed regulations, however, do not apply to a debt instrument that has an issue price determined under section 1273(b)(4), a variable rate debt instrument, a debt instrument subject to §1.1272&hyph;1(c) (certain debt instruments that provide for alternative payment schedules), a debt instrument subject to section 1272(a)(6) (REMIC interests and certain other debt instruments that are subject to prepayment), or, except as provided in section 988, a debt instrument subject to section 988 (a debt instrument that provides for payments denominated in, or determined by reference to, a nonfunctional currency). The IRS and Treasury request comments on whether other types of debt instruments should be excluded from the rules of §1.1275&hyph;4, such as certain prepayable obligations included in a pool. Section 1.1275&hyph;4 of the proposed regulations applies only to a contingent payment debt instrument that constitutes a debt instrument for federal income tax purposes. No inference is intended under the proposed regulations as to whether a particular instrument constitutes a debt instrument for federal income tax purposes. Although the proposed regulations do not define the term contingent payment, the proposed regulations treat certain payments as not being contingent. For example, if a payment is subject to either a remote or incidental contingency, the payment is not a contingent payment. A contingency is remote if there is either a remote likelihood that the contingency will occur or a remote likelihood that the contingency will not occur. A contingency is incidental if the potential amount of the payment under any reasonably expected market conditions is insignificant relative to the total expected payments on the debt instrument. Under the proposed regulations, a debt instrument does not provide for contingent payments merely because it is convertible into stock of the issuer or a related party. However, if a debt instrument is convertible into stock of an unrelated party, the debt instrument is a contingent payment debt instrument. B. The Noncontingent Bond Method The noncontingent bond method applies to a contingent payment debt instrument that has an issue price determined under §1.1273&hyph;2 or §1.1274&hyph;2(b)(3). For example, the noncontingent bond method generally applies to a contingent payment debt instrument issued for money or publicly traded property. Under the noncontingent bond method, a projected payment schedule is determined for a debt instrument, and interest accrues on the debt instrument based on this schedule. The projected payment schedule for a debt instrument consists of all noncontingent payments and a projected amount for each contingent payment. If the actual amount of a contingent payment differs from the projected amount of the payment, appropriate adjustments are taken into account to reflect this difference. Although the actual amount of a contingent payment is not fixed or determinable when a contingent payment debt instrument is issued, the noncontingent bond method, in effect, treats the projected amounts of contingent payments like fixed payments and requires interest accruals based on the projected amounts. The IRS and Treasury believe that this method is consistent with Congress' intent under the OID provisions to require a current accrual of interest on a debt instrument.
