FR940912-0-00046 FR940912-0-00006 (1) Material changes in financial condition. Discuss any material changes in financial condition from the end of the preceding fiscal year to the date of the most recent interim balance sheet provided. (2) Material changes in results of operations. Discuss any material changes in the combined results of operations of the System with respect to the most recent fiscal year-to-date period for which an income statement is provided and the corresponding year-to-date period of the preceding fiscal year. Such discussion shall also cover material changes with respect to the most recent fiscal quarter and the corresponding fiscal quarter in the preceding fiscal year. (d) Financial statements. Interim combined financial statements shall be provided in the quarterly report to investors as set forth in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4): (1) An interim balance sheet as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter and a balance sheet as of the end of the preceding fiscal year. (2) Interim statements of income for the most recent fiscal quarter, for the period between the end of the preceding fiscal year and the end of the most recent fiscal quarter, and for the comparable periods for the previous fiscal year. (3) Interim statements of changes in capital stock and surplus (or, if applicable, interim statements of changes in protected borrower capital and capital stock and surplus) for the period between the end of the preceding fiscal year and the end of the most recent fiscal quarter, and for the comparable period for the preceding fiscal year. (4) Interim statements of cash flows for the period between the end of the preceding fiscal year and the end of the most recent fiscal quarter, and for the comparable period for the preceding fiscal year. (e) Supplemental information. The interim report shall present supplemental information in accordance with the requirements of §630.20(m)(2), (m)(3), and (m)(4), as well as other requirements and instructions of the FCA, and shall include, at a minimum, the following: (1) Supplemental balance sheet information as of the end of the most recent quarter; and (2) Supplemental income statement information for the period between the end of the preceding fiscal year and the end of the most recent fiscal quarter. (f) Review by independent public accountant. Unless otherwise ordered by the FCA as a result of a supervisory action, the interim financial statements and supplemental information need not be audited or reviewed by an independent public accountant prior to filing. If, however, a review of the report is made in accordance with the established professional standards and procedures for such a review, a statement that the independent accountant has performed such a review may be included. If such a statement is made, the report of the independent accountant on such review shall accompany the interim financial information. Appendix A to Part 630_Supplemental Information Disclosure Guidelines Supplemental information required by §§630.20(m) and 630.40(e) shall contain, at a minimum, the current year financial data for the components listed in the following tables and be presented in the columnar format illustrated in the following tables: BILLING CODE 6705&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSER12SE94.000 BILLING CODE 6705&hyph;01&hyph;C Dated: September 1, 1994. Curtis M. Anderson, Secretary, Farm Credit Administration Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22221 Filed 9&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6705&hyph;01&hyph;P
