FR940627-1-00008 FR940627-1-00005 The recently enacted Negotiated Rulemaking Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;648) contemplates a ``convening'' process which involves identifying the potential parties and issues, publishing a notice of intent to form a committee, waiting 30 days for comments to be submitted responding to the notice, and only then proceeding with the establishment of the committee provided it meets the criteria of the Act. In this case, the study group process has served the same function as the convening_parties that would be significantly affected and the issues in controversy have been identified. The study group's discussions have also enabled the MMS to determine that the criteria for negotiated rules, as spelled out in the Negotiated Rulemaking Act, are met for this rule: •The rule is needed, since royalty payors are not able to comply with the current regulations particularly in the current gas market. •A limited number of identifiable interests will be significantly affected by the rule. Those parties are oil and gas companies who produce gas and pay royalties on Federal leases and States who receive royalties from gas produced from Federal leases located in their State. •Representatives can be selected to adequately represent these interests, as reflected above. •The interests are willing to negotiate in good faith to attempt to reach a consensus on a proposed rule. •There is a reasonable likelihood that the Committee will reach consensus on a proposed rule within a reasonable time. This determination has been made based on discussions of the study group, and hence is built on the developments to date. •The use of the negotiation will not delay the development of the rule if time limits are placed on the negotiation. Indeed, its use will expedite both development and ultimate acceptance of the rule. The Department is not proposing to issue a separate notice of intent to form a negotiated rulemaking committee for this rule. Given the evolution of this committee, the publication of such a notice would only show down the rulemaking process and the functions of the notice of intent have either already been met or are provided for in this notice. Moreover, the Negotiated Rulemaking Act specifically provides that its provisions are not mandatory. The Negotiated Rulemaking Act does anticipate an outreach to ensure that people who were not contacted during the convening process can come forward to explain why they believe they would be significantly affected and yet are not represented on the Committee or to argue why they believe the rule should not be negotiated. The MMS believes that the interests who would be significantly affected by this rule are represented by the informal study group already in place which includes representatives from API, COPAS, RMOGA, IPAA, IPAMS, NGSA, an independent marketer, and the states of Utah, Montana, North Dakota, and New Mexico. If anyone believes that their interests are not adequately represented by these organizations, they must demonstrate and document that assertion through an application submitted no later than 10 calendar days following publication of this notice. You may fax your documentation to (303) 275&hyph;7227. Certification I hereby certify that the Federal Gas Valuation Negotiated Rulemaking Committee is in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties imposed on the Department of the Interior by 30 U.S.C. 1701 et seq. Dated: June 2, 1994. Bruce Babbit, Secretary of the Interior. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15462 Filed 6&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;MR&hyph;M
