FR940627-0-00149 FR940627-0-00019 2. Speciation Procedures Section VI describes the required procedures for the generation of both combustion and evaporative emissions. Characterization of combustion emissions must be done both for non-catalyzed emissions and for tailpipe emissions. As discussed in Section III.A.2, the evaporative emissions of some F/FAs are also required to undergo emission characterization analysis. To provide an indication of the variability, the emissions must be generated and characterized three times on three different days. Collection and speciation of background samples is required. The CAA authorizes EPA to require information to characterize F/FA emissions, while giving EPA discretion to specify the particular protocols to be used for this purpose. The following sections identify the general emission product categories of interest and discuss currently available protocols which are suitable for their analyses. EPA recognizes that scientific methods can be expected to advance in the future. Thus, the use of the protocols referenced in this final rule is not mandated. Rather, EPA will hold F/FA manufacturers accountable for state-of-the-art methods and good analytical chemistry and laboratory practices, such as those described in the article ``Principles of Environmental Analysis.'' 47 47 Keith et al., ACS Committee on Environmental Improvement, ``Principles of Environmental Analysis,'' The Journal of Analytical Chemistry, Volume 55, pp. 2210&hyph;2218, 1983; available in Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;07, Item No. II&hyph;J&hyph;12. Today's rule does not discourage the use of any validated method to perform the characterization of emissions, or the submittal of existing speciation results obtained from validated methods, as long as the data address the speciation requirements of the F/FA registration program. EPA acknowledges the state-of-the-art methods of the Auto/Oil Air Quality Improvement Research Program (Auto/Oil Program) for the characterization of emissions. In fact, the speciation requirements included in this rule for fuels composed primarily of hydrocarbon compounds of twelve carbons (C12) or less (e.g., gasoline) are based on such methodology. 48, 49, 50 Where applicable, EPA will accept results from the Auto/Oil Program as adequate data in lieu of new testing. However, the Auto/Oil Program might not address all the emission characterization requirements of today's rule, so additional procedures (e.g., for the analysis of polycyclic aromatic compounds) might be needed. EPA recognizes that characterization data have already been submitted to EPA in relation to the Auto/Oil Program. F/FA manufacturers need not resubmit this information, but are required to reference these data (e.g., report number, applicable page numbers, etc.) on the Tier 1 report so EPA can verify the adequacy of the information being used in compliance with the F/FA registration program for the particular F/FA product or group representative. Although resubmission of the raw emission data is not required, manufacturers are still responsible for providing a summary discussion of the emission characterization results in the Tier 1 report as outlined in Section XII.B. 48 Jensen, T. E. et al., ``Advanced Emission Speciation Methodologies for the Auto/Oil Air Quality Improvement Program_I. Hydrocarbons and Ethers,'' SAE 920320 In: Auto Oil Air Quality Improvement Research Program , SP&hyph;920, February 1992. 49Swarin, S. J. et al., ``Advanced Speciation Methodologies for the Auto/Oil Air Quality Improvement Research Program_II. Aldehydes, Ketones, and Alcohols,'' SAE 920321, In: Auto Oil Air Quality Improvement Research Program , SP&hyph;920, February 1992. 50Siegl, W. O. et al., ``Improved Emission Speciation Methodology for Phase II of the Auto/Oil Air Quality Improvement Research Program_Hydrocarbons and Oxygenates,'' SAE 930142, 1993. For the characterization of diesel F/FAs, EPA recognizes the procedures under the Air Pollution Research Advisory Council (APRAC) program. The work done by APRAC provides speciation guidelines for unregulated diesel emissions and addresses diesel combustion compounds of concern to EPA. As with the Auto/Oil Program studies, existing applicable APRAC speciation studies will be considered adequate data in lieu of new testing. However, today's rule requires manufacturers of diesel F/FAs to perform speciation procedures for hydrocarbons which might not be included in the APRAC program. These are discussed in the following sections. a. Characterization of Basic Emissions. EPA proposed to require the characterization of ``regulated emissions'' for fuel/vehicle types for which certification procedures existed at the time of the publication of the NPRM (i.e., gasoline, diesel, and methanol). Today, EPA is terming this requirement ``basic emissions,'' instead of ``regulated emissions,'' because certification requirements are not established yet for all the F/FAs included in this rule. To be consistent and avoid confusion, the term ``basic emissions'' is used for all F/FA families included in this rule. Based on the current regulated emissions and taking into consideration the objectives of this program, EPA selected four basic emissions for measurement, as follows: Total hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, and particulates. The four basic emissions are to be measured in combustion emissions as a routine requirement for all F/FA families, as shown in Table 1. Only total hydrocarbons are required to be measured in evaporative emissions. Manufacturers are referred to the vehicle certification procedures in 40 CFR part 86 for general guidance on the measurement of the basic emissions of interest to this rule.
