FR941213-2-00095 FR941213-2-00061 2. The PHA application cover letter must indicate the date the PHA's allocation and supportive services plans for housing for disabled families have been or will be submitted to the Field Office for approval. If the allocation and supportive service plans have not been filed, the Field Office shall advise the PHA that the development/MROP activities application cannot be approved unless the plans are approved. 3. Applications will be determined approvable if they successfully pass the minimum approvable score of 182 points for development applications and 140 points for MROP applications. Section 624 requires that applications be selected competitively based on (1) the PHA's need for funds to meet the goals expressed in its allocation plan; and (2) the extent to which applications meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 945 (which contains the Designated Housing regulations). Field Offices will prepare analyses of allocation and supportive service plans and of applications by furnishing narrative responses to the following items: a. Need of the PHA for assistance, taking into account the number of disabled families who are potential residents of the project based on waiting lists, local surveys of accessible housing needs, the needs assessment (see 24 CFR 8.25), a housing survey, a survey of agencies providing services to persons with disabilities, the average length of vacancy for accessible units and the length of time a disabled family has to wait for a dwelling unit. b. Extent that appropriate supportive services will be provided, indicating that prospective residents want the supportive services, that the services are adequately designed to meet the needs of disabled residents, and the experience of the service provider(s) in administering an effective service delivery program for disabled families. If residential supervision is required, the Field Office shall indicate that a written commitment has been obtained for such service. c. Field Office Reports. The Field Office Public Housing Division shall forward each approvable application to the Headquarters Panel within two weeks of the end of the deficiency ``cure'' period. The Field Office report will include the project number, total number of units and units by bedroom size, structure type(s), cost areas, funding required, the metropolitan/ non-metropolitan designations for each application, and the rating score sheets; in addition, the report is to describe how the application supports the PHA allocation and supportive service plans, and whether the PHA intends to develop the housing for disabled families on scattered sites or in a manner designed to obtain the most integrated setting possible. 4. Approvable applications will be referred to the Headquarters Review Panel, which will be convened on an ad hoc basis. This Panel will be comprised of Headquarters staff and will retain the same individuals, to the extent possible, each time the Panel convenes to ensure continuity. The Headquarters Review Panel will review and rank applications based on Field Office rating score sheets, analyses, comments and recommendations. The Assistant Secretary will select applications based on the Headquarters Review Panel's rankings and recommendations, up to the amounts available under the two set asides. B. Rating Criteria 1. General. All threshold-approvable applications shall be rated by the Field Offices on the established rating criteria listed in Appendices A and B, which still apply to corresponding designated public housing development and MROP activities plus the additional rating criteria point factors listed as follows: ␣ 1Criteria 1Points a. The local survey provided by the PHA of accessible housing needs indicates that there is a shortage of housing for low-income disabled families 20 b. The Field Office's determination, based on documentation submitted, that the PHA's allocation plan and the supportive service plan fulfill the requirements and provisions detailed in 24 CFR 945.205; compliance includes a description of the activities the PHA undertook to carry out the provisions of 24 CFR 945.205(b)(2) ``Public review and comment on the supportive service plan'' 20 c. Appropriate supportive services will be provided that are designed to meet the special needs of disabled residents 10 d. The supportive service provider is experienced and capable of administering an effective service delivery program as evidenced by compliance with any licensing requirements imposed by State or local law for the type of service or services to be provided 10 e. If residential supervision is required, a written commitment was included in the allocation plan 10 f. The application proposes housing ``in the most integrated setting possible'' .␣.␣. i.e., units are not concentrated in a few locations (see 24 CFR 945.205) 10 g. There is evidence of active involvement of the applicable duly-elected resident council(s) in planning for, as well as implementing this initiative 10 h. The extent to which the PHA has demonstrated that it can train, hire or contract with residents in this initiative 10 The selection criteria specified in the attached appendices and this NOFA may not be added to or modified. 2. Total Possible Points. The total possible points for designated public housing applications is 260; the total for designated MROP activities is 200. 3. Reservation of Funds and Partial Funding. See Appendices A and B to this NOFA for applicable provisions. III. Other Matters See Appendices A and B to this NOFA with regard to other matters; all provisions as stated in the ``Other Matters'' sections of Appendices A and B apply to this NOFA, including the Finding of No Significant Impact. Dated: November 23, 1994. Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing.
