FR940208-2-00095 FR940208-2-00071 The Exchange believes failure to comply with the requirements of these Rules should be addressed with an appropriate sanction and seeks Commission approval to add violations of these requirements to the Rule 476A List. (b) Statutory Basis The proposed rule change will advance the objectives of Section 6(b) (6) of the Act in that it will provide a procedure whereby member organizations can be ``appropriately disciplined'' in those instances when a rule violation is minor in nature, but a sanction more serious than a warning or cautionary letter is appropriate. The proposed rule change provides a fair procedure for imposing such sanctions, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 6(b)(7) and 6(d)(1) of the Act. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received written comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communication relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;27 and should be submitted by March 1, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2770 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
