FR940902-2-00118 FR940902-2-00053 The applicants who are the only persons affected by the proposed transaction desire that the proposed transaction be consummated. 5. In summary, the applicants represent that the proposed transaction will satisfy the criteria of section 4975(c)(2) of the Code because (a) the Sale of the Property involves a one-time transaction for cash; (b) the Plan will not incur any expenses from the Sale; (c) the Plan will receive as consideration from the Sale the greater of either the fair market value of the Property as determined by a qualified, independent appraiser on the date of the Sale, or an amount equal to all the funds expended by the Plan in acquiring and maintaining the Property during its period of ownership; (d) the Sale will permit the Plan to reinvest illiquid assets into income producing, liquid assets; and (e) the Plan will avoid the expenses and risks involved in maintaining and developing the Property. NOTICE TO INTERESTED PERSONS: Since the applicants are the only persons affected by the proposed transaction, there is no need to distribute notice to interested persons. Comments are due 30 days after publication of this notice in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. C. E. Beaver of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8881. (This is not a toll-free number.) GE Capital Mortgage Services, Inc. (GECMSI) Located in Cherry Hill, New Jersey; and GECC Capital Markets Group, Inc. (Capital Markets; together, the Applicants) Located in Stamford, Connecticut [Application Nos. D&hyph;9748 and D&hyph;9749] Proposed Exemption I. Transactions A. Effective June 28, 1994, the restrictions of sections 406(a) and 407(a) of the Act and the taxes imposed by section 4975(a) and (b) of the Code by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (D) of the Code shall not apply to the following transactions involving trusts and certificates evidencing interests therein: (1) The direct or indirect sale, exchange or transfer of certificates in the initial issuance of certificates between the sponsor or underwriter and an employee benefit plan when the sponsor, servicer, trustee or insurer of a trust, the underwriter of the certificates representing an interest in the trust, or an obligor is a party in interest with respect to such plan; (2) The direct or indirect acquisition or disposition of certificates by a plan in the secondary market for such certificates; and (3) The continued holding of certificates acquired by a plan pursuant to subsection I.A. (1) or (2).
