FR941007-0-00036 FR941007-0-00009 Another commentator noted that the proposed regulations would apply to a transfer of LIFO inventory by a transferor C corporation that goes out of existence in a tax-free reorganization but would not apply to a transfer in connection with a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(D) in which the transferor corporation remains in existence. The commentator suggested revising the regulations to require inclusion of the LIFO recapture amount in the year of the transfer of the LIFO inventory instead of the transferor corporation's last year of existence. The final regulations adopt this suggestion. The final regulations also clarify which corporation has the responsibility to pay the three succeeding installments of tax described in section 1363(d)(2). Commentators suggested expanding the scope of the regulations to deal with various related issues that arise from application of the LIFO recapture rules. The IRS and the Treasury Department believe that those issues are more appropriately dealt with in other forms of administrative guidance. Accordingly, these comments have not been adopted. Special Analyses It has been determined that this Treasury decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, the notice of proposed rulemaking preceding these regulations was submitted to the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Jeffrey A. Erickson, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel (Passthroughs and Special Industries), IRS. However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR part 1 is amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣*
