FR941011-2-00141 FR941011-2-00091 [Investment Company Act Rel. No. 20597; 812&hyph;9178] Van Kampen Merritt Equity Opportunity Trust, Series 1, et al.; Notice of Application October 4, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``Act''). APPLICANT: Van Kampen Merritt Equity Opportunity Trust, Series 1 and subsequent series (the ``Trust''), and Van Kampen Merritt or a sponsor controlled by or under common control with Van Kampen Merritt (the ``Sponsor''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Exemption requested under section 6(c) from sections 14(a) and 19(b), and rule 19b&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order that would exempt the Sponsor from having to take for its own account or place with others $100,000 worth of units in the Trust, and permit the Trust to distribute capital gains dividends along with the Trust's other distributions. FILING DATE: The application was filed on August 19, 1994. Applicants have agreed to file an additional amendment during the notice period. This notice reflects the changes to be made by such additional amendment. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on October 31, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request such notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, One Parkview Plaza, Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois 60181. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Courtney S. Thornton, Senior Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0583, or Barry D. Miller, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Trust will consist of a series of unit investment trusts, each of which will be similar but separate, and designated by a different series number (``Trust Series''). Each Trust Series will invest exclusively in equity securities (including common and preferred stocks) or in equity securities and zero coupon obligations. The objectives of the Trust series will vary in accordance with the nature of their respective portfolios. Each Trust Series will be registered under the Act, and under the Securities Act of 1933 by a registration statement on Form S&hyph;6. 2. Each Trust Series will be created pursuant to a trust agreement that will contain information specific to that Trust Series and that will incorporate by reference the master trust indenture between the Sponsor and a financial institution that is a bank within the meaning of section 2(a)(5) of the Act and that satisfies the criteria in section 26(a) of the Act (the ``Trustee''). The trust agreement and the master trust indenture are referred to collectively as the ``Trust Agreement.'' 3. The Sponsor will perform the normal functions of a unit investment trust sponsor. The Sponsor will deposit the zero coupon obligations, if any, and equity securities (collectively, ``Securities'') in the Trust Series at the price determined by an independent evaluator. The Sponsor expects to deposit in each Trust Series substantially more than $100,000 aggregate value of equity securities or zero coupon obligations and equity securities. All zero coupon obligations in any one Trust Series will have essentially identical maturities, and the Sponsor will purchase all Securities from third parties.
