FR941003-1-00071 FR941003-1-00006 (A) To the extent such consultation is stipulated in the plan pursuant to Section 101(d)(2)(D)(ii) of the Act; (B) With regard to effects on historic properties located on non-tribal lands; or (C) When the State Historic Preservation Officer requests to participate in consultation as an interested party. (6) The public. The Council values the views of the public on historic preservation questions and encourages maximum public participation in the Section 106 process. This part defines specific points in the process where the Agency Official is required to provide the public with information concerning an undertaking and its effects on historic properties and to provide opportunities for public comment and input. The public may also provide its views at other points in the process and the Agency Official should consider those views in decisionmaking. This part also identifies specific opportunities for the public to seek Council review of an Agency Official's findings under this part. Members of the public should become familiar with these points for involvement in order to maximize their participation in the Section 106 process. The Agency Official's efforts to seek and consider the views of the public shall reflect the nature and complexity of the undertaking and its effects on historic properties. (i) The public may provide its views to the Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, the Council, and interested parties during the determination of the area of potential effects (§800.8(a)(1)), the assessment of the need for specific actions to identify historic properties (§800.8 (b)), the evaluation of historic significance (§800.8(c)), the assessment of effects (§800.9(a)), the resolution of adverse effects (§800.10), and the preparation of Council comments (§800.11(b)). The relevant sections of this part provide details on how the public participates. (ii) The public may examine findings made by an Agency Official during the Section 106 process along with the documentation supporting such findings and responses provided by the State Historic Preservation Officer or the Council. These include the Agency Official's decision regarding whether an action is an undertaking (§800.7(a)), the Agency Official's finding as to the area of potential effects (§800.8(a)(1)), the Agency Official's evaluation of a property's historic significance (§800.8(c)), the Agency Official's finding regarding the presence of historic properties (§800.8(d)), the Agency Official's finding regarding the undertaking's effect on historic properties (§800.9), and any Memorandum of Agreement executed to resolve adverse effects (§800.10(c)). Any member of the public may request the Council to review any of the preceding findings. (iii) Members of the public may request to participate in the Section 106 process as interested parties in accordance with § 800.1(e)(4)(iv). The request should be made early in the Section 106 process and in writing to the Agency Official. Copies of the request should be provided to the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer and the Council. (iv) When issuing notice to the public in accordance with this part, an Agency Official shall adequately inform the public of historic preservation issues in order to elicit public views on such issues that can then be considered and resolved in decisionmaking. The Agency Official shall determine appropriate channels for providing notice, considering the nature of the affected public and culturally appropriate communication. (v) Agencies should use their established public participation procedures when they meet the public involvement requirements set forth in this part.
