FR940628-1-00025 FR940628-1-00001 (f) All vehicles with which the birds or poultry infected with or exposed to END or their excrement or litter have had physical contact have been cleaned and disinfected in accordance with part 71 of this chapter. The vehicles have been inspected after cleaning, and before disinfection, by a Federal representative or State representative, and then have been disinfected in the presence of a Federal representative or State representative with a disinfectant listed in part 71 of this chapter; (g) All cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment used for birds or poultry infected with or exposed to END, or their excrement or litter have been reduced to ashes by incineration, or have been cleaned and disinfected in accordance with part 71 of this chapter. The items must be inspected after cleaning, and before disinfection, by a Federal representative or State representative, and then must be disinfected in the presence of a Federal representative or State representative, with a disinfectant listed in part 71 of this chapter; and (h) The premises where birds or poultry infected with or exposed to END were located have been cleaned and disinfected in accordance with part 71 of this chapter. The premises have been inspected after cleaning, and before disinfection, by a Federal representative or State representative, and then have been disinfected in the presence of a Federal representative or State representative with a disinfectant listed in part 71 of this chapter. ยง82.15 Replacement birds and poultry. Birds and poultry that have been destroyed because of a quarantine for END may not be replaced by birds or poultry moved interstate into the quarantined area until the Administrator decides that END has been eradicated and that replacement birds or poultry will not become infected with END. Subpart B_Chlamydiosis in Poultry ยง82.19 Definitions. As used in connection with this subpart, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth in this section. Accredited veterinarian. A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with part 161 of this chapter to perform functions specified in subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter. Administrator. The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any individual authorized to act for the Administrator. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. Bird. Any member of the class aves other than poultry. Chlamydiosis. A contagious bacterial disease of birds and poultry, characterized by respiratory and systemic infection. The disease is also known as psittacosis in psittacine birds and as ornithosis in poultry. Federal representative. An individual employed and authorized by the Federal government to perform the tasks required by this subpart. Federal veterinarian. A veterinarian employed and authorized by the Federal government to perform the tasks required by this subpart. Infected. Affected by the virus or bacterium that causes the specified disease. Interstate. From one State into or through any other State. Moved. Shipped, transported or otherwise moved, or delivered or received for movement, by any person. Person. Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or other legal entity.
