FR940713-1-00020 FR940713-1-00001 The figures listed in Table 4 take into account the number of federally inspected poultry slaughter establishments currently in operation and the number of slaughtering lines for each inspection system. The estimates provided for inspection stand purchase and installation are based on consultation with several equipment manufacturers. Most of the approximately 186 establishments currently operating under SIS&hyph;2 and NELS may be able to use or move existing inspection stands at a cost of no more than $1,000 each. For example, an establishment currently operating under the NELS inspection system may be able to provide a reconfigured inspection line by moving an inspection stand from the post-mortem inspection area to the pre-chiller carcass inspection station. Some plants, however, would have to purchase or construct and install at least one new inspection stand at a cost of $6,000 to $10,000 per installation. A guidebar would have to be installed at each on-line post-mortem inspection station to permit eviscerated birds to be presented to the inspector for examination. The estimates for installation of 200 foot-candle lighting take into account the fact that establishments operating under several of the current inspection systems (SIS, NELS, and NTIS) are already provided with enhanced lighting. Establishments operating under traditional inspection (as many as 96 lines) would have to install new lighting at a cost of about $1,000 per purchase and installation. The enhanced lighting is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of post-mortem inspection and the FPS checks under the new system. As noted, most projected costs are one-time only. A few establishments may have to hire new personnel to staff some poultry slaughter lines. Additional expenses for retraining establishment personnel are likely to be incurred by all establishments. In addition, most establishments affected by this proposal would incur miscellaneous line reconfiguration expenses involving space reallocation at an estimated $1,000 per establishment. To meet the requirement for antimicrobial treatment before the chiller, approximately 30 percent of poultry plants would have to install equipment. Most poultry establishments would not be affected immediately by the requirement because their final washers are already using an antimicrobial agent. Those establishments that are not using their final washes to add an antimicrobial agent could do so for approximately $500 per processing line simply connecting their existing chlorine supply to their final carcass wash equipment. The industry would incur additional annual costs in connection with the 100-percent on-line reinspection of reprocessed birds. These costs have been computed on the basis of the average linespeeds for the different inspection systems and the assumption of a 2-percent overall rate of reprocessing. It has also been assumed that most reinspection of reprocessed carcasses would result in overtime hours and that a labor cost would be incurred for rehanging birds on the processing line. Overtime salaries for Federal inspectors (paid by affected establishments) and wages for establishment personnel have been factored into the estimates. The 2-percent reprocessing rate is based on approximately two years of in-plant data collection and represents the national average. Through a combination of process control, good husbandry practices, and good manufacturing practices individual establishments can lower this rate thereby decreasing this on-going cost. Also, an allowance for minor plant reconfigurations has been made. It is expected that some establishments would have to move equipment and rearrange their slaughtering lines to a limited extent to make room for inspection locations. Below are estimated costs to the poultry industry of converting to enhanced poultry inspection: Inspection and plant sorter stands and guidebars for at most 643 lines: $2,129,920 Enhanced lighting for as many as 100 lines: $110,000 Expenses for training and hiring new establishment personnel: $544,500 Cost of inspection of reprocessed carcasses: $2.2 million Miscellaneous processing line reconfiguration costs: $308,000 Cost of minimal equipment installations to meet final wash antimicrobial treatment requirement: $89,000 Estimated annual cost of information collections: $1.4 million Total estimated direct impact on federally inspected establishments: $6.8 million Estimated direct impact on (approx. 160) State-inspected establishments operating under ``at least equal to'' programs: $3.4 million Estimated direct impact on poultry industry: $10.2 million The Agency does not expect economic losses to occur as a result of slowing linespeeds due to proposed corrective action. As indicated earlier in the preamble to this rule, maximum linespeeds allowed under optimal conditions would remain the same. If establishment sorters fulfill their responsibility, as outlined in this proposal, then maximum linespeeds should be attainable. Establishments currently operating under traditional inspection may be able to achieve increases in linespeeds under this proposal but such action could only occur if quality and safety of the outgoing product was ensured. As indicated by this analysis, the industry could operate with maximum effectiveness with a small investment in personnel and training. As currently allowed, the FTIS inspector in charge or his/her designee would retain the discretion to reduce linespeeds when necessary. Alternatives Considered FSIS considered two alternatives to this proposal that would meet the Secretary's objectives. The first of the alternatives would involve detaching the viscera from poultry carcasses prior to inspection and presenting the organs and the carcass for inspection at the same time, but separated. A separate belt or tray would be provided for the viscera to prevent the viscera from contaminating the carcass. However, the cost to industry would be approximately $140 million for new equipment. In addition, downtime for construction and installation could cost the industry as much as $780 million.
