FR940603-0-00130 FR940603-0-00029 The Board also disagrees that a public notice procedure should be implemented. The overlap procedures now in place provide adequate safeguards. XII. Federalism Concerns A. Comments The proposal would permit state-chartered credit unions that are converting to a federal charter and that had an established history of being able to serve multiple groups outside of its operational area to continue to serve these groups without regard to the operational area requirements normally applicable to new federal multiple group charters. Three commenters supported the change but suggested that the concept of operational area be discarded in favor of non-geographic criteria. One commenter opposed relaxing the rules for converting state charters. B. NCUA Board Decision The Board believes that, with respect to converting state charters, where the commitment to the group and the ability to provide quality service have been demonstrated, there is no need to impose the operational area requirement. The final IRPS maintains this portion of the proposal. Moreover, the IRPS establishes the same flexibility for an occupational, associational, and multiple group federal credit union converting to a community charter. XIII. Miscellaneous Matters A. Staff Leasing 1. Comments The proposal attempted to clarify NCUA's policy on staff leasing arrangements. The proposal stated that where the requirements of existing policy were met, the employees leased to a firm listed in a federal credit union's field of membership might be added as a common bond expansion. Where those requirements were not met, the elements of a select group expansion to serve employees of the leasing company had to be met. When a leasing company was to be included in a credit union's field of membership, the company had to identify each client and work location served by the leasing company. Four commenters favored the leasing clarification. Five commenters disapproved of the clarification. These commenters believed that the requirement for specific delineation of each separate company that was a client of the employee leasing firm was both impractical and impossible from an operational standpoint. 2. NCUA Board Decision On reconsideration, it is evident that general policy can be adequately adapted to the leasing company situation. Therefore, this portion has been deleted from the final IRPS. B. Spin-offs, Mergers, and Purchase and Assumptions 1. Comments The proposal clarified NCUA's policy on mergers, spin-offs and purchase and assumptions. Four commenters approved of the update on spin-offs. Three of these commenters specifically approved of the voting requirements for a spin-off. Seven commenters approved of the revised merger section. Three commenters approved of the provision to allow a merged state credit union's field of membership to be served by the continuing federal credit union even if the inclusion of this field of membership would otherwise be restricted under NCUA guidelines. One commenter disapproved of the merger policy. This commenter believed that by applying an operational area condition to distress mergers, NCUA is limiting its own range of action. This commenter further stated that a suitable merger candidate may not be located within the operational area of a distressed credit union and that it seemed wasteful to wait for emergency conditions to evolve and moot the operational area issue.
