FR940610-1-00016 FR940610-1-00002 (ii) Adequately capitalized. For assessment risk classification purposes, the short-form designation for this group is ``2''. (A) Except as provided in (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, this group consists of institutions that do not satisfy the standards of ``well capitalized'' under this paragraph but which satisfy each of the following capital ratio standards: Total risk-based ratio, 8.0 percent or greater; Tier 1 risk-based ratio, 4.0 percent or greater; and Tier 1 leverage ratio, 4.0 percent or greater. (B) For purposes of assessment risk classification, an insured branch of a foreign bank will be deemed to be ``adequately capitalized'' if the insured branch: ( 1 ) Maintains the pledge of assets required under 12 CFR 346.19; ( 2 ) Maintains the eligible assets prescribed under 12 CFR 346.20 at 106 percent or more of the average book value of the insured branch's third-party liabilities for the quarter ending on the report date specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and ( 3 ) Does not meet the definition of a well capitalized insured branch of a foreign bank. (iii) Undercapitalized. For assessment risk classification purposes, the short-form designation for this group is ``3''. This group consists of institutions that do not qualify as either ``well capitalized'' or ``adequately capitalized'' under paragraphs (a)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section. (2) Supervisory risk factors. Within its capital group, each institution will be assigned to one of three subgroups based on the Corporation's consideration of supervisory evaluations provided by the institution's primary federal regulator. The supervisory evaluations include the results of examination findings by the primary federal regulator, as well as other information the primary federal regulator determines to be relevant. In addition, the Corporation will take into consideration such other information (such as state examination findings, if appropriate) as it determines to be relevant to the institution's financial condition and the risk posed to the BIF or SAIF. Authority to set dates applicable to the determination of supervisory subgroup assignments is delegated to the Corporation's Director of the Division of Supervision (or his or her designee). The three supervisory subgroups are: (i) Subgroup ``A''. This subgroup consists of financially sound institutions with only a few minor weaknesses; (ii) Subgroup ``B''. This subgroup consists of institutions that demonstrate weaknesses which, if not corrected, could result in significant deterioration of the institution and increased risk of loss to the BIF or SAIF; and (iii) Subgroup ``C''. This subgroup consists of institutions that pose a substantial probability of loss to the BIF or SAIF unless effective corrective action is taken. (b) Payment of assessment at rate assigned. Institutions shall make timely payment of assessments based on the assessment risk classification assigned in the notice provided to the institution pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. Timely payment is required notwithstanding any request for review filed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. An institution for which the assessment risk classification cannot be determined prior to an invoice date specified in ยง327.3 (c)(1) or (d)(1) shall preliminarily pay on that invoice at the assessment rate applicable to the classification designated ``2A'' in the appropriate rate schedule set forth in ยง327.9. If such institution is subsequently assigned for that semiannual period an assessment risk classification other than that designated as ``2A'', or if the classification assigned to an institution in the notice is subsequently changed, any excess assessment paid by the institution will be credited by the Corporation, with interest, and any additional assessment owed shall be paid by the institution, with interest, in the next quarterly assessment payment after such subsequent assignment or change. Interest payable under this paragraph shall be determined in accordance with ยง327.7. * * * * * (g) Lifeline accounts. Notwithstanding any other provision of this part 327, the portion of an institution's assessment base that is attributable to deposits in lifeline accounts pursuant to the Bank Enterprise Act, 12 U.S.C. 1834, will be assessed at such rate as may be established by the Corporation pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1834 and section 7(b)(2)(H) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1817(b)(2)(H).
