FR940118-1-00020 FR940118-1-00006 (b) In the case of a royalty distribution proceeding, any party to the proceeding may, during the time specified in §251.45(a), file an objection with the Librarian of Congress to one or more of the persons contained on the arbitrator list for the proceeding. Such objection shall plainly state the grounds and reasons for each person found to be objectionable. §251.5 Qualifications of the arbitrators. In order to serve as an arbitrator to a copyright arbitration panel, a person must, at a minimum, have the following qualifications: (a) Membership in a bar association of any state, territory, trust territory or possession of the United States. (b) Ten or more years of legal practice. (c) Experience in conducting arbitration proceedings or facilitating the resolution and settlement of disputes. §251.6 Composition and selection of Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels. (a) Within 10 days after publication of a notice in the Federal Register initiating arbitration proceedings under this subchapter, the Librarian of Congress shall, upon recommendation of the Register of Copyrights, select 2 arbitrators from lists provided by professional arbitration associations. (b) The 2 arbitrators so selected shall, within 10 days of their selection, choose a third arbitrator from the same lists. The third arbitrator shall serve as the chairperson of the Panel during the course of the proceedings. (c) If the 2 arbitrators fail to agree upon the selection of the third, the Librarian shall promptly select the third arbitrator from the same lists. (d) The third arbitrator so chosen shall serve as the chairperson of the Panel during the course of the proceeding. In all matters, procedural or substantive, the chairperson shall act according to the majority wishes of the Panel. (e) If for any reason one or more of the arbitrators selected by the Librarian is unable to serve during the course of the proceedings, the Librarian shall promptly appoint a replacement: Provided, that once hearings have commenced, no such appointment shall be made and the remaining arbitrators shall constitute a quorum necessary to the determination of the proceeding. §251.7 Actions of Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels. Any action of a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel requiring publication in the Federal Register according to 17 U.S.C. or the rules and regulations of this subchapter shall be published under the authority of the Librarian of Congress and the Register of Copyrights. Under no circumstances shall a CARP engage in rulemaking designed to amend, supplement or supersede any of the rules and regulations of this subchapter, or seek to have any such action published in the Federal Register . Subpart B_Public Access to Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel Meetings §251.11 Open meetings. (a) All meetings of a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel shall be open to the public, with the exception of meetings that are listed in §251.13. (b) At the beginning of each proceeding, the CARP shall develop the original schedule of the proceeding which shall be published in the Federal Register at least 7 calendar days in advance of the first meeting. Such announcement shall state the times, dates, and place of the meetings, the testimony to be heard, whether any of the meetings are to be closed, and, if so, which ones, and the name and telephone number of the person to contact for further information. (c) If changes are made to the original schedule, they will be announced in open meeting and issued as orders to the parties participating in the proceeding, and the changes will be noted in the docket file of the proceeding. In addition, the contact person for the proceeding shall make any additional efforts to publicize the change as are practicable. (d) If it is decided that the publication of the original schedule must be made on shorter notice than 7 days, that decision must be made by a recorded vote of the Panel and included in the announcement. §251.12 Conduct of open meetings. (a) Meetings of a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel will be conducted in a manner to insure both the public's right to observe and the ability of the Panel to conduct its business properly. The chairperson will take whatever measures necessary to achieve that purpose. (b) The right of the public to be present does not include the right to participate or make comments. (c) Reasonable access for news media will be provided at all public sessions, as long as it does not interfere with the comfort or efficiency of the arbitrators or witnesses. Cameras will be admitted only on the authorization of the chairperson, and no witness may be photographed or have his or her testimony recorded for broadcast if he or she objects. §251.13 Closed meetings. In the following circumstances, a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel may close its meetings or withhold information from the public: (a) If the matter to be discussed has been specifically authorized to be kept secret by Executive Order, in the interests of national defense or foreign policy; or
