FR940819-1-00023 FR940819-1-00007 Under section 112 of the Act, the minimum baseline (floor) at which standards may be set, for existing sources, is the ``average emission limitation achieved by the best performing 12 percent of the existing sources''(section 112(d)(3) of the Act). The existing California standards are used statewide and on tank trucks from surrounding areas. California is estimated to account for nearly 12 percent of the national gasoline consumption. Since trucks in California and surrounding areas transport about 12 percent of the national gasoline, it is logical to assume that this represents about 12 percent of the affected gasoline tank truck population. The EPA looks at emission limitations achieved by each of the best performing 12 percent of existing sources, and average those limitations (59 FR 29196). ``Average'' is interpreted to mean a measure of central tendency such as the arithmetic mean or median. In the case of the California standards, nearly or about 12 percent of tank trucks at least meet or exceed the California standards, therefore these standards are at least the arithmetic average, and certainly the 94 percentile or median. Additionally, the existing California standards achieve the lowest emission limitation (in this case by achieving the lowest leakage rates) and are the best performing of existing sources. Thus, the EPA now considers the existing California standards as the existing source floor since they represent the average emission limitation achieved by the best performing 12 percent of the existing sources. The EPA proposal contains a requirement to operate a vacuum assist system at new source facilities. The agency proposed this requirement for new sources based on the system providing ``emission control that is achieved in practice by the best controlled similar source'' (section 112(d)(3) of the Act). Many commenters questioned the amount of emission control that would be achieved by the vacuum assist system. In the EPA's consideration of the vacuum assist system as the floor for new sources, the EPA will also consider the existing California standards discussed earlier. Through consideration of comments received on today's notice along with those on the proposed rule, the EPA will determine the control levels to be applied to tank truck leakage. Today's opening of the comment period is only for taking comment on the supplemental material contained in this notice on tank truck vapor leakage controls. Specifically, the EPA is requesting comments and data on the consideration of the existing California standards as the floor level of control for new and existing facilities as required under section 112 of the Act. The EPA is also requesting comment on whether the level of control for tank trucks at new and existing facilities should be based on the existing or the proposed California standards. Comments are also requested on the use and accuracy of the test procedures and methods referred to earlier and provided in the docket, including both the existing and updated or revised procedures and methods. Dated: August 4, 1994. Mary D. Nichols, Assistant Administrator, Office of Air and Radiation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20441 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
