FR940106-1-00041 FR940106-1-00008 j. Signature and affiliation of tester and witness; k. Remarks. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Submit amended meter calibration report(s) to authorized officer, including all required information. Abatement Period: 15 days. 10. Chart Recorder: The following are minimum standards that only apply to chart recorders. a. For meters measuring more than 100 Mcf per day on a monthly basis, the pen that records differential pressure shall operate in the outer 2/3 of the chart range (the physical distance on the chart measured from zero) for the majority of the flowing period. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Size the metering equipment so that the differential pen will record in the outer 2/3 of the chart range. Abatement Period: 20 days. b. For meters measuring more than 100 Mcf per day on a monthly basis, the static element shall be sized to make the pen that records the static pressure operate in the outer 2/3 of the chart range (the physical distance on the chart measured from zero) for the majority of the flowing period. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Size static element so as to cause static pen to record in the outer 2/3 of the chart range. Abatement Period: 20 days. c. The meter's differential pen arc, the ability of the differential pen to duplicate the test chart's time arc over the full range of the test chart, shall be checked during each testing of the meter's accuracy and adjustments made if necessary. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Stop meter calibration, check differential pen arc, make necessary adjustments, and restart calibration. Abatement Period: Prior to completion of calibration. d. During testing of the meter accuracy, the static pen time lag shall be adjusted to ensure independent movement of the static pen in relation to the differential pen. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Make appropriate adjustments. Abatement Period: Prior to completion of calibration. 11. Electronic Flow Computers: The following are minimum standards that only apply to electronic flow computers (EFCs). a. The current static pressure, differential pressure, and temperature shall be displayed on a continuous basis. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Display required data. Abatement Period: 30 days. b. The EFC shall be equipped with a back-up power source capable of retaining data collected for a minimum of 35 days. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Install back-up power source capable of retaining data collected for a minimum of 35 days. Abatement Period: 30 days. c. For meters measuring more than 100 Mcf per day on a monthly basis, the EFC shall be installed, operated, and maintained to achieve an overall meter uncertainty of within 3 percent. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Make any necessary changes to bring the overall meter uncertainty within 3 percent. Abatement Period: 20 days.
