FR940203-0-00075 FR940203-0-00017 The annual report must be submitted to the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA), at least 120 days prior to the date of expiration of the annual LOA in order for issuance of a LOA for the following year. Any substantive changes to the conditions contained within the annual LOA, including suspension or withdrawal, over the 5-year period the regulations are in effect will be subject to public review and comment unless NMFS determines that an emergency exists that necessitates immediate action. Whether changes are ``substantive'' will be determined by the AA. The regulations require the holder of the LOA to cooperate with NMFS and any other Federal, state or local agency monitoring impacts resulting from this activity on these species. At its discretion, NMFS will place observers onboard either the fleet tug or the target vessel, or both, and on any ship or aircraft involved in marine mammal reconnaissance and monitoring either prior to, during, or after explosives detonation. Description of Habitat and Marine Mammals Affected by Military Weapons Testing at the OSTR The OSTR is an area in the eastern North Pacific Ocean, seaward of the Channel Islands, CA, a minimum of 20 nm (37 km) northwest of San Nicolas Island, 20 nm (37 km) south of San Miguel Island, and 12 nm (22 km) southwest of Santa Rosa Island. The area extends 60 nm (111 km) westward of San Nicolas Island to 120 ○45 ’W. longitude in the OSTR of the NAWC, Ventura County, CA. Water depths in the test area range from approximately 200 to over 1,900 fathoms (366 to 3,475 m). Shallowest depths (less than 750 m) in the test area are associated with the Patton Ridge, identifiable as a rise oriented north-south and located nearly mid-range. The following species/stocks of marine mammals are found in the SCB: (1) California sea lion ( Zalophus californianus ); (2) harbor seal ( Phoca vitulina ); (3) northern elephant seal ( Mironga anguistrostris ); (4) northern fur seal ( Callorhinus ursinus ); (5) Steller sea lions ( Eumetopias jubatus ); (6) Guadalupe fur seals ( Arctocephalus townsendi ); (7) common dolphin ( Delphinus delphis) ; (8) striped dolphin ( Stenella coeruleoalba ); (9) Risso's dolphin ( Grampus griseus ); (10) Pacific white-sided dolphin ( Lagenorhynchus obliquidens ); (11) northern right whale dolphin ( Lissodelphis borealis ); (12) Dall's porpoise ( Phocoenoides dalli ); (13) bottlenose dolphin ( Tursiops truncatus ); (14) killer whale ( Orcinus orca ); (15) sperm whale ( Physeter macrocephalus ); (16) beaked whales (seven species requested as a single group because of difficulty in identification including Baird's beaked whale ( Berardius bairdii ), Cuvier's beaked whale ( Ziphius cavirostris ), Hubb's beaked whale ( Mesoplodon carlhubbsi ), Blainville's beaked whale ( M. densirostris ), Ginkgo-toothed beaked whale ( M. ginkgodens ), Hector's beaked whale ( M. hectori ) and Stejneger's beaked whale ( M. stejnegeri )); (17) minke whale ( Balaenoptera acutorostrata ); (18) blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus ); (19) fin whale ( Balaenoptera physalus ); (20) sei whale ( Balaenoptera borealis ); (21) humpback whale ( Megaptera novaeangliae ); (22) gray whale ( Eschrichtius robustus ); and (23) right whale ( Eubalaena glacialis ). However, because of low population estimates in the SCB and marine mammal monitoring measures planned in association with the tests, no impacts or incidental takes of Steller sea lions or Guadalupe fur seals are expected and incidental take authorizations have not been requested by the Navy or authorized by NMFS. A description of the SCB area and the biology and abundance of the marine mammal species in the SCB can be found in the EA prepared in association with this activity. A copy of the EA is available upon request (see ADDRESSES ). Effects of Military Testing Activities on Marine Mammals Potential impacts to marine mammals from explosives detonation include exposure to chemical by-products, lethal and injurious incidental take, as well as physical and acoustic harassment. Injury or death could occur as a direct result of the explosive blast (concussion) and resultant cavitation 8 . Injury could include damage to internal organs and/or the auditory system. Non-injurious harassment of marine mammals could occur as a result of physiological response to both the explosion-generated shockwave as well as to the acoustic signature of the detonation. Based upon information provided by the Navy, NMFS believes it is unlikely that injury will occur from exposure to the chemical by-products released into the surface waters. 8 The area of cavitation is where the water pressure becomes extremely low with the passage of the negative shock wave that moves down from the surface. The water separates, producing a region of cavitation bubbles for a brief time. This region of cavitation bubbles then collapses and generates a weak positive pressure wave. Measures to Reduce Impacts Because of the highly mobile nature of ship shock tests, successful avoidance of, or reduction in, the incidental taking of marine mammals is dependent upon the detection of marine mammals. Extensive pre-test surveys in the test area are being conducted to document on-range marine mammal seasonal abundance and to detect areas of high mammal density. Three 80-nm2 (275-km2) areas for ship shock tests will be identified prior to each test based on an analysis of the 1993 NMFS 12-month aerial survey results and historical marine mammal survey data. Intensive aerial surveys will be flown in the three targeted areas 1 month prior to the first scheduled shock test and the areas will subsequently be ranked from low to high with respect to marine mammal density. An intensive survey will be conducted in the primary test area 2 days prior to each scheduled shock test. If scientists determine that marine mammal density is higher than previously predicted, the alternate secondary and tertiary areas will be surveyed to determine their short-term suitability for shock tests.
