FR940721-2-00031 FR940721-2-00022 •identify the resource issues not requiring detailed analysis, and •identify reasonable project alternatives. Federal, state, and local resource agencies, licensees and developers, Indian tribes, other interested groups, and the general public are invited to forward to the Commission any information that they believe will assist the Commission staff in conducting an accurate and thorough analysis of the site-specific and cumulative environmental effects of the proposed licensing activities on the Des Moines River. The types of information sought include: •Information, quantified data, or professional opinion that may contribute to defining the geographical and temporal scope of the analysis and identifying significant environmental issues. •Identification of and information from any other environmental assessment, environmental impact statement, or similar document or study (previous, on-going, or planned) relevant to the proposed licensing activities in the Des Moines River Basin. •Existing information and any data that would aid in describing the past and present actions and effects of the projects and other developmental activities on the physical/chemical, biological, and socioeconomic environments. For example, fish stocking/management histories, historic water quality data and the reasons for improvement or degradation of the quality, any wetland habitat losses or proposals to develop land and water resources within the basin. •Identification of any federal, state, or local resource plans and future project proposals that encompass the Des Moines River Basin with information on when they will be implemented, if known. For example, proposals to construct or operate water treatment facilities, recreation areas, water diversions, or implement fishery management programs. •Documentation that would support a conclusion that the actions or a project(s) does or does not contribute to cumulative adverse or beneficial effects on resources and therefore should be excluded from further study or excluded from further consideration of cumulative effects within the Des Moines River Basin. Documentation should include, but is not limited to: how the projects interact with other projects within the river basin and other developmental activities; results from studies; resource management policies; and reports from federal, state, and local agencies. To be useful in preparing the draft EA, the requested information must be received by the Commission no later than 30 days past the date of this notice. Address all communications to: Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street NE., Washington, DC 20426. All correspondence must clearly show at the top of the first page ``Fort Dodge Mill Dam Project, FERC No. 11346''. When filing scoping comments, you should submit an original and 8 copies; this will assure that staff receives your information quickly. Parties to the proceedings (as identified on the official Service List for the Fort Dodge Mill Dam Project) must also send copies of their filings, and all attachments, to the other parties listed on the official service list. The official service list is available from the Commission Secretary at the same address above. Any questions concerning the scoping process should be directed to Mary Golato (202&hyph;219&hyph;2804) at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Office of Hydropower Licensing, 825 North Capitol Street NE., Washington, DC 20426. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17740 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
