FR940405-2-00004 FR940405-2-00002 Public participation is an important part of the analysis, commencing with the initial scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7), which will occur during March and April, 1994. In addition, the public is encouraged to visit with Forest Service officials at any time during the analysis and prior to the decision. The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed action. No additional public meetings are scheduled at this time. Comments from the public and other agencies will be used in preparation of the Draft EIS. The scoping process will be used to: 1. Identify potential issues. 2. Identify major issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Eliminate minor issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis, such at the Bitterroot Forest Plan EIS. 4. Identify alternatives to the proposed action. 5. Identify potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e., direct, indirect, and cumulative effects). 6. Determine potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. Some public comments have already been received in conjunction with an analysis and associated public involvement to determine existing and desired conditions for the Beaver Woods area. The following preliminary issues have been identified: 1. How would the proposed timber harvest change the undeveloped character of ``defacto'' roadless lands adjacent to the Allen Mountain Roadless Area (No. 01946)? 2. How would the proposed activities affect Forest Service Region 1 listed sensitive species known to inhabit the area, such as bull trout? 3. How would the proposed activities affect the movement through the area and potential for habitation by species that no longer inhabit the area, such as grizzly bears? 4. Can the vegetation diversity and ecological purposes of the project be met without any further timber harvesting or road building? 5. To what degree would the proposed activities contribute to the spread of noxious weeds in the area? Other issues commonly associated with prescribed fire, timber harvesting, and road construction include: effects on cultural resources, water quality, soils, old growth, and scenery values. This list may be verified, expanded, or modified based on public scoping for this proposal. The Draft EIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and available for public review in August of 1994. At that time, the EPA will publish a Notice of Availability of the Draft EIS in the Federal Register . The comment period on the Draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the EPA's notice of availability appears in the Federal Register . It is very important that those interested in management of the Beaver Woods area participate at that time. To be most helpful, comments on the Draft EIS should be as site-specific as possible. The Final EIS is scheduled to be completed in February, 1995. The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day scoping comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in developing issues and alternatives. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues on the proposed action, comments should be as specific as possible. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. I am the responsible official for this environmental impact statement. My address is Bitterroot National Forest, 1801 N. 1st., Hamilton, MT 59840. Dated: March 21, 1994. Stephen K. Kelly, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8037 Filed 4&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
