FR940825-1-00057 FR940825-1-00008 (c) Events causing denial or termination of assistance._ (1) General. Assistance to an applicant shall be denied, and a tenant's assistance shall be terminated, in accordance with the procedures of this section, upon the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) Evidence of citizenship (i.e., the declaration) and eligible immigration status is not submitted by the date specified in ยง200.183(g) or by the expiration of any extension granted in accordance with ยง200.183(h); or (ii) Evidence of citizenship and eligible immigration status is timely submitted, but INS primary and secondary verification does not verify eligible immigration status of a family member; and (iii) The family does not pursue INS appeal or informal hearing rights as provided in this section; or (iv) INS appeal and informal hearing rights are pursued, but the final appeal or hearing decisions are decided against the family member. (2) Termination of assisted occupancy. For termination of assisted occupancy, see paragraph (i) of this section. (d) Notice of denial or termination of assistance. The notice of denial or termination of assistance shall advise the family: (1) That financial assistance will be denied or terminated, and provide a brief explanation of the reasons for the proposed denial or termination of assistance; (2) That the family may be eligible for proration of assistance as provided under ยง200.188; (3) In the case of a tenant, the criteria and procedures for obtaining relief under the preservation of families provision in ยง200.187; (4) That the family has a right to request an appeal to the INS of the results of secondary verification of immigration status and to submit additional documentation or a written explanation in support of the appeal in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (e) of this section; (5) That the family has a right to request an informal hearing with the project owner either upon completion of the INS appeal or in lieu of the INS appeal as provided in paragraph (f) of this section; (6) For applicants, the notice shall advise that assistance may not be delayed until the conclusion of the INS appeal process, but assistance may be delayed during the pendency of the informal hearing process. (e) Appeal by applicant to the INS._ (1) Submission of request for appeal to project owner. Upon receipt of notification by the project owner that INS secondary verification failed to confirm eligible immigration status, the family may request an appeal to the INS by communicating that request to the project owner within 14 days of the date the project owner mails or delivers the notice under paragraph (d) of this section. (2) Extension of time to request an appeal. The project owner shall extend the period of time for requesting an appeal (for a specified period) upon good cause shown. (3) Forwarding the appeal to INS. If the family requests an appeal to the INS, the project owner shall forward to the designated INS office any additional documentation or written explanation provided by the family in support of the appeal. This material must include a copy of the INS document verification request form G&hyph;845S (used to process the secondary verification request) and a cover letter indicating that the family is requesting an appeal of the INS immigration status verification results. (Form G&hyph;845S is available from the local INS Office.) (4) Decision by INS._ (i) When decision will be issued. The INS will issue to the project owner a decision within 30 days of its receipt of documentation concerning the family's appeal of the verification of immigration status. If, for any reason, the INS is unable to issue a decision within the 30 day time period, the INS will inform the project owner of the reasons for the delay, and the project owner will inform the family of the reasons for the delay. (ii) Notification of INS decision and of informal hearing procedures. When the project owner receives the INS decision, the project owner shall notify the family of the INS determination, of the reasons for the determination, and of the family's right to request an informal hearing on the PHA's ineligibility determination in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (f) of this section. (5) No delay, denial, reduction, or termination of assistance until completion of INS appeal process; direct appeal to INS. Pending the completion of the INS appeal under this section, assistance may not be delayed, denied, reduced or terminated on the basis of immigration status. (f) Informal hearing._ (1) When request for hearing is to be made. After notification of the INS decision on appeal, or in lieu of request of appeal to the INS, the family may request that the project owner provide a hearing. This request must be made either within 14 days of the date the project owner mails or delivers the notice under paragraph (d) of this section, or within 14 days of the mailing of the INS appeal decision issued in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section (established by the date of postmark). (2) Extension of time to request hearing. The project owner shall extend the period of time for requesting a hearing (for a specified period) upon good cause shown. (3) Informal hearing procedures. A family who submits a timely request for a hearing with the project owner shall have an opportunity for: (i) Hearing before an impartial individual. The family shall be provided a hearing before any person(s) designated by the project owner (including an officer or employee of the project owner), other than a person who made or approved the decision under review, and other than a person who is a subordinate of the person who made or approved the decision; (ii) Examination of evidence. The family shall be provided the opportunity to examine and copy at the individual's expense, at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing, any documents in the possession of the project owner pertaining to the family's eligibility status, or in the possession of the INS (as permitted by INS requirements), including any records and regulations that may be relevant to the hearing; (iii) Presentation of evidence and arguments in support of eligible status. The family shall be provided the opportunity to present evidence and arguments in support of eligible status. Evidence may be considered without regard to admissibility under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings; (iv) Controverting evidence of the project owner. The family shall be provided the opportunity to controvert evidence relied upon by the project owner and to confront and cross-examine all witnesses on whose testimony or information the project owner relies; (v) Representation. The family shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney, or other designee, at the family's expense, and to have such person make statements on the family's behalf; (vi) Interpretive services. The family shall be entitled to arrange for an interpreter to attend the hearing, at the expense of the family or project owner, as may be agreed upon by both parties; and (vii) Hearing to be recorded. The family shall be entitled to have the hearing recorded by audiotape (a transcript of the hearing may, but is not required to, be provided by the project owner). (4) Hearing decision. The project owner shall provide the family with a written final decision, based solely on the facts presented at the hearing, within 14 days of the date of the informal hearing. The decision shall state the basis for the decision. (g) Judicial relief. A decision against a family member, issued in accordance with paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section, does not preclude the family from exercising the right, that may otherwise be available, to seek redress directly through judicial procedures.
