FR940711-1-00054 FR940711-1-00014 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Notice of 90-Day and 12-Month Findings on a Petition to Reclassify Spikedace (Meda Fulgida) and Loach Minnow (Tiaroga Cobitis) From Threatened to Endangered AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of petition findings. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces 90-day and 12-month findings for a petition to amend the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants. The Service finds that the petitioners have presented substantial information indicating reclassification of spikedace and loach minnow from threatened to endangered may be warranted. The Service has previously found that reclassification of spikedace and loach minnow is warranted, but is precluded by work on other pending listing actions of higher priority on which expeditious progress is being made. DATES: The findings announced in this document were made on June 30, 1994. Comments and materials may be submitted until further notice. ADDRESSES: Information, comments, or questions concerning the petitioned actions may be submitted to the State Supervisor, Arizona Ecological Services State Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 3616 West Thomas Road, Suite 6, Phoenix, Arizona 85109. The petitions, findings, supporting information, and comments will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sally Stefferud at the above address (Telephone 602/379&hyph;4720). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act) (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), requires the Service to make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information to indicate that the petitioned action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of receipt of the petition, and notice of the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . If the finding is positive, the Service is also required to promptly commence a status review of the species involved. Section 4(b)(3)(B) requires that the Service make a further finding as to whether or not a petition presenting substantial information in support of listing, delisting, or reclassification of a species is (i) warranted, (ii) not warranted, or (iii) warranted but precluded by work on other pending listing actions of higher priority on which expeditious progress is being made. This finding is to be made within 12 months of receipt of the petition. Depending upon the conclusion of the finding, the Service must promptly publish in the Federal Register either a notice of the finding or a proposal on the petitioned action.
