FR940119-1-00041 FR940119-1-00011 Likewise, the number of failures which have resulted in water pollution is unknown because the Department does not require the occurrence of pollution to be identified on the hazardous liquid pipeline accident report. However, the RSPA knows from research for developing the interim final rule for onshore oil pipeline response plans (58 FR 244, January 5, 1993) under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, Public Law No. 101&hyph;380, 104 Stat. 484, (OPA 90) that of the approximately 2,700 oil pipeline spills reported each year to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), about half affect water. The accident effects which would be reduced by the installation of EFRDs are related more to pollution than safety. Once the hazardous liquid mixes with water, the likelihood of a fire or explosion is reduced considerably. Two of the following questions address the issue of water pollution as a result of pipeline failures. The accidents which occurred in Mounds View, Minnesota and Maries County, Missouri demonstrate that an assessment by the RSPA should be conducted concerning the installation of EFRDs at specific locations along hazardous liquid pipelines where the pipelines are in proximity to the public in rural areas, bodies of water (particularly bodies of water containing drinking water intakes), and other critical locations affected by commodity release. This position is supported by the NIST report (discussed above) which recommended installation of EFRDs in critical risk locations to significantly limit the extent of damage if a failure occurs. Critical risk locations are defined in the NIST report as locations where the risk to public safety, property, and the environment is great. The RSPA is also asking questions to gather data regarding locations where valves are presently required by the regulations to protect bodies of water (49 CFR 195.260 (e) and (f)). The regulations in 49 CFR 195.260 currently require valves to be placed at locations along a hazardous liquid pipeline that will minimize damage or pollution from accidental discharges 8 (Section 195.260 (c)), on either side of a water crossing that is more than 100-feet wide (Section 195.260(e)), and on either side of a reservoir holding water for human consumption (Section 195.260(f)). The American Petroleum Institute has indicated that most of these main line block valves are manually operated. The current regulations do not require that they be EFRDs. The financial impact on the regulated industry, if the RSPA were to require the installation of RCVs, is unknown so cost data will be obtained through responses to questions set forth below. 8 DOT does not know on what factors hazardous liquid pipeline operators base their judgment on where and how far apart to place such valves. These questions apply only to hazardous liquid pipelines with leak detection systems since the March 1991 EFRD study concluded RCVs are only effective where leak detection systems are installed. In addition, the questions address valve spacing, particularly whether EFRDs should be installed at other critical locations. Such critical locations would be identified during the rulemaking process after a review of data on water pollution from hazardous liquid pipeline spills collected by agencies, such as the EPA, and as a result of the RSPA implementation of OPA 90. Placement of a check valve on one side of a location and an RCV on the other side could reduce the number of valves that would require remote control capability. The location of valves would be proposed, as a result of this assessment, only to effectively reduce the amount of liquid entering a body of water depending on the terrain, and would not necessarily be immediately located on either side of the water crossing. For instance, valves placed immediately on either side of a water crossing would be effective in reducing pollution only if the failure was in the water crossing, a rare occurrence according to anecdotal evidence. Valves would only be effective in locations where the hazardous liquid pipeline operator has a SCADA-based leak detection system so that each RCV can be closed soon after a failure is detected. Past Leak History Question 7 : For the period 1983 through 1992 (10 years), how many failures have occurred on your pipeline system resulting in product release entering a body of water? 9 XXXX 9 ``Body of water'' includes, but is not limited to, creeks, streams, rivers, tributaries to rivers, lakes, reservoirs, and waters which are used for recreation. Question 8 : Provide the following information for each failure in Question 7: 8.1␣Date of the failure (MM/YY) XXXX 8.2␣What was the cause of the release (check)? 8.2.1␣Corrosion? XXXX 8.2.2␣Failed pipe or pipe seam? XXXX 8.2.3␣Outside force damage by other than natural forces? XXXX 8.2.4␣Outside force damage by natural forces? XXXX 8.2.5␣Malfunction of control or relief equipment? XXXX 8.2.6␣Operator error? XXXX 8.2.7␣Other (specify) XXXX 8.3␣Answer the following concerning the commodity_ 8.3.1␣At the time of the release what was the total volume of commodity between valves immediately upstream and downstream of the release location (bbls.)? XXXX 8.3.2␣How much commodity was released (bbls.)? XXXX 8.4␣How far away from the point of release were the valves referred to in 8.3.1 (miles)? XXXX 8.4.1␣Upstream from the release? XXXX Type of valve (check)? 8.4.1.1␣manual XXXX
