FR940527-1-00032 FR940527-1-00014 Thus, a premature newborn with one of these codes would be assigned to DRG 388 and a full-term newborn with one of these codes would be assigned to DRG 390. The following diagnosis codes would be removed from the major problems list in DRGs 387 and 389 and would not be added to the significant problems list: 774.30_Neonatal jaundice due to delayed conjugation, cause unspecified 774.31_Neonatal jaundice due to delayed conjugation in diseases classified elsewhere 774.39_Other neonatal jaundice due to delayed conjugation from other causes 774.5_Perinatal jaundice from other causes Therefore, a premature newborn with one of these conditions would be assigned to DRG 388 and a full-term newborn with one of these conditions would be assigned to DRG 391. The following diagnosis codes would remain on the major problems list and continue to result in assignment to DRGs 387 and 389: 774.4_Perinatal jaundice due to hepatocellular damage 774.7_Kernicterus not due to isoimmunization Finally, diagnosis codes 774.6 (Unspecified fetal and neonatal jaundice) would continue to be considered a nonsignificant condition and result in assignment to DRGs 388 and 391. We note again that these proposals are based only on clinical considerations and respond to specific requests made by the public. We will continue our work on a more comprehensive evaluation of the MDC 15 DRGs and will announce our proposal when that evaluation is completed. 4. Surgical Hierarchies Some inpatient stays entail multiple surgical procedures, each one of which, occurring by itself, could result in assignment of the case to a different DRG within the MDC to which the principal diagnosis is assigned. It is, therefore, necessary to have a decision rule by which these cases are assigned to a single DRG. The surgical hierarchy, an ordering of surgical classes from most to least resource intensive, performs that function. Its application ensures that cases involving multiple surgical procedures are assigned to the DRG associated with the most resource-intensive surgical class. Because the relative resource intensity of surgical classes can shift as a function of DRG reclassification and recalibration, we reviewed the surgical hierarchy of each MDC, as we have for previous reclassifications, to determine if the ordering of classes coincided with the intensity of resource utilization, as measured by the same billing data used to compute the DRG relative weights. A surgical class can be composed of one or more DRGs. For example, in MDC 5, the surgical class ``heart transplant'' consists of a single DRG (DRG 103) and the class ``coronary bypass'' consists of two DRGs (DRGs 106 and 107). Consequently, in many cases, the surgical hierarchy has an impact on more than one DRG. The methodology for determining the most resource-intensive surgical class, therefore, involves weighting each DRG for frequency to determine the average resources for each surgical class. For example, assume surgical class A includes DRGs 1 and 2 and surgical class B includes DRGs 3, 4, and 5, and that the average charge of DRG 1 is higher than that of DRG 3, but the average charges of DRGs 4 and 5 are higher than the average charge of DRG 2. To determine whether surgical class A should be higher or lower than surgical class B in the surgical hierarchy, we would weight the average charge of each DRG by frequency (that is, by the number of cases in the DRG) to determine average resource consumption for the surgical class. The surgical classes would then be ordered from the class with the highest average resource utilization to that with the lowest, with the exception of ``other OR procedures'' as discussed below. This methodology may occasionally result in a case involving multiple procedures being assigned to the lower-weighted DRG (in the highest, most resource-intensive surgical class) of the available alternatives. However, given that the logic underlying the surgical hierarchy provides that the GROUPER searches for the procedure in the most resource-intensive surgical class, which may sometimes occur in cases involving multiple procedures, this result is unavoidable. We note that, notwithstanding the foregoing discussion, there are a few instances when a surgical class with a lower average relative weight is ordered above a surgical class with a higher average relative weight. For example, the ``other OR procedures'' surgical class is uniformly ordered last in the surgical hierarchy of each MDC in which it occurs, regardless of the fact that the relative weight for the DRG or DRGs in that surgical class may be higher than that for other surgical classes in the MDC. The ``other OR procedures'' class is a group of procedures that are least likely to be related to the diagnoses in the MDC but are occasionally performed on patients with these diagnoses. Therefore, these procedures should only be considered if no other procedure more closely related to the diagnoses in the MDC has been performed.
