FR941110-1-00078 FR941110-1-00011 The nomination for essential uses in 1996, 1997 and 1998 of CFCs, methyl chloroform and carbon tetrachloride in analytical and laboratory applications is being recommended by the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel for a global exemption which will not specify the quantity granted to each Party. The TEAP describes the many analytical and laboratory procedures for which small quantities of controlled substances are now used and for which applications were received, such as: equipment calibration; extraction solvents, diluents, or carriers for specific chemical analyses; inducing chemical-specific health effects for biochemical research; and other critical purposes in research and development where substitutes are not readily available or where standards set by national and international agencies require specific use of a controlled substance. The TEAP recommendation for a global exemption pertains only to 1996, 1997 and 1998 and refers to the manufacture of CFCs, methyl chloroform and carbon tetrachloride of very high purities to be packaged in small containers. Additional detailed information regarding the purity of the substances and the size of the containers being recommended by the TEAP is contained in Appendix G to subpart A. In anticipation of the Parties adopting this recommendation of the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel, EPA is proposing that a specific quantity of essential-use allowances for laboratory and analytical use not be designated. In anticipation of a Decision by the Parties at the October 1994 meeting that does not specify the quantity of essential use allowances permitted for analytical and laboratory application, but a global essential-use exemption, EPA is proposing that producers or importers of the controlled substance require that laboratories certify they are purchasing the designated essential-use controlled substances only for laboratory or analytical uses, and that the substance will not be resold (see Recordkeeping and Reporting in Section C.7.b.). Unlike the system for the allocation of essential-use allowances for metered dose inhalers and space shuttle solvents, there will not be specific recipients of analytical/laboratory essential-use allowances. A person who claims the essential need for an analytical or laboratory application of a substance that has been phased out will be permitted to purchase the requested quantity as long as a certificate is provided to the importer or producer of the substance. The certificates will allow EPA to monitor the quantities of phased-out controlled substances that are used in analytical or laboratory applications domestically. EPA reserves the right to amend these procedures in the future based on information collected through the certificates and changes made by the Protocol. In the case of the allowances for specific essential uses, EPA proposes that the recipient of essential-use allowances confer to a producer or importer the right to produce or import a specific quantity of the specific controlled substance. The company conferring the essential-use allowances must, as in the case of laboratories, certify to the producer or importer that the controlled substance will only be used for the specified essential use. The producer or importer will report to EPA quarterly the quantity produced for essential uses, submitting the certification from the holder of the essential-use allowance. Due to the specific nominations of specific substances for specific uses, EPA is proposing that inter-pollutant transfers of essential-use allowances not be permitted. The application process described above in which U.S. companies petitioned the Parties to the Protocol through EPA for an essential-use exemption for a specific quantity of a specific substance for a given year indicated that the substance is essential for the specific application because no practicable alternative chemical exists. EPA reviewed these applications and made recommendations to the TEAP, which in turn reviewed the claims that the specific substance is essential for the application and recommended an exemption be given in those cases where experts felt no substitute exists. For the same reason, EPA proposes that inter-company transfers of essential-use allowances not be permitted because allowances will be allocated based on a company's application to the Parties through EPA for a specific quantity of a controlled substance for a specific use. As a result, EPA is also proposing that inter-Party trades not be permitted since these would be trades between companies internationally and the allocations being recommended by the TEAP to the Parties for the October 1994 meeting are country-specific. B. Imports of Used Controlled Substances
