FR941130-0-00106 FR941130-0-00015 36. Redesignated §674.54 is amended by revising the heading of the section; by revising paragraph (a)(1); by removing paragraph (a)(2); by redesignating paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) as paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) respectively; by removing the term ``Chapter 1'' and adding in its place ``title I'' in redesignated paragraph (a)(2); by adding new paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(5); by revising paragraph (b)(1); and by revising the authority citation to read as follows: §674.54 Teacher cancellation_Federal Perkins loans and Direct loans made before July 23, 1992. (a) Cancellation for full-time teaching in an elementary or secondary school serving low-income students. (1) An institution shall cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding loan balance on a Federal Perkins loan or a Direct loan made before July 23, 1992, for full-time teaching in a public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school that_ (i) Is in a school district that qualifies for funds, in that year, under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended; and (ii) Has been selected by the Secretary based on a determination that more than 30 percent of the school's total enrollment is made up of title I children. * * * * * (4) A teacher, who performs service in a school that meets the requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section in any year and in a subsequent year fails to meet these requirements, may continue to teach in that school and will be eligible for loan cancellation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, in subsequent years. (5) If a list of eligible institutions in which a teacher performs services under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is not available before May 1 of any year, the Secretary may use the list for the year preceding the year for which the determination is made to make the service determination. (b) Cancellation for full-time teaching of the handicapped. (1) An institution shall cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins loan or Direct loan made before July 23, 1992, for full-time teaching of handicapped children in a public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school system. * * * * * (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087ee) 37. Redesignated section 674.55 is amended by revising paragraph (b)(1)(i); by removing paragraph (b)(2); by redesignating paragraphs (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(5), and (b)(6) as paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(5), respectively; and by removing the term ``Chapter 1'' and adding in its place ``title I'' in redesignated paragraph (b)(2)(ii) to read as follows: (b) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (i) Is in a school district that qualifies for funds in that year under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended; and * * * * * 38. A new §674.56 is added to read as follows: §674.56 Employment cancellation_Federal Perkins loans and Direct loans made on or after July 23, 1992. (a) Cancellation for full-time employment as a nurse or medical technician. An institution shall cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins or Direct loan made on or after July 23, 1992, for full-time employment as a nurse or medical technician providing health care services. (b) Cancellation for full-time employment in a public or private nonprofit child or family service agency. An institution shall cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins loan or Direct loan made on or after July 23, 1992, for service as a full-time employee in a public or private nonprofit child or family service agency who is providing, or supervising the provision of, services to high-risk children who are from low-income communities and the families of such children. (c) Cancellation for service as a qualified professional provider of early intervention services. An institution shall cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins loan or Direct loan made on or after July 23, 1992, for the borrower's service as a full-time qualified professional provider of early intervention services in a public or other nonprofit program under public supervision by the lead agency as authorized in section 676(b)(9) of the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act. (d) Cancellation rates. (1) To qualify for cancellation under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, a borrower must work full-time for 12 consecutive months. (2) Cancellation rates are_ (i) 15 percent of the original principal loan amount plus the interest on the unpaid balance accruing during the year of qualifying service, for each of the first and second years of full-time employment; (ii) 20 percent of the original principal loan amount plus the interest on the unpaid balance accruing during the year of qualifying service, for each of the third and fourth years of full-time employment; and (iii) 30 percent of the original principal loan amount plus the interest on the unpaid balance accruing during the year of qualifying service, for the fifth year of full-time employment. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087ee) 39. A new §674.57 is added to read as follows: §674.57 Cancellation for law enforcement or corrections officer service_Federal Perkins loans and Direct loans for loans made on or after November 29, 1990. (a)(1) An institution shall cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins loan or Direct loan made on or after November 29, 1990, for full-time service as a law enforcement or corrections officer for an eligible employing agency. (2) An eligible employing agency is an agency_ (i) That is a local, State, or Federal law enforcement or corrections agency; (ii) That is public-funded; and (iii) The principal activities of which pertain to crime prevention, control, or reduction or the enforcement of the criminal law. (3) Agencies that are primarily responsible for enforcement of civil, regulatory, or administrative laws are ineligible employing agencies. (4) A borrower qualifies for cancellation under this section only if the borrower is_ (i) A sworn law enforcement or corrections officer; or (ii) A person whose principal responsibilities are unique to the criminal justice system. (5) To qualify for a cancellation under this section, the borrower's service must be essential in the performance of the eligible employing agency's primary mission. (6) The agency must be able to document the employee's functions. (7) A borrower whose principal official responsibilities are administrative or supportive does not qualify for cancellation under this section.
