FR941116-0-00111 FR941116-0-00022 Section 1413.5␣ Performance Based Upon Advice or Action of County or State Committee This section has been renumbered. This section states that the provisions of part 791 of this title apply to this part. Section 1413.6␣Appeals This section has been renumbered. This section sets forth the rules for producer appeals. Section 1413.7␣Paperwork Reduction Act Assigned Numbers This section has been renumbered and amended to set forth the provisions for information collection requirements for the regulations. Section 1413.9␣Definitions This section has been renumbered and amended to set forth the definitions applicable for all purposes of program administration. Definitions added to this section include acreage reduction program (ARP), actual ELS cotton yield per acre, custom farming, determined acreage, disaster, farming operations and practices, high residue crop (HRC), landlord, low residue crop (LRC), minor, nonrotation, offset, operator, other cotton, participating crop, participating farm, program benefits, repeat crop, sharecropper, and tenant. The definitions for current year, farm program payment yield, and producer have been revised for clarification. Section 1413.10␣Planted Crop Acreages This section has been renumbered and the section heading has been revised. Paragraph (a) has been amended to remove incorrect references. Paragraph (c)(1) has been amended to reference the final planting date in accordance with part 400 of this title. Paragraph (c)(4) has been amended to correct the section reference. Subparagraphs (c)(6)(i) through (iv) have been added to provide policy for the use of experimental acreages. Paragraph (c)(7) has been amended to correct the section reference and paragraph (c)(9) has been added to include any crop acreages on a farm which are planted by a producer with no intent to harvest. Section 1413.11␣Considered Planted Acreages This section has been added to include the provisions for determining considered planted acreage for a crop. References to considered planted acreages which were previously referenced in other sections have been consolidated into this section. Section 1413.15␣Farm Program Payment Yields This section has been renumbered, and the text has been amended to provide the rules for establishing farm program payment yields for a crop. Section 1413.16␣Establishing Crop Yields for Soybeans and Minor Oilseeds This section has been added to provide the rules for establishing yields for soybeans and minor oilseeds. Section 1413.17␣Historical Weighted Yields (HWY) This section has been added to provide the rules for determining the HWY for crop on a farm. Section 1413.18␣Irrigated Acreage Maximum (IAM) for Yields This section has been added to include the provisions for determining the IAM for a crop for a farm. Section 1413.19␣Submitting Production Evidence This section has been added to include the rules for submitting reports of production evidence of crops of wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, and rice. Section 1413.20␣Reducing Yields This section has been added to provide for reducing yields for current year program payment purposes when a program crop is planted or maintained in an unworkmanlike manner that, under normal conditions, would not yield production comparable to the established yield for the crop. Section 1413.24␣Crop Acreage Bases (CAB's) This section has been renumbered and amended to include procedures used in establishing CAB's. Section 1413.25␣Participation in the Conservation Reserve Program This section has been renumbered and amended to reflect the change of reference from a program contract to a program agreement. Section 1413.26␣Adjusting CAB's This section has been renumbered and amended to include rules for permanent or temporary adjustments of crop acreage bases (CAB's). Section 1413.27␣Conservation Compliance CAB Exchanges This section has been amended to correct the section reference.
