FR941007-1-00172 FR941007-1-00009 (iii) Low satisfactory. The OTS shall rate a savings association's service performance ``low satisfactory'' if, in general, the savings association demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are reasonably accessible to essentially all portions of its service area(s); (B) To the extent changes have been made, the savings association's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has generally not adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- and moderate-income geographies and to low- and moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) do not vary in a way that inconveniences portions of its service area(s), particularly low- and moderate-income geographies and low- and moderate-income individuals; and (D) It provides an adequate level of community development services. (iv) Needs to improve. The OTS shall rate a savings association's service performance ``needs to improve'' if, in general, the savings association demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are accessible to limited portions of its service area(s); (B) To the extent changes have been made, the savings association's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has adversely affected the accessibility its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) vary in a way that inconveniences certain portions of its service area(s), particularly low- or moderate-income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and (D) It provides a limited level of community development services. (v) Substantial noncompliance. The OTS shall rate a savings association's service performance as being in ``substantial noncompliance'' if, in general, the savings association demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are inaccessible to significant portions of its service area(s), particularly low- and moderate-income geographies or low- and moderate-income individuals; (B) To the extent changes have been made, the savings association's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has significantly adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) vary in a way that significantly inconveniences many portions of its service area(s), particularly low- or moderate-income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and (D) It provides few, if any, community development services. (4) Assigned rating. The OTS shall use the following procedures for assigning a rating: (i) Assign points corresponding to the savings association's performance on each of the component tests as follows: ␣ [In points] 1Component test ratings 1Lending 1Service 1Investment Outstanding 12 6 6 High Satisfactory 9 4 4 Low Satisfactory 6 3 3 Needs to Improve 3 1 1 Substantial Noncompliance 0 0 0 (ii) Total the points for the three tests, and use that total to determine the composite rating according to the chart below. However, if the total exceeds twice the number of points attributable to the savings association's lending test performance (as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this appendix), determine the composite rating using twice the number of points attributable to the savings association's lending test performance. ␣ 1Points 1Composite rating 18 or over Outstanding. 9 through 17 Satisfactory. 5 through 8 Needs to Improve. 0 through 4 Substantial Noncompliance. (c) Community development test for wholesale or limited purpose savings associations. The OTS shall assign each wholesale or limited purpose savings association's community development performance one of the four ratings described below. (1) Outstanding. The OTS shall rate a wholesale or limited purpose savings association's community development performance ``outstanding'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (i) A high level of qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services, particularly those that directly address credit needs;
