FR941004-1-00116 FR941004-1-00018 (i) Expenditures and costs for child day care necessary to support the employment of a parent or other relative; (ii) Foster care maintenance payments; and (iii) Adoption assistance payments. (3) A State applying for an amount of Federal funds under title IV&hyph;B greater than the amount of title IV&hyph;B funds received by that State in FY 1979 shall certify: (i) The amount of their expenditure in FY 1979 for child welfare services as described in paragraphs (g) (1) and (2) of this section, and (ii) The amount of State and local funds that have been appropriated and are available for child welfare services as described in paragraphs (g) (1) and (2) of this section for the fiscal year for which application for funds is being made. Records verifying the required certification shall be maintained by the State and made available to the Secretary as necessary to confirm compliance with this section. (h) Reallotment. (1) When a State certifies to the Commissioner that funds available to that State under its title IV&hyph;B, subpart 1 allotment will not be required, those funds shall be available for reallotment to other States. (2) When a State, after receiving notice from the Commissioner of the availability of funds, does not certify by a date fixed by the Commissioner that it will be able to expend during the period stated in paragraph (i) of this section all of the funds available to it under its title IV&hyph;B, subpart 1 allotment, those funds shall be available for reallotment to other States. (3) The Commissioner may reallot available funds to another State when he determines that_ (i) The requesting State's plan requires funds in excess of the State's original allotment; and (ii) The State will be able to expend the additional funds during the period stated in paragraph (i) of this section. (i) Time limit on expenditures. Funds under title IV&hyph;B, subpart 1, must be expended by September 30 of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the funds were awarded. 17. A new ยง1357.32 is added to read as follows: ยง1357.32 State fiscal requirements (title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2, family preservation and family support services). (a) Scope. The requirements of this section apply to all funds allocated to States under title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2, of the Act. (b) Allotments. The annual allotment to each State shall be made in accordance with section 433 of the Act.
