FR941005-2-00066 FR941005-2-00043 1. Identify the necessary improvements in communication and coordination among existing community-based/grassroots organizations, and local, state, tribal, and federal environmental programs, and all other stakeholders. Facilitate communication, information exchange, and partnerships among the stakeholders to address environmental injustices (for example, workshops, awareness conferences, establishment of community stakeholder committees, community newsletters, etc.); 2. Motivate the general public to be more conscious of their local environmental justice issues or problems and encourage the community to take action to address these issues (for example, reforestation efforts, monitoring of socioeconomic changes due to environmental abuse, stream monitoring, etc.); 3. Develop and demonstrate an environmental justice practice, method, or technique which has wide application and addresses an environmental justice issue which is of a high-priority. 4. Teach about risk reduction and pollution prevention, and seek technical experts to demonstrate how to access, analyze, and interpret public environmental data (for example, Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Toxic Release Inventories (TRI), and other databases.) Priority will be given to community-based/grassroots organizations, tribes, and organizations whose projects will help improve the environmental quality of affected communities by (A) developing an environmental justice project, activity, method, or technique which has wide application, (B) enhances the community's skills in addressing environmental justice issues and problems, and (C) establishes or expands environmental and public health information systems for local communities. Environmental Justice projects or activities should enhance critical thinking, problem solving, and the active participation of affected communities in decision-making processes. Environmental justice efforts may include, but are not necessarily limited to enhancing the gathering, observing, measuring, classifying, experimenting, and other data gathering techniques that assist individuals in discussing, inferring, predicting, and interpreting information about environmental justice issues and concerns. Environmental justice projects should engage and motivate individuals to weigh various issues to make informed and responsible decisions as they work to address environmental injustices.
