FR940516-1-00023 FR940516-1-00001 9. Conflicts of Interest and Related Party Transactions Pursuant to current Rule 4.21(a)(3), a description of any actual or potential conflict of interest regarding the pool on the part of the CPO, CTA, FCM, IB and their principals must be included in the disclosure document. This discussion must include a description of any arrangement whereby the CPO, CTA or their principals may benefit from the maintenance of the pool account with the FCM or from its introduction to an FCM by an IB. Like current Rule 4.21(a)(3), proposed Rule 4.24(j) would require disclosure of any conflict of interest on the part of the pool's CPO and its principals. Subject to the requirement that all material information be disclosed, the proposal would eliminate such disclosure with respect to CTAs allocated less than ten percent of the pool's futures margins and commodity option premiums and investee pools allocated less than ten percent of the pool's assets. 64 The proposed rule also would require disclosure of conflicts of interest with respect to any persons providing services to the pool or soliciting participants for the pool. This provision would encompass certain categories of Commission registrants specified in the existing rule, i.e. , FCMs and IBs, as well as any other person providing services to the pool. 65 The Commission believes that the purposes of conflict of interest disclosure are not limited to situations where such conflicts relate to a Commission registrant and that there may be unregulated parties, e.g. , a CPO affiliate acting as counterparty to over-the-counter transactions with the pool, as to whom such disclosure may be equally material. Consequently, the Commission proposes to delete the specific reference in the current rule to the pool's FCM and IB and their principals and to substitute more general terminology intended to include but not to be limited to FCMs and IBs. Although the express requirement of disclosure of conflicts of interest on the part of FCM and IB principals would be eliminated, disclosure of such conflicts may be required as material information in specific situations, e.g. , where an FCM's majority owner or other controlling person has such a conflict in regard to the pool. 64 Under the general materiality standard, disclosure of conflicts of interest on the part of CTAs and CPOs of investee pools below the ten percent thresholds would be required if, in light of all relevant circumstances, including, for example, the nature and severity of the conflict, such disclosure would be material to prospective pool participants. 65 However, current Rule 4.21(h) would require disclosure of all material conflicts of interest.
