FR940804-2-00128 FR940804-2-00070 Respondent's Illinois Physician and Surgeon License expired on July 31, 1987. He continued to practice medicine but did not renew his license until December 1988. In April 1990, the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation (IDPR) issued an order finding that Respondent had practiced medicine without a license, reprimanded him, and imposed a $1,000 fine. At the hearing in this matter, Respondent admitted that he had a made a mistake by not renewing his license immediately. Respondent filed an application for registration with the DEA on June 8, 1990. At that time, a DEA investigator conducted a pharmacy survey for the period 1988&hyph;1990. The investigator found that five prescriptions for controlled substances had been called in to local pharmacies, allegedly by Respondent, after his DEA Certificate of Registration was revoked. Some prescriptions contained the names and DEA registration numbers of other doctors and had Respondent's name crossed out on the prescription. One prescription contained Respondent's retired DEA registration number and another contained Respondent's revoked DEA registration number. Respondent testified during the hearing in this matter that he may have authorized the prescriptions and explained that he mistakenly thought that he was permitted to prescribe controlled substances. Respondent added that in late 1990, after consulting his attorney, he ``completely stopped'' authorizing prescriptions for controlled substances. An investigator with IDPR testified that in 1991 he began an investigation of Respondent after receiving a complaint from a local pharmacist. The pharmacist was concerned about Respondent's use of the non-controlled substance Stadol. The pharmacist found Respondent's purchases of Stadol unusual for a pediatrician. Testimony was presented at the hearing regarding Respondent's alleged misuse of Stadol. However, as the administrative law judge correctly noted, Stadol is not a controlled substance. Therefore, these allegations were not granted great weight by either the administrative law judge or the Deputy Administrator. Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 823(f) and 824(a)(4), the Deputy Administrator may revoke a DEA Certificate of Registration or deny an application for registration if he determines that the registration would be inconsistent with the public interest. Section 823(f) requires that the following factors be considered: (1) The recommendation of the appropriate State licensing board or professional disciplinary authority; (2) the applicant's experience in dispensing, or conducting research with respect to controlled substances: (3) the applicant's conviction record under Federal or State laws relating to the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of controlled substances; (4) compliance with applicable State, Federal or local laws relating to controlled substances; and, (5) such other conduct which may threaten the public health and safety. The Deputy Administrator may rely on any one or any combination of these factors when determining whether an application should be denied or a registration revoked. See Neveille H. Williams, D.D.S., 51 FR 17556 (1986); Anne L. Hendricks, M.D. 51 FR 41030 (1986). The administrative law judge correctly found that all these factors were relevant to a determination of whether Respondent's registration would be in the public interest. The Deputy Administrator finds that the Illinois licensing board, IDPR, has taken action against Respondent on more than one occasion. IDPR summarily suspended Respondent's controlled substance license based on his felony conviction and later reprimanded him for practicing without a license. The Deputy Administrator also finds that Respondent's past conduct indicates a cavalier attitude towards the dispensing and prescribing of controlled substances. Providing the undercover officer with Seconal for no legitimate medical purpose reveals a serious lack of judgment, as does Respondent's explanation for his continued prescribing of controlled substances following the revocation of his DEA Certificate of Registration. Respondent's felony conviction for distribution of cocaine again evidences a dangerous indifference for the law. This conviction, along with Respondent's failure to abide by DEA regulations, proves that Respondent cannot be trusted to comply with laws relating to controlled substances. The Deputy Administrator agrees with the administrative law judge that, after considering the applicable factors pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 823(f), Respondent's registration would not be in the public interest and adopts her recommended decision in its entirety. Accordingly, the Deputy Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, pursuant to the authority vested in him by 21 U.S.C. 823 and 824 and 28 CFR 0.100(b) and 0.104 (59 FR 23637), hereby orders that Avner Kauffman's application for registration be, and it hereby is, denied. This order is effective August 4, 1994. Dated: July 28, 1994. Stephen H. Greene, Deputy Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19055 Filed 8&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;09&hyph;M
