FR940927-1-00006 FR940927-1-00002 K. Exercise of Enforcement Discretion for Operating Reactors The NRC requires that a licensee operate its facility in compliance with the NRC's regulations and the specific facility's license. When a licensee fails to comply with the conditions of its license or the NRC's regulations, the staff normally takes enforcement action against that licensee in accordance with the NRC Enforcement Policy. Section VII.C of the Enforcement Policy, 10 CFR part 2, appendix C, recognizes that on occasion circumstances may arise where a power reactor licensee's compliance with a technical specification limiting condition for operation or with other license conditions would involve an unnecessary plant transient or performance of testing, inspection, or system realignment that is inappropriate with the specific plant conditions, or unnecessary delays in start up without any corresponding health and safety benefits. In these circumstances it may be appropriate not to enforce the applicable requirements provided that the NRC is clearly satisfied that the action is consistent with protecting the public health and safety. Before issuing a NOED to a licensee, the licensee must justify the safety basis for the request and provide whatever information NRC deems necessary in making a decision as to whether to exercise this discretion. NOEDs are infrequently used and when issued are placed in the NRC Public Document Room. The use of enforcement discretion does not change the fact that a violation of a license requirement occurred. Under the Enforcement Policy, the NRC staff is to take enforcement action when it determines that there is an underlying violation that caused the need to seek the issuance of the NOED. 1. Under what circumstances should this type of enforcement discretion be exercised and why? In addition to the above specific issues and those raised in the August 23, 1994 notice, commenters are invited to provide any other views on the NRC enforcement program which may assist the NRC in improving the effectiveness of NRC enforcement efforts. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 21st day of September 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. James Lieberman, Director, Office of Enforcement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23821 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
