FR940323-1-00068 FR940323-1-00008 2. The brand name, common or usual name, classification name and product name if known, and the intended use of the device. 3. Marketing status of the device, i.e., any applicable premarket notification number, premarket approval number, or indicate if a preamendments device, and the device listing number. (A manufacturer or distributor that does not have an FDA establishment registration number must indicate in the report whether it has ever registered with FDA). 4. The correction or removal report number. 5. The model, catalog, or code number of the device and the manufacturing lot or serial number of the device or other identification number. 6. The manufacturer's name, address, telephone number, and contact person if different from that of the person submitting the report. 7. A complete description of the event(s) giving rise to the information reported and the corrective or removal actions that have been, and are expected to be taken. 8. Any illnesses or injuries that have occurred with use of the device. If applicable, include the medical device report numbers. 9. The total number of devices manufactured or distributed and the number in the same batch, lot, or equivalent unit of production subject to the correction or removal. 10. The date of manufacture or distribution and the device's expiration date if applicable. 11. The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all domestic and foreign consignees of the device and the dates and number of devices distributed to each such consignee. 12. A copy of all communications regarding the correction or removal, and the names and addresses of all recipients of the communications if the number of recipients of the communications is different than number 11 above. The agency is using the opportunity under this proposed rule to solicit comments regarding whether it would be desirable to develop a form to collect reports of removal and correction data. Interested persons should submit written comments to the Dockets Management Branch (address above). FDA will consider any comments received and will address the development and use of a form to collect reports of correction and removal data in any final rule that is published. D. FDA Review of Reports FDA will review any correction or removal report submitted under proposed §806.10 and where the correction or removal involves: 1. Some, but not all, of the devices of a particular lot, model, code, etc., FDA will determine whether the action should be extended to other units of the same device, other products of the same manufacturer or distributor, or to similar products of other manufacturers or distributors. 2. All of the devices of a particular lot, model, code, etc., FDA will classify the action as either one of the following: (a) Recall, if the action was undertaken to remedy a violation of the act caused by the device which may present a risk to health; or (b) safety alert, if the action was undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device and not to remedy a violation of the act caused by the device. IV. Records of Corrections and Removals Not Required To Be Reported Proposed §806.20(a) would require manufacturers, distributors, and importers who undertake a correction or removal of a device that is not required to be reported to FDA under proposed §806.10 to keep a record of such correction or removal. Under proposed §806.20(b), records of corrections and removals not required to be reported to FDA under proposed §806.10 must contain the following information: 1. The brand name, common or usual name, classification name and product code if known, and the intended use of the device. 2. The model, catalog, or code number of the device and the manufacturing lot or serial number of the device or other identification number. 3. A complete description of the event giving rise to the information reported and the corrective or removal action that has been, and is expected to be, taken. 4. Justification for not reporting the correction or removal action to FDA shall contain conclusions, any followups, and be reviewed and evaluated by a designated person. 5. A copy of all communications regarding the correction or removal. Under proposed §806.20(c), manufacturers, distributors, and importers must retain all records required under proposed §806.20 for a period of 2 years beyond the expected life of the device, even if the manufacturer or distributor has ceased to manufacture or distribute the device. Records required to be maintained under §806.20(c) must be transferred to the new owner of the device and maintained for the required period of time. V. FDA Access to Records and Reports Under proposed §806.30, manufacturers, distributors, and importers required to maintain records concerning corrections or removals and every person who is in charge or custody of such records must, upon request of an officer or employee designated by FDA and pursuant to section 704(e) of the act, permit such officer or employee at all reasonable times to have access to, and to copy and verify, such records and reports. VI. Public Availability of Reports Proposed §806.40 makes clear that any device correction or removal report submitted to FDA is available for public disclosure in accordance with the agency's public information regulations at part 20 (21 CFR part 20). Before public disclosure of a report, FDA will delete the following from the report in accordance with part 20: (1) Any information that constitutes trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information under §20.61; and (2) any personnel, medical, and similar information, including the serial numbers of implanted devices, which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy under §20.63; provided, that except for the information under §20.61, FDA will disclose to a patient who requests a report all the information in the report concerning that patient. VII. Enforcement Section 301 of the act (21 U.S.C. 331) sets forth prohibited acts. Persons who violate section 301 of the act may be restrained, under section 302 of the act (21 U.S.C. 332), or may be imprisoned or fined under section 303 of the act (21 U.S.C. 333). Violations of any final rule based on this proposed rule, which is issued under the authority of sections 502, 510, 519, 520, 701, and 704 of the act (21 U.S.C. 352, 360, 360i, 360j, 371, and 374), will result in committing one or more of the following violations of section 301 of the act: 1. Section 301(e) of the act, which prohibits, among other things, the failure to establish or maintain any record, or make any report, required under section 519 of the act or the refusal to permit officers or employees designated by FDA to have access to or verification or copying of any such required record.
