FR940106-0-00099 FR940106-0-00021 (vi) A description of the facility's efforts to recruit U.S. nurses during the same 12-month period. The documentation on numbers of nurses, maintained for the purposes of this paragraph (d)(3), shall be broken out by numbers of U.S. nurses, nurses admitted under H&hyph;1 visas, nurses admitted under H&hyph;1A visas, nurses admitted under other nonimmigrant visas, and other nurses. (e) The second attestation element: no adverse effect. The facility shall attest that ``the employment of the alien will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of registered nurses similarly employed.'' (1) Wages. To meet the requirement of no adverse effect on wages, the facility shall attest that it shall pay each nurse of the facility at least the prevailing wage for the occupation in the geographic area. The facility shall pay the higher of the wage required pursuant to this paragraph (e) or the wage required pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section ( i.e. , the third attestation element: facility wage). (i) State employment security determination. The facility does not independently determine the prevailing wage. The State employment security agency (SESA) shall determine the prevailing wage for similarly employed nurses in the geographic area in accordance with administrative guidelines or regulations issued by ETA. The facility shall request the appropriate prevailing wage from the SESA not more than 90 days prior to the date the attestation is submitted to ETA. Once a facility obtains a prevailing wage determination from the SESA and files an attestation supported by that prevailing wage determination, the facility shall be deemed to have accepted the prevailing wage determination as accurate and appropriate (both to the occupational classification and wage) and thereafter shall not contest the legitimacy of the prevailing wage determination in an investigation or enforcement action. A facility may challenge a SESA prevailing wage determination through the Employment Service complaint system. See 20 CFR part 658, Subpart E. A facility which challenges a SESA prevailing wage determination shall obtain in final ruling from the Employment Service prior to filing an attestation. Any such challenge shall not require the SESA to divulge any employer wage data which was collected under the promise of confidentiality. (ii) Collectively bargained wage rates. Where wage rates for nurses at a facility are the result of arms-length collective bargaining, those rates shall be considered ``prevailing'' for that facility for the purposes of this subpart. (iii) Total compensation package. The prevailing wage finding under this paragraph (e)(1) relates to wages only. However, each item in the total compensation package for U.S., H&hyph;1A, and other nurses employed by the facility shall be the same within a given facility, including such items as housing assistance and other perquisites. (iv) Documentation of pay and total compensation. The facility shall maintain documentation summarizing its pay schedule and compensation package for nurses. See ยง XXX .350(b). The summary shall cover each category of nursing position in which H&hyph;1A nurses are or will be hired or promoted into and each category of nursing position in which H&hyph;1A nurses (or nurses admitted on H&hyph;1 visas) have been hired or promoted into. Categories of nursing positions not covered by the documentation shall not be covered by the attestation, and, therefore, such positions shall not be filled or held by H&hyph;1A nurses. (2) Working conditions. To meet the requirement of no adverse effect on working conditions, the facility shall attest that it shall afford equal treatment to U.S. and H&hyph;1A nurses with the same seniority, with respect to such working conditions as the number and scheduling of hours worked (including shifts, straight days, weekends); vacations; wards and clinical rotations; and overall staffing-patient patterns.
