FR940318-0-00141 FR940318-0-00023 f. Cold storage warehouses. Cold storage warehouses are used to store meat, produce, dairy products and other perishable goods. The majority of cold storage warehouses in the United States use ammonia as the refrigerant in a vapor compression cycle. g. Refrigerated transport. Refrigerated transport moves products from one place and climatic condition to another, and include refrigerated ship holds, truck trailers, railway freight cars, and other shipping containers. Refrigerated transport systems are affected by a number of inherent complications not found with other refrigeration and air conditioning end-uses. In route, the refrigerated units may be subject to a broad range of ambient temperatures. Engine-driven transport units suffer power interruptions when either the unit or the vehicle is out of use for brief periods of time (e.g., loading and unloading and fuel stops). Refrigerated units are designed to provide the maximum amount of space available for containment of the product to be transported. Refrigerated transport equipment must be versatile to allow for the different temperature requirements for the different products (e.g., ice cream versus fresh produce) which may be transported. h. Retail Food Refrigeration. This end-use includes all cold storage cases designed to chill food for commercial sale. Equipment in this end-use is generally designed for two temperature regimes: Low temperature cases operating below freezing and medium temperature units merely chilling food. In addition to grocery cases, the end-use includes convenience store reach-in cases and restaurant walk-in refrigerators. Icemakers in these locations are discussed under commercial ice machines. i. Vending machines. Vending machines are self-contained units which dispense goods that must be kept cold or frozen. Like equipment in other end-uses, the choice of substitute will strongly depend on ambient conditions and the required operating temperature. j. Water coolers. Water coolers are also self-contained and provide chilled water for drinking. They may or may not feature detachable containers of water. k. Commercial ice machines. These units are used in commercial establishments to produce ice for consumer use, e.g., in hotels, restaurants, and convenience stores. Thus, the cleanliness of the ice is important. In addition, the machines are typically smaller in size than industrial equipment. Commercial ice machines are typically connected to a building's water supply. l. Household refrigerators. Household refrigerators are intended primarily for residential use, although they may be used outside the home. Approximately 159 million units exist in the U.S., where the average residential refrigerator is an 18.4 ft 3 automatic defrost unit with a top mounted freezer. Cooling is provided by a conventional single evaporator unit in a vapor compression cycle. The evaporator is located in the freezer compartment, and cooling to both compartments is typically achieved by mechanically driven air exchange between the compartments. m. Household freezers. Household freezers only offer storage space at freezing temperatures, unlike household refrigerators. Two model types, upright and chest, provide a wide range of sizes. n. Residential dehumidifiers. Residential dehumidifiers are primarily used to remove water vapor from ambient air for comfort purposes. While air conditioning systems often combine cooling and dehumidification, this application serves only the latter purpose. Since air is cooled as it flows over the evaporator, it loses moisture through condensation. It is then warmed as it passes over the condenser coil. Dehumidifiers actually slightly warm the surrounding air, since the compressor adds heat to the cycle. o. Motor vehicle air conditioning. Motor vehicle air conditioning systems (MVACS) provide comfort cooling for passengers in cars, buses, planes, trains, and other forms of transportation. MVACS pose risks related to widely varying ambient conditions, accidents, do-it-yourself maintenance, and the location of the evaporator inside the passenger compartment. Given the large number of cars in the nation's fleet, and the variety of designs, new substitutes must be used in accordance with established retrofit procedures. Flammability is a concern in all applications, but the conditions of use and the potential for accidents in this end-use increase the likelihood of a fire. In addition, the number of car owners who perform their own routine maintenance means that more people will be exposed to potential hazards. Current systems are not designed to use flammable refrigerants.
