FR940621-2-00029 FR940621-2-00019 Financial Assistance Award: Intent To Award a Cooperative Agreement to Florida State University AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of Non-Competitive Financial Assistance Award. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy announces that, pursuant to 10 CFR 600.6(a)(5), it is making a discretionary financial assistance award based on the criteria set forth at 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i)(A) to Florida State University under Cooperative Agreement Number DE&hyph;FC01&hyph;94EW54106. The subject Cooperative Agreement will be for a three-year project period and a total estimated amount of $750,000. Under this Cooperative Agreement the Center for Biomedical and Toxicological Research and Hazardous Waste Management at Florida State University will initiate a comprehensive program which will involve the identification and independent evaluation of (1) innovative technologies that are either currently being utilized in environmental remediation efforts conducted by, or in development by, Federal and State agencies, and private United States organizations; and (2) innovative technologies for environmental restoration which are under development abroad. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of Energy has determined, in accordance with 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i)(A), that a noncompetitive award to Florida State University is necessary for the satisfactory completion of, or continuation or renewal of, an activity presently being funded by the Department of Energy or another Federal agency, and for which competition for support would have a significant adverse effect on continuity or completion of the activity. Florida State University has been involved in a cooperative research and development program with the United States Environmental Protection Agency that focused on hazardous waste characterization and monitoring of RCRA hazardous waste sites. In addition, Florida State University has been under an agreement with Sandia National Laboratories to develop a prototype model for enhancing the technology transfer process, particularly with reference to environmental technology development in Central and Eastern Europe. The above studies are ongoing, with large research staffs already in place and working; any attempt to compete support for these studies would result in a significant disruption of the studies. The proposed cooperative agreement will allow these efforts to continue unimpeded, and hence realize the maximum public benefit. The Florida State Center for Biomedical and Toxicological Research and Hazardous Waste Management has the extensive experience necessary to enhance the technology transfer, both import and export, of innovative and emerging technologies dealing with site characterization, remediation, monitoring and waste management, thereby forging linkages for all affected stakeholder groups. The Department of Energy has determined in accordance with 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i)(A), that the award of this non-competitive Cooperative Agreement to Florida State University is in the public interest. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Please write the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Placement and Administration, Attn: Michael Whisler, HR&hyph;531.24, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585. The anticipated term of the proposed cooperative agreement is 36 months from award date. Linda Strand, Acting Director, Headquarters Operations Division B, Office of Placement and Administration . [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15051 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
