FR941205-2-00037 FR941205-2-00030 •To reinstate incorrectly or incompletely reported earnings items; •To record the latest employer of a wage earner; •For statistical studies; •For identification of possible overpayments of benefits; •For identification of individuals entitled to additional benefits; •To provide information to employers/former employers for correcting or reconstructing earnings records and for Social Security tax purposes; •To provide workers and self-employed individuals with earnings statements or quarters of coverage statements; •To provide information to Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of Inspector General for auditing benefit payments under Social Security programs; •To provide information to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health for epidemiological research studies required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1974; •To assist the Social Security Administration (SSA) in responding to general inquiries about Social Security, including earnings or adjustments to earnings, and in preparing responses to subsequent inquiries; •To store minister waivers, thus preventing erroneous payment of Social Security benefits; and •To make assignments of responsibility for paying premiums and to perform other functions under the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Disclosure may be made for routine uses as indicated below: 1. To employers or former employers, including State Social Security administrators, for correcting and reconstructing State employee earnings records and for Social Security purposes. 2. To the Department of the Treasury for: (a) Investigating the alleged forgery, or unlawful negotiation of Social Security checks; and (b) Tax administration as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). 3. To the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB) for administering provisions of the Railroad Retirement and Social Security Acts relating to railroad employment. 4. To the Department of Justice (DOJ) (Federal Bureau of Investigation and United States Attorneys) for investigating and prosecuting violations of the Act. 5. To a contractor for the purpose of collating, evaluating, analyzing, aggregating or otherwise refining records when the SSA contracts with a private firm. (The contractor shall be required to maintain Privacy Act safeguards with respect to such records.) 6. To the Department of Energy for its study of low-level radiation exposure.
