FR940722-1-00018 FR940722-1-00006 (B) T has complied fully with T's obligations under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) of this section. (iii)(A)( 1 ) Same facts as paragraph (ii) of this Example 2 , except that G owned the B stock and contributed it to the trust on January 1, 1995. On or before the date specified in section 6034A(a), T furnishes a statement to G which lists the following items of income and information necessary for G to take the items into account in computing G's taxable income: Interest $2,500 Dividends 3,205 Information regarding sale of B stock: Proceeds $2,000 Date sold 11/30/95 ( 2 ) In addition, the statement furnished to G states that all items of income or gross proceeds that T is required to report to the Internal Revenue Service are included on the statement. (B) T has complied fully with T's obligations under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) of this section. (2) A trust all of which is treated as owned by two or more grantors or other persons _(i) In general. In the case of a trust all of which is treated as owned by two or more grantors or other persons, the trustee reporting under this paragraph must furnish the name, TIN, and address of the trust to all payors of income and proceeds during the taxable year, and comply with the additional requirements described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. (ii) Additional obligations of trustee _(A) Obligation to file Forms 1099. The trustee must file with the Internal Revenue Service the appropriate Forms 1099, reporting the income or gross proceeds paid to the trust during the taxable year attributable to the portion of the trust treated as owned by each grantor or other person, and showing the trust as the payor and each grantor or other person as a payee. The trustee has the same obligations for filing the appropriate Forms 1099 as would a payor making reportable payments directly to the grantor or other person, except that the trustee must report each type of income in the aggregate, and each item of gross proceeds separately. (B) Obligation to furnish statement. ( 1 ) The trustee must also furnish to each grantor or other person a statement that_ ( i ) Shows all items of income, deduction, and credit of the trust for the taxable year attributable to the portion of the trust treated as owned by the grantor or other person; ( ii ) Provides the grantor or other person with the information necessary to take the items into account in computing the grantor's or other person's taxable income; and ( iii ) States that all items of income or gross proceeds that the trustee is required to report to the Internal Revenue Service on Form 1099 have been included on the statement. ( 2 ) By furnishing the statement, the trustee is treated as having satisfied any obligation to furnish statements to recipients with respect to the Forms 1099 filed by the trustee.
