FR940805-1-00095 FR940805-1-00013 (8) Use of vehicles. The administrator shall govern the use of departmental and personal vehicles for official purposes and shall prohibit the use of personal vehicles for transportation of residents. (9) Shift activity log. The facility shall maintain a written record of the following: (i) personnel on duty; (ii) resident population at the beginning and end of each shift; (iii) record of counts taken; (iv) shift activities; and (v) unusual occurrences or incidents. (10) Weekly inspection. The administrator or designee shall inspect all facility spaces and equipment at least weekly, to determine the status of all security items and the sanitary condition of the facility. The administrator or designee shall document the inspection and initiate corrective action if needed. (11) Monthly inspection. The administrator shall inspect all areas of the facility at least monthly to determine the status of all safety items, determine the sanitary condition of the facility, document the inspection and initiate corrective action if needed. (12) Fire safety inspection. A qualified fire protection specialist shall inspect the facility to test the fire suppression and detection system, equipment and facility training in compliance with 29 CFR 1910.36(d), 1910.37(m), 1910.37(n), 1910.38, and 29 CFR 1960, Subpart D. (13) Use of restraints. Staff shall use instruments of restraint are only used as a precaution against escape during transfer. Staff shall use restraints during transfer only with the approval of the administrator or designee and only for the amount of time that is absolutely necessary. (14) Contraband control. The administrator shall provide for searches of facilities and residents to control contraband and to provide for its disposition. When a new crime is suspected, the administrator shall be notified. The administrator shall maintain and make available to the appropriate authorities all evidence. (15) Visual inspections. Trained staff shall conduct visual inspections of unclothed residents only when there is a reasonable belief that the resident is carrying contraband or other prohibited material or at the time of admission if the resident is admitted from the community. Trained staff of the same sex as the resident shall conduct all visual inspections in private. (16) Key and tool control. The administrator shall govern the control, issuance, use and storage of keys, tools and culinary and medical equipment. (17) Use of force and firearms. The facility shall comply with 25 CFR 11.304 with regard to the use of force, firearms, chemical agents, or any other weapon. The administrator shall prohibit the presence of firearms of any kind within the facility or on its grounds. (b) Safety and emergency procedures _(1) Fire prevention. The administrator shall govern the storage and use of all flammable, toxic and caustic materials, the use of non-combustible receptacles for smoking materials, the amount of personal items, including reading materials, which residents may keep in their living units and the amount and location of items stored in the facility. (2) Preventive maintenance. The administrator or designee shall develop a written plan for preventive maintenance of the facility. The administrator shall review the plan annually and update it as needed. If tribally operated, the plan shall be supported by a Memorandum of Agreement between the tribe and the Agency. (3) Evacuation plan. The administrator shall develop a written evacuation plan prepared in case of fire or major emergency. The plan shall comply with 29 CFR 1910.38 or comparable tribal code. The applicable Safety Officer or designee shall review and approve the plan initially and annually. The administrator shall update and reissue the plan if necessary. The plan shall include: (i) location of floor plans; (ii) use of exit signs and directional arrows for traffic flow; (iii) location of a publicly posted plan; (iv) at least quarterly drills in all facility locations; and (v) coordination with the fire department which services the facility. (4) Emergency plans. The administrator or designee shall develop written plans that specify procedures to be followed in emergency situations. The administrator shall make these plans available to applicable personnel and shall review and update them at least annually. All facility personnel shall be trained in the implementation of these plans. Emergency situations shall include, but not be limited to: (i) riots and disturbances; (ii) hunger strikes; (iii) hostage situations; (iv) work stoppages; (v) unattended deaths, including successful suicides; (vi) attempted suicides; (vii) escapes and unauthorized absences; and (viii) other threats to the security of the facility. (5) Incident reporting. The administrator shall require the immediate reporting of all incidents that result in physical harm to any person, threaten the safety of any person, result in the need for emergency care, result in damage to the facility or facility property, threaten the security of the facility, or involve the commission of a criminal offense. The administrator shall forward the reports to the Agency Superintendent through the appropriate chain of command. (6) Medical treatment (incident). The administrator or designee shall ensure that all persons injured in an incident receive an immediate medical examination and treatment. (7) Notification of family. The administrator shall provide for the notification of persons designated by the resident in the event of serious illness, injury or death. (c) Rules and discipline _(1) Rules of conduct. The administrator shall develop written rules of resident conduct that specify acts prohibited within the facility and penalties that may be imposed for various degrees of violations. The administrator or designee shall provide these to all residents and shall ensure that all residents understand them. All personnel who deal with residents shall receive sufficient training prior to working in the facility to be thoroughly familiar with the rules of resident conduct, the sanctions available and the rationale for the rules. The administrator shall review the written rules of resident conduct annually and update them, if necessary, to ensure that they are consistent with constitutional and legal principles as well as BIA and tribal standards and codes. (2) Minor infractions. The administrator shall provide guidelines for the informal resolution of minor resident misbehavior. (3) Grievance procedure. The administrator or designee shall make a written grievance procedure available to all residents. The procedure shall include at least one level of appeal. (4) Criminal violations. In instances in which a resident is alleged to have committed a crime, the administrator or designee shall refer the case to the appropriate law enforcement officials for possible prosecution. (5) Disciplinary reports. When rule violations require formal resolution, staff members shall prepare a disciplinary report and forward it to the administrator or designee. The disciplinary report shall include, but is not limited to: (i) specific rules violated; (ii) a formal statement of the charge(s); (iii) an explanation of the event, which shall include who was involved, what transpired and the time and location of the occurrence; (iv) unusual resident behavior; (v) staff witnesses; (vi) disposition of any physical evidence; (vii) any immediate action taken, including the use of force; and (viii) reporting staff member's signature; and (ix) date and time the report is made. (6) Disciplinary process. Residents shall receive notification of the rules violated, a formal statement of the charge, a description of the incident and notice of the date and time of hearing. The administrator or designee shall advise residents of their rights to be present at the hearing, to call witnesses on their behalf, to make a statement, to present documentary evidence, and to ask for assistance from staff in representing them at the hearing. An impartial person or panel of persons shall conduct the hearing.
