FR941202-2-00220 FR941202-2-00099 (12) Provide support for at least 10 graduate students annually to assist with the provision of technical assistance with an emphasis on recruiting students from traditionally underrepresented populations. Selection Criteria for Evaluating Applications Under the Accessing School-to-Work and Postsecondary Environments_A Technical Assistance Effort competition, the Secretary proposes to use the following selection criteria. These criteria were taken from 34 CFR 380.11 (a)&hyph;(e) and 380.13 (f) and (g). (a) Plan of Operation. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan of operation for the project, including_ (1) The extent to which the plan of management is effective and ensures proper and efficient administration of the project; and (2) How the applicant will ensure that project participants who are otherwise eligible to participate are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or handicapping condition. (b) Quality of key personnel. (15 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project, including_ (i) The qualifications of the project director (if one is to be used); (ii) The qualifications of each of the other key personnel to be used in the project; (iii) The time that each person referred to in paragraph (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section will commit to the project; and (iv) How the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, will ensure that its personnel are selected for employment without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or handicapping condition. (2) To determine personnel qualifications under paragraph (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section, the Secretary considers_ (i) Experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the project; and (ii) Any other qualifications that pertain to the quality of the project. (c) Budget and cost-effectiveness. (5 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which_ (1) The budget is adequate to support the project; and (2) Costs are reasonable in relation to the objectives of the project. (d) Evaluation plan. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the evaluation plan for the project, including the extent to which the applicant's methods of evaluation_ (1) Are appropriate to the project; and (2) To the extent possible, are objective and produce data that are quantifiable. (e) Adequacy of resources. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the adequacy of the resources that the applicant plans to devote to the project, including facilities, equipment, and supplies. (f) Evidence of need. (10 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application to assess whether the need for the proposed technical assistance has been adequately justified. (2) The Secretary determines the extent to which the application_ (i) Describes the technical assistance needs to be addressed by the project; (ii) Describes how the applicant identified those needs; (iii) Describes how those needs will be met by the project; and (iv) Describes the benefits to be gained by meeting those needs. (g) Project design. (40 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application to evaluate the quality of the proposed technical assistance project design. (2) The Secretary determines the extent to which_ (i) The technical assistance objectives are designed to meet the identified needs and are clearly defined, measurable, and achievable;
