FR940606-2-00084 FR940606-2-00058 C. Calculation of the Index Like the S&P 500 Index, the Indexes will be capitalization-weighted, and the methodology used to calculate their value is identical to the methodology used to calculate the value of the S&P 500 Index. The level of each Index is calculated as follows: SE:GRAPHICSEN06JN94.001 The numeric value of each Index was established at 10 as of the close of the market on December 31, 1974. The Indexes are calculated continuously by S&P or its designee, and their values will be disseminated by the Options Price Reporting Authority (``OPRA'') no less often than every fifteen seconds. S&P will also calculate the exercise settlement value for each expiring series of Value Index options and Growth Index options, and will make these values available to CBOE for use by the Options Clearing Corporation (``OCC'') in effecting settlement of exercises and assignments of the options. The values of the Indexes, for purposes of settling outstanding options on the Growth and Value Indexes upon expiration, will be calculated based upon the regular way opening sale prices for each of the Indexes' component stocks on the last trading day prior to expiration. 5 Once all of the component stocks have opened, the value of each Index will be determined and that value will be used as the final settlement value for expiring options contracts on that Index. If any of the component stocks do not open for trading on the last trading day before expiration, then the last reported sale price of such security will be used in any case where that security does not trade on that day. 6 5 See CBOE Rule 24.9(a)(4). 6 Id. D. Contract Specifications The proposed options on the Indexes will be cash-settled, European-style options. 7 Standard options trading hours (9:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. New York time) will apply to the contracts. The multiplier for each Index will be 100. The strike price interval will be $2.50 for Index options with strike prices of less than $200. 8 The Exchange intends to list up to three near-term calendar months and three additional calendar months at three month intervals. 9 As described in more detail below, the Exchange also intends to list Index LEAPS on each Index that will expire 12 to 36 months from the date of their issuance. 7 A European-style option can be exercised only during a specified period before the option expires. 8 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 9 See CBOE Rule 24.9(a)(2). Options on each Index (including full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS) will expire on the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month (``Expiration Friday''). Because options on the Indexes will settle based upon the opening prices of the component stocks on the last trading day before expiration (normally a Friday), the last trading day for an expiring Index option series will normally be the second to the last business day before expiration (normally a Thursday). 10 10 See supra notes 5 and 6. E. Listing of Long-Term Options on the Full-Value or Reduced-Value Growth and Value Indexes The Exchange may list Index LEAPS on the Growth and Value Indexes that expire 12 to 36 months from date of issuance on either the full-value of the Growth and Value Indexes or reduced-values of the Indexes that will be computed at one-tenth the value of the full-value Indexes. 11 The current and closing values for reduced-value Index LEAPS on the Indexes will be computed by dividing the value of the full-value Index by 10 and rounding the resulting figure to the nearest one-hundredth. For example, a Growth Index value of 60.54 would be 6.05 for the Growth Index LEAPS and 60.56 would become 6.06. The reduced-value Index LEAPS on the Indexes will have a European-style exercise and will be subject to the same rules that govern the trading of all the Exchange's index options, including sales practice rules, margin requirements and floor trading procedures. The strike price interval for the reduced-value Index LEAPS will be no less than $2.50. 12 11 See CBOE Rule 24.9(b). 12 Id.
