FR940527-0-00157 FR940527-0-00028 (d) For purposes of the Small Business Act, no determination of affiliation or control (either direct or indirect) may be found between a protege firm and its mentor firm on the basis that the mentor firm has agreed to furnish (or has furnished) to its protege firm pursuant to a mentor-protege agreement any form of developmental assistance described in paragraph I&hyph;107(f). (e) If at any time pursuant to paragraph I&hyph;105(c), the protege firm is determined by the SBA not to be a small disadvantaged business concern, assistance furnished such business concern by the mentor firm after the date of the determination, may not be considered assistance furnished under the program. I&hyph;106 Approval process for companies to participate in the Program as mentor firms. (a) On or after October 1, 1991, a company that is interested in becoming a mentor firm that is seeking credit only against SDB subcontracting goals for costs incurred under the Program, or reimbursement of developmental assistance costs via inclusion of program costs in indirect expense pools and credit for such costs, must submit a request to the DoD, OUSD(A&T)SADBU to be approved as a mentor firm under the Program. The request will be evaluated on the extent to which the company's proposal addresses the items listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. To the maximum extent possible, the request should be limited to not more than 10 pages, single spaced. A company may identify more than one protege in its request for approval under the Program. The information required in paragraphs I&hyph;106(b) and (c) must be submitted to be considered for approval as a mentor firm, and may cover one or more proposed mentor-protege relationships. (b) A company must indicate whether it is interested in participating in the Program pursuant to paragraph I&hyph;100(d), (2), (3), or (4), and submit the following information: (1) A statement that the company is currently performing under at least one active approved subcontracting plan negotiated with DoD or another Federal agency pursuant to FAR 19.702, and that the company is currently eligible for the award of Federal contracts. (2) The number of proposed mentor-protege relationships covered by the request for approval as a mentor firm. (3) A summary of the company's historical and recent activities and accomplishments under their SDB program. (4) The total dollar amount of DoD contracts and subcontracts received by the company during the two preceding fiscal years (show prime contracts and subcontracts separately per year). (5) The total dollar amount of all other federal agency contracts and subcontracts received by the company during the two preceding fiscal years (show prime contracts and subcontracts separately per year). (6) The total dollar amount of subcontracts awarded by the company under DoD contracts during the two preceding fiscal years. (7) The total dollar amount of subcontracts awarded by the company under all other Federal agency contracts during the two preceding fiscal years. (8) The total dollar amount and percentage of subcontract awards made to all SDB firms under DoD contracts and other Federal agency contracts during the two preceding fiscal years (show DoD separately). If presently required to submit a SF 295, provide copies of the two preceding years end reports. (9) The number and total dollar amount of subcontract awards made to the identified protege firm(s) during the two preceding fiscal years (if any). Show DoD subcontract awards and other Federal agency subcontract awards separately. (c) In addition to the information required in paragraph I&hyph;106(b), companies must submit the following information for each proposed mentor-protege relationship: (1) Information on the company's ability to provide developmental assistance to the identified protege firm and how that assistance will potentially increase subcontracting opportunities in industry categories where SDBs are not dominant in the company's vendor base. (2) A letter of intent indicating that both the mentor firm and the protege firm will negotiate a mentor-protege agreement. The letter of intent must be signed by both parties and contain the following information:
