FR940207-1-00005 FR940207-1-00001 (ii) Admission and extension of stay. NATO&hyph;1 through NATO&hyph;5 aliens are normally exempt from inspection under 8 CFR 235.1(c). NATO&hyph;6 aliens may be authorized admission for duration of status. Aliens classified as NATO&hyph;7 may be admitted for not more than three years and may be granted extensions of temporary stay in increments of not more than two years. In addition, an application for extension of temporary stay for a NATO&hyph;7 alien must be accompanied by a statement signed by the employing official stating that he or she intends to continue to employ the NATO&hyph;7 applicant and describing the work the applicant will perform. (2) Definition of a dependent of a NATO&hyph;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. For purposes of employment in the United States, the term dependent of a NATO&hyph;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 principal alien, as used in this paragraph, means any of the following immediate members of the family habitually residing in the same household as the NATO&hyph;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States: (i) Spouse; (ii) Unmarried children under the age of 21; (iii) Unmarried sons or daughters under the age of 23 who are in full-time attendance as students at post-secondary educational institutions; (iv) Unmarried sons or daughters under the age of 25 who are in full-time attendance as students at post-secondary educational institutions if a formal bilateral employment agreement permitting their employment in the United States was signed prior to November 21, 1988, and such bilateral employment agreement does not specify age 23 as the maximum age for employment of such sons and daughters. The Department of State advises that bilateral agreements with Canada, Denmark, Norway, and France fit this classification with respect to dependents of members of the force and members of the civilian component thereof; (v) Unmarried sons or daughters who are physically or mentally disabled to the extent that they cannot adequately care for themselves or cannot establish, maintain, or re-establish their own households. The Service may require medical certification(s) as it deems necessary to document such mental or physical disability. (3) Dependent employment requirements based on formal bilateral employment agreements and informal de facto reciprocal arrangements_ (i) Formal bilateral employment agreements. The Department of State's Family Liaison Office shall maintain a listing of NATO member states which have entered into formal bilateral employment agreements that include NATO personnel. A dependent of a NATO&hyph;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may accept, or continue in, unrestricted employment based on such formal bilateral agreements upon favorable recommendation by SACLANT or the Department of Defense, pursuant to paragraph (s)(5)(i)(H) of this section, and issuance of employment authorization documentation by the Service in accordance with 8 CFR part 274a. The application procedures are set forth in paragraph (s)(5) of this section. (ii) Informal de facto reciprocal arrangements. For purposes of this section, an informal de facto reciprocal arrangement exists when the Department of Defense [the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Foreign Military Rights Affairs (OSD/FMRA)] certifies, with the Department of State concurrence, that a NATO member state allows appropriate employment in the local economy for dependents of members of the force and members of the civilian component of the United States assigned to duty in the NATO member state. OSD/FMRA and the Department of State's Family Liaison Office shall maintain a listing of countries with which such reciprocity exists. Dependents of a NATO&hyph;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may be authorized to accept, or continue in, employment based upon informal de facto arrangements upon favorable recommendation by SACLANT or the Department of Defense, pursuant to paragraph (s)(5)(i)(H) of this section, and issuance of employment authorization by the Service in accordance with 8 CFR part 274a. Additionally, the application procedures set forth in paragraph (s)(5) of this section must be complied with, and the following conditions must be met: (A) Both the principal alien and the dependent requesting employment are maintaining NATO&hyph;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 status, as appropriate; (B) The principal alien's total length of assignment in the United States is expected to last more than six months;
