FR940404-2-00179 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Working Party on Migration, 16th Session, Employment, Labor and Social Affairs Committee (ELSA), Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris, June 23&hyph;25, 1993 Representative Roger Kramer, Acting Director, Division of Immigration Policy and Research, Department of Labor Alternate Representative Douglas R. Hunter, Director, Office of Multilateral Organizations and Migration Policy, Bureau of Refugee Programs, Department of State Private Sector Adviser Demetrios Papademetriou, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, District of Columbia United States Delegation to the International Copper Study Group (ICSG), First General Session, Lisbon, June 23&hyph;29, 1993 Representative Robert C. Reiley, Director, Office of Materials, Machinery, and Chemicals, Department of Commerce Alternate Representatives Barbara Males, Copper Industry Specialist, Department of Commerce Robert J. McSwain, International Economist, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Advisers V. Anthony Cammarota, Jr., Senior Technical Adviser, Bureau of Mines, Department of the Interior Nina Fite, Economic Officer, United States Embassy, Lisbon Private Sector Advisers Ivan Jeffrey, President, Crescent Brass Company, Reading, Pennsylvania Virgil J. Marino, Executive Vice President, Ullrich Copper, Inc., Kenilworth, New Jersey Arthur R. Meile, President, Phelps Dodge Sales, Phelps Dodge Corporation, Phoenix, Arizona David B. Morris, Manager, Market Research, Kennecott Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah Robert M. Payne, President, Copper Development Association, New York, New York Bernard Schilberg, Schilberg Iron and Metal Company, Willimantic, Connecticut David Serls, President, Colonial Metals Company, Columbia, Pennsylvania Allan B. Silber, Chairman, Recyclers of Copper Alloy Products, Nashua, New Hampshire United State Delegation to Non-Debt-Creating Finance for Development: New Mechanisms for Increasing Investment and Financial Flows, Second Session, Ad Hoc Working Group on Investment and Financial Flaws, Trade and Development Board, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Geneva, June 28&hyph;July 2, 1993 Representative Raymond G. McGrath, Office of Investment Affairs, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Adviser Robert Konrath, Economics Officer, United States Mission, Geneva Private Sector Adviser John Charlton, Managing Director, Chase Manhattan Bank, New York
