FR940603-0-00157 FR940603-0-00029 Appendix E_Use of Outside Agents to Solicit Field of Membership Amendments and Members Purpose This appendix addresses the National Credit Union Administration's (NCUA) experience with credit unions and arrangements whereby agents outside the organization of the credit union solicit credit union membership in conjunction with the sale of products or services. This section also provides guidelines for these arrangements. While these guidelines are not mandated by federal law or regulation, they do represent what the NCUA considers to be safe and sound policies and procedures to protect the credit union's assets. Since state laws vary, the guidance may not address every area. Thus, each credit union considering such ventures should obtain a written legal opinion from its counsel, as well as financial counseling from its normal sources. Background As credit unions continue to grow and expand their fields of membership to select groups, there has been an increased interest by vendors in mutually beneficial relationships. These business dealings involve the vendor selling services or products and may also include the credit union's financing the sale of items. Generally, such arrangements operate as follows: •The vendor contacts select group sponsors providing information on the credit union and the insurance or other product to be offered. Alternatively, credit unions may initiate relationships, typically with an automobile dealer, to finance autos. This is commonly called ``indirect lending''. •The vendor assists the sponsor in requesting inclusion in the credit union's field of membership. With an indirect lending arrangement, the vendor may have the purchaser prepare a membership application and promptly submits the application, usually by a fax, to the credit union. •After the field of membership amendment is approved by NCUA or the state regulator, the vendor arranges to meet with employees. In the case of individual membership applications, approval or denial by the credit union's membership officer is required prior to consideration of lending activity. Under no circumstances may a credit union provide membership services conditioned upon subsequent action approving membership. •The vendor represents the credit union to the employees and enrolls them into membership in accordance with appropriate laws, regulations, and bylaws. •The vendor explains the products or services being marketed and enrolls the employee in a program or plan. In the case of insurance plans, policies are typically paid by periodic installments, and frequently in one lump sum. •The vendor arranges for payroll deductions to the credit union. If the employee has an insurance policy or some other plan with periodic installments, generally, the credit union's deduction is increased and arrangements are made for the credit union to forward the appropriate amount to the vendor's company. These arrangements have been beneficial to some credit unions and vendors. The credit union receives a service_solicitation of members_free of charge. Membership increases and the credit union grows. The vendor has a marketing tool to complement its marketing program. Additionally, in the case of insurance vendors, if the credit union distributes the premiums or other payments directly to the vendor's company, the vendor's paperwork is greatly reduced. Safety and Soundness Issues NCUA's experience in these arrangements has shown that potential risk to the credit union exists unless prior planning and internal controls are in place. NCUA has liquidated or taken administrative action in a number of credit unions in recent years when these controls were absent. Some unsafe and unsound practices are described below:
