FR940506-2-00087 FR940506-2-00053 Food and Drug Administration [Docket No. 94N&hyph;0118] Preamendments Class III Devices; Strategy Document; Availability AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is making available a document that sets forth the agency's strategy for implementing the provisions of the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990 (the SMDA) which require FDA to review the classification of certain class III (premarket approval) devices, and either reclassify the devices into class I (general controls) or class II (special controls) or retain them in class III. The statute also requires FDA to establish a schedule for requiring the submission of premarket approval applications (PMA's) for those devices retained in class III. DATES: Written comments by August 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit written requests for single copies of the strategy document to the Division of Small Manufacturers Assistance (HFZ&hyph;200), Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Send two self-addressed adhesive labels to assist that office in processing your requests. Submit written comments on the strategy document to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857. Requests and comments should be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. The strategy document and received comments are available for public examination in the Dockets Management Branch (address above) between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joseph M. Sheehan, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;84), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;594&hyph;4765, ext. 157. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 513 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) (21 U.S.C. 360c) requires the classification of medical devices into one of three regulatory classes: Class I (general controls), class II (special controls), and class III (premarket approval). Generally, devices that were on the market before May 28, 1976, the date of enactment of the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 (the amendments) (Pub. L. 94&hyph;295), and devices marketed on or after that date that are substantially equivalent to such devices, have been classified by FDA. This notice refers to both the devices that were on the market before May 28, 1976, and the substantially equivalent devices that were marketed on or after that date, as ``preamendments devices.'' Section 515(b)(1) of the act (21 U.S.C. 360e(b)(1)) establishes the requirement that a preamendments device that FDA has classified into class III is subject to premarket approval. However, submission of a PMA, or a notice of completion of a product development protocol (PDP), is not required until 90 days after FDA promulgates a final rule requiring premarket approval for the device, or 30 months after final classification of the device, whichever is later. Similarly, a preamendments device is not required to have an approved investigational device exemption (IDE) (21 CFR part 812) contemporaneous with its interstate distribution until the date identified by FDA in the final rule requiring submission of a PMA for the device. To date, FDA has issued eight final rules requiring submission of PMA's for preamendments class III devices. Nine additional proposed rules have been issued. The SMDA (Pub. L. 101&hyph;629) added new section 515(i) to the act (21 U.S.C. 360e(i)). This section requires FDA to order manufacturers of class III preamendments devices for which no final rule has been issued requiring the submission of PMA's to submit to FDA a summary of, and citation to, any information known or otherwise available to the manufacturer respecting such devices, including adverse safety and effectiveness information that has not been submitted under section 519 of the act (21 U.S.C. 360i). Section 515(i) of the act further directs FDA to publish a regulation before December 1, 1995, for each device subject to section 515(i) either revising the classification of the device into class I or class II or retaining the device in class III. Within 12 months after publication of a regulation retaining a device in class III, the statute requires FDA to establish a schedule for the promulgation of a rule requiring the submission of PMA's for the device. However, the SMDA does not prevent FDA from proceeding immediately to rulemaking under section 515(b) of the act on specific devices, in the interest of public health, independent of the procedure in section 515(i) of the act. Since enactment of the SMDA, FDA has issued proposed rules to require the submission of PMA's for five devices: Silicone inflatable saline filled breast prostheses; penile implants; testicular implants; nonroller cardiovascular blood pumps; and cranial electrotherapy stimulators. FDA is now announcing the availability of a document outlining its plans for either revising the classification, or requiring the submission of PMA's for the remaining preamendments class III devices. FDA has divided this universe of devices into three groups: 1. Group 3 devices are devices that FDA believes are currently in commercial distribution and are not likely candidates for reclassification. FDA will require the submission of PMA's for these devices in the near future. FDA intends to issue proposed rules to require the submission of PMA's for the 15 highest priority devices in this group in phases over the next 3 years. In accordance with the procedures in section 515(b) of the act, manufacturers will have an opportunity to petition for reclassification of these devices by submitting a reclassification petition within 15 days of publication of the proposed rule to require submission of PMA's. Manufacturers who wish to petition for reclassification should begin preparing petitions for reclassification as soon as possible. FDA will initiate the 515(i) process for the remaining Group 3 devices. 2. Group 2 devices are devices that FDA believes have a high potential for being reclassified into class II. For these devices, FDA intends to issue an order under section 515(i) of the act requiring manufacturers to submit a summary of, and citation to, any information respecting these devices. A manufacturer who wishes to have one of these devices reclassified will be required to submit information to support reclassification of the device. 3. Group 1 devices are devices that FDA believes raise significant questions of safety and/or effectiveness but are no longer used or are very limited in use. FDA believes that, for these devices, rulemaking under section 515(b) of the act will not result in viable PMA's or reclassification petitions. FDA intends to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to require the submission of PMA's for this group of devices. FDA will review any information received in response to the proposed rule to determine whether to issue a final rule requiring the submission of PMA's. The strategy document lists the devices by categories in each of these groups. It also describes in more detail FDA's plans for implementing these procedures. FDA believes that the procedures set forth in this strategy document are consistent with the congressional intent in enacting section 515(i) of the act. The Senate report makes clear the need to require submission of PMA's as soon as possible for those devices that are to remain in class III. (See S. Rept. 513, 101st Cong., 2d sess. 18 (1990)). Furthermore, the House of Representatives Report of the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990 stated: In formulating these schedules [for requiring the submission of a PMA], the FDA should take into account its priorities and limited resources, together with the Committee's intention that the evaluation process be expeditious. (See H. Rept. 808, 101st Cong., 2d sess. 26 (1990)). Interested persons may, on or before July 9, 1994, submit to the Dockets Management Branch (address above) written comments regarding this strategy document. Two copies of any comments are to be submitted, except that individuals may submit one copy. Comments are to be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. The strategy document and received comments may be seen in the office above between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Dated: May 3, 1994. Michael R. Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10998 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
