FR940317-1-00089 FR940317-1-00013 (d) ``Line of duty'' determinations under AR 600&hyph;8&hyph;1 are not determinative of scope of employment. ``Joint venture'' situations are likely to be frequent where the Federal employee is performing federally assigned duties but is under actual direction and control of a non-Federal entity; for example, a Federal employee in training at a non-Federal entity or ROTC instructors at civilian institutions. This could also occur where the employee is working for another Federal agency. Furthermore, dual purpose situations are commonplace where benefits to the Government and the member or employee may or may not be concurrent; for example, use of privately owned vehicles at or away from assigned duty station, or permanent change of station with delay en route. (See subpart E for the handling of certain claims arising out of nonscope activities of members of the Army.) §536.72 Law applicable. The whole law of the place where the act or omission occurred, including choice of law rules, will be applied in the determining liability and quantum. Where there is a conflict between the local law and an express provision of the FTCA, the latter governs. §536.73 Subrogation. Claims involving subrogation will be processed as prescribed in §536.20(b) except where that section is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or the Attorney General's regulations. §536.74 Indemnity or contribution. (a) Sought by the United States. It is the policy of the Department of Justice that, if the claim arises under circumstances in which the Government is entitled to contribution or indemnity under a contract of insurance or the applicable law governing joint tortfeasors, the third party will be notified of the claim and will be requested to honor its obligation to the United States or to accept its share of joint liability. (See §§536.28 and 536.29.) If the issue of indemnity or contribution is not satisfactorily adjusted, the claim will be compromised or settled only after consultation with the Department of Justice as provided in §536.75(s). (b) Claims for indemnity or contribution. Claims for indemnity or contribution from the United States will be compromised or settled under this chapter, if liability exists under the applicable law, provided the incident giving rise to such claim is otherwise cognizable under this chapter. As to such claims where the exclusivity provisions of the FECA may be applicable, see §536.75(s). (c) ARNG vehicular claims. (1) When a vehicle used by the ARNG, or a POV operated by a member or employee of the ARNG, is involved in an incident under circumstances that make this chapter applicable to the disposition of administrative claims against the United States and results in personal injury, death, or property damage, and a remedy against the State, or its insurer is indicated, the responsible area claims authority will monitor the action against the State or its insurer and encourage direct settlement between the claimant and the State or its insurer. (2) Where the State is insured, direct contact with State or ARNG officials rather than the insurer is desirable. Regular procedures will be established and followed wherever possible. Such procedures should be agreed on by both local authorities and the appropriate claims authorities subject to concurrence by Commander, USARCS. Such procedures will be designed to ensure that local authorities and U.S. authorities do not issue conflicting instructions for processing claims and, whenever possible and in accordance with governing local and Federal law, a mutual arrangement for disposition of such claims as in paragraph (d) of this section is worked out. (3) Amounts recovered or recoverable by claimant from any insurer (other than claimant's insurer who has obtained no subrogated interest against the United States) will be deducted from the amount otherwise payable. (d) Claims arising out of training activities of NG personnel. Contribution may be sought from the State involved where it has waived sovereign immunity or has private insurance that would cover the incident giving rise to the particular claim. Where the State involved rejects the request for contribution, the file will be forwarded to the Commander, USARCS. The Commander, USARCS, is authorized to enter into an agreement with a State, territory, or commonwealth to share settlement costs of claims generated by the ARNG personnel or activities of that political entity. §536.75 Claims not payable. Exclusions listed in paragraphs (a) through (l) of this section are based upon the wording of 28 U.S.C. 2680. The remainder are based either on statute or court decisions. The interpretation of these exclusions is a Federal question to be decided under Federal law; for example, the tort of assault and battery listed in 28 U.S.C. 2680(h) should be interpreted in accordance with Federal common law principles, and where State law differs, the former will prevail. Where a claim is considered not payable under this paragraph, consult DA Pam 27&hyph;162, chapter 8 for other methods of handling. A claim is not payable under this chapter if it_
