FR941004-0-00012 FR941004-0-00003 (2) Regroupings. If it is determined that a taxpayer's original grouping was clearly inappropriate or a material change has occurred that makes the original grouping clearly inappropriate, the taxpayer must regroup the activities and must comply with disclosure requirements that the Commissioner may prescribe. (f) Grouping by Commissioner to prevent tax avoidance _(1) Rule. The Commissioner may regroup a taxpayer's activities if any of the activities resulting from the taxpayer's grouping is not an appropriate economic unit and a principal purpose of the taxpayer's grouping (or failure to regroup under paragraph (e) of this section) is to circumvent the underlying purposes of section 469. (2) Example. The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (f): Example. (i) Taxpayers D , E , F , G , and H are doctors who operate separate medical practices. D invested in a tax shelter several years ago that generates passive losses and the other doctors intend to invest in real estate that will generate passive losses. The taxpayers form a partnership to engage in the trade or business of acquiring and operating X-ray equipment. In exchange for equipment contributed to the partnership, the taxpayers receive limited partnership interests. The partnership is managed by a general partner selected by the taxpayers; the taxpayers do not materially participate in its operations. Substantially all of the partnership's services are provided to the taxpayers or their patients, roughly in proportion to the doctors' interests in the partnership. Fees for the partnership's services are set at a level equal to the amounts that would be charged if the partnership were dealing with the taxpayers at arm's length and are expected to assure the partnership a profit. The taxpayers treat the partnership's services as a separate activity from their medical practices and offset the income generated by the partnership against their passive losses. (ii) For each of the taxpayers, the taxpayer's own medical practice and the services provided by the partnership constitute an appropriate economic unit, but the services provided by the partnership do not separately constitute an appropriate economic unit. Moreover, a principal purpose of treating the medical practices and the partnership's services as separate activities is to circumvent the underlying purposes of section 469. Accordingly, the Commissioner may require the taxpayers to treat their medical practices and their interests in the partnership as a single activity, regardless of whether the separate medical practices are conducted through C corporations subject to section 469, S corporations, partnerships, or sole proprietorships. The Commissioner may assert penalties under section 6662 against the taxpayers in appropriate circumstances. (g) Treatment of partial dispositions. A taxpayer may, for the taxable year in which there is a disposition of substantially all of an activity, treat the part disposed of as a separate activity, but only if the taxpayer can establish with reasonable certainty_ (1) The amount of deductions and credits allocable to that part of the activity for the taxable year under ยง1.469&hyph;1(f)(4) (relating to carryover of disallowed deductions and credits); and (2) The amount of gross income and of any other deductions and credits allocable to that part of the activity for the taxable year. (h) Rules for grouping rental real estate activities for taxpayers qualifying under section 469(c)(7) for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1993. [Reserved] Par. 4. Section 1.469&hyph;11 is amended as follows: 1. Paragraph (a)(1) is revised. 2. Paragraph (b)(1) is revised. 3. Paragraph (b)(2) is redesignated as paragraph (b)(3). 4. A new paragraph (b)(2) is added.
