FR941028-2-00012 FR941028-2-00006 Additional Requirements Primary Application Certifications All primary applicants must submit a completed form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying,'' and the following explanations must be provided: 1. Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension Prospective participants (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, section 105) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, ``Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; 2. Drug-Free Workplace Grantees (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, section 605) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, subpart F, ``Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; 3. Anti-Lobbying Persons (as defined at 15 CFR part 28, section 105) are subject to the lobbying provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1352, ``Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions,'' and the lobbying section of the certification form prescribed above applies to applications/bids for grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for more than $100,000, and loans and loan guarantees for more than $150,000, or the single family maximum mortgage limit for affected programs, whichever is greater. 4. Anti-Lobbying Disclosure Any applicant that has paid or will pay for lobbying using any funds must submit an SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,'' as required under 15 CFR part 28, appendix B. 5. Lower-Tier Certifications Recipients shall require applicants/bidders for subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other lower tier covered transactions at any tier under the award to submit, if applicable, a completed Form CD&hyph;512, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion_Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying'' and disclosure form, SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.'' Form CD&hyph;512 is intended for the use of recipients and should not be transmitted to NIST. SF&hyph;LLL submitted by any tier recipient or subrecipient should be submitted to NIST in accordance with the instructions contained in the award document. Preaward Activities Applicants who incur any costs prior to an award being made do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal assurance that may have been provided, there is no obligation on the part of NIST to cover pre-award costs. No Obligation for Future Funding If an application is accepted for funding, DOC has no obligation to provide any additional future funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion of NIST. Past Performance Unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for funding. Name Check Reviews All for-profit and nonprofit applicants will be subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury, or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management, honesty, or financial integrity. False Statements A false statement on an application is grounds for denial or termination of funds, and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001.
