FR940505-1-00499 FR940505-1-00012 (i) The following records shall be maintained and provided to the EPA upon request. (A) Emissions monitoring and process data records necessary for the determination and reporting of emissions, in accordance with applicable provisions of the applicable rules and regulations, shall be maintained. Records shall be kept for at least five years. (B) Other records of the nature and amounts of emissions or any other information as may be deemed necessary by the EPA to determine whether the stationary source or emissions unit is in compliance with applicable emission limitations, credited emission reductions, exemptions from rule provisions, or other requirements. The information must include emission measurements, continuous emission monitoring system performance testing measurements, performance evaluations, calibration checks and adjustments, maintenance performed on such monitoring systems, and other records and reports required by 40 CFR part 51, appendix P, Minimum Emission Monitoring Requirements. (C) Operation and maintenance plans shall be submitted to the district for all add-on capture and control equipment for review and approval by the EPA. Such plans shall demonstrate, though the use of specific recordkeeping requirements, continuous operation of the add-on control equipment when emission-producing operations are occurring. The plan shall also specify records to be kept to document the performance of required periodic maintenance. Records shall be consistent with compliance time frames and employ the most recent EPA recordkeeping guidance. (D) The EPA may require monitoring or recordkeeping and may authorize inspections pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act and the regulations thereunder. (E) All monitoring, reporting, inspection and compliance requirements authorized under the Clean Air Act shall apply. (ii) The EPA may require recordkeeping to verify or maintain any exemption. ยง52.3001 New source review (Sacramento). (a) Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the review of new and modified stationary air pollution sources and to provide requirements, including emission offsets, for issuing Authority to Construct permits for such sources without interfering with the attainment or maintenance of ambient air quality standards. (b) Applicability and exemptions. This section shall apply to all new stationary sources and emissions units and all modifications to existing stationary sources and emissions units which, after construction, emit or have the potential to emit nitrogen oxides (NO X ) or reactive organic compounds (ROC). This section shall not apply to prescribed burning of forest, agriculture or range land; road construction or any non-point source common to timber harvesting or agricultural practices; open burning in accordance with the following district regulations:
