FR940208-0-00078 FR940208-0-00031 Tuesday February 8, 1994 Part II Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Determination of Critical Habitat for the Mojave Population of the Desert Tortoise; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 26␣/␣Tuesday, February 8, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC01 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Determination of Critical Habitat for the Mojave Population of the Desert Tortoise AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) designates critical habitat for the Mojave population of the desert tortoise ( Gopherus agassizii ), a species federally listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). Located primarily on Federal land, and to a lesser extent on State, private, and Tribal lands, this critical habitat designation provides additional protection under section 7 of the Act with regard to activities that require Federal agency action. As required by section 4 of the Act, the Service considered economic and other relevant impacts prior to making a final decision on the size and configuration of critical habitat. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 10, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete administrative record for this rule is on file at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Nevada Field Office, Ecological Services, 4600 Kietzke Lane, Building C&hyph;125, Reno, Nevada 89502. The complete file for this rule will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. David L. Harlow, Field Supervisor, Nevada Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, at the above address (702/784&hyph;5227). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Mojave population of the desert tortoise, referred to herein as desert tortoise or tortoise, is one of three species in the genus Gopherus found in the United States. The Berlandier's tortoise ( G. berlandieri ) is found in northeastern Mexico and southern Texas. The gopher tortoise ( G. polyphemus ) is found in the hot, humid portions of the southeastern United States. G. agassizii is relatively large, with adults measuring up to 15 inches in shell length, and inhabits the Mojave, Colorado, and Sonoran Deserts in the southwestern United States and adjacent Mexico. The species is divided into the Sonoran and Mojave populations. The Sonoran population occurs south and east of the Colorado River in Arizona and Mexico, and the Mojave population occupies those portions of the Mojave and Colorado Deserts north and west of the Colorado River in southwestern Utah, northwestern Arizona, southern Nevada, and southern California. For a thorough discussion of the ecology and life history of the desert tortoise, see the Draft Recovery Plan for the Desert Tortoise (Mojave Population) (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1993) and the April 2, 1990, final rule listing the desert tortoise as a threatened species (55 FR 12178). These documents incorporate the majority of current biological information on the desert tortoise used to develop this rule.
