FR941012-2-00067 FR941012-2-00047 [FRL&hyph;5086&hyph;8] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before November 14, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information or to obtain a copy of this ICR, contact Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Research and Development Title: Evaluation of Mandated Drinking Water Filtration and its Effects on Community Health (EPA No. 1727.01). Abstract: This is a new collection of information to support setting Maximum Contaminant Levels (MCLs) in drinking water as required under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA). Under SDWA section 1442 (a)(1)(D) the Administrator may conduct research studies to explore ``improved methods...including improvements in water purification and distribution, and methods of assessing the health related hazards of drinking water.'' The purpose of this study is to gather information on the effects of water filtration on the presence of regulated (total coliform) and potentially regulated ( Giardia , Cryptosporidium , and enteroviruses) microorganisms in drinking water; and to assess the level of disease associated with their presence in drinking water. This voluntary collection of information consists of: (1) A feasibility study to determine the appropriateness and willingness of utilities to participate in a large scale study, and subsequently; (2) a large scale environmental health study to compare health data from selected households with corresponding water monitoring data from selected water utilities prior to, and following, the installation of water filtration systems. For the feasibility study, questionnaires will be sent to a selected sample of water utilities and will request information on characteristics of the drinking water delivery system, water quality monitoring data, and existence of historical monitoring records. The questionnaire will also ask whether utilities will be willing to participate in the environmental health study. From the results of the feasibility study, three water utilities will be selected as sites for the environmental health study. The study will focus on gathering information from selected households serviced by these sites over a nine month period prior to, and following, the installation of drinking water filtration systems at these sites. An individual from each participating household will: (1) Provide general demographic and underlying health condition information; and (2) complete a monthly checklist indicating any respiratory and gastrointestinal symptoms experienced during the month for each household member. Burden Statement: Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 1 hour per response for utilities and 8 hours for households annually, including time for reviewing the questions, gathering the data needed, and completing and reviewing the information. Respondents: Water utilities and selected households. Estimated Number of Respondents: 126 utilities, 900 households. Estimated Number of Responses per Respondent: 1. Frequency of Collection: One time. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 140 hours for utilities, 7,290 hours for households. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (2136), 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. and Matt Mitchell, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503. Dated: October 4, 1994. Paul Lapsley, Director, Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25202 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
