FR940627-0-00231 FR940627-0-00019 (B) Identification of the test fuel, fuel/additive mixture, and reference substance by name, chemical abstracts service (CAS) number or code number, as applicable. (C) The name and address of the sponsor and the name and address of the testing facility at which the study is being conducted. (D) The proposed experimental start and termination dates. (E) Justification for selection of the test system, as necessary. (F) Where applicable, the number, body weight, sex, source of supply, species, strain, substrain, and age of the test system. (G) The procedure for identification of the test system. (H) A description of the experimental design, including methods for the control of bias. (I) Where applicable, a description and/or identification of the diet used in the study. The description shall include specifications for acceptable levels of contaminants that are reasonably expected to be present in the dietary materials and are known to be capable of interfering with the purpose or conduct of the study if present at levels greater than established by the specifications. (J) Each concentration level, expressed in milligrams per cubic meter of air or other appropriate units, of the test or reference substance to be administered and the frequency of administration. (K) The type and frequency of tests, analyses, and measurements to be made. (L) The records to be maintained. (M) The date of approval of the protocol by the sponsor and the dated signature of the study director. (N) A statement of the proposed statistical method. (ii) All changes in or revisions of an approved protocol and the reasons therefor shall be documented, signed by the study director, dated, and maintained with the protocol. (2) Conduct of a study. (i) The study shall be conducted in accordance with the protocol. (ii) The test systems shall be monitored in conformity with the protocol. (iii) Specimens shall be identified by test system, study, nature, and date of collection. This information shall be located on the specimen container or shall accompany the specimen in a manner that precludes error in the recording and storage of data. (iv) In animal studies where histopathology is required, records of gross findings for a specimen from postmortem observations shall be available to a pathologist when examining that specimen histopathologically. (v) All data generated during the conduct of a study, except those that are generated by automated data collection systems, shall be recorded directly, promptly, and legibly in ink. All data entries shall be dated on the day of entry and signed or initialed by the person entering the data. Any change in entries shall be made so as not to obscure the original entry, shall indicate the reason for such change, and shall be dated and signed or identified at the time of the change. In automated data collection systems, the individual responsible for direct data input shall be identified at the time of data input. Any change in automated data entries shall be made so as not to obscure the original entry, shall indicate the reason for change, shall be dated, and the responsible individual shall be identified. (h) Records and Reports _(1) Reporting of study results. (i) A final report shall be prepared for each study and shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following: (A) Name and address of the facility performing the study and the dates on which the study was initiated and was completed, terminated, or discontinued. (B) Objectives and procedures stated in the approved protocol, including any changes in the original protocol. (C) Statistical methods employed for analyzing the data. (D) The test fuel, additive/base fuel mixture, and test and reference substances identified by name, chemical abstracts service (CAS) number or code number, strength, purity, content, or other appropriate characteristics. (E) Stability, and when relevant to the conduct of the study, the solubility of the test emissions and reference substances under the conditions of administration. (F) A description of the methods used. (G) A description of the test system used. Where applicable, the final report shall include the number of animals or other test organisms used, sex, body weight range, source of supply, species, strain and substrain, age, and procedure used for identification. (H) A description of the concentration regimen as daily exposure period, i.e. , number of hours, and exposure duration, i.e. , number of days. (I) A description of all circumstances that may have affected the quality or integrity of the data. (J) The name of the study director, the names of other scientists or professionals and the names of all supervisory personnel, involved in the study. (K) A description of the transformations, calculations, or operations performed on the data, a summary and analysis of the data, and a statement of the conclusions drawn from the analysis. (L) The signed and dated reports of each of the individual scientists or other professionals involved in the study, including each person who, at the request or direction of the testing facility or sponsor, conducted an analysis or evaluation of data or specimens from the study after data generation was completed. (M) The locations where all specimens, raw data, and the final report are to be kept or stored.
