FR940805-1-00014 FR940805-1-00001 (16) Seismic safety certifications, if required under 7 CFR part 1792. (17) Rates. (i) A distribution borrower shall explain any recent or planned changes in retail rates, the status of any pending rate cases before a state regulatory authority, or other pertinent rate information. (ii) A power supply borrower shall submit a schedule of its wholesale rates currently in effect. Any changes in this schedule are subject to REA approval. (18) Additional supporting data. Additional supporting data may be required by REA depending on the individual application or conditions. Examples of such additional supporting data include information about acquisitions, headquarters facilities, generation or transmission facilities, large power loads or special loads. (b) Distribution borrowers. In addition to the items in paragraph (a) of this section, applications for loans submitted by distribution borrowers shall include the borrower's area coverage and line extension policies. If there have been any amendments to area coverage or line extension policies since the last loan application submitted to REA, or if this is a borrower's first application for a loan under the RE Act, the borrower shall submit the board of directors' approved policies on area coverage and line extensions. See §§1710.103 and 1710.151(a). (c) Primary support documents. In addition to the loan application, consisting of the documents required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, all borrowers must also provide REA with the following primary support documents pursuant to §1710.152: (1) Along with the loan application, the borrower shall submit to REA a Long-Range Financial Forecast (LRFF), that meets the requirements of subpart G of this part and shall include the borrower's proposed schedule of useful life of the facilities financed. The forecast shall include any sensitivity analysis or analysis of alternative scenarios required by subpart G of this part, and shall be accompanied by a certified board resolution adopting, and indicating the board of directors' approval of, the LRFF, and directing management to take whatever steps may be necessary, including the filing for rate increases, to achieve the TIER goals set forth in the LRFF. (2) Prior to REA's acceptance of the loan application, the borrower shall submit to REA and receive approval of: (i) Power Requirements Study (PRS) that meets the requirements of subpart E of this part, and is accompanied by a certified board resolution adopting, and indicating the board of directors' approval of, the PRS. (ii) Construction Work Plan (CWP) and/or related engineering and cost studies that meets the requirements of subpart F of this part, and is accompanied by a certified board resolution adopting, and indicating the board of directors' approval of, the CWP and/or engineering and cost studies. (iii) Borrower's Environmental Report (BER), or other environmental information as required by 7 CFR part 1794. (iv) Demand Side Management Plan and/or Integrated Resource Plan, if required by subpart H of this part. (d) Submission of documents. (1) Generally, all information required by paragraphs (a), (b), and (c)(1) of this section is submitted to REA in a single application package. The information required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section is generally submitted to, and approved by REA before the application is submitted. (2) To facilitate loan review, REA urges borrowers to ensure that their applications contain all of the information required by this section before submitting the application to REA. Borrowers may consult with REA field representatives and headquarters staff as necessary for assistance in preparing loan applications.
