FR940803-1-00067 FR940803-1-00014 Historically, the purple bankclimber was found at 14 sites in the Flint River system; 3 sites on the Chipola River mainstem (Dead Lake vicinity); 2 sites on the Apalachicola River mainstem; the type locality on the Chattahoochee River; and at 4 sites along the lower two-thirds of the Ochlockonee River mainstem in Florida and Georgia (Clench and Turner 1956, Butler 1993). A total of 24 historic sites are known for this species. This large mussel persists at 10 sites in the lower two-thirds of the Flint River mainstem, at 4 sites in the Apalachicola River, and at 8 sites in the Ochlockonee River mostly above Talquin Reservoir (Butler 1993). Although the purple bankclimber is currently known from only two fewer total sites than before, the species has nevertheless experienced a significant reduction in its total range. No specimens in recent years have been reported from the Chipola River and the species has not been collected in the Chattahoochee River for several decades. In addition, Flint River tributary populations appear to have been totally eliminated. At a few sites in the Florida portion of the Ochlockonee River, the purple bankclimber may number in the dozens of individuals. This species of mussel does not tolerate impoundment conditions well. On November 18, 1993, the Service notified (by mail; 72 letters) Federal and State agencies, local governments, and interested individuals that a status review was being conducted for these seven species. A total of ten comments was received as a result of this notification. The Florida Division Office of the Federal Highway Administration replied that no bridge replacement projects were currently being planned in northwest Florida, and it was anticipated that any future bridge replacement projects would have no effect on these species based on the localized and short-term impacts associated with these activities. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission reported that it licenses 12 hydroelectric development projects in the study area, and that any issues concerning these species could best be coordinated with the Office of Hydropower Licensing. The Fayette County (Georgia) Board of Commissioners expressed concern over the Service's contention that impoundments have played a major role in the decline of these species, but they did not oppose the listing. The Alachua County (Florida) Environmental Protection Department, after consultation with a Florida Museum of Natural History malacologist, indicated that none of these seven species of mussels are known or were suspected to occur in Alachua county. The Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission expressed concern with how its plan to dredge the mouths of several silted-in streams along the Apalachicola River to improve access to striped bass might have on these mussels. The Georgia Department of Natural Resources (GDNR) had some questions concerning the distribution of these mussels, particularly in Georgia. The Florida Natural Areas Inventory supported the Service's listing of these species and provided information on Econfina Creek watershed where the Gulf moccasinshell and oval pigtoe occur. Three experts on freshwater mussels supported the potential Federal protection of these species. No objections to the proposed listing of these species were received. Previous Federal Action The purple bankclimber, oval pigtoe, shiny-rayed pocketbook, and fat three-ridge are included as category 2 species in the Service's notices of review for animal candidates that were published in the Federal Register on January 6, 1989 (54 FR 554) and on November 21, 1991 (56 FR 58804). A category 2 species is one that may be in need of listing as endangered or threatened, but for which conclusive data on biological vulnerability and threat are not currently available to support a proposed rule. Based on status surveys that were completed in 1993, the Service has determined that all of the species included in this proposal now qualify as category 1 species.
