FR941121-0-00008 FR941121-0-00001 An example relating to a landlord-tenant relationship in proposed comment 2(q)&hyph;2 was deleted as unnecessary by the FRB. A few commenters agreed with the deletion. NCUA has followed the FRB and deleted the example. The Board also reminds readers that unincorporated association accounts have been deleted from TISA and part 707 coverage by new legislation discussed previously in this supplementary information. (s) Passbook Account NCUA, like the FRB, has clarified comment 2(s)&hyph;1 that institutions may consider accounts as passbook accounts even when direct deposits are made to the account electronically. The comment tracks the requirements of Regulation E (12 CFR 205.9). But accounts that permit other electronic fund transfers_and thus trigger Regulation E's requirement to send statements at least quarterly_are not passbook savings accounts, and institutions must comply with the statement disclosures in §707.6 of this part. Accounts that send statements are not passbook accounts for purposes of Part 707, even if members are provided passbooks for their records. (t) Periodic Statement One national trade association stated that NCUA should clarify that periodic statements are not required on accounts. This is clarified on comment 2(t)&hyph;1. In order to provide more uniformity with the Regulation DD format, proposed comment 2(t)&hyph;3, Regulation E interplay, has been moved to comment 6(a)&hyph;2; proposed comment 2(t)&hyph;4, account status information, has been moved to comment 6(a)&hyph;3; and proposed comment 2(t)&hyph;5, use of ledger and collected balance to calculate annual percentage yield, has been moved to comment 6(b)(1)&hyph;1. (u) Potential Member One commenter requested that NCUA clarify that credit unions must provide disclosures to potential members upon request. This is already required in §707.4(a)(2)(i) of the rule. The purpose of the commentary is to expound upon, but not to repeat, the rule requirements. However, because the Board believes that it may assist credit unions in complying with the rule, the regulatory requirement has been repeated in comment 2(u)&hyph;2. Three commenters suggested that NCUA note that proposed comment 2(u)&hyph;2, suggesting that credit unions have sound written procedures in place to identify those for membership, be modified to note its discretionary, rather than mandatory, character. The NCUA Board agrees and has so modified comment 2(u)&hyph;2. In the case of a credit union having a permissible indirect lending arrangement with a third party, such as an automobile dealer, credit union's may invoke member verification procedures before providing account disclosures when the potential member is not present at the credit union. (x) Term Share Account Proposed comment 2(x)&hyph;2 distinguishing between regular share club accounts and term share club accounts has been revised extensively based on comments received and consultation with FRB staff. Basically, although club accounts typically have one feature of a term share account (a maturity date), club accounts are not term share accounts unless they also require a penalty of at least seven days' dividends for a withdrawal of funds during the first six days after the account is opened_subject to exceptions permitted in Regulation D. 12 CFR part 204. As requested by many commenters, the final comment 2(x)&hyph;2 explains distinctions between term share club accounts and regular share club accounts. One national trade association commenter requested that NCUA provide the same club account commentary as did the FRB. The Board agrees with, and has adopted, this approach. One national trade association suggested that all club accounts should be treated as regular share accounts by NCUA. Since this position was not taken by the FRB in Regulation DD, and no uniqueness reasons have been proffered to NCUA to differentiate credit union club accounts from club accounts offered by other depository institutions subject to Regulation DD, this position has not been adopted by the NCUA Board. (y) Tiered-Rate Account One national trade association commenter requested clarification regarding whether tiered-rate accounts could have minimum balance requirements, and whether a zero rate (0%) could constitute a tier. NCUA has carefully reviewed comment 2(y)&hyph;1, and finds no reason to change the guidance provided. (z) Variable-Rate Account Comment 2(z)&hyph;1 clarifies that a share certificate permitting one or more rate adjustments prior to maturity at the member's option is a variable-rate account. NCUA, like the FRB, believes it is important for members to receive disclosures describing when their dividend rate and APY could change, such as any time limitations on when the option may be exercised. In response to a commenter, the Board has clarified comment 2(z)&hyph;2. In the proposed commentary NCUA summarized that rate decreases and other term changes members' accounts required 30-day changes-in-terms notices to take effect. The final comment clarifies that changes-in-terms notices are required for changes in terms adversely affecting the member. The effective date of other, beneficial term changes would depend upon the account agreement and applicable state law. Section 707.3_General Disclosure Requirements (a) Form Four commenters criticized proposed comment 3(a)&hyph;3, which stated that ``if a credit union provides one document for several types of accounts, members must be able to understand clearly which disclosures apply to their account.'' The pertinent regulation states: ``Disclosures *␣*␣* may be combined with disclosures for the credit union's other accounts, as long as it is clear which disclosures are applicable to the member's accounts.'' 12 CFR 707.3(a). Since the Board did not mean to place an additional burden upon credit unions, but merely to paraphrase the rule, to eliminate any potential confusion the Board has revised the comment to more closely pattern after the regulation. (b) General
