FR941116-0-00070 FR941116-0-00012 In addition, the Commission will require the pipeline to submit a proposed form of protective agreement with its request for privileged treatment and with its letter of transmittal to its shippers and subscribers. Any shipper or subscriber seeking a complete copy of the oil pipeline's application must provide the oil pipeline with an executed copy of the protective agreement at the time it requests a copy of the oil pipeline's application. The Commission will act expeditiously to resolve any controversies about protective agreements. This approach is similar to that used in litigated cases to prevent the disclosure of sensitive information 29 and akin to that suggested by the AOPL in its comments to the NOI. This approach will be sufficient to prevent the use of the information to the detriment or prejudice of a shipper and will not result in the improper disclosure of business transactions to a competitor. 30 Hence, there will be no violation of Section 15(13). 29 See, e.g., Phillips Pipe Line Co., Order to Produce Shipper Information and Enter Protective Order, Docket No. IS94&hyph;1&hyph;000 (January 19, 1994). 30 Id. VI. Substantive Guidelines and Screens and Alternative Procedures The Commission will not adopt substantive standards, including screens and rebuttable presumptions at this time. Instead, the Commission will continue to develop oil pipeline precedents on a case-by-case basis through the application procedure adopted by this rule. The AOPL, Marathon, and ARCO maintain that the Commission should adopt market power guidelines in this rule. The AOPL contends that the absence of those guidelines threatens to impose undue burdens on all participants in a market-based rate proceeding. They further assert that the NOPR's reliance on a lack of consensus was misplaced because the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) does not require consensus as a prelude to adoption of a final rule and that, in any event, there was substantial support for streamlining market power determinations. It believes that without such substantive guidelines a market power presentation will be too elaborate and unfocussed because the oil pipeline will fear selecting an analytical model that unknown to it is disfavored by the Commission. It thinks the industry is facing a ``regulatory vacuum.'' The AOPL, Marathon, and ARCO suggest the Commission adopt certain guidelines and threshold screens in connection with establishing rebuttable presumptions as a means of streamlining market power determinations. They maintain that the oil pipelines should be able to use BEAs 31 as their geographic markets without justification as proposed by the NOPR. They further submit that the relevant product market should be delivered pipelineable petroleum products (AOPL) or delivered pipelineable barrels of both refined and unrefined products (Marathon). They also maintain that the Commission should establish market power screens to establish rebuttable presumptions in connection with market power determinations. Marathon suggests an HHI 32 of 2500. ARCO suggests screens of a market share based on actual deliveries or capacity of less than 45 percent into, for example, a BEA or a market share of 55 percent combined with an HHI of 2500 or less based on capacity data. The AOPL refers to those screens as suggested by Williams 33 and Buckeye 34 and refers to a third threshold of a ten percent market share for potential waterbased traffic. 31 The term BEA refers to United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis Economic Areas. BEAs are geographic regions surrounding major cities that are intended to represent areas of actual economic activity. 32 The HHI stands for the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, which calculates market concentration by summing the squares of individual market shares of all the firms in the market. For example, if each of four firms has a 25 percent share of the market, the HHI for the market would be .2500 ((.25 x .25)4) or 2500 in nontechnical terms. 33 Williams Pipe Line Co., 68 FERC ¶ 61,136 (1994). 34 Buckeye Pipe Line Co., 53 FERC ¶ 61,473 (1990), order on reh'g, 55 FERC ¶ 61,084 (1991). On the other hand, Alberta, Total, the Farmers, and Sinclair support the Commission's decision not to set substantive standards and to develop precedents on a case-by-case basis. They agree with the NOPR that no consensus exists among affected groups about substantive standards and maintain that the Commission should not consider establishing substantive standards until it has gained more experience from a number of applications for market rates. Total and the Farmers submit that the Commission properly rejected the use of HHIs as screens to avoid arbitrary results. Sinclair approves of the Commission's decision not to establish generic standards about geographic markets and to place the burden on the oil pipeline to show the relevance of any BEA. The Commission recognizes that the APA does not require a consensus to adopt rules. However, here, where the Commission has the very limited experience of two oil pipeline proceedings with respect to market power determinations, this lack of consensus among the parties most affected suggests to the Commission that it should proceed cautiously on a case-by-case basis to ensure that markets are not presumed to be competitive. 35 Hence, the Commission at this time is not adopting substantive guidelines and screens. 36 35 Farmers Union Central Exchange, Inc. v. FERC, 734 F.2d 1486, 1510 (D.C. Cir. 1984). 36 The comments to the NOI, among other things, indicated a lack of consensus about the use of BEAs and the appropriate level for an HHI screen. The Commission sees no regulatory vacuum as asserted by the AOPL. The Commission's procedural regulations set forth clearly what matters are pertinent in determining significant market power_ e.g., geographic and product markets, HHIs and market share. The Commission does not view the lack of screens as unfair or unduly burdensome. As with any proponent, the oil pipeline must make its most persuasive case for its position. With respect to specific screen issues, the Commission is not ready to adopt BEAs as the defined or presumed geographic market in the absence of more experience in determining relevant geographic markets. Similarly, the Commission is not ready to adopt a specific definition of product market. Nor can the Commission at this time adopt presumptions about market power determinations. The Commission prefers to gain more experience with specific cases to develop HHI (market concentration) and market power criteria for oil pipelines. 37 These issues should all be pursued cautiously on a case-by-case basis to ensure that markets are not assumed to be competitive. Of course, as more experience is gained, precedent can serve as well as presumptions to provide guidance. 37 Geographic and product markets and HHIs and market power are also discussed infra.
