FR940426-1-00154 FR940426-1-00018 (5) Shall not employ or continue to employ any enrollee to perform work which is the same or substantially the same as that performed by any other person who is on layoff. [Section 502(b)(1)(G).] ยง641.326 Experimental private sector training projects. (a) The Department may authorize a recipient to develop an experimental job training project(s) designed to provide second career training and the placement of eligible individuals in employment opportunities with private business concerns. [Section 502(e).] (b) Experimental project agreements for training may be with States, public agencies, non-profit private organizations, and private business concerns. (c) The geographic location of these projects shall be determined by the Department to insure an equitable distribution of such projects. (d) To the extent feasible, experimental projects shall emphasize second-career training, innovative work modes, including those with reduced physical exertion, and placement into growth industries and jobs reflecting new technologies. (e) The Department shall establish by administrative guidelines, the application schedule, content, format, allocation levels and reporting requirements for experimental projects. (f) Current title V eligibility standards shall be used for experimental projects, unless the Department permits, in writing, the use of another approved income index. (g) Projects funded under section 502(e) of the Act shall seek to be coordinated with projects carried out under section 204(d) of the JTPA to the extent feasible. (h) Recipients shall distribute funds for experimental projects in accordance with the State allocation formulas in their title V grant. Subpart D_Administrative Standards and Procedures for Recipient and Limitations on Federal Funds ยง641.401 General. This subpart establishes limitations on title V funds to be used for community service activities and describes, or incorporates by reference, requirements for the administration of grants by recipient of SCSEP. ยง641.402 Administrative requirements. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, title V funds shall be administered in accordance with, and subject to, the Department's regulations at 29 CFR parts 31, 32, 34, 93, 96, and 98. In addition, projects and activities administered by State, local or Indian tribal governments are also subject to the Department's administrative requirements regulations at 29 CFR part 97; projects and activities administered by institutions of higher education, hospitals, or other non-profit organizations are subject to the Department's administrative requirements regulations at 41 CFR part 29&hyph;70 (1984). Recipients of title V funds shall be subject to any revisions of any implementing regulations cited in this paragraph (a) on the effective date of such revisions. (b) The administration of interagency agreements set forth in subpart E of this part is not subject to paragraph (a) of this section. ยง641.403 Allowable costs. (a) General. Costs shall be determined in accordance with the cost principles indicated in paragraph (b) of this section, except as otherwise provided in this part. (b) Applicable Cost Principles. The cost principles set forth in paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section apply to the organization incurring the costs: (1) OMB Circular A&hyph;87_State, local or Indian tribal government; (2) OMB Circular A&hyph;122_Private, non-profit organization other than: (i) Institution of higher education; (ii) Hospital; or (iii) Other organization named in OMB Circular A&hyph;122 as not subject to OMB Circular A&hyph;122; (3) OMB Circular A&hyph;21_Educational institution; or
