FR940907-0-00036 FR940907-0-00015 The State lists the 10 moderate ozone nonattainment areas where these regulations shall apply. The State has removed several of the exemption provisions and is allowing sources which were previously exempt, 1 year from the rules' effective date (i.e. by April 27, 1994) to achieve compliance with these rules. Examples of these sources would be those that were not covered by the previous rules because the rules did not apply in that area. April 19, 1990 is the date by which other sources must achieve compliance. N. Rule 631␣(Emission of Volatile Organic Compounds From Existing Process Equipment Utilized in Manufacture of Polystyrene or Other Organic Resins) The State lists the 10 moderate ozone nonattainment areas that these regulations shall apply in. The State requires that a person shall not operate a reactor, thinning tank, or blending tank unless either of the following provisions is complied with: (i) All VOCs emitted from existing reactors, thinning tanks, and blending tanks shall be vented to control equipment that is designed and operated to reduce the quantity of VOCs by not less than 95 weight percent. Reflux condensers that are essential to the operation of the resin reactor are not considered to be control equipment. (ii) The total VOCs emitted to the atmosphere from the reactors, thinning tanks, and blending tanks do not exceed 0.5 pounds per 1,000 pounds of completed organic resin produced. Notwithstanding the preceding requirement, the State requires the Monsanto Company of Trenton to comply with either of the following provisions for its reactors, thinning tanks, and blending tanks: (i) All VOCs emitted from reactors, thinning tanks, and blending tanks shall be vented to control equipment that is designed and operated to reduce the quantity of VOCs by not less than 95 weight percent. Reflux condensers that are essential to the operation of the resin reactor are not considered to be control equipment. (ii) The total VOCs emitted to the atmosphere from the reactors, thinning tanks, and blending tanks do not exceed 2.6 pounds per 1,000 pounds of dry organic resin produced. The State has altered the recordkeeping requirement to now be mandatory for all sources subject to this rule. The recordkeeping requirements are effective 3 months after the effective date of this rule. The records which need to be kept will vary depending upon the fashion in which a source chooses to control the VOC emissions and may include any of the following information: (i) Emissions test data. (ii) Material balance calculations. (iii) Process production rates. (iv) Control equipment specifications and operating parameters. The State has revised one of the provisions to read, A person may discontinue the operation of a natural gas-fired afterburner, which is used to achieve compliance with the emission limits in this rule, between November 1 and March 31 unless the afterburner is used to achieve compliance with, or is required by, any of the following: (a) Any other provision of these rules. (b) A permit to install. (c) A permit to operate. (d) A voluntary agreement. (e) A performance contract. (f) A stipulation. (g) An order of the commission. If the operation of a natural gas-fired afterburner is discontinued between November 1 and March 31 pursuant to the provisions of the preceding provision, both of the following shall apply during this time period: (a) All other provisions of this rule, except the emission limits, shall remain in effect. (b) All other measures that are used to comply with the emission limits in this rule between April 1 and October 31 shall continue to be used.
