FR940404-2-00160 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Working Group Meeting of the Group of Rapporteurs on Pollution and Energy, Economic Commission for Europe (ECE), Rome/Naples, March 15&hyph;18 1993 Representative Thomas Baines, Senior Project Director, Office of Mobile Sources, Environmental Protection Agency, Ann Arbor, Michigan Private Sector Advisers Richard A. Bishop, John Deere Company, Product Engineering Center, Waterloo, Iowa Donald C. Dowdall, Caterpillar Incorporated, Pretoria, Illinois Robert A. Jorgensen, Cummings Engine Company, Inc., Columbus, Indiana United States Delegation to the Working Party on the Facilitation of International Trade Procedures, 37th Session and Its Subgroups, Economic Commission on Europe (ECE), Geneva, March 15&hyph;19, 1993 Representative Clifford W. Woodward, Jr., Chief, Trade, Facilitation and Technical Issues Division, Office of International Transportation and Trade, Department of Transportation Advisers Bernadette Curry, Program Manager, Automated Commercial Systems Development Division, United States Customs Service, Department of the Treasury Vicki Hodziewich, Customs Attache, United States Mission to the European Communities, Brussels William H. Kenworthey, Jr., Data Systems Manager, Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Management Systems, Department of Defense Private Sector Advisers Alexander J. Brash, Trade Association Manager, The International Trade Facilitation Council, Alexandria, Virginia Irwin W. Chmielewski, Electronic Data Systems, EDI Center of Services, Troy, Michigan Thomas P. Colberg, Principal, Price Waterhouse, Washington, DC Gregory D. Harter, President, Electronic Data Interchange Association, Alexandria, Virginia Robert Hurd, PAN American EDIFACT, Board (PAEB) Administrator, Data Interchange Standards Association, Alexandria, Virginia Robert Howell, PAEB Vice Chairman, IBM Corporation, Owego, New York Jeffrey B. Ritter, Legal Adviser and Co-Rapporteur on Legal Questions, Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease, Columbus, Ohio Carrie L. Spencer, PAEB Database, Publications and Maintenance Administrator, EDIFACT Technical Assessment Group, Secretary/Secretariat, Alexandria, Virginia Jeffrey Sturrock, Chairman, ASCX12, Ernst & Young, Irving, Texas Nicole Willenz-Gardner, Senior Manager, Price Waterhouse, Washington, DC Robert K. Windsor, Association Executive, NCITD_The International Trade Facilitation Council, Alexandria, Virginia United States Delegation to the 68th Session of the Legal Committee, International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, March 15&hyph;19, 1993 Representative David J. Kantor, Captain, Chief, Maritime & International Law Division, Office of Chief Counsel, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Lee Handford, Lieutenant, Staff Attorney, Maritime & International Law Division, Office of Chief Counsel, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers James Baker, Attorney, Office of the Legal Adviser, Department of State Bruce B. Davidson, Commander, Deputy Director, International Law Division, United States Navy, Department of Defense Michael D. Morrissette, Chief, Hazard Evaluation Section, Hazardous Materials Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security & Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Kim G. Santos, Branch Chief, Office of Automated Commercial Systems, United States Customs Service, Department of the Treasury Chris Young, Marine Transportation Specialist, Merchant Vessel Personnel Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Private Sector Advisers Ernest J. Corrado, President, American Institute of Merchant Shipping, Washington, DC Neil D. Hobson, Chairman, Maritime Law Association Committee on Transportation of Hazardous Substances, Milling, Benson, Woodward, Hillyer, Pierson & Miller, New Orleans, Louisiana Michael P. Walls, Assistant General Counsel, Chemical Manufacturers Association, Washington, DC
