FR940607-2-00048 FR940607-2-00039 [OR&hyph;93&hyph;6332&hyph;5: GP4&hyph;186] Establishment of Supplementary Rules; Lane County, OR AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of establishment of supplementary rules. SUMMARY: The Eugene District, Bureau of Land Management, hereby establishes supplementary rules for use of those public lands included in the Row River Trail and adjoining facilities in the South Valley Resource Area, Eugene District, Lane County, Oregon. These supplementary rules are intended to protect public land facilities and provide for public safety for the Row River Trail, a rails-to-trails conversion project near the city of Cottage Grove, Oregon. The BLM is accepting the donation of the former railroad as a non-motorized trail from Willamette Industries, Inc., as partial settlement of a debt owed to the United States. Upon acceptance of the trail and associated properties by the United States, the donated land will be available for public use. These rules are designed to reduce the potential for damage to the trail by unauthorized motor vehicle traffic and to enhance the safety of trail visitors and neighboring residents. A ``Notice of proposed establishment of supplementary rules'' was published in the Federal Register on April 22, 1994 (59 FR 19204) and provided for a thirty day comment period that ended May 23, 1994. Four letters were received, containing two substantive comments. One comment objected to the prohibition against the possession of firearms on the trail. The writer felt that a prohibition against discharge of firearms would be sufficient and that visitors should be allowed to carry firearms for self-defense. It was decided to retain the restriction against weapons, including firearms, to reduce the potential for misunderstanding of rules by trail users and to help protect people both on and off the trail from accidental injury. Another comment objected to the prohibition against motorized vehicles on the grounds that this would exclude disabled visitors from using all-terrain vehicles or motorized wheelchairs on the trail. The rule does allow use of motorized vehicles authorized by BLM, which could include disabled visitor's motorized wheelchairs or specialty all-terrain vehicles on a case-by-case basis. Each situation would need to be evaluated with regard to the potential for such use to damage the trail or the surrounding environment. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to Terry Hueth, South Valley Area Manager, Eugene District Office, P.O. Box 10226, Eugene, Oregon 97440&hyph;2226. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joe Williams, 503&hyph;683&hyph;6600. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Authority for the establishment of these supplemental rules is contained in 43 CFR 8365.1&hyph;6. A map showing the location of the lands subject to the supplementary rules is available in the Eugene District Office. Upon acceptance of title to the subject lands, the Eugene District will prepare a Recreation Area Management Plan for the Row River Trail with opportunity for public involvement. After completion of the plan, the supplementary rules will be reviewed and revised, if appropriate, to conform to the provisions of the final plan. DATES: These supplementary rules will become effective upon publication in the Federal Register , unless title to the former Oregon Pacific & Eastern Railroad lands and other lands on or adjoining the Row River Trail has not yet been accepted by the United States, in which case the supplementary rules will become effective upon the date of acceptance of title by the United States. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Eugene District, Bureau of Land Management, establishes supplementary rules for the Row River Trail and adjoining facilities as follows: 1. Use or operation of motor vehicles is prohibited on the trail and on adjoining public lands except on those roads and parking areas specifically constructed for motor vehicle use. Motor vehicles being used by duly authorized emergency response personnel, including police, ambulance and fire suppression, as well as BLM vehicles engaged in official duties and other vehicles authorized by BLM, are excepted. 2. Possession, use and/or discharge of any weapons, including firearms, air guns, slingshots, or other projectile launching devices, on or across the trail and associated facilities is prohibited. 3. Use and/or occupancy (including leaving personal property unattended) of the trail and trailhead facilities between one half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise is prohibited without a special permission of the authorized officer. 4. Glass containers and alcoholic beverages are prohibited on the trail and adjoining facilities. 5. Campfires or other open flame fires are prohibited throughout the trail and associated facilities. Charcoal cooking fires will be allowed in fire receptacles if and when they are provided in picnic areas. 6. No person shall, unless otherwise authorized, bring any animal onto the trail or adjoining public lands unless such animal is on a leash not longer than six feet and secured to a fixed object or under control of a person, or is otherwise physically restricted at all times. Date of Issue: June 1, 1994. Judy Ellen Nelson, District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13756 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;33&hyph;M
