FR940617-0-00200 FR940617-0-00026 (a) Background samples are produced by drawing a sample of the dilution air during the 60 second exhaust collection phase of each test cycle mode. (1) Individual background samples may be produced and analyzed for each mode. Hence, a unique background value will be used for the emission calculations for each mode. (2) Alternatively, a single background sample may be produced by drawing a sample during the collection phase of each of the test cycle modes. Hence, a single cumulative background value will be used for the emission calculations for each mode. (b) For analysis of the individual sample described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a single value representing the average chart deflection over a 10-second stabilized period is stored. All readings taken during the 10-second interval must be stable at the final value to within # 1 percent of full scale. (c) Measure HC, CO, CO 2 , and NO X exhaust and background concentrations in the sample bag(s) with approximately the same flow rates and pressures used during calibration. §89.421&hyph;96 Exhaust gas analytical system; CVS bag sample. (a) Schematic drawings. Figure 4 in appendix A to this subpart is a schematic drawing of the exhaust gas analytical system used for analyzing CVS bag samples from compression- ignition engines. Since various configurations can produce accurate results, exact conformance with the drawing is not required. Additional components such as instruments, valves, solenoids, pumps and switches may be used to provide additional information and coordinate the functions of the component systems. Other components such as snubbers, which are not needed to maintain accuracy in some systems, may be excluded if their exclusion is based upon good engineering judgment. (b) Major component description. The analytical system, Figure 4 in appendix A to this subpart, consists of a flame ionization detector (FID) (heated for petroleum-fueled compression-ignition engines to 191 ○C # 6 ○C) for the measurement of hydrocarbons, nondispersive infrared analyzers (NDIR) for the measurement of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, and a chemiluminescence detector (CLD) (or HCLD) for the measurement of oxides of nitrogen. The exhaust gas analytical system shall conform to the following requirements: (1) The CLD (or HCLD) requires that the nitrogen dioxide present in the sample be converted to nitric oxide before analysis. Other types of analyzers may be used if shown to yield equivalent results and if approved in advance by the Administrator. (2) If CO instruments are used which are essentially free of CO 2 and water vapor interference, the use of the conditioning column may be deleted. (See §§86.1322&hyph;84 and 86.1342&hyph;90 of this chapter.) (3) A CO instrument will be considered to be essentially free of CO 2 and water vapor interference if its response to a mixture of 3 percent CO 2 in N2, which has been bubbled through water at room temperature, produces an equivalent CO response, as measured on the most sensitive CO range, which is less than 1 percent of full scale CO concentration on ranges above 300 ppm full scale or less than 3 ppm on ranges below 300 ppm full scale. (See §86.1322&hyph;84 of this chapter.) (c) Alternate analytical systems. Analysis systems meeting the specifications of part 86, subpart D of this chapter (with the exception of §§86.346&hyph;79 and 86.347&hyph;79) may be used for the testing required under this subpart. Heated analyzers may be used in their heated configuration. (d) Other analyzers and equipment. Other types of analyzers and equipment may be used if shown to yield equivalent results and if approved in advance by the Administrator. §89.422&hyph;96 Dilute sampling procedures_CVS calibration. (a) The CVS is calibrated using an accurate flowmeter and restrictor valve. (1) The flowmeter calibration must be traceable to NIST measurements, and will serve as the reference value (NIST ``true'' value) for the CVS calibration. (Note: In no case should an upstream screen or other restriction which can affect the flow be used ahead of the flowmeter unless calibrated throughout the flow range with such a device.) (2) The CVS calibration procedures are designed for use of a ``metering venturi'' type flowmeter. Large radius or ASME flow nozzles are considered equivalent if traceable to NIST measurements. Other measurement systems may be used if shown to be equivalent under the test conditions in this section and traceable to NIST measurements. (3) Measurements of the various flowmeter parameters are recorded and related to flow through the CVS. (4) Procedures used by EPA for both PDP&hyph;CVS and CFV&hyph;CVS are outlined below. Other procedures yielding equivalent results may be used if approved in advance by the Administrator. (b) After the calibration curve has been obtained, verification of the entire system may be performed by injecting a known mass of gas into the system and comparing the mass indicated by the system to the true mass injected. An indicated error does not necessarily mean that the calibration is wrong, since other factors can influence the accuracy of the system (for example, analyzer calibration, leaks, or HC hangup). A verification procedure is found in paragraph (e) of this section. (c) PDP&hyph;CVS calibration. (1) The following calibration procedure outlines the equipment, the test configuration, and the various parameters which must be measured to establish the flow rate of the PDP&hyph;CVS pump.
