FR941107-0-00030 FR941107-0-00010 The Proposing Release solicited comment as to whether the application of the proxy rules was part of the expectations of the parties negotiating the indenture contract, or of investors purchasing a listed debt security, and if so, whether the proxy rule exemption should be applied prospectively. Only one commenter addressed the issue. 44 That commenter believed that there is no need for a prospective application of the exemption since debtholders do not normally expect the proxy rules to apply. Since the Commission desires to eliminate unnecessary regulatory disparity as expeditiously as possible and given the other protections afforded debtholders as discussed above, the proxy rule exemption is not limited to issues of debt offered subsequent to the adoption of the exemption. 44 See ABA letter, n. 42, above. D. Automatic Effectiveness of Form 8&hyph;A and Elimination of Filing Fee The Commission also is adopting amendments to Rule 12d1&hyph;2 and Form 8&hyph;A to reduce or eliminate some of the procedural costs of listing debt on a national securities exchange. 45 Commenters unanimously supported the proposed automatic effectiveness of Forms 8&hyph;A and the elimination of the associated filing fee. 46 45 On June 1, 1994, the Commission also made practical modifications to filing procedures. See Section I.D of Release No. 34&hyph;34139. The Division of Corporation Finance will accept requests from national securities exchanges that wish to file a combined Form 8&hyph;A/Listing Application with the Commission on behalf of an issuer listing debt securities on their exchange. Any national securities exchange that is interested in filing a combined Form 8&hyph;A/Listing Application should have its representative contact Joseph P. Babits at (202) 942&hyph;2910. A national securities exchange using such a procedure may wish to make Form 8&hyph;A filings with the Commission in paper, whether or not the registrant is subject to mandated electronic filing via the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system (EDGAR). Accordingly, the Division of Corporation Finance will consider requests for a continuing hardship exemption pursuant to Rule 202 of Regulation S&hyph;T [17 CFR 232.202] from any national securities exchange filing Forms 8&hyph;A on behalf of electronic filers. Continuing hardship exemptions will be available only through December 31, 1996. National securities exchanges that intend to use a combined Form 8&hyph;A/Listing Application that will become effective upon filing must confirm that the combined Form has been in fact filed with the Commission prior to the commencement of trading in the class of securities. The issuer, however, may choose to file the Form 8&hyph;A itself. Regardless of whether the issuer or the national securities exchange files the Form 8&hyph;A/Listing Application, the issuer is solely responsible for the filing and its contents. 46 Several commenters, while supporting these proposals, stated that the Commission should go further and not require Section 12 registration for issuers of debt securities subject to the reporting requirement of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. See, e.g., letter from Richard T. Chase, Senior Vice President, Chief Counsel, Lehman Brothers to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, dated September 8, 1994. All Forms 8&hyph;A, including amendments, pertaining to the registration of a class of debt securities to be listed on a national securities exchange will be automatically effective if certification by the national securities exchange has been received by the Commission on or before the filing of the form. 47 However, where a Form 8&hyph;A is registering a class of debt securities and securities from that class are being concurrently registered under the Securities Act, the Form 8&hyph;A will not automatically become effective upon filing, so that the debt securities will not become subject to any obligations under the Exchange Act prior to the related Securities Act registration statement being declared effective. Instead, as proposed, where there is a concurrent Securities Act registration statement pending, the Form 8&hyph;A will become effective simultaneously with the effectiveness of the Securities Act registration statement. Acceleration requests no longer will be needed for either of these categories of Form 8&hyph;A. 48 47 If an issuer elects to file the Form 8&hyph;A (or Form 8&hyph;A/Listing Application) itself, it must ensure that the Commission has received certification from the exchange on or before the date of filing the Form if automatic effectiveness is requested, or, if concurrent effectiveness is requested, on or before the date the Securities Act registration statement has been declared effective. An issuer may contact the Office of Quality Control at (202) 942&hyph;8970 (ext. 4475) to verify that certification has been received by the Commission. If multiple debt issues are being registered on a single Form 8&hyph;A, certification for each issue must be received by the Commission prior to effectiveness. Where a Form 8&hyph;A relates to debt securities to be listed on multiple national securities exchanges ( e.g., the NYSE and the Boston Stock Exchange), then certifications must be received by the Commission from each exchange prior to effectiveness. Forms 8&hyph;A that register both debt and equity securities are not encompassed by the amendments. 48 Similarly, no effectiveness orders will be issued for Forms 8&hyph;A, as is the case with other registration statements that are effective automatically ( e.g., Form S&hyph;8 [17 CFR 239.16b]). In addition, the Commission is amending Rule 12b&hyph;7 to eliminate the $250 filing fee for registering a class of debt securities on Form 8&hyph;A. 49 Form 8&hyph;A has been revised to add two new boxes, one of which the issuer would check to signify it is a debt registration requiring no fee and that the Form 8&hyph;A: (1) Is to be effective automatically upon filing, as no debt securities of the class being registered on the form are being registered concurrently under the Securities Act; or (2) is to be effective simultaneously with the effectiveness of a related Securities Act registration statement. In order to receive automatic or concurrent effectiveness, the appropriate box must be checked. 50 49 Given the de minimis nature of the filing fee, it is of little significance in an issuer's decision to list securities. However, its elimination is consistent with the Commission's goal of eliminating regulatory disparity between listed and unlisted debt securities where not necessary for the protection of investors. The NYSE requires a listing fee for debt securities of $50 per million and minimum of $2,500 for new issues and $25 per million and minimum of $1,250 for issue outstanding one year or more. The fee does not apply if the company or its affiliate already has a class of equity securities listed on the NYSE. 50 Registrants that are mandated electronic filers registering debt securities on Form 8&hyph;A should file in paper format until the necessary form types are available through the EDGAR system. The necessary form types are expected to be available with the release of the EDGARLink software version 4.10 in January 1995. Notice will be provided in the SEC Digest and the Federal Register and on the EDGAR Bulletin Board when the new EDGAR form types for Form 8&hyph;A are available. When available, registrants will use one of three new EDGAR form types: 8A12BEF (Form 8&hyph;A and amendments to Form 8&hyph;A registering debt securities that will be automatically effective upon filing), 8A12BT (Form 8&hyph;A registering debt securities that will be effective contemporaneously with the effectiveness of an associated Securities Act registration statement), or 8A12BT/A (amendment to Form 8&hyph;A registering debt securities that will be effective contemporaneously with the effectiveness of an associated Securities Act registration statement). III. Cost-Benefit Analysis No empirical data was submitted in response to the Commission's invitation to provide information on the costs and benefits of the proposed new Exchange Act rule and Exchange Act rule revisions. The rule and amendments should decrease the net costs to investors associated with listing debt securities on a national securities exchange, without materially diminishing the benefits to investors. Currently, an issuer is not required to register debt securities under the Exchange Act in order for those securities to be traded in the OTC market. Consequently, OTC-traded debt securities are not subject to either the restrictions on borrowing or proxy regulation. New Rule 3a12&hyph;11 is designed to eliminate the disparity between exchange-listed debt securities and OTC-traded debt securities by exempting listed debt securities from the restrictions on borrowing and proxy regulation.
