FR940406-2-00068 FR940406-2-00044 3. Assist in assessment of quality of laboratory measurements, if needed. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: 1. Study Protocol (30%)_The protocol's scientific soundness, quality, feasibility, consistency with the project goals, and soundness of the evaluation plan. 2. Access to Study Subjects (20%)_Documented ability to identify, access, enroll, and follow study subjects. 3. Laboratory Capacity (15%)_Documented availability to a laboratory with demonstrated proficiency in performing lead measurements (and other laboratory measurements as indicated in applicant's proposed study). 4. Medical and Environmental Management (15%)_Documented ability to ensure that children identified with elevated blood lead levels receive appropriate medical and environmental management. 5. Project Personnel (10%)_The qualifications, experience, (including experience in conducting relevant studies) and time commitment of the staff needed to ensure implementation of the project. 6. Plan for Administration of Project (10%)_Schedule for implementing, monitoring, and evaluating the project. 7. Budget Justification (Not Scored)_The budget will be evaluated for the extent to which it is reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with the intended use of cooperative agreement funds. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are not subject to the review requirements of Executive Order 12372 entitled, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. Public Health System Reporting Requirement This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number assigned to this program is 93.283. Other Requirements Paperwork Reduction Act Projects that involve the collection of information from ten or more individuals and funded by this cooperative agreement will be subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Human Subjects If the proposed project involves research on human subjects, the applicant must comply with the Department of Health and Human Services Regulations (45 CFR Part 46) regarding the protection of human subjects. Assurance must be provided to demonstrate that the project will be subject to initial and continuing review by an appropriate institutional review committee. The applicant will be responsible for providing assurance in accordance with the appropriate guidelines and form provided in the application kit. Application Submission and Deadline A. Preapplication Letter of Intent Although not a prerequisite of application, a non-binding letter of intent-to-apply is requested from potential applicants. The letter should be submitted to the Grants Management Officer (whose address is reflected in section B, ``Applications''). It should be postmarked no later than one month prior to the planned submission deadline (e.g., May 10 for June 10 submission). The letter should identify the announcement number, the intended submission deadline, name the principal investigator, and specify the study area addressed by the proposed project.
