FR940805-2-00115 FR940805-2-00058 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is designed to facilitate securities transactions and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The proposed rule change will impose no burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspections and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR-Amex-94&hyph;22 and should be submitted by August 26, 1994. IV. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b). 7 In particular, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the Section 6(b)(5) requirements that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. 7 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). In light of the changes in market structure that have taken place since Rule 103 was adopted, the Commission believes that the benefits of the Amex proposal outweigh an burdens it may impose. Specifically, the Commission has concluded that the proposed rule change should enhance the quality of the Amex market. The Amex established the membership categories of Registered Equity Trader and REMM to provide a means by which Amex members could, under certain conditions, add depth and liquidity to the market by initiating proprietary transactions on the floor of the Exchange. 8 The Commission, however, notes that Rule 103 may frustrate that purpose, 9 to the extent it may be unnecessarily restrictive given the risks posed by Registered Equity Traders' and REMMs' dealings in stocks in which they (or their member organization) have an option position. 10 8 For further discussion of the conditions for Registered Equity Trader and REMM participation, see supra, notes 4&hyph;5. 9 The Amex argues that there is a disincentive for any Amex member who participates in the options market (or who is associated with a member organization that participates in the options market) to be active as a Registered Equity Trader or REMM. 10 For further discussion of the risks of such activity and the safeguards contained in the Amex proposal, see infra, notes 12&hyph;16 and accompanying text. After careful review, the Commission believes that the Amex proposal may reduce the current disincentive for members, especially options market participants and their associated persons, to act as a Registered Equity Trader or REMM given Rule 103's restrictions. 11 For instance, Amex members currently serving as Registered Equity Traders and REMMs could initiate proprietary floor trades in situations where they presently cannot do so; moreover, other members might be encouraged to service in that capacity. In the Commission's view, an increase in the capital committed to such supplemental market making activities could improve the depth and liquidity of the Amex market, particularly in times of market stress. 11 See supra, note 9 and accompanying text.
