FR941128-2-00095 FR941128-2-00047 Joint Statement of Chairman Janet D. Steiger and Commissioner Christine A. Varney in Eli Lilly/McKesson, File No. 941&hyph;0102 We voted in favor of the proposed consent agreement with Eli Lilly and Company (``Lilly'') in connection with its acquisition of PCS Health Systems, Inc. from McKesson Corporation. We believe the consent agreement offers immediate effective relief, avoids protracted litigation, and represents the best non-structural relief available to remedy the potential anticompetitive consequences of the transaction. Moreover, the proposed consent achieves these goals and allows potential efficiency gains to be realized. However, we remain concerned about the overall competitive impact of vertical integration by drug companies into the pharmacy benefits management market. Through monitoring this proposed order and through analysis of these evolving markets, the Commission intends to assess all the ramifications of vertical integration here. Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Mary L. Azcuenaga Eli Lilly and Company, Inc., File No. 941&hyph;0102 Today, the Commissioner accepts a consent order for public comment that exudes a lack of conviction in the underlying theory of competitive harm on which the order is based. The order does not cure the competitive problems alleged in the complaint. Three of the four primary provisions in the order are inadequate, and the fourth, which addresses a memorandum of understanding between Lilly and McKesson, is based on no colorable factual showing of a violation of law. In addition, there is no justification for making the duration of the order half that of other Commission orders. Finally, imposing this order without addressing similar acquisitions raises a question of evenhandedness and leaves unanswered the broader question of the competitive effect of vertical integration in this industry. I dissent. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29183 Filed 11&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
