FR940525-0-00059 FR940525-0-00025 Comment: Several commenters expressed concern over the harbor porpoise abundance estimates for the Gulf of Maine/Bay of Fundy population and the disparity between the point estimates for 1991 and 1992. They urged the Council to ask NMFS to conduct ongoing surveys in order to better refine the data. Response: Again, the estimates are based on the best scientific information available. NMFS abundance estimates for 1991 and 1992 are 37,500 (% coefficient of variation (CV)=28.8, 95% confidence interval (CI)=26,700 to 86,400) and 67,500 (%CV=23.1, 95% CI=32,900 to 104,600), respectively. The reason for the nearly twofold, but statistically insignificant, increase between 1991 and 1992 is unknown. Although the increase is statistically insignificant, it may reflect a real change in abundance due to a distribution change or methodological sampling error. Methods to investigate this difference were recommended at the February 23&hyph;25 NEFSC workshop to evaluate the status of harbor porpoise in the western North Atlantic. An abundance survey has been recommended for 1995. Comment: A suggestion was made to divide the Northeast closure area in half, longitudinally, or simply to make the entire area smaller. Response: The Northeast area proposed for closure from August 15 through September 13 already represents a compromise forged between fishermen and the Council. But concerns still exist that animals will move into adjacent areas where vessels may concentrate and increase the likelihood of takes, rather than reduce that possibility. Also, NMFS survey data indicate that harbor porpoise usually frequent the same general areas of the Gulf of Maine, but not always at the same time every year. Because of this variability, shorter closures in smaller areas could result in little or no reduction in bycatch, if animals are not present during the closure period. This would result in lost fishing time with no benefit. Comment: Commenters expressed concern about Northeast time and area closures that would eliminate fishing in the Schoodic Ridge area, a region vital to the ``downeast'' fishermen. Response: The Council's final decision took into account the fact that the time and area plan would be phased in over 4 years. During the first year of implementation, the Schoodic Ridge fishing grounds will be left open. Further changes to the area will be based on the harbor porpoise bycatch estimates derived from sea sampling program and other relevant data submitted to the Council. Comment: Commenters from Maine questioned why Jeffreys Ledge, an area located off the coasts of Massachusetts and New Hampshire that accounts for a relatively high level of bycatch, was being left open in the first year of the plan. Response: The Council's Mid-coast closure area incorporates an area known as Jeffreys Basin, but excludes Jeffreys Ledge. In past years, the basin area has represented a higher level of bycatch than Jeffreys Ledge. Concerns focus on whether the displacement of more fishing effort onto Jeffreys Ledge might account for a kill rate as high as or potentially higher than, in previous years. As with the Northeast area, however, the Council considered the boundaries adequate for year one of implementation of Framework Adjustment # 4. Bycatch of harbor porpoise will be monitored and the need to adjust the boundaries can be accomplished under the framework system. Comment: One individual asked for an exemption for small-boat operators who fish inshore only, and who are responsible for little or no harbor porpoise bycatch. Otherwise, they would effectively be excluded from the fishery as of the November 1&hyph;30 Mid-coast closure because they are too small to fish in offshore conditions. Another commenter suggested that these vessels fish under the 500-pound (226.8 kg) possession limit for regulated species of groundfish. Response: Harbor porpoise throughout the Gulf of Maine are distributed both inshore and offshore and become entangled in gillnets, regardless of vessel size. Additionally, all sink gillnet vessels fishing under a Federal multispecies permit, regardless of where they are fishing, are subject to the porpoise bycatch reduction measures. Comment: Gillnet gear should be given credit, one commenter said, for being size-selective and for resulting in discards of juvenile finfish. Response: Once the time and area program has been in place (approximately 1 year from the date of implementation), the Council will evaluate the impact of the gillnet fishery on the mortality of groundfish stocks and develop management measures that are appropriate for the gillnet sector. Comment: Some commenters felt the harbor porpoise bycatch reduction program was a mechanism being used by other interests to close the sink gillnet fishery. Response: The Council's measures are designed to minimize impacts on the sink gillnet fishery, while at the same time achieve the stated harbor porpoise bycatch reduction objectives. The Council has held 16 public meetings since its initial commitment to incorporate bycatch measures in Amendment 5 and has involved the fishing community, conservation groups and interested parties in the development of the FMP. Comment: Several commenters felt it was inappropriate to use the harbor porpoise time and area closure plan to protect endangered whales. Response: As part of the Council's obligations under section 7 of the ESA, a consultation with NMFS is required if a fishery affects, either directly or indirectly, endangered or threatened species or any designated critical habitat. Because this framework adjustment represents a change in management measures for a gear type that has interactions with endangered species, the Council re-initiated the section 7 consultation developed for Amendment 5, identified potential interactions and has addressed them in the context of this framework adjustment. Comment: Many fishermen supported the use of ``pingers,'' sound emitting devices that increase an animal's awareness of nets, as a bycatch mitigation measure. A suggestion was made to use pingers in year 1 of implementation of Amendment 5 in conjunction with four-day blocks of time, but with no subsequent expansion of the days during which nets would be removed from the water in future years.
