FR940325-0-00024 FR940325-0-00007 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking In response to Mr. Jackson's petition, ATF published a notice of proposed rulemaking, Notice No. 783, in the Federal Register on October 27, 1993 (58 FR 57764), proposing the establishment of the Hames Valley viticultural area. The notice requested comments from all interested persons by December 27, 1993. Comments to Notice of Proposed Rulemaking One comment was received in response to the notice of proposed rulemaking (Notice No. 783). The comment was from Mr. Robert H. Denney and Ms. Shelley B. Denney of Robert Denney & Associates, one of the petitioners for the establishment of the Hames Valley viticultural area. This commenter states that the existing Monterey viticultural area covers a vast geographic and climatic area, from the cool Salinas Valley floor area close to Monterey Bay to inland valleys and foothills seventy miles to the south. According to Mr. and Ms. Denney, these southern valleys exhibit vastly different coastal influences and growing conditions. As a result, the varieties grown, their yields, quality characteristics and flavor components vary widely from Soledad on the north to Hames Valley on the south. Mr. and Ms. Denney state that, as growers and small business people, it is important to their economic well being to be able to differentiate the wine grapes they grow in Hames Valley from those produced in the cooler regions of the Monterey viticultural area. They further state that by being able to differentiate their grapes and, ultimately through their own efforts, the wineries that purchase their grapes, as well as the consumer, can identify and seek out their product for its unique character. Evidence That Viticultural Area Name Is Widely Known The name Hames Valley has been associated with this area since the latter part of the nineteenth century. The petitioner cites Donald T. Clark, Monterey County Place Names , p. 201 (1991), which states that the valley was named for John Hames who had extensive land holdings in the area. In addition, the name Hames Valley appears on the U.S.G.S. Bradley Quadrangle, 15 minute series, map of Bradley, California, and also appears on the U.S.G.S. 7.5 minute series map entitled Hames Valley. Additionally, the petitioner notes that there is a creek which runs through the valley named Hames Creek.
