FR940505-1-00151 FR940505-1-00012 ( b ) Control Strategy. As with commercial operations, the EPA examined various options for reducing total emissions from military aircraft operations and other base operations. These options included: (1) exempting military aircraft operations from FIP requirements while maintaining a cap on all other mobile source emissions from other base operations at military air stations; (2) an absolute cap on total emissions (including aircraft) under the direct control of the Department of Defense; and (3) a target based program using an allowable emission rate and a fee for excess emissions above this rate, like that proposed for commercial airports. EPA proposes the first of these three options. EPA is proposing to exclude military aircraft operations from FIP requirements for national security reasons, as explained in more detail below. Applying restrictions on military aircraft operations will inevitably degrade training and combat readiness. Restrictions would impair the ability of the Department of Defense to perform assigned missions (including humanitarian and natural disaster relief, surveillance, and logistic support). The options available for reducing emissions from military aircraft without requiring a significant decrease in the number of aircraft operations are minimal. Military aircraft are designed to specific mission requirements including power, maneuver, lift, and load. Application of control technologies to existing aircraft would degrade characteristics inherent in military aircraft design. Arbitrary reductions in aircraft operations that may be required to meet the second or third alternative control strategies listed above may be inconsistent with training and operational requirements necessary for national security. In selecting this proposal to exempt military aircraft operations from the FIP requirements, EPA has considered the approved base closings within California which will provide significant reductions in current emissions from stationary, aircraft and other mobile sources under the direct control of the Department of Defense. One consequence of these closures is that the reductions in operations least harmful to military readiness have already been made. The incremental risk to readiness of further reductions in operations is therefore that much more. The DOD established an internal FIP working group in December 1992 to examine the problems associated with potential FIP strategies, identify impacts to military operations and readiness, and collect data from military installations in the FIP areas. Several concerns have been identified. The principal concern is that although military aircraft operations contribute a very small portion of the total area-wide emissions, they would be severely restricted within an emissions cap. On military air installations, the predominant source of mobile emissions is aircraft and aircraft support operations. Severe restrictions will inevitably degrade training and combat readiness necessary to minimize the risks associated with military aviation. An emission cap or reduction in training operations may impair the ability to perform assigned national missions (including humanitarian relief, surveillance and logistics support). The options available for reducing mobile source emissions from military air stations without requiring a decrease in aircraft operations are minimal. Another issue is the limited ability for DOD to transfer aircraft to military air stations outside the FIP areas. To move a specific aircraft type requires that the receiving installation have the necessary infrastructure to accommodate that particular aircraft type. Additionally, permanent moves of military assets and personnel are also not fully at the discretion of the military. Any significant base closure action or realignment that meets certain thresholds requires that the action be presented to the BRAC Commission and subsequently be presented to Congress.
