FR940822-2-00011 FR940822-2-00008 k. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members conduct quality control studies and inspections of goods for export at point of shipment, point of arrival, and through the retail level. 2. With respect to fresh sweet cherries only, NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members establish export prices and quotas and allocate export quotas among growing regions and its Members. In allocating export quotas among growing regions and its Members, NFE, through employees or agents of NFE who are not also employees of a Member, may receive, and each Member may supply to such employees or agents of NFE, information as to such Member's actual total export shipments of fresh sweet cherries in any previous growing season or seasons, provided that such information is not disclosed by NFE to any other Member. 3. With respect to fresh apples only: a. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members establish export prices and quotas and allocate export quotas among growing regions and its Members, in connection with actual or potential bona fide export opportunities, provided that each Member shall remain free to deviate from established prices by whatever amount it sees fit. b. In allocating export quotas among growing regions and its Members, NFE, through employees or agents of NFE who are not also employees of a Member, may receive, and each Member may supply, information as to such Member's actual total export shipments of fresh apples in any previous growing season or seasons, provided that such information is not disclosed by NFE to any other Member, except in a coded form to members of the Board of Directors for use only at meetings and in connection with other official activities of the Board. c. NFE, through employees or agents of NFE who are not also employees of a Member, may receive, and each Member shall supply, the quantity it will offer for export, without the Member or NFE intentionally disclosing, directly or indirectly, the quantity to any other Member, except in a coded form to members of the Board of Directors for use only at meetings and in connection with other official activities of the Board. 6. Revise ``Terms and Conditions of Certificate'' to read as follows: (a) Except as provided in the second sentence of paragraph 2 and in paragraphs 3(b) and 3(c) of the Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation, a Member of NFE shall not intentionally disclose, directly or indirectly, to NFE or to any other Member any information about its own costs, output, capacity, inventories, domestic prices, domestic sales, domestic orders, terms of domestic marketing or sale, or U.S. business plans, strategies or methods that is not already generally available to the trade or public. (b) Export prices for the Products established by NFE shall not be expressed by NFE to individual Members in a form that sets out separately the values of components of such prices, except that export-specific components of export prices such as fees, commissions and charges payable to NFE, foreign sales agents, and transportation companies may be set out separately. (c) Meetings at which the Board of Directors of NFE establishes quotas, the allocation of quotas among Members, and export prices shall not be open to the public or to Members of NFE not represented on the Board of Directors. (d) NFE and its Members will comply with requests made by the Secretary of Commerce on behalf of the Secretary or the Attorney General for information or documents relevant to conduct under the Certificate. The Secretary of Commerce will request such information or documents when either the Attorney General or the Secretary of Commerce believes that the information or documents are required to determine that the Export Trade, Export Trade Activities, or Methods of Operation of a person protected by this Certificate of Review continue to comply with the standards of section 303(a) of the Act. (e) Participation by a Member in any Export Trade Activity or Method of Operation under the Certificate shall be entirely voluntary as to that Member, subject to the honoring of all phytosanitary and/or funding requirements by foreign governments for specific export transactions. A member may withdraw from coverage under the Certificate at any time by giving written notice to NFE. NFE will give notice of any such withdrawal by a Member to the Secretary of Commerce and the Attorney General in the next annual report by NFE. (f) With respect to fresh apples only: a. Each Member shall determine independently of other Members the quantity of fresh apples it will offer to export or sell through NFE; b. NFE may not solicit from any Member specific quantities for export or require any Member to export any minimum quantity of fresh apples. 7. Revise ``Definitions'' to read as follows: ``Member'' within the meaning of ยง325.2( l ) of the Regulations means the member companies of NFE set out in Attachment A and incorporated by reference. ``Coded form'' means a form that does not disclose the identity of a Member. A copy of the amended certificate will be kept in the International Trade Administration's Freedom of Information Records Inspection Facility, Room 4102, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Dated: August 16, 1994. W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20545 Filed 8&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DR&hyph;P
