FR940919-0-00047 FR940919-0-00014 Second, in the past year, an export market for juvenile silver hake has emerged. The potential demand from this new market and its impact on the stocks are unknown. Assessment scientists, while acknowledging that natural mortality rates of juvenile silver hake are high and that discards of juveniles in the traditional silver hake fisheries are excessive, caution against any increase in fishing effort directed at the juvenile sector. If juvenile mortality increases, the spawning stock biomass will decline and the catch of large silver hake in traditional fisheries will also decline. Generally, increasing the mesh size will delay the age at which fish become susceptible to the gear, thereby reducing juvenile mortality. Increasing the mesh size from 21/2 inches (6.35 cm) to 3 inches (7.62 cm), is intended to prevent a shift in the exploitation pattern to younger fish in order to supply the juvenile export market. With so many uncertainties and the need for caution surrounding the impacts of the emerging juvenile fishery and the displacement of effort from other fisheries, the Council has started preparing an FMP amendment to regulate fishing for silver hake. Except for the Cultivator Shoal program, fishing for silver hake is currently unregulated and an FMP amendment is required in order to establish a management regime for the entire fishery. However, because of the length of time required for the FMP amendment process, and due to the concerns stated by industry members, as noted above, the Council initiated this framework action for the purpose of implementing conservation measures as quickly as possible for the ongoing Cultivator Shoal fishery. Framework Adjustment 3 to the FMP limited the amount of regulated species onboard vessels using small mesh to either 500 lb (226.8 kg) or 10 percent of the weight of non-regulated species, whichever is less. In this rule, NMFS is adding language to the possession limit section with the intent of clarifying how this adjustment pertains to the Cultivator Shoal whiting fishery. NMFS is amending the multispecies regulations following the procedure for framework adjustments established by Amendment 5 and codified in 50 CFR 651, subpart C. The Council followed this procedure when making adjustments to the FMP, by developing and analyzing the actions over the span of a minimum of two Council meetings, on May 12 and June 29, 1994. The Council provided the public with advance notice of both the proposal and the analysis, and opportunity to comment on them prior to and at the June 29 Council meeting. Upon review of the analysis and public comment, the Council recommended to the Regional Director that the measures contained in Framework Adjustment 6 be published as a final rule. The Regional Director has further determined that the measures in Framework Adjustment 6 are appropriate to publish as a final rule. Comments and Responses In addition to the general public notification, the Council sent a letter to each person who applied for authorization to fish in the Cultivator Shoal Whiting Fishery Program informing him or her of the Council's intent to take action, describing the proposals under consideration, advising them of the availability of relevant documents and analysis, and inviting comment. During the comment period spanning the two required Council meetings, several members of the public commented in favor of the 3-inch (7.62-cm) mesh proposal, and one fisher opposed it on the grounds that it would reduce flexibility in using different mesh sizes. NMFS believes that an increase in mesh size is warranted to protect the juvenile component of the whiting stocks, and hence the long-term viability of the fishery. One individual questioned the scientific basis for the mesh-size increase. Generally, an increase in mesh size correlates with fewer small fish being caught, increasing the potential yield from the fishery by reducing the revenues lost due to discarding or industrial use of the catch. The traditionally preferred market size for silver hake has been 10 inches (25.4 cm) or greater. According to silver hake selection curves, approximately 22 percent of 10-inch (25.4-cm) fish would be caught by 3-inch (7.62-cm) mesh, as opposed to approximately 32 percent with a 21/2-inch (6.35-cm) mesh. With the increased selectivity of the larger mesh, discards that are predominantly of fish under 10 inches (25.4 cm) may be reduced significantly. Other comments focused on the minimum fish size and tolerance provision that the Council removed from its proposal. These comments were taken into account by the Council and NMFS in developing and approving these measures. Classification This final rule is exempt from review under E.O. 12866. The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA, finds there is good cause to waive prior notice and opportunity for comment under 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B). The provision of advance notice as described in this rule and public meetings held by the Council to discuss the management measures implemented by this rule provided adequate prior notice and opportunity for public comment to be considered. Thus, additional opportunity for public comment is unnecessary. Because no proposed rule was required, this action is exempt from the procedures of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 651 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: September 13, 1994. Gary Matlock, Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service.
