FR941205-0-00076 FR941205-0-00021 EPA Response: EPA has considered the comments contained in the letters provided by the commenter. EPA's final disapproval of the Virginia operating permits program as submitted on November 12, 1993 sufficiently addresses the concerns of the commenter. IV. Final Action and Implications A. Program Modification EPA is promulgating disapproval of the operating permits program submitted by the Commonwealth of Virginia on November 12, 1993, as supplemented on January 14, 1994. This disapproval constitutes a disapproval under section 502(d) of the CAA (see 57 FR 32253). Pursuant to section 502(d)(1), the Commonwealth has 180 days from the date of EPA's notification of the Governor of Virginia to revise and resubmit the program. EPA will notify the Governor of Virginia by letter that the Commonwealth has 180 days from the effective date of this final disapproval in which to make the necessary modifications to its operating permits program and resubmit it to EPA for review. Virginia must amend its operating permits program to correct the deficiencies and resubmit the program, including a revised Attorney General's opinion, to EPA for review. The notice of proposed disapproval and the Technical Support Document discuss Virginia's submittal in detail, and contain specific references to revisions and modifications necessary to obtain full approval. Once submitted, Virginia's operating permits program, including revised statutes and regulations, will undergo an additional notice and comment period before EPA takes final action on the program submittal. B. Sanctions Based on the disapproval of its operating permits program, the Commonwealth of Virginia may become subject to sanctions under the CAA. Pursuant to section 502(d)(2)(A), EPA may, at its discretion, apply any of the sanctions described in section 179(b) at any time subsequent to the effective date of this disapproval action. Furthermore, EPA is compelled by the CAA to apply one of the sanctions in section 179(b), as selected by the Administrator, on July 5, 1996, unless prior to that date the Commonwealth submits a revised operating permits program for Virginia and EPA determines that the Commonwealth has corrected the deficiencies that prompted this disapproval action. If, six (6) months after EPA applies the first sanction, Virginia has not submitted a revised program and EPA has not determined that the Commonwealth has corrected the deficiencies, a second sanction is required. Finally, if the Commonwealth of Virginia does not have an approved program by November 15, 1995, EPA must promulgate, administer, and enforce a Federal operating permits program for Virginia. Final Action EPA is disapproving the operating permits program submitted by the Commonwealth of Virginia on November 12, 1993, as supplemented on January 14, 1994. This disapproval constitutes a disapproval under section 502(d) of the CAA (see 57 FR 32253). As provided under section 502(d)(1) of the CAA, the Commonwealth will have up to 180 days from the date of EPA's notification of disapproval for the Governor of Virginia to revise and resubmit the program. EPA is disapproving this program on the basis that Virginia has not met the following five requirements: provision for adequate judicial standing; prevention of default permit issuance; reliance on permanent regulations; issuance of permits to the proper universe of sources; and issuance of permits that contain all applicable Federal requirements and correctly delineate provisions only enforceable by the Commonwealth. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has exempted this action from Executive Order 12866 review.
