FR941222-2-00035 FR941222-2-00030 Office of Energy Research Energy Research Financial Assistance Program Notice 95&hyph;11; Advanced Battery Technology Research and Development AGENCY: U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice inviting grant applications. SUMMARY: The Office of Basic Energy Sciences (BES) of the Office of Energy Research (ER), U.S. Department of Energy, hereby announces its interest in receiving grant applications to support a continuing program for advanced battery technology research and development focused on batteries for the consumer market. Batteries and battery-like devices are a mainstay of contemporary electronic, information, and transportation industries. The performance of batteries is often the limiting factor that hinders the development of improved portable devices such as cellular telephones, laptop computers, hand held tools, and other consumer products. Stringent environmental requirements impose restrictions on the use of battery materials and components deemed to be harmful not only to the environment but also to human well being. The objective of this effort is to develop new generic battery technology for a wide range of non-automotive uses, with particular emphasis on improvements in battery size, weight, life, and recharge cycles. The interest is in novel research and technology development, and not in research leading to incremental improvements in existing devices. For the purpose of this notice, batteries for transportation and fuel cells are excluded from consideration. DATES: Formal applications submitted in response to this notice must be received by 4:30 p.m., E.S.T., February 2, 1995, to be accepted for merit review in early 1995 and to permit timely consideration for award in Fiscal Year 1995. ADDRESSES: Formal applications referencing Program Notice 95&hyph;11 should be forwarded to: U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Research, Acquisition and Assistance Management Division, ER&hyph;64, (GTN) Washington, D.C. 20585, Attn: Program Notice 95&hyph;11. The following address must be used when submitting applications by U.S. Postal Service Express Mail, any commercial mail delivery service, or when handcarried by the applicant: U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Research, Acquisition and Assistance Management Division, ER&hyph;64, 19901 Germantown Road, Germantown, MD 20874. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Robert S. Marianelli, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Chemical Sciences Division, ER&hyph;14, GTN, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. 20585. Telephone: (301) 903&hyph;5804. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department's intention for this program is to use a limited amount of money to stimulate as much research and development as possible on new battery technologies. Accordingly, applicants are encouraged to collaborate with industry and to incorporate cost sharing and consortia wherever feasible. The extent of collaboration and cost sharing may be considered when DOE selects applicants for support under this program. Appropriate topics for research are: Electrode research including investigations of graphitized and composite electrodes for Li + cells, metal hydrides, bifunctional air electrodes, fundamental studies of composite electrode structures, the failure and degradation of active electrode materials, and thin-film electrodes, electrolytes, and interfaces. Consideration will also be given to secondary aqueous zinc cells and the problems of overcharge/overdischarge, power capability, and cyclability of anodes in lithium cells, oxidative degradation of electrolytes by high voltage cathodes, and highly conductive thin-film ceramic electrodes. Appropriate topics in the area of characterization and methodologies include problems of electrode morphology, zinc corrosion, separator/electrolyte stability and stable microelectrodes. Also of interest are investigations in computational chemistry, modeling, and simulations, including property predictions, phenomenological studies of reactions and interactions at critical interfaces, film formation, phase change effects on electrodes and characterization of crystalline and amorphous materials. Other topics of interest include novel battery separators and the transport properties of electrode and electrolyte materials and surface films. A detailed listing of research needs for battery technology appears in the report of a ``Workshop on Advanced Battery Technology Research and Development''. Copies are available on request from the U.S. Department of Energy, Chemical Sciences Division, Office of Energy Research, ER&hyph;14, Washington, D.C. 20585. Telephone requests may be made by calling (301) 903&hyph;5804. It is anticipated that $600,000 will be available for grant awards during FY 1995, contingent upon availability of appropriated funds. The number of awards and the range of funding will depend on the number of applications received and selected for award. Information about the development and submission of applications, eligibility, limitations, evaluation, selection process, and other policies and procedures may be found in the Application Guide for the Office of Energy Research Financial Assistance Program and 10 CFR Part 605. The application guide is available from the U.S. Department of Energy, Chemical Sciences Division, Office of Energy Research, ER&hyph;14, Washington, D.C. 20585. Telephone requests may be made by calling (301) 903&hyph;5804. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number for this program is 81.049, and the solicitation control number is ERFAP 10 CFR part 605. Issued in Washington, D.C. on December 9, 1994. D. D. Mayhew, Director, Office of Management Office of Energy Research. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31497 Filed 12&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
