FR940603-1-00047 FR940603-1-00009 (2) The borrower must use REA Form 831, Electric Transmission Construction Contract, for construction of transmission lines (except for minor modifications or improvements). (b) Procurement procedures. It is the responsibility of each borrower to determine the procurement method that best meets its needs to award contracts not requiring REA approval for up to a cumulative total of $250,000 or one percent of NUP (not to exceed $2,000,000), whichever is greater, per calendar year of substation and transmission line construction, exclusive of the cost of owner furnished materials and equipment. The borrower shall use formal competitive bidding for all other contract construction, including all contracts requiring REA approval. (c) Contract approval. Individual contracts in excess of $250,000 or one percent of NUP (not to exceed $500,000), whichever is greater, exclusive of the cost of owner furnished materials and equipment, are subject to REA approval. §§1726.78&hyph;1726.124 [Reserved] ` Subpart D_Generation Facilities §1726.125 Generating plant facilities. This section covers the construction of all portions of a generating plant, including plant buildings and the generator step-up transformer. Generally, the transmission switchyard will be covered under this section during initial construction of the plant. Subpart C of this part covers subsequent modifications to transmission switchyards. Office buildings, warehouses, and equipment service type buildings are covered under subpart E of this part. (a) Contract forms. (1) The borrower must use REA Form 198, Equipment Contract, for the purchase of generating plant equipment in excess of $1,500,000 and for any generating plant equipment contract requiring REA approval. (2) The borrower must use REA Form 200, Construction Contract_Generating, for construction of generating projects estimated to cost in excess of $1,500,000 and for any generating project construction contract requiring REA approval. (3) The borrower may, in its discretion, use other contract or purchase order forms for those contracts estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 and do not require REA approval. (b) Plans and specifications. The borrower shall obtain REA approval of the plans and specifications for generating plant equipment prior to issuing invitations to bid for a contract subject to REA approval as determined under this subpart, and for any contract for generating plant equipment or construction which the project engineer estimates will cost in excess of $1,500,000 or requires REA approval. Plans and specifications for other equipment and construction contracts do not require REA approval and need not be submitted to REA unless specifically requested by REA on a case by case basis. (c) Procurement procedures. If the estimated cost of the contract exceeds $1,500,000 or if the contract requires REA approval, the borrower must use formal or informal competitive bidding to award the contract. Where formal or informal competitive bidding is not applicable, or does not result in a responsive bid, multiparty negotiation may be used only after REA approval is obtained. (d) Contract approval. During the early stages of generating plant design or project design, REA will, in consultation with the borrower and its consulting engineer, identify the specific contracts which require REA approval based on information supplied in the plant design manual. The following are typical contracts for each type of generating project which will require REA approval. Although engineering services are not covered by this part, they are listed in this paragraph (d) to emphasize that REA approval is required for all generating station engineering service contracts. For types of projects not shown, such as nuclear and alternate energy projects, REA will identify the specific contracts which will require REA approval on a case by case basis. (1) Fossil generating stations. Engineering services, steam generator, turbine generator, flue gas desulfurization system, particulate removal system, electric wiring and control systems, mechanical equipment installation (including turbine installation and plant piping), power plant building (foundation and superstructure), site preparation, coal unloading and handling facilities, main step-up substation, cooling towers, and dams or reservoirs. (2) Diesel and combustion turbine plants. Engineering services, prime mover and generator, building (foundation and superstructure), and electrical control systems.
