FR940511-1-00081 FR940511-1-00013 The solid residuals generated in organobromine chemicals production are currently being shipped off site to commercial Subtitle D landfills and to Subtitle C disposal facilities, even though some of these residuals are not regulated as hazardous wastes. Other wastes ( e.g., spent adsorbents, filter cakes, and floor sweepings) are being incinerated. At the smaller firms production contracts specify that wastes be shipped to incinerators operated by the pharmaceutical industry in order to minimize future potential liability. The most plausible mismanagement scenario for solids is placement in unlined Subtitle D landfills. The plants currently are not required to send unregulated wastes to Subtitle C facilities. Because of the lower cost and wider availability of Subtitle D facilities, the Agency feels that this is the most reasonable mismanagement scenario. C. Description of Health and Risk Assessments The Agency realizes that it has incomplete toxicological data on several constituents identified in individual waste streams. Nevertheless, sufficient information does exist to reach the reasoned decisions shown in Tables 2a␣&␣b. The rationale for these decisions follows. Table 2a._ Basis for Listing Determination 1Product 1Wastestream 1Analysis 1Decision Dibromomethane Filters De minimis stream (less than 1 kkg/yr) One producer No list. ␣ Wastewaters Deep well injected at site with approved-no migration petition (only one producer) No list. Ethyl bromide Filters De minimis stream (less than 1.5 kkg/yr) No list. ␣ Wastewaters Only constituent identified is ethanol at low concentration No list. Tetrabromobisphenol A Wastewaters Stream is already listed as K131 for methyl bromide. Also contains 15,000 ppm tribromophenol Already listed waste. Octabromodiphenyl oxide Filter cake Toluene and brominated dibenzofurans present at levels below concern. Assuming worst case for leachate, risk estimated to be below 10 ^6 for octabromodiphenyl oxide No list. ␣ Wastewaters Major constituent of concern, brominated dibenzofurans, shows minimal risk; solubility of octabromodiphenyl oxide is very low; modelling of worst case for wastewaters showed risk below 10 ^6 for octabromodiphenyl oxide No list Decabromodiphenyl oxide Filter cake The major constituent in waste (decabromodiphenyl oxide) could not be quantified. Assuming worst case for leachate, risk below 10 ^6 level because of very low solubility for this chemical No list. ␣ Wastewaters The major constituent in waste (decabromodiphenyl oxide) could not be quantified. Assuming worst case for leachate, risk below 10 ^6 level because of very low solubility No list.
