FR940317-1-00005 FR940317-1-00002 Section 955.42(f), of the marketing order provides authority for the Committee to impose a late payment or an interest charge or both, on any handlers who fail to pay assessments in a timely manner. On November 18, 1993, the Committee met to discuss, among other things, the difficulty it has experienced in collecting assessments from some handlers. It reported that during the past season approximately 20 handlers paid assessments late. When this occurred, handlers who paid their assessments on time were placed in an unfair situation compared to those handlers who failed to do so. The delinquent handlers were able to use the money which was due the Committee for other financial obligations and thus eliminate interest charges on money that they might otherwise have had to borrow to pay those other financial obligations. This money could also have been invested to earn interest for the delinquent handlers. At the meeting, the Committee determined that it was important to encourage all handlers to pay their assessments promptly, thereby eliminating these inequities and avoiding additional and unnecessary collection costs. The Committee recommended the following proposal. If a handler does not pay all of the handler's assessments 30 days after the date of billing, the unpaid portion of the account would be considered delinquent and subject to interest charges at the rate of one percent per month. Handlers would be charged interest charges on unpaid assessments and interest charges on any unpaid interest charges until the late obligation is paid in full. The Committee assesses handlers on a monthly basis. The Committee believes that the proposed interest charge is high enough to discourage handlers from delaying assessment payments. Thus, this proposal is expected to encourage all handlers to pay their assessments in a timely manner, and facilitate the collection of funds to pay expenses necessary for the maintenance and functioning of the Committee. Based on the above, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. A period of fifteen days is provided for all interested persons to submit written comments. The Committee would like the proposal to be effective as soon as possible so that efforts to encourage timely payments can be implemented early in 1994. All comments timely received will be considered before issuing a final decision on this proposal. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 955 Marketing agreements, Onions, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR part 955 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 955_VIDALIA ONIONS GROWN IN GEORGIA 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 955 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. 2. Section 955.142 is proposed to be added to read as follows: ยง955.142 Delinquent assessments. Each handler shall pay interest of one percent per month on any unpaid assessments levied pursuant to section 955.42 and any accrued unpaid interest beginning 30 days after date of billing, until the delinquent handler's assessment plus applicable interest has been paid in full. Dated: March 11, 1994. Martha B. Ransom, Acting Deputy Director, Fruit and Vegetable Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6150 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
