FR941216-1-00024 FR941216-1-00009 ยง92.4 Authority of notarizing officers of the Department of State under Federal law. (a) All notarizing officers are required, when application is made to them within the geographic limits of their consular district, to administer to and take from any person any oath, affirmation, affidavit, or deposition, and to perform any notarial act which any notary public is required or authorized by law to perform within the United States. With respect to notarial acts performed by notarizing officers away from their office, see 92.7. Notarial acts shall be performed only if their performance is authorized by treaty provisions or is permitted by the laws or authorities of the country wherein the notarizing officer is stationed. (b) These acts may be performed for any person regardless of nationality so long as the document in connection with which the notarial service is required is for use within the jurisdiction of the Federal Government of the United States or within the jurisdiction of one of the States or Territories of the United States. (However, see also 92.6.). Within the Federal jurisdiction of the United States, these acts, when certified under the hand and seal of office of the notarizing officer are valid and of like force and effect as if performed by any duly authorized and competent person within the United States. Documents bearing the seal and signature of a secretary of embassy or legation, consular officer (including consul general, vice consul or consular agent) are admissible in evidence within the Federal jurisdiction without proof of any such seal or signature being genuine or of the official character of the notarizing officer. (c) Every notarizing officer may perform notarial acts for use in countries occupied by the United States or under its administrative jurisdiction, provided the officer has reason to believe that the notarial act will be recognized in the country where it is intended to be used. These acts may be performed for United States citizens and for nationals of the occupied or administered countries, who reside outside such countries, except in areas where another government is protecting the interests of the occupied or administered country. * * * * * 5. Section 92.5 is revised to read as follows: ยง92.5 Acceptability of notarial acts under State or territorial law. The acceptability within the jurisdiction of a State or Territory of the United States of a certificate of a notarial act performed by a notarizing officer depends upon the laws of the State or Territory. 6. Section 92.6 introductory paragraph and paragraph (b) are revised to read as follows: ยง92.6 Authority of notarizing officers under international practice. Although such services are not mandatory, notarizing officers may, as a courtesy, perform notarial acts for use in countries with which the United States has formal diplomatic and consular relations. Generally the applicant for such service will be a United States citizen or a national of the country in which the notarized document will be used. The notarizing officer's compliance with a request for a notarial service of this type should be based on the reasonableness of the request and the absence of any apparent irregularity. When a notarizing officer finds it advisable to do so, the officer may question the applicant to such extent as may be necessary to be assured of the the reasonableness of the request and the absence of irregularity. * * * * *
