FR941202-2-00184 FR941202-2-00098 3.6.4.10␣General Health and Safety Procedures The responsibility for promulgating and enforcing occupational safety and health standards rests with the U.S. Department of Labor. 1 While it is not within the scope of the assessment team to evaluate all health and safety regulations, any obviously unsafe condition(s) should be described to the appropriate laboratory official, and reported to the appropriate state or federal agency. The accreditation on- site assessment is not intended to certify that the laboratory is in compliance with all applicable health and safety regulations. 1 Handbook for Analytical Quality Control in Water and Wastewater Laboratories , EPA&hyph;600/4&hyph;70&hyph;019, March 1979. 3.6.4.11␣Laboratory Waste Disposal Assessment The assessor(s) should ask if adequate facilities are available for the collection, storage and/or treatment (if applicable) of all laboratory wastes. The waste disposal system(s) should be operated in such a manner to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any wastewater discharge permits and regulations. It is the laboratory's responsibility to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste regulations. The accreditation on-site assessment is not intended to certify that the laboratory is in compliance with all applicable waste disposal regulations. 3.7␣Documentation of On-Site Assessment 3.7.1␣Checklists The checklists used by the assessors during the assessment should become a part of the permanent file kept by the NELAP/State on each laboratory. 3.7.2␣Report Format Evaluation reports should be generated in a narrative format, allowing for differences in style and technique between accrediting authorities. Deficiencies must be addressed at a minimum, however, documentation of positive aspects should be included. Documentation of existing conditions at the laboratory should be included in each report to serve as a baseline for future contacts with the facility. 3.7.3␣Distribution The accrediting authority should be recognized as having the responsibility for the content of the evaluation reports. The team leader should compile, edit and submit the final report to the accrediting authority. The team leader must assure that the results within the final report conform to established criteria for the evaluated parameters. 3.7.4␣Report Deadline No longer than thirty (30) days should elapse from the last day of an on-site evaluation until the report is submitted to the accrediting authority for review and final decision. 3.7.5␣Release of Report On-site evaluation reports should be released by the accrediting authority only. The reports will be released to the management of the affected laboratory and to those persons nominated by the laboratory to receive a copy of the report. The assessment report shall not be released until the assessment and all other appropriate action has been completed. In accordance with the Freedom of Information requirements, any documentation adjudged to be proprietary, financial and/or trade information will be considered exempt from release to the public. 3.7.6␣Report Storage Time At a minimum, copies of all evaluation reports must be retained by the evaluators and the accrediting authority for a period of five years, or longer if required by regulation.
