FR941027-2-00139 FR941027-2-00082 Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 13 to 22 hours per response, with an average of 17.5 hours, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the U.S. Department of Education, Information Management and Compliance Division, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4651; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project 1875&hyph;0102, Washington, DC 20503. Instructions for Ed Form No. 524 General Instructions This form is used to apply to individual U.S. Department of Education discretionary grant programs. Unless directed otherwise, provide the same budget information for each year of the multi-year funding request. Pay attention to applicable program specific instructions, if attached. Section A_Budget Summary: U.S. Department of Education Funds All applicants must complete Section A and provide a breakdown by the applicable budget categories shown in lines 1&hyph;11. Lines 1&hyph;11, columns (a)&hyph;(e): For each project year for which funding is requested, show the total amount requested for each applicable budget category. Lines 1&hyph;11, column (f): Show the multi-year total for each budget category. If funding is requested for only one project year, leave this column blank. Line 12, columns (a)&hyph;(e): Show the total budget request for each project year for which funding is requested. Line 12, column (f): Show the total amount requested for all project years. If funding is requested for only one year, leave this space blank. Section B_Budget Summary: Non-Federal Funds If you are required to provide or volunteer to provide matching funds or other non-Federal resources to the project, these should be shown for each applicable budget category on lines 1&hyph;11 of Section B. Lines 1&hyph;11, columns (a)&hyph;(e): For each project year for which matching funds or other contributions are provided, show the total contribution for each applicable budget category. Lines 1&hyph;11, column (f): Show the multi-year total for each budget category. If non-Federal contributions are provided for only one year, leave this column blank. Line 12, columns (a)&hyph;(e): Show the total matching or other contribution for each project year. Line 12, column (f): Show the total amount to be contributed for all years of the multi-year project. If non-Federal contributions are provided for only one year, leave this space blank. Section C_Other Budget Information Pay attention to applicable program specific instructions, if attached. 1. Provide an itemized budget breakdown, by project year, for each budget category listed in Sections A and B. 2. If applicable to this program, enter the type of indirect rate (provisional, predetermined, final or fixed) that will be in effect during the funding period. In addition, enter the estimated amount of the base to which the rate is applied, and the total indirect expense. 3. If applicable to this program, provide the rate and base on which fringe benefits are calculated. 4. Provide other explanations or comments you deem necessary. BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN270C94.022 E:GRAPHICSEN270C94.023 BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;C
