FR940324-1-00065 FR940324-1-00020 §170.33 Notice of road construction projects in lieu of hearing. When no public hearing is scheduled for a road construction project, notice of the road construction project shall be given at least 90 calendar days before the date construction is scheduled to begin. The notice shall give the project name and location, the type of improvement planned, the date construction is scheduled to start, and the name and address of the office where more information can be obtained, and provisions for requesting a hearing within a set time. The notice shall be posted or published as determined by the Superintendent. §170.34 Notice of public hearing. Notice shall be given to inform the local public of the scheduled hearing. The notice should give the date, time, and place of the scheduled hearing; the project location; the proposed work to be done; the place where the preliminary plans may be reviewed; and the place where more information on the project can be obtained. The notice shall be posted or published as determined by the Superintendent. Notice shall be given at least 30 calendar days before the scheduled date of the public hearing. A second notice of hearing is optional at the discretion of the Agency Superintendent. §170.35 Record of hearing proceedings. A record of the hearing shall be made, which shall include a summary of verbal testimony and all written statements that are submitted at the hearing or within five (5) working days following the hearing. §170.36 Conducting the public hearing. (a) The Superintendent shall appoint a tribal or BIA official to preside at the public hearing and to maintain a free and open discussion designed to reach early and amicable resolution of issues. (b) The Superintendent shall be responsible for maintaining the official record of the hearings and shall make arrangements for appropriate officials to be present at the hearing to be responsive to questions that may arise. (c) The purpose of the hearing and an agenda of items to be discussed should be presented at the beginning of the hearing. It shall be made clear at the hearing that the tribal government or designated roads committee are responsible for setting reservation road priorities and for considering public comments and the merits of one road project over another. Sufficient maps and project plans will be available at the hearing for public review. The hearing audience should be informed of the BIA road construction and right-of-way acquisition procedures on reservations. If the project will require relocating residences or businesses, information on relocation services and authorized payments shall be given in accordance with the Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act, Pub. L. 91&hyph;646, 84 Stat. 1894 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq . as amended). §170.37 Written statements. At the public hearing, written statements may be submitted to the presiding official, either in lieu of or in addition to oral statements. Written statements also may be submitted to the Agency Superintendent during the five working days following the hearing. §170.38 Hearing statement. The Superintendent shall issue a hearing statement summarizing the results of the public hearing and the determination of the further action to be taken in connection with the proposed project. The hearing statement shall be issued within 20 working days of the date of the public hearing. The hearing statement shall be posted at the place where the hearing was held, and may be sent to interested persons upon request. The hearing statement shall outline procedures whereby the determination may be appealed. §170.39 Appeals. Any determination concerning the proposed road project may be appealed in accordance with the procedures set forth in 25 CFR part 2. §170.40 Information collection requirements. There are no information collection requirements contained in this part which require the approval of the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 1501. §170.41 Roadless and wild areas. Roads passable to motor transportation shall not be constructed under the regulations in this part within the boundaries of the roadless and wild areas established in 25 CFR part 265, chapter 1. Approval Date: February 1, 1994. Ada E. Deer, Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6876 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;02&hyph;P
