FR940429-0-00181 FR940429-0-00015 The Secretary believes that additional changes are appropriate in the regulations to prevent institutions from establishing elongated instructional schedules that do not require an appropriate workload throughout that period for a full-time student. Institutions offering credit hour programs without terms have more flexibility in shifting the workload requirements for their programs over an indefinite period, and the Secretary believes that it is appropriate to establish some minimum instructional periods that must be used for full-time students attending these institutions. No corresponding changes need to be made where students are already required to receive a minimum amount of clock hours of training per week to be full- time students, or where the institution has fixed terms. The Secretary also believes it is important to ensure through regulations that full-time students are performing comparable workloads regardless of the type of institution they are attending, and that such work should be ratably allocated throughout the period of instruction. The Secretary notes that this is an area of abuse that is not fully addressed by the implementation of the ``clock hour/credit hour'' regulations. Rather than changing the proposed definition of full-time student to require measurement of student workloads, a modification is being made to require a minimum number of days of instruction per week for institutions that offer credit hour programs without terms. A discussion of the specific change is included in the section of the Analysis of Comments and Changes that addresses the definition academic year (ยง668.2). Changes: None. Undergraduate student. Comments: Several commenters objected to defining an undergraduate student as a student who has not earned a baccalaureate or first professional degree. The commenters noted that this would prevent students who were pursuing further undergraduate studies from receiving any Title IV, HEA program assistance. The commenters noted that this was a departure from current departmental practice that permits such a student to receive assistance under the Title IV, HEA loan programs. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes that there are legitimate reasons supported by statute for separate definitions of an undergraduate student based upon the different statutory requirements for the various Title IV, HEA program regulations. The Secretary believes it is not appropriate at this time to include a general definition of an undergraduate student in the Student Assistance General Provisions regulations. Changes: The definition of undergraduate student has been removed from these final regulations. Third-party servicer. Comments: Many commenters asked the Secretary not to include computer services or software in the examples of activities that constitute administration of a Title IV, HEA program, on the grounds that this type of service encompasses activities in a broad spectrum, from computer software distributors of popular commercial spreadsheet programs to computer on-line Federal news services. Several commenters stated that computer services are simply technological means utilized in administering the programs; computer servicers who actually perform administrative functions would be covered, therefore there is no need to separately include such providers in the definition. Other commenters argued for the inclusion of computer services or software in the examples of a Title IV-related activity. These commenters argued that it was necessary to include providers of computer services and software in the definition of third-party servicer because many distributors of software certify that their computer programs_represented to satisfy Title IV, HEA program requirements_comply with all applicable Title IV, HEA program requirements. As a result, institutions contracting with a provider for the software take for granted that the software is in compliance with all Title IV, HEA program requirements. If a violation of a Title IV, HEA program requirement occurs because of the software, the provider of that software should be held responsible. Several commenters argued that those software providers could be subject to potential liabilities for Title IV, HEA program violations, even though the computer programs of the provider could be modified by the user. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with those commenters who either objected to the inclusion of computer services or software providers in the examples of Title IV-related activities, or who saw no need to separately include such providers. In adopting the definition of third-party servicer, the Secretary is not including providers of those services or software because the Secretary believes that this type of service is simply a technological means to assist in carrying out certain administrative functions that are already included in the proposed definition of a third-party servicer. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters were concerned that a third-party servicer could avoid the requirements of these regulations by simply not entering into a written contract with an eligible institution to administer any aspect of that institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. The commenters recommended that the regulations stipulate that the acceptance of fees by the servicer from the institution for administration of any aspect of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program would constitute a contract with the institution for purposes of the definition of third-party servicer under these regulations. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the commenters that a third-party servicer that contracts with an eligible institution could be exempt from these regulations simply by not executing a written contract with that institution. A third-party servicer is defined as anyone who contracts with an institution, and is not limited to only those entering a written contractual agreement. Oral contracts, payment of fees for services rendered and other arrangements also constitute enforceable contracts. The Secretary recognizes these types of contracts and will consider an individual or organization employing such a method to contract with an institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs to be a third-party servicer and therefore subject to these regulations. The Secretary cautions institutions and third-party servicers that verbal contracts or other non-written contracts do not exempt institutions from documenting in writing the contractual obligations of both parties, including the requirements in ยง668.25, and submitting a copy to the Secretary, if so instructed by the Secretary. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter felt that the activities of Multiple Data Entry (MDE) Processors and the Central Processor should be included in the examples of what constitutes administration of participation in a Title IV, HEA program because the data generated by MDEs or the Central Processor is the foundation for determining a student's eligibility for Title IV, HEA program assistance. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the commenter. The Secretary has previously explained in the NPRM published on February 17, 1994, that MDEs serve under contract with the Department and are already bound by that contract and other Department of Education requirements. Therefore, the Secretary does not believe it necessary to separately regulate MDE activities as part of these regulations. Changes: None.
