FR940405-1-00076 FR940405-1-00013 Table IV&hyph; 9._ Prevalence of ETS Exposure for Nonsmoking Workers1 1Subject category 1Count 1Percent Exposed at work and home 99 29.22 Exposed at home, not at work 23 6.78 Exposed at work, not at home 165 48.67 Not exposed at work or home 52 15.34 1Data source: Cummings reanalysis [Ex. 4&hyph;69]. D. OSHA's Estimates of Risk_Environmental Tobacco Smoke Exposure The incidence of disease due to occupational exposure in nonsmokers was estimated using the following methodology: The expected number of cases, N e , in nonsmoking workers who are occupationally exposed to ETS is expressed by: N e =N d ^ N * I u = N * (I p ^ I u ) where: N e is the cases in nonsmoking exposed workers attributable to ETS per year N d is the estimated number of cases per year in nonsmoking workers N is the number of nonsmoking workers in the U.S. I u is the incidence rate of disease among the unexposed workers I p is the U.S. population incidence rate for nonsmokers The number of nonsmoking workers (N) was estimated by multiplying the percent of currently employed adults who report to be nonsmokers by the number of adult, employed, civilian noninstitutional population, as reported by BLS. The number of nonsmoking workers with disease per year (N d ) was estimated as N d =N * I p . The U.S. population incidence rate of lung cancer for nonsmoking women is reported to be 0.121 per one thousand nonsmoking women. The lung cancer incidence for nonsmoking males is estimated to be higher. For the purpose of this risk assessment, OSHA used 0.121 as the population incidence rate of lung cancer for nonsmokers. This will most likely result in an underestimate of the true risk for male workers. The average annual incidence rate for death from coronary heart disease excluding strokes for nonsmokers age 35 to 64 is estimated to be 4 per one thousand men and 2 per one thousand women, as reported by the Framingham study. This results in an overall weighted average of 3 deaths per one thousand individuals. The incidence rate of disease (I u ) among the unexposed workers is estimated using the relationship: I u = I p / [RR * p e + (1^p e )] where: RR is the observed relative risk of disease for nonsmokers exposed to ETS p e is the proportion of nonsmoking workers exposed to ETS while at work. OSHA used 1.34 as an observed estimate of relative risk (RR) for lung cancer among nonsmokers with occupational exposure as reported by Fontham et al. [Ex. 4&hyph;106]. Estimates of observed relative risk for heart disease in nonsmokers, as reported by Helsing et al. (1.24 for females and 1.31 for males), were used in calculating an overall adjusted relative risk estimate of 1.28 [Ex. 4&hyph;139]. The adjusted relative risk was a weighted average of the reported relative risks using the gender composition of the U.S. workforce as weights ((1.24*45.64 + 1.31*54.36/100) = 1.28). The proportion of nonsmoking workers exposed to ETS while at work (p e ) was assumed to range from 18.81 to 48.67 as stated previously. OSHA chose to rely on the Fontham and Helsing studies for estimates of the observed relative risks for several reasons. Both studies were conducted in the U.S. Both are large, population-based studies whose results can be generalized to the general public. Both studies, by design, controlled for misclassification to a large degree. The Helsing study, which was done in the 60's_a time when smoking was more acceptable than more recently, and being a prospective cohort study, was less prone to misclassification and other sources of bias. The Fontham study used multiple sources to ascertain nonsmoking status and validate subject response. Study subjects were questioned twice; the self-reported nonsmoking status was corroborated by urinary cotinine measurements; and medical records were cross-referenced with the physician's assessment. In addition, in the Fontham study, information on occupational exposure was collected and an estimate of lung cancer risk attributable to the workplace exposure was ascertained. The annual risk of disease attributable to occupational exposure to ETS was estimated by dividing the expected number of cases (N e ) by the number of nonsmoking workers in the U.S. population. Table IV&hyph;10 presents the annual risk attributable to occupational exposure to ETS per 1,000 exposed employees. Because section (6)(b)(5) of the OSH Act states that no employee shall suffer ``material impairment of health or functional capacity even if such an employee has regular exposure to the hazard dealt with *␣*␣* for the period of his working life'', OSHA has converted the attributable annual risk into an attributable lifetime risk on the assumption that a worker is employed in his or her occupation for 45 years. Lifetime estimates of risk attributable to occupational ETS are presented in Table IV&hyph;10. Information contained in Table IV&hyph;10 indicates that for every 1,000 workers exposed to ETS, approximately 1 will most likely develop lung cancer and 7 to 16 will develop heart disease if they are exposed to ETS at their workplace in the course of a 45-year working lifetime. The formula used to calculate lifetime risk estimates the probability of at least one occurrence of disease in 45 years of continuous exposure and assumes independence of events from year to year. It also assumes that the worker's exposure profile and working conditions that may affect the level and intensity of exposure remain constant throughout a working lifetime.
