FR941103-0-00140 FR941103-0-00017 B. Upland Game Hunting. Upland game hunting is permitted throughout the district except that no hunting is permitted on the Townsend, Headquarters, or Mavis Waterfowl Production Areas in Otter Tail County. C. Big Game Hunting. Big game hunting is permitted throughout the district except that no hunting is permitted on the Townsend, headquarters, or Mavis Waterfowl Production Areas in Otter Tail County. D. Sport Fishing. Sport fishing is permitted throughout the district except that no fishing is permitted on the Townsend, Headquarters, or Mavis Waterfowl Production Areas in Otter Tail County. Minnesota Valley National Wildlife Refuge * * * * * B. Upland Game Hunting. Hunting of pheasant, grey and fox squirrel, cottontail rabbit, and turkey is permitted on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions: 1. Permits may be required. 2. Only shotguns and bows and arrows are permitted. * * * * * Morris Wetland Management District A. Hunting of Migratory Game Birds. Hunting of migratory game birds is permitted throughout the district except that no hunting is permitted on designated portions of the Edwards-Long Lake Waterfowl Production Area in Stevens County. B. Upland Game Hunting. Upland game hunting is permitted throughout the district except that no hunting is permitted on designated portions of the Edwards-Long Lake Waterfowl Production Area in Stevens County. C. Big Game Hunting. Big game hunting is permitted throughout the district except that no hunting is permitted on designated portions of the Edwards-Long Lake Waterfowl Production Area in Stevens County. D. Sport Fishing. Sport fishing is permitted throughout the district except that no fishing is permitted on designated portions of the Edwards-Long Lake Waterfowl Production Area in Stevens County. * * * * * 16. Section 32.43 Mississippi is amended by revising paragraphs A., B., C., D.4., D.5., D.6., and adding paragraph D.7 to Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge to read as follows: §32.43 Mississippi. * * * * * Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge A. Hunting of Migratory Game Birds. Hunting of waterfowl, coots, and woodcock is permitted on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Permits are required except for woodcock. B. Upland Game Hunting. Hunting of quail, squirrel, rabbit, beaver, raccoon and opossum is permitted on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions: 1. Only shotguns with shot size no larger than # 4 and rifles larger than .22 standard caliber are permitted. 2. Only non-toxic shot is permitted in greentree reservoirs. 3. Squirrel and rabbit dogs are permitted after the last day of the refuge deer hunt. C. Big Game Hunting. Hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey is permitted on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Permits are required except for turkey. D. Sport Fishing. *␣*␣* * * * * * 4. All trotline material must be cotton twine. Each trotline must have floats attached at each end with the name and address of the owner. One trotline per person and no more than two trotlines per boat. Trotlines must be tended every 24 hours and removed when not in use. 5. Jug fishing is permitted. Each jug must have the name and address of the owner attached and jugs must be removed after 48 hours.
