FR940830-0-00097 FR940830-0-00013 * * * * * (3) Repayment. A CGP PHA that receives assistance for its emergency needs from the reserve under §968.103(b) must repay such assistance from its future allocations of assistance, where available. For PHAs participating in the CGP, HUD shall deduct up to 50 percent of a PHA's succeeding year's formula allocation under §968.103 (e) and (f) to repay emergency funds previously provided by HUD to the PHA. The remaining balance, if any, shall be deducted from a PHA's succeeding years' formula allocations. * * * * * 20. Section 968.315 is amended by revising the section heading; by adding three sentences to the end of paragraph (a)(1); by revising paragraphs (b), (c)(1) and (c)(5); by adding a new paragraph (d); and by adding the OMB control number to the end of the section, to read as follows: §968.315 Allocation of assistance. (a) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* On an annual basis, HUD will transmit to the PHA, the formula characteristics report which reflects the data that will be used to determine the PHA's formula share. The PHA will have at least 30 calendar days to review and advise HUD of errors in this HUD report. Necessary adjustments will be made to the PHA's data before the formula is run for the current FFY. * * * * * (b) HUD notification of formula amount; appeal rights_ (1) Formula amounts notification. After HUD determines a PHA's formula allocation under §968.103 (e) and (f) based upon the PHA, development, and community characteristics, it shall notify the PHA of its formula amount and provide instructions on the Annual Submission in accordance with §§968.320 and 968.330; (2) Appeal based upon unique circumstances. A PHA may appeal in writing HUD's determination of its formula amount within 60 calendar days of the date of HUD's determination on the basis of ``unique circumstances.'' The PHA must indicate what is unique, and specify the manner in which it is different from all other PHAs participating in the CGP, and provide any necessary supporting documentation. HUD shall render a written decision on an PHA's appeal under this paragraph within 60 calendar days of the date of its receipt of the PHA's request for an appeal. HUD shall publish in the Federal Register a description of the facts supporting any successful appeals based upon ``unique circumstances.'' Any adjustments resulting from successful appeals in a particular FFY under this paragraph shall be made from subsequent years' allocation of funds under this part; (3) Appeal based upon error. A PHA may appeal in writing HUD's determination of its formula amount within 60 calendar days of the date of HUD's determination on the basis of an error. The PHA may appeal on the basis of error the correctness of data in the formula characteristics report. The PHA must describe the nature of the error, and provide any necessary supporting documentation. HUD shall respond to the PHA's request within 60 calendar days of the date of its receipt of the PHA's request for an appeal. Any adjustment resulting from successful appeals in a particular FFY under this paragraph shall be made from subsequent years' allocation of funds under this part; (c) Reduced formula allocation for PHAs designated as mod troubled under PHMAP _(1) Notification . After a PHA is designated as a mod troubled agency under PHMAP (24 CFR part 901), HUD shall inform the PHA that its funding may be limited under this subpart because of its designation as a mod troubled PHA. HUD shall also provide the PHA with information concerning the PHA's funding levels for CGP, CIAP and MROP for each of the preceding three FFYs for purposes of determining the PHA's reduced formula allocation, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. In addition, HUD will provide the PHA with information on its full formula allocation under §968.103 (e) and (f), and the amount which represents 25 percent of the difference between the average amounts provided to the PHA in each of the preceding three FFYs and its full formula allocation. * * * * * (5) Reallocation of funds withheld from mod troubled PHAs. Any amounts which are not provided to a PHA under paragraph (c)(1) of this section because the PHA is designated as a mod troubled agency under PHMAP, shall be reallocated by HUD to other PHAs under this subpart which are not designated as either troubled or mod troubled agencies under PHMAP, and to IHAs under 24 CFR part 905 (subpart I) which are not determined to be high risk under §905.135 of this chapter, the ACA, and the Field Office Monitoring of IHAs Handbook. Such funds shall be reallocated in the next FFY based upon the relative needs of these PHAs and IHAs, as determined under the formula. * * * * * (d) Obligation of formula funding. All formula funding should be obligated within two years of approval. However, due to the size of the grant, complexity of the work, and other factors, the PHA may propose, and HUD may approve, a longer time period. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577&hyph;0157) 21. Section 968.320 is amended by revising the section heading; by revising paragraphs (a), (b)(2)(i), (b)(3) through (b)(5), (c)(2), (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii), (d)(2)(i)(E), (d)(4), (d)(5)(i), (d)(5)(iii), (d)(6)(i), (d)(6)(ii), (d)(7)(v), (d)(7)(viii), and (d)(7)(xv); by adding a new paragraph (d)(7)(xviii); by revising paragraphs (e) (2), (3) and (4); and by adding the OMB control number to the end of the section, to read as follows: §968.320 Comprehensive Plan (including Five-Year Action Plan).
