FR940620-2-00036 FR940620-2-00021 Food and Drug Administration [Docket No. 94D&hyph;0146] Evaluation of the Utility of Food Additives for Aquatic Animals; Guideline; Availability AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is announcing the availability of a guideline entitled ``Guideline for the Evaluation of the Utility of Food Additives in Diets Fed to Aquatic Animals'' prepared by the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM). The guideline applies to studies intended to support a petition for the inclusion of food additives in diets fed to aquatic animals. DATES: Written comments may be submitted at any time. Received comments will be considered to determine if further revision of the guideline is necessary. ADDRESSES: Submit written requests for single copies of the guideline entitled ``Guideline for the Evaluation of the Utility of Food Additives in Diets Fed to Aquatic Animals'' to the Communications and Education Branch (HFV&hyph;12), Center for Veterinary Medicine, Food and Drug Administration, 7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855, 301&hyph;594&hyph;1755, or the contact person (address below). Send two self-addressed adhesive labels to assist that office in processing your requests. Submit written comments on the guideline to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857. Requests and comments should be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. A copy of the guideline and received comments are available for public examination in the Dockets Management Branch between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John P. Machado, Center for Veterinary Medicine (HFV&hyph;226), Food and Drug Administration, 7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855, 301&hyph;594&hyph;1731. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The guideline entitled ``Guideline for the Evaluation of the Utility of Food Additives in Diets Fed to Aquatic Animals'' was developed for use by the aquaculture industry in conducting studies intended to evaluate the effectiveness of food additives. The guideline provides guidance to manufacturers and scientists in the design and execution of utility studies which are a required component of the food additive petition under 21 CFR 571.1. This guideline provides considerations for protocol development; recordkeeping; analytical assays for food additives; nutritional content and preparation of experimental diets; physical characteristics of diets; general experimental procedures; experimental design; and investigator reports for laboratory and field trials. Guidelines state practices or procedures that may be useful but are not legal requirements. The guideline represents the agency's position at the time of issuance. A person may follow the guideline or may choose to follow alternate practices or procedures. If a person chooses to use alternate practices or procedures, that person may wish to discuss the matter further with the agency to prevent an expenditure of money and effort on activities that may later be determined to be unacceptable to FDA. The guideline does not bind the agency, and it does not create or confer any rights, privileges, or benefits for or on any person. When a guideline states a requirement imposed by statute or regulation, however, the requirement is law and its force and effect are not in any way changed by virtue of its inclusion in the guideline. Interested persons may, at any time, submit to the Dockets Management Branch (address above) written comments on the guideline. FDA will consider these comments in determining whether further amendments to, or revisions of, the document are warranted. Two copies of any comments should be submitted, except that individuals may submit one copy, identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. The guideline and received comments may be seen in the Dockets Management Branch between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Dated: June 15, 1994. Michael R. Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14963 Filed 6&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
