FR940919-1-00022 FR940919-1-00011 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Snapper-grouper species off the southern Atlantic states are managed under the FMP. The FMP was prepared by the South Atlantic Fishery Management Council (Council), and is implemented through regulations at 50 CFR part 646, under the authority of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act). Background Recent scientific stock assessments and public testimony have identified a number of snapper-grouper species as being overfished. The management measures in Amendment 7 are designed to prevent this overfishing, rebuild the overfished species, and manage the fishery in a more orderly manner. Size Limits for Hogfish and Mutton Snapper Amendment 7 would establish a minimum size limit of 12 inches (30.5 cm), fork length, for hogfish and increase the minimum size limit for mutton snapper from 12 inches (30.5 cm) to 16 inches (40.6 cm), total length. The proposed 12-inch (30.5-cm) minimum size limit for hogfish is based on the minimum size/age at which hogfish transform from female to male. The proposed 16-inch (40.6-cm) minimum size limit for mutton snapper corresponds to the size/age of sexual maturity. Sex transformation of hogfish and sexual maturity for mutton snapper are essential to prevent overfishing and maintain the productivity of these species. In addition, the proposed minimum size limits would increase yield-per-recruit for each species. Annual Charter Vessel and Headboat Permits Amendment 7 would require a vessel that operates as a charter vessel or headboat in the snapper-grouper fishery in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ), or that possesses fish in the snapper-grouper fishery in or from the EEZ while so operating, to have on board a charter vessel/headboat permit for such fishery. Charter vessels and headboats catch substantial quantities of snapper-grouper species, and it is essential that these landings be documented for assessment purposes. A permit system would provide a census for this sector of the fishery. Annual Dealer Permits Amendment 7 would require a dealer to obtain a permit in order to receive snapper-grouper species, excluding wreckfish, that are harvested in the EEZ. Currently, a permit is required for a dealer to receive wreckfish. To be eligible for a dealer permit for snapper-grouper, excluding wreckfish, an applicant would have to have a valid state wholesaler's license in the state where he or she operates and a physical facility for the receipt of fish at a fixed location in that state. Dealer permits for snapper-grouper, excluding wreckfish, would (1) Improve quota monitoring by providing a census of snapper-grouper dealers, (2) enhance the enforceability of commercial trip limits for snowy grouper and golden tilefish, and (3) aid in verifying required fishing vessel logbook submissions. Earned Income Requirement for Commercial Permits Amendment 7 proposes to clarify the gross-sales-of-fish alternative requirement for a vessel permit for snapper-grouper, excluding wreckfish. Currently, an applicant may show gross sales of fish exceeding $20,000 during 1 of the 3 years preceding the application. Under Amendment 7, such sales would have to be of fish harvested by the applicant for the permit. The Council is concerned that some vessel owners may have obtained permits through the artifice of purchasing and reselling fish harvested by others. Such practice does not meet the Council's intent for qualifying for a permit. In FMP Amendment 4, the Council clearly stated that the income and gross sales requirements are intended to allow those who are committed to commercial fishing, in terms of capital investment or earned income, to continue making their livelihood from fishing. Specifically, the Council intends that the commercial fishing permits be for those vessels whose owners or operators have a history of income from harvesting and selling fish. Restrictions on Sale/Purchase of Snapper-Grouper Amendment 7 proposes requirements that snapper-grouper species, excluding wreckfish, harvested in the EEZ (1) Be sold only to a dealer with a valid permit for snapper-grouper, excluding wreckfish; and (2) be purchased only from a vessel that has a valid permit for snapper-grouper, excluding wreckfish, or from a person with a valid state commercial license to sell fish. In addition, sale/purchase of such fish would be limited to the bag limit amounts unless sale/purchase involved snapper-grouper harvested by a vessel with a valid permit for snapper-grouper, excluding wreckfish. These measures would improve fishery statistics that will be used in assessments of the biological condition of snapper-grouper species. The improved data base will also allow scientists to estimate more accurately the social and economic value of various fishing sectors. Economic and social analyses based on fishery statistics allow managers to evaluate the effectiveness of management measures. Headboat Crew Specification The current regulations specify that, if a headboat has a vessel permit for snapper-grouper, excluding wreckfish, it is considered to be operating as a headboat when it carries a passenger who pays a fee or when there are more than three persons aboard, including operator and crew. When operating as a headboat, the bag limits apply. Amendment 7 proposes to remove the specification of three persons aboard and, in its place, allow the number of persons aboard to be up to the number of crew specified in the vessel's Certificate of Inspection. This measure would, in some cases, allow a permitted headboat to be exempt from the bag limits when it has more than three persons aboard. The Council believes that the number of crew specified on the Certificate of Inspection would allow safer operation of the vessel when fishing and, to the extent that the number of crew allowed exceeds three, should improve the economic efficiency of affected headboats if they operate as commercial fishing vessels.
