FR941128-2-00130 FR941128-2-00076 2. Technical Proposal. The technical proposal, Part II, shall demonstrate the offeror's capabilities in accordance with the Statement of Work in Section III. NO COST DATA OR REFERENCE TO PRICE SHALL BE INCLUDED IN THE TECHNICAL PROPOSAL. 3. Page Count Limit. Applications are to be limited to 30 single-side pages, single-spaced. The technical proposal should include a 2 to 3 page executive summary. C. Hand-Delivered Proposals Proposals should be mailed at least five (5) days prior to the closing date. However, if proposals are hand-delivered, they must be received at the designated place by 2 p.m., Eastern Time by January 20, 1995. All overnight mail will be considered to be hand-delivered and must be received at the designated place by the specified time and closing date. Telegraphed and/or faxed proposals will not be honored. Failure to adhere to the above instructions will be a basis for a determination of nonresponsiveness. D. Late Proposals Any proposal received at the office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt will not be considered unless it is received before award is made and it_ (1) Was sent by the U.S. Postal Service registered or certified mail not later than the fifth calendar day before the date specified for receipt of the application (e.g., an offer submitted in response to a solicitation requiring receipt of applications by the 20th of the month must have been mailed by the 15th); or (2) Was sent by U.S. Postal Service Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee, not later than 5 p.m. at the place of mailing two working days prior to the date specified for receipt of proposals. The term ``working days'' excludes weekends and U.S. Federal holidays. The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of mailing of a late proposal sent either by the U.S. Postal Service registered or certified mail is the U.S. postmark both on the envelope or wrapper and on the original receipt from the U.S. Postal Service. Both postmarks must show a legible date or the proposal shall be processed as if mailed late. ``Postmark'' means a printed, stamped, or otherwise placed impression (exclusive of a postage meter machine impression) that is readily identifiable without further action as having been supplied and affixed by employees of the U.S. Postal Service on the date of mailing. Therefore, applicants should request the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation ``bull's eye'' postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper. The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of mailing of a late proposal sent by ``Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee'' is the date entered by the post office receiving clerk on the ``Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee'' label and the postmark on both the envelope and wrapper and on the original receipt from the U.S. Postal Service. ``Postmark'' has the same meaning as defined above. Therefore, applicants should request the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation ``bull's eye'' postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper. E. Withdrawal of Proposals Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice or telegram (including mailgram) received at any time before award. Proposals may be withdrawn in person or by an applicant or an authorized representative thereof, if the representative's identity is made known and the representative signs a receipt for the proposal before an award. F. Period of Performance The period of performance will be from the date of grant execution through June 30, 1997. G. Funding DOL has set aside up to $3 million to be disbursed, contingent upon resources being available for this purpose. It is expected that grant awards will be up to a maximum of $1 million each. H. Option to Extend Based on the availability of funds, effective program operation and the needs of the Department, options for annual funding of up to two (2) additional years for project operation may be provided. Part III. Government's Requirement/Statement of Work Solicitation Specifications Each application must include in the appropriate section(s): (1) Information that indicates adherence to the provisions described in Part I of this announcement; (2) information that responds to the requirements in this part; and (3) other information the offeror believes will address the selection criteria identified in Part III. Each application should follow the format outlined here: A. Target Group A description of the process to be used to identify participants to be served through this demonstration project from among the total number of eligible individuals. A description of the criteria and process for selecting individuals to be served through Career Management Accounts from the total number of eligible dislocated workers. For the purpose of this demonstration, participants should be selected from those eligible individuals who are in need of more intensive assistance, including education and training services. B. Components of the Career Management Account System An identification of the major elements of the career management account system and a description of how the system works in terms of the individual worker getting access to the reemployment and retraining services which that individual needs. Specifically: •How will the reemployment and retraining service needs of the individual worker be determined? •What information will be available to the worker to identify and evaluate alternative reemployment opportunities? How will this information be developed? How will the worker be able to access this information? •What services will be covered by the career management account? •How will qualified providers, which can be used by participants with career management account funds, be determined? •What information will be available to the worker to identify and evaluate optional providers of services and training? How will this information be developed? •How will the worker be able to access this information? •How will the amount of funds in an individual's career management account be determined? •How are funds in the career management account accessed?
