FR941116-1-00039 FR941116-1-00009 (5) Rules regarding insurance premium costs. Schools, lenders, and holders are prohibited from requiring the borrower to pay the school, lender, or holder portion of the insurance premium. (c) Collection of insurance premiums. HEAL insurance premiums due from borrowers, schools, lenders, and holders shall be collected in accordance with the procedures outlined in this paragraph. (1) Borrower insurance premium. The premium charged to the borrower must be collected by the lender through a deduction from the HEAL loan proceeds. The borrower premium, including documentation identifying the loan for which the premium is being paid, is due to the Secretary no later than 30 days after the date of each HEAL loan disbursement. The lender must clearly identify to the borrower the amount of the insurance premium. (2) School insurance premium . For schools required to pay an insurance premium, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the premium shall be collected by the Secretary on a quarterly basis, and is due to the Secretary no later than 30 days after the date of the quarterly billing notice. (3) Lender insurance premium . For lenders required to pay an insurance premium, in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the premium, including documentation identifying the loan for which the premium is being paid, is due to the Secretary no later than 30 days after the date of each HEAL loan disbursement. (4) Holder insurance premium . For holders required to pay an insurance premium, in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the premium, including documentation identifying the loan for which the premium is being paid, is due to the Secretary no later than 30 days after the date of each HEAL loan purchase. (5) Penalties for late payment. (i) If the insurance premium is not paid by the due date a late fee will be charged to the school, lender, or holder, as appropriate, in accordance with the Department's Claims Collection Regulation (45 CFR part 30). These late fees may not be passed on to the borrower. (ii) If the borrower or lender insurance premium is not paid within 60 days of disbursement of the loan, the insurance shall cease to be effective on the loan. If the school premium is not paid within 60 days of the date of the quarterly billing notice, the Secretary will immediately suspend the school and initiate termination proceedings against the school. If the holder premium is not paid within 60 days of the loan transfer, the Secretary will cancel the insurance coverage on the loan. (6) Refund of premiums. Premiums are not refundable except in cases of error, or unless the loan, including any accrued interest, is canceled within 120 days of the date of disbursement. (d) Multiple installments. In cases where the lender disburses the loan in multiple installments, the insurance premium is calculated for each disbursement. 7. Section 60.15 is amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: ยง60.15 Other charges to the borrower. * * * * * (c) Other loan making costs. A lender may not pass on to the borrower any cost of making a HEAL loan other than the costs of the borrower's insurance premium. 8. Section 60.17 is amended by revising paragraph (b) and adding a new paragraph (c) to read as follows: ยง60.17 Security and endorsement. * * * * * (b) If a borrower is a minor and cannot under State law create a legally binding obligation by his or her own signature, a lender may require an endorsement by another person on the borrower's HEAL note. For purposes of this paragraph, an ``endorsement'' means a signature of anyone other than the borrower who is to assume either primary or secondary liability on the note. (c) A credit worthy parent or other responsible individual (other than a spouse) may cosign the loan note. 9. Section 60.31, in subpart D, is amended by adding new paragraphs (e) and (f) to read as follows: Subpart D_The Lender and Holder ยง60.31 The application to be a HEAL lender or holder. * * * * *
