FR940706-2-00056 FR940706-2-00037 Agreement Containing Consent Order The Federal Trade Commission (``Commission''), having initiated an investigation of the Acquisition of certain stock of Rugby-Darby Group Companies, Inc. (``Rugby'') by Marion Merrell Dow Inc. (``MMD''), a subsidiary of The Dow Chemical Company (``Dow'') (collectively referred to as ``Proposed Respondents''), and it now appearing that Proposed Respondents are willing to enter into an Agreement Containing Consent Order (``Agreement'') to license certain assets, contract manufacture dicyclomine tablets and capsules, cease and desist from certain acts, and provide for certain other relief: It is hereby agreed by and between Proposed Respondents, by their duly authorized officers and their attorneys, and counsel for the Commission that: 1. Proposed Respondent Dow is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the state of Delaware, with its principal place of business located at 2030 Dow Center, Midland, Michigan, 48674. 2. Proposed Respondent MMD is a subsidiary of Dow, and is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the state of Delaware, with its principal place of business located at 9300 Ward Parkway, Kansas City, Missouri, 64114. 3. Proposed Respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 4. Proposed Respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 5. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the Proposed Respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 6. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by the Proposed Respondents that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached, or that the facts as alleged in the draft complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true. 7. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.34 of the Commission's rules, the Commission may, without further notice to Proposed Respondents, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following Order to license and to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public with respect thereto. When so entered, the Order shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified, or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The Order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the United States Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to Order to Proposed Respondents' addressed as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed Respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the Order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the Order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the Order. 8. Proposed Respondents have read the proposed Complaint and Order contemplated hereby. Proposed Respondents understand that once the Order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing they have fully complied with the Order. Proposed Respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the Order after it becomes final. Order I It is ordered that, as used in this Order, the following definitions shall apply: A. ``Dow'' means The Dow Chemical Company, its predecessors, subsidiaries, divisions, groups and affiliates controlled by Dow, and its respective directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives, and their respective successors and assigns. B. ``MMD'' means Marion Merrell Dow Inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries, divisions, groups and affiliates controlled by MMD, and its respective directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives, and their respective successors and assigns.
