FR940114-1-00071 FR940114-1-00016 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 638 [I.D. 010494A] Coral and Coral Reefs of the Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare a supplemental environmental impact statement (SEIS) and request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS announces the intention of the Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic Fishery Management Councils (Councils) to prepare an SEIS for proposed Amendment 2 to the Fishery Management Plan for Coral and Coral Reefs of the Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic (FMP). The FMP was prepared by the Councils and approved and implemented by the Secretary of Commerce under provisions of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act). The purpose of Amendment 2 is to manage the harvest of ``live rock,'' living marine organisms attached to a hard substrate, such as dead coral or rock, and used primarily in the marine aquarium trade. Management measures under consideration include a prohibition on, or phase-out of, harvest of live rock with possible provisions for aquaculture; establishment of an annual quota or limited access management program; and implementation of a permitting system for wild harvest or aquaculture. The Councils intend to conduct a continuing public process to determine the scope of issues to be addressed and to identify the significant issues related to live rock management. The purpose of this notice is to inform the public of this ongoing process and of the opportunity to participate by submitting written comments. DATES: Written comments on the scope of the SEIS must be submitted by February 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: Scoping comments and requests for additional information should be sent to Georgia Cranmore, Fishery Administrator, National Marine Fisheries Service, 9450 Koger Boulevard, St. Petersburg, FL 33702. Copies of the public hearing document for this amendment may be obtained by writing to the Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council, 5401 West Kennedy Boulevard, suite 331, Tampa, FL 33609&hyph;2486. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Georgia Cranmore, 813&hyph;893&hyph;3161. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In 1989, the Florida Department of Natural Resources (FDNR) (now Department of Environmental Protection) determined that live rock harvest (i.e., the collection of rocks with marine organisms attached for use in home aquariums) was detrimental to the Florida Reef Tract and other hard bottom habitat areas. The Florida Marine Fisheries Commission (FMFC) noted that the only current net production of the carbonate substrate underlying live rock occurs on living coral reefs and, in Florida, these areas are either in equilibrium or eroding. FDNR personnel testified that more than 90 percent of the live rock examined at the request of enforcement agents contained visible colonies of prohibited corals, such as stony corals and sea fans. The FMFC concluded that live rock removal (1) can violate State and Federal laws that prohibit taking of corals, (2) reduces the surface area and topographic complexity of Florida's coral reefs and other live bottom areas, and (3) removes entire micro- communities along with targeted aquarium species. As a result of these consideration, Florida prohibited live rock landings from State waters in May 1989. As a result of this rulemaking, live rock harvesting efforts shifted to the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) off Florida. The FMFC has noted that in 1991 approximately 35 individuals reported combined landings of about 300 tons of live rock from EEZ waters adjacent to the Florida Reef Tract, Florida's east coast reefs, and the Gulf of Mexico hard bottom areas. In 1992, reported Florida landings from the EEZ totalled about 400 tons. Although the Councils have discussed the live rock issue, particularly pertaining to EEZ waters over recent years, they took no regulatory action since the FMFC had decided to initiate rulemaking regarding live rock landings from the EEZ off Florida. Specifically, the Councils deferred action since Florida's planned phase-out of live rock landings appeared to address what seemed to be a Florida area management issue. In June 1992, the Florida Governor and Cabinet approved the FMFC rule to phase-out live rock landings in Florida from the EEZ over a 3-year period ending on June 30, 1995. The phase-out was designed to allow development of live rock aquaculture which would be exempt from the eventual total harvest ban. The phase-out was to be accomplished by a 25 percent annual reduction in allowable landings (based on the 1991 reported landings) accompanied by a 500 pound daily vessel limit. On March 31, 1993, a U.S. District Court Judge issued a preliminary injunction to prevent enforcement of Florida's quota and vessel landing limits relating to possession or landing of live rock taken in the EEZ. Florida live rock fishermen argued that the Magnuson Act superseded State landing laws and the Councils had made ``an affirmative and conscious decision'' not to prohibit the taking of live rock in the EEZ. Because of the District Court action, the Councils are now concerned that removal of live rock from the EEZ is currently unregulated. Also, there is a growing interest in harvest of live rock from North Carolina to Alabama. In April 1993, the South Atlantic Council approved a motion to include live rock in the FMP and reactivate the Coral Advisory Panel. In May 1993, the Gulf Council, on being advised of recent live rock landings in Alabama, and at the request of that State and Florida, initiated development of options for live rock management. In June 1993, the South Atlantic Council held a public scoping meeting in Duck Key, Florida, to solicit input from the harvesters and the general public on the management of live rock. In November 1993, the Councils prepared a draft Amendment 2 to the FMP to address live rock issues, and established a schedule for further public hearings. See ADDRESSES to obtain a copy of this document. The Councils are considering the following management measures for Amendment 2 (with certain alternatives indicated). Proposed Management Measures and Alternatives A. Definitions for Management Unit (1) Define live rock and add it to the management unit. (2) Redefine allowable octocorals to eliminate taking of live rock under existing provisions of the FMP. B. Management of the Live Rock Harvest (1) No action. (2) Harvest limits: a. establish an annual harvest quota for live rock; b. limit access and provide effort limits. (3) Harvest prohibition: a. prohibit live rock harvest; b. phase-out live rock harvest; c. provide for aquaculture of otherwise prohibited live rock.
