FR940524-0-00022 FR940524-0-00007 §24.304 Withdrawal, default and disqualification penalties. (a) When the Commission conducts a simultaneous multiple round auction pursuant to §24.302(a)(3), the Commission will impose penalties on bidders who withdraw high bids during the course of an auction, or who default on payments due after an auction closes or who are disqualified. (1) Bid withdrawal prior to close of auction. A bidder who withdraws a high bid during the course of an auction will be subject to a penalty equal to the difference between the amount bid and the amount of the winning bid the next time the license is offered by the Commission. No withdrawal penalty would be assessed if the subsequent winning bid exceeds the withdrawn bid. This penalty amount will be deducted from any upfront payments or down payments that the withdrawing bidder has deposited with the Commission. (2) Default or disqualification after close of auction. If a high bidder defaults or is disqualified after the close of such an auction, the defaulting bidder will be subject to the penalty in paragraph (a)(1) of this section plus an additional penalty equal to three (3) percent of the subsequent winning bid. If the subsequent winning bid exceeds the defaulting bidder's bid amount, the 3 percent penalty will be calculated based on the defaulting bidder's bid amount. These amounts will be deducted from any upfront payments or down payments that the defaulting or disqualified bidder has deposited with the Commission. (b) When the Commission conducts single round sealed bid auctions or sequential oral auctions, the Commission may modify the penalties to be paid in the event of bid withdrawal, default or disqualification; provided, however, that such penalties shall not exceed the penalties specified above. (c) In the case of single round bidding for narrowband PCS licenses: (1) If a bid is withdrawn before the Commission releases the initial public notice announcing the winning bidder(s), no bid withdrawal penalty will be assessed. (2) If a bid is withdrawn after the Commission releases the initial public notice announcing the winning bidder(s), the bid withdrawal penalty will be equal to the difference between the high bid amount and the amount of the next highest valid bid. A bid will be considered valid for this purpose if the bidder has not already been designated the winning bidder on more licenses than it is permitted to be awarded. Losing bidders will only be subject to this bid withdrawal penalty for a period of 30 days after the Commission releases the initial public notice announcing the winning bidders. (d) In the case of oral sequential bidding for narrowband PCS licenses: (1) If a bid is withdrawn before the Commission has declared the bidding to be closed for the license bid on, no bid withdrawal penalty will be assessed. (2) If a bid is withdrawn after the Commission has declared the bidding to be closed for the license bid on, the bid withdrawal penalty of §1.2104(g) and paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section will apply. §24.305 Bidding application (FCC Form 175 and 175&hyph;S Short-Form). All applicants for initial provision of narrowband PCS service must submit applications on FCC Forms 175 and 175&hyph;S pursuant to the procedures set forth in §1.2105 of part 1 of this chapter. The Commission will issue a public notice announcing the date of a narrowband PCS auction, the licenses which are to be auctioned, and the date on or before which applicants intending to participate in an upcoming narrowband PCS auction must file their applications in order to be eligible for that auction. The public notice will also contain information necessary for completion of the application as well as other important information such as the materials which must accompany the Forms, any filing fee that must accompany the application or any upfront payment that will need to be submitted, and the location where the application must be filed. §24.306 Submission of upfront payments and down payments. (a) Where the Commission uses simultaneous multiple round auctions or oral sequential auctions bidders will be required to submit an upfront payment pursuant to the procedures set forth in §1.2106 of this chapter. (b) Winning bidders in an auction must submit a down payment to the Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in §1.2107 (a) and (b) of this chapter. §24.307 Long-Form applications. Winning bidders will be required to submit long form applications on FCC Form 401, as modified, within ten (10) business days after being notified that they are the winning bidder. Applications on FCC Form 401 shall be submitted pursuant to the procedures set forth in subpart G of this part and §1.2107 (c) and (d) of this chapter and any associated public notices. Only auction winners will be eligible to file applications on FCC Form 401 for initial narrowband PCS licenses in the event of mutual exclusivity between applicants filing Form 175. Winning bidders need not complete Schedule B to Form 401. §24.308 License grant, denial, default, and disqualification. (a) Winning Bidders are required to pay the balance of their winning bid in a lump sum payment within five (5) business days following the award of the license. Grant of the license will be conditioned upon full and timely payment of the winning bid amount. (b) A bidder who withdraws its bid, defaults on a payment or is disqualified will be subject to the penalties specified in §1.2109 of this chapter. §24.309 Designated entities. Designated entities entitled to preferences in the narrowband PCS service are small businesses and businesses owned by members of minority groups and/or women as defined in §1.2110(b) of this chapter. (a) Installment payments. Small businesses, including small businesses owned by women and/or minorities, will be eligible to pay the full amount of their winning bid on any regional, MTA or BTA license in installments over the term of the license pursuant to the terms set forth in §1.2110(d) of this chapter.
