FR941207-0-00095 FR941207-0-00015 (i) Delivery of claims. We are amending §252.4(a) to adjust for some of the difficulties faced by the Copyright Office in receiving cable royalty claims on a timely basis. Unlike the CRT, the Copyright Office and the Library of Congress are large institutions receiving a tremendous amount of mail each day, only a small percentage of which involves CARP matters. For the July 1994 filing period, we experienced difficulties with cable and satellite claims arriving at different locations of the Library by many different means of delivery (U.S. mail, messenger service, private mail carrier delivery). In order to assure that claims arrive during the statutorily prescribed time period, we are amending §252.4(a) to specify the two methods by which claims may be delivered to the Copyright Office. The first method is by mailing the claim to the official CARP address with the U.S. Postal Service, proper postage attached, so that when the claim arrives at the Copyright Office, it bears a July U.S. postmark. The second method is hand delivery to the Office of the Register of Copyrights, located in Room 403 of the James Madison Building, 101 Independence Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20540, during normal business hours in the month of July. Such hand delivery may be done by the claimant itself, or by the claimant's agent, or by a private delivery carrier (ex. Federal Express, DHL, messenger service) or other such manner. Hand delivery of claims to the mail receiving area of the Library of Congress, or to other locations in either the Library or the Copyright Office, is not compliance with the regulation. Claims which are hand delivered to other locations in the Library or Copyright Office will be dismissed if the Office cannot conclusively determine that the claim was physically located on Library and/or Copyright Office premises during the month of July. (ii) U.S. postmark. Canadian claimants challenge the requirement in §252.4(a)(2) that mailed claims must bear a July U.S. postmark. We took this provision directly from the Copyright Royalty Tribunal's rules. See 59 FR 23979 (1994). Canadian Claimants acknowledge that they did not object to the Tribunal's initial adoption of U.S. postmark requirement, but state that they have experienced ``difficulties'' with the requirement since its adoption, although they do not precisely state what those ``difficulties'' are. 13 Canadian Claimants, comments at 2. They therefore urge the Office to accept both Canadian and U.S. postmarks. Id. 13 Canadian Claimants state earlier in their comment that their membership changes from year to year and that produces ``the constant presence of new claimants who are unaware of the filing requirements and appear on the scene at (or shortly after) the last moment ␣*␣*␣*'' Id. Presumably it is the last minute identification of Canadian copyright owners eligible for cable royalties that produces the ``difficulties.'' We discussed in the Interim Regulations the Copyright Owners' request that we allow July mailings from Canadian and Mexican post offices. See 59 FR 23979 (1994). We declined the request, but stated that ``we invite them [Copyright Owners], and any other interested parties, to provide further information and comments on the question.'' Id. Our request for further information emanates from our concern with compliance with the statute. The statutory requirement for filing cable claims is clearly spelled out in 17 U.S.C. 111(d)(4)(A): ``During the month of July in each year, every person claiming to be entitled to compulsory license fees for secondary transmissions shall file a claim with the Librarian of Congress ␣*␣*␣*'' The statute requires that the claim be with the Librarian during the month of July, arguably meaning in his possession. However, we accept the submission of a claim to the U.S. Postal Service, as statutorily sufficient, providing it bears a July U.S. postmark. The postmark is an acknowledgment that the claim was validly tendered with the U.S. Government in the month of July. Our concern with allowing Canadian and Mexican postmarks is that those marks would not necessarily prove compliance with the statute. Neither the Canadian nor the Mexican postal service is part of the U.S. Government. Furthermore, if we were to allow Canadian and Mexican postmarks, we would have to allow national postmarks from all countries, since there are some copyright owners of cable retransmitted programming that do not reside in the United States, Canada or Mexico. Copyright Owners and Canadian Claimants' desire for allowing Canadian and Mexican postmarks appears to be motivated by the desire ostensibly to add a few more days to the claim period. We, however, agree with what the Tribunal said in 1989 when it adopted the July U.S. postmark requirement: The Tribunal does not believe that our insistence that either a claim be received in our office during July or that it bear a July U.S. postmark is too restrictive. The claim itself is easy to prepare. No government forms are necessary. The information that is required can be put on one page. Further, the claimant has six months from the close of the calendar year to prepare it, and the entire month of July to submit it to the Tribunal. Our proposed rule provides a bright line test which should end all questions of fact regarding the timeliness of the claim. 54 FR 12614, 12615 (1989). For these reasons, we are not adopting the Canadian Claimants' suggestion. (iii) Proving mailed claims. Section 252.4(e) provides in the pertinent part that: In the event that a properly addressed and mailed claim is not timely received by the Copyright Office, a claimant may nonethe less prove that the claim was properly mailed if it was sent by certified mail return receipt requested, and the claimant can provide the receipt. 59 FR 23993 (1994). Copyright Owners believe that this provision, as drafted, could cause some confusion. Copyright Owners, reply comments at 8. They note that there are two receipts associated with certified mail_the one given the sender by the Post Office and the one signed by the receptionist and returned to the sender_and that subsection (e) does not identify which receipt is acceptable proof. Copyright Owners, however, state that our discussion of the provision in the Interim Regulations makes it clear that either receipt would be acceptable. See 59 FR 23980 (1994). (``If the claim was sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, we will accept the claim if the claimant can produce the receipt showing that it was properly mailed.'') In order to clear up any possible ambiguity in the regulation, the Copyright Owners propose that we amend subsection (e) to read: In the event that a properly addressed and mailed claim is not timely received by the Copyright Office, a claimant may nonetheless prove that the claim was properly mailed if it was sent by certified mail return receipt requested, and the claimant can provide the receipt showing that it was properly mailed or timely received. Copyright Owners, reply comments at 9. We are adopting the Copyright Owners' suggestion. (8) Part 257_Filing of Claims to Satellite Carrier Royalty Fees Part 257 remains unchanged, except that we amend §257.4(a) regarding timely filing of claims, discussed above, and accept Copyright Owners proposed amendment regarding the proving of mailed satellite carrier royalty claims through the use of certified mail return receipt requested. §257.4 (e). We are also retaining the requirement of a U.S. postmark for satellite carrier claims, §257.4(a)(2), for the same reasons we are retaining the requirement for cable claims. (9) Part 259_Filing of Claims to Digital Audio Recording Devices and Media Royalty Payments Consistent with our decision concerning joint claims for cable and satellite carriers, §259.3 is amended to require that joint claimants to the DART fund include a list of all their joint claimants when the claim is filed, except, as discussed above, the performing rights societies will receive no exemption from this requirement. Performing rights societies will have to list the members and affiliates they have signed to represent in DART as part of their filing a claim. As a result, the current §259.3(d), which allows joint claimants to lump their claims together after the claim period, and the current §259.3(f) which provides that the Office may require the productions of the list after the claim period ends, are deleted. As a practical matter, joint claimants who decide after the claim period to join together will simply report to the Office that they have settled, and no need to consolidate their claim exists. In addition, we amend §259.5(a) regarding timely delivery of claims and accept the Copyright Owners' proposed amendment of §259.5(e) regarding the proving of mailed DART claims through the use of certified mail return receipt requested.
