FR940516-1-00037 FR940516-1-00001 (h) Trading program. A description of the trading program. This description shall include the types of commodity interests and other interests the commodity trading advisor intends to trade, with a description of any restrictions or limitations on such trading established by the commodity trading advisor. (i) Fees. A complete description of each fee which the commodity trading advisor will charge the client. (1) Wherever possible, the trading advisor must specify the dollar amount of each such fee. (2) Where any fee is determined by reference to a base amount including, but not limited to, ``net assets,'' ``gross profits,'' ``net profits'' or ``net gains,'' the trading advisor must specifically explain how such base amount will be calculated. (3) Where any fee is based on an increase in the value of the client's commodity interest account, the trading advisor must specify how that increase is calculated, the period of time during which the increase is calculated, the fee to be charged at the end of that period and the value of the account at which payment of the fee commences. (j) Conflicts of interest. (1) A full description of any actual or potential conflicts of interest regarding any aspect of the trading program on the part of: (i) The commodity trading advisor; (ii) Any futures commission merchant with which the client will be required to maintain its commodity interest account; (iii) Any introducing broker through which the client will be required to introduce its account to a futures commission merchant. (2) Any principal of the foregoing. (k) Litigation. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (k)(2) of this section, any material administrative, civil or criminal action, whether pending or concluded, within five years preceding the date of the document, against any of the following persons, except a concluded action that resulted in an adjudication on the merits in favor of such person: (i) The commodity trading advisor and any principal thereof: (ii) The futures commission merchant with which the client will be required to maintain its commodity interest account; and (iii) The introducing broker through which the client will be required to introduce its account to the futures commission merchant. (2) With respect to the futures commission merchant and the introducing broker, an action will be considered material if: (i) The action would be required to be disclosed in the notes to the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's financial statements prepared pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles; (ii) The action was brought by the Commission, Provided, however, That a concluded action that did not result in fines exceeding $50,000 need not be disclosed unless it involved allegations of fraud or willful misconduct; or (iii) The action was brought by any other federal or state regulatory agency, or by a self-regulatory organization, domestic or foreign, and involves allegations of fraud or other willful misconduct. (l) Trading for own account. If the commodity trading advisor or any principal thereof trades or intends to trade commodity interests for its own account, the commodity trading advisor must disclose whether clients will be permitted to inspect the records of such person's trading and any written policies related to such trading. (m) Performance disclosures as set forth in ยง4.34 (n) Voluntary Information. If any information, other than that required by the Commission, the antifraud provisions of the Act, or any federal or state securities laws and regulations, is provided, such information: (1) May not be misleading in content or presentation or inconsistent with the required disclosures; (2) Shall be subject to the antifraud provisions of the Act and the regulations thereunder, and to rules regarding the use of promotional material promulgated by a registered futures association, pursuant to section 17(j) of the Act; and (3) May only appear following the related required disclosures, unless otherwise specified.
