FR940304-0-00080 FR940304-0-00019 On December 17, 1992, the Service published in the Federal Register (57 FR 59951) a proposal to list 22 plant taxa from the island of Hawaii as endangered. This proposal was based primarily on information supplied by the Hawaii Heritage Program, the Hawaii Plant Conservation Center, and observations of botanists and naturalists. The Service now determines 20 taxa primarily from the island of Hawaii to be endangered and 1 taxon from the island of Hawaii to be threatened, with the publication of this rule. One additional taxon has been withdrawn from consideration for listing. Summary of Comments and Recommendations In the December 17, 1992, proposed rule and associated notifications, all interested parties were requested to submit factual reports or information that might contribute to the development of a final decision on the proposal. The public comment period ended on February 16, 1993. Appropriate State agencies, county and city governments, Federal agencies, scientific organizations, and other interested parties were contacted and requested to comment. Newspaper notices inviting general public comments were published in the Honolulu Advertiser on January 4, 1993 and in the Hawaii Tribune Herald on January 6, 1993. Nine letters of comment were received. No requests for public hearings were received. Additional biological information contained in these comments has been incorporated into the final rule. Three letters provided only biological information and did not provide any comments on the proposed listing. Three letters provided both additional information and supported the listing of all 22 species as endangered species. One letter provided additional biological information and specifically recommended that three of the species not be listed as endangered or threatened. One letter suggested that it would be better to promote the horticultural use of a particular taxon rather than list it as endangered. These issues and the Service's response are discussed below: Issue 1: Status of Hesperocnide sandwicensis: One respondent stated that this species should not be listed as an endangered or threatened plant, because there are a large number of individuals (possibly over 1 million), the taxon is widespread, the species is adapted to disturbance, there is an abundance of protected habitat, and there are few serious threats to its survival. Service Response: At the time the proposed rule was written, the number of Hesperocnide sandwicensis was thought to range from several hundred to approximately 1,300 individuals. Extensive surveys in 1992 and early 1993 have documented tens of thousands of plants on lava flows between Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea (R. Shaw, in litt., 1993). The Service has carefully considered the respondent's comments and concurs with his evaluation. Due to the location and large number of new populations and individuals now known, the Service is not including Hesperocnide sandwicensis in the final rule. This species is placed in category 3C of the Service's plant notice of review and is removed from the list of candidate species, although the Service will continue to monitor threats to the populations. Issue 2: Status of Pritchardia affinis: One respondent suggested that an alternative to listing the species as endangered would be to promote the use of Pritchardia affinis for use as a culturally significant landscape plant. Service Response: Designating Pritchardia affinis as an endangered species affords this taxon significant legal protection. While the use of species such as Pritchardia affinis for landscaping purposes may have important educational or cultural benefits, such plantings would not ensure the protection of the few remaining individuals in the wild. Issue 3: Status of Silene hawaiiensis: One respondent stated that this species should not be listed as an endangered or threatened species, because the taxon is relatively common throughout its range (over 3,000 plants), the taxon is widely distributed, many populations are in protected areas, there are few serious threats to its survival, and there are significant taxonomic uncertainties regarding its status as a species.
