FR940419-0-00030 FR940419-0-00010 Drafting Information The Drafters of this regulation are LTJG R.S. Hoffmann, project officer for the Captain of the Port, Mobile, Alabama, LT Verne Gifford, project officer, Eighth Coast Guard District Marine Safety Division, and CDR D.G. Dickman, project attorney, Eighth Coast Guard District Legal Office. Discussion of Regulations These regulations have been established to decrease the risk of a marine casualty or oil pollution incident below the Oliver Lock and Dam. During normal river conditions, a tow leaving the lock has the current coming over the dam moving the tow to the right, making it difficult to move away from the lock wall and the right bank. The tows must navigate around a point of land on the right descending bank, which is fortified with rip-rap. In order to avoid this bank, they must offset the current by powering toward the Hunt Oil Dock located on the left descending bank in the same area. This situation is hazardous as a tow may be pushed into the right descending bank or ram crude oil barges docked at Hunt Oil, causing a major marine casualty or pollution incident. The recent incomplete removal of the deflector dike on the downstream side of the Oliver Lock and Dam has accentuated the problem of currents pushing downbound tows toward the right protruding bank as they exit the lock. However, the problem will continue after removal of the remainder of the deflector dike. In higher water conditions, the currents are stronger and therefore the situation is even more hazardous. Already these conditions have resulted in many near misses, as reported by many of the towing companies using the lock. The Coast Guard seeks to alleviate this situation by limiting tow sizes as the water level increases. This makes maneuvering easier for towboat operators because smaller tows have less area for the current to affect and because smaller tows increase the horsepower per ton ratio for the tow. Prohibiting downbound oil or hazardous material barges from transitting the lock when the river is exceptionally high will alleviate the danger of those products being released due to the hazardous downbound conditions should a tow and barge have difficulty navigating due to these hazardous downbound conditions. Economic Assessment and Certification This regulation is not considered to be a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866 and is nonsignificant under Department of Transportation regulatory policies and procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979). The economic impact has been found to be so minimal that a full regulatory evaluation is unnecessary. This is based on the following historic data provided by the Army Corps of Engineers for percentage of days per year on which conditions exist on the Black Warrior River that would require compliance with this regulation: a Tail-Water Gauge reading of 102.3 feet or less_78% or 285 days per year; a Tail-Water Gauge reading of 102.3 feet to 112.3 feet_16% or 58 days per year; a Tail-Water Gauge reading of 112.3 feet or greater_6% or 22 days per year. Normal high water periods are during the months of January through April. Transit statistics for the Black Warrior and Tombigbee Rivers for the most recent year for which such statistics are available, 1989, indicate that there were 8,110 towboat transits, including 1,517 tank barge transits, which may be potentially affected by these regulations. Additionally, the Coast Guard certifies that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Federal Assessment This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this rulemaking does not raise sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of Federalism Assessment. Environmental Assessment This rule has been thoroughly reviewed by the Coast Guard. It has been determined not to have a significant effect on the human environment or environmental conditions and to be categorically excluded from further environmental documentation in accordance with section 2.B.2.c. of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B. The Coast Guard welcomes comments on potential environmental impacts of this rule. Paperwork Reduction Act This rule contains no information collection or recordkeeping requirements. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 165 Harbors, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Security measures, Waterways. Final Regulation In consideration of the foregoing, part 165 of Title 33, Code of Federal Regulations, is amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for part 165 continues to read as follows:
