FR940725-0-00110 FR940725-0-00013 (j) Day treatment or partial hospitalization, psychosocial rehabilitation services, and clinic services for individuals with chronic mental illness. Assurance that FFP will not be claimed in expenditures for waiver services including, but not limited to, day treatment or partial hospitalization, psychosocial rehabilitation services, and clinic services provided as home and community-based services to individuals with chronic mental illnesses if these individuals, in the absence of a waiver, would be placed in an IMD and are_ (1) Age 22 to 64; (2) Age 65 and older and the State has not included the optional Medicaid benefit cited in §440.140; or (3) Age 21 and under and the State has not included the optional Medicaid benefit cited in §440.160. 4. In §441.303, the introductory paragraph is revised; the introductory text of paragraph (c) is republished; paragraph (c)(2) is revised; the introductory text of paragraph (f) is revised; paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) are revised; (f)(3) is removed; paragraph (f)(4) is redesignated as paragraph (f)(3) and revised; new paragraphs (f)(4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), and (10) are added; paragraph (g) is revised; and new paragraphs (h) and (i) are added to read as follows: §441.303 Supporting documentation required. The agency must furnish HCFA with sufficient information to support the assurances required by §441.302. Except as HCFA may otherwise specify for particular waivers, the information must consist of the following: * * * * * (c) A description of the agency's plan for the evaluation and reevaluation of recipients, including_ * * * * * (2) A copy of the evaluation form to be used; and if it differs from the form used in placing recipients in hospitals, NFs, or ICFs/MR, a description of how and why it differs and an assurance that the outcome of the new evaluation form is reliable, valid, and fully comparable to the form used for hospital, NF, or ICF/MR placement; * * * * * (f) An explanation with supporting documentation satisfactory to HCFA of how the agency estimated the average per capita expenditures for services. (1) The annual average per capita expenditure estimate of the cost of home and community-based and other Medicaid services under the waiver must not exceed the estimated annual average per capita expenditures of the cost of services in the absence of a waiver. The estimates are to be based on the following equation: D+D ’ > G+G ’. The symbol ``>'' means that the result of the left side of the equation must be less than or equal to the result of the right side of the equation. D = the estimated annual average per capita Medicaid cost for home and community-based services for individuals in the waiver program. D ’ = the estimated annual average per capita Medicaid cost for all other services provided to individuals in the waiver program. G = the estimated annual average per capita Medicaid cost for hospital, NF, or ICF/MR care that would be incurred for individuals served in the waiver, were the waiver not granted. G ’ = the estimated annual average per capita Medicaid costs for all services other than those included in factor G for individuals served in the waiver, were the waiver not granted. (2) For purposes of the equation, the prime factors include the average per capita cost for all State plan services and expanded EPSDT services provided that are not accounted for in other formula values. (3) In making estimates of average per capita expenditures for a waiver that applies only to individuals with a particular illness (for example, acquired immune deficiency syndrome) or condition (for example, chronic mental illness) who are inpatients in or who would require the level of care provided in hospitals as defined by §440.10, NFs as defined in section 1919(a) of the Act, or ICFs/MR, the agency may determine the average per capita expenditures for these individuals absent the waiver without including expenditures for other individuals in the affected hospitals, NFs, or ICFs/MR. (4) In making estimates of average per capita expenditures for a separate waiver program that applies only to individuals identified through the preadmission screening annual resident review (PASARR) process who are developmentally disabled, inpatients of a NF, and require the level of care provided in an ICF/MR as determined by the State on the basis of an evaluation under §441.303(c), the agency may determine the average per capita expenditures that would have been made in a fiscal year for those individuals based on the average per capita expenditures for inpatients in an ICF/MR. When submitting estimates of institutional costs without the waiver, the agency may use the average per capita costs of ICF/MR care even though the deinstitutionalized developmentally disabled were inpatients of NFs. (5) For persons diverted rather than deinstitutionalized, the State's evaluation process required by §441.303(c) must provide for a more detailed description of their evaluation and screening procedures for recipients to ensure that waiver services will be limited to persons who would otherwise receive the level of care provided in a hospital, NF, or ICF/MR, as applicable.
