FR940328-2-00080 FR940328-2-00050 The Commission believes that the requirement of a sufficient market imbalance is a critical aspect of the pilot program. 22 Such a requirement is necessary to ensure that stops are only granted, in a minimum fractional change market, when the benefit ( i.e. , price improvement) to orders being stopped far exceeds the potential of harm to orders on the specialist's book. 23 To evaluate how this standard is being applied in practice, the Commission requests that the Amex conduct another comprehensive quantitative analysis of market depth. In its next monitoring report, the Amex should provide, in chart form, a comparison of the size of the stopped order to any quote size imbalance. 24 The chart also should include the ratio of the size of the bid to the size of the offer. 25 The Amex should concentrate an orders for 2,000 shares or less, and should provide the requested information in the form of an average for all buy orders stopped, and the for all sell orders stopped, in that size range. 22 In extending a comparable pilot program on the New York Stock Exchange, the Commission placed similar emphasis on the critical nature of the sufficient size standard when stopping stock in minimum fractional change markets. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32031 (March 22, 1993), 58 FR 16563 (March 29, 1993) (File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;18). 23 See supra, text accompanying notes 11&hyph;16. 24 Every time a specialist stops an order to buy, the Amex should calculate the size of that stopped order as a percentage of the quote size imbalance, i.e., the difference between the size of the offer and the size of the bid. Every time a specialist stops an order to sell, the Amex should calculate the size of that stopped order as a percentage of the quote size imbalance, i.e., the difference between the size of the bid and the size of the offer. 25 Every time a specialist stops an order to buy, the Amex should calculate the size of the bid as a percentage of the size of the offer. Every time a specialist stops an order to sell, the Amex should calculate the size of the offer as a percentage of the size of the bid. Finally, the Amex report describes its efforts regarding compliance with the pilot procedures. To alleviate confusion about how to evidence Floor Official approval (which, as noted above, a specialist must obtain to stop any order for more than 2,000 shares, or a total of more than 5,000 shares for all stopped orders), the Exchange has developed new manual and automated reports, which serve as a written audit trail for surveillance purposes. As a result, the Commission believes that the Amex has sufficient means to determine whether a specialist complied with the amendments' order size and aggregate share thresholds and, if not, whether Floor Official approval was obtained for larger parameters. The Commission also notes the Amex's on-going effort to keep its specialists properly informed about the pilot program's requirements. In this context, the Amex has distributed Information Circulars. 26 and held continuing educational sessions on the pilot program and its requirements for stopping stock in minimum fractional change markets. 26 See supra , note 20. During the pilot extension, the Commission requests that the Amex continue to monitor closely specialist compliance with Rule 109's procedures. As before, the Amex should determine how often orders requiring Floor Official approval to be stopped do not receive such approval. In so doing, the Amex should distinguish between instances where the specialist did not ask for permission and those where it was denied (and, if so, on what grounds). The Amex should gather and report information about the market conditions prevailing at the time of each instance of specialist non-compliance with these procedures and the action taken by the Exchange in response thereto. The Commission requests that the Amex submit a report describing its findings on these matters, specifically: (1) The effect of Rule 109, as amended, on limit book orders and (2) specialist compliance with the pilot procedures, by December 31, 1994. In addition, if the Exchange determines to request an extension of the pilot program beyond March 21, 1995, the Commission requests that the Amex also submit a proposed rule change by December 31, 1994. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of the notice of filing thereof. This will permit the pilot program to continue on an uninterrupted basis. In addition, the procedures the Exchange proposes to continue using are the identical procedures that were published in the Federal Register for the full comment period and were approved by the Commission. 27 27 No comments were received in connection with the proposed rule change which implemented these procedures. See 1992 Approval Order, supra , note 3.
