FR941219-2-00095 FR941219-2-00059 Notice of Record of Decision for Bayou Sauvage National Wildlife Refuge, Master Plan/Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS), Orleans Parish, Louisiana AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice makes available to the public a summary of the Record of Decision (ROD) for the final Master Plan/FEIS for the Bayou Sauvage National Wildlife Refuge, located in Orleans Parish, Louisiana. Establishment of a 19,000-acre refuge was authorized by Congress on July 28, 1986. As of 1993, the refuge contained approximately 22,800 acres under the supervision of the Fish and Wildlife Service (Service). There is a potential for future expansion of the refuge to include a total of approximately 30,000 acres. Federal funding for design, construction, and operation of the refuge is provided through appropriations by Congress. Pursuant to the Council on Environmental Quality regulations implementing the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (40 CFR 1505.2), the Service issues this ROD upon consideration of the FEIS prepared for the Proposed Action. A Notice of Availability of the FEIS was published by the Environmental Protection Agency in the Federal Register on September 9, 1994. Factors influencing selection of the Preferred Alternative included: (1) Compliance with the purpose for which the Refuge was established, (2) adherence to the goals, objectives, and policies established for the refuge, (3) opinions of the public and commenting agencies, and (4) evaluation of the impacts of the four alternatives on the physical, biological, and socioeconomic environments. The Preferred Alternative, referred to as Alternative 2, Comprehensive Diverse Habitat Enhancement Alternative, contains a Management Program and a Facilities Program characterized by the following elements: 1. Management Program: a. Habitat-Wildlife *␣Habitat conservation for the five threatened and/or endangered species presently using the refuge. *␣Support for at least 60,000 wintering waterfowl. *␣Control of nuisance animals and exotic plants, as needed. *␣Freshwater fisheries habitat enhancement in leveed wetlands south of Interstate 10 (I&hyph;10). *␣Estuarine fisheries habitat enhancement in leveed wetlands north of I&hyph;10. b. Environmental Management *␣Acquire all lands presently leased (i.e., The Conservation Fund and the city of New Orleans property). *␣Acquire additional lands from willing sellers in the refuge expansion zone. *␣Tidal Wetlands Management_Uncontrolled Estuarine Habitat (Units 1, 2b, 6b, 7a, 7b, 8b). _Stabilize and enhance shore zone (Units 1, 7a, 7b) _Stabilize and enhance bank line (Units 7a, 7b, 6b) _Increase diversity of estuarine habitat types (brackish marsh; sand/shell beach; small, shallow waterbodies; and protected lagoons with submerged aquatics, oyster reefs) *␣Leveed Wetlands Management_Controlled Fresh Habitat (Units 5, 6a, 9). _Enhance bottomland hardwood forest (Units 3, 5, 8a, 9) _Reestablish fresh emergent vegetation in Units 5 and 6a _Maintain scrub/shrub habitat for rookeries in Unit 6a _Protect refuge facilities and infrastructure from flooding *␣Leveed Wetlands Management_Controlled Fresh-Intermediate Habitat (Units 3, 4) _Enhance the quality of and maintain a maximum number of different habitats for the benefit of wildlife and the enjoyment and education of the public _Restore and maintain fresh-intermediate marsh vegetation _Protect refuge facilities and infrastructure from flooding *␣Leveed Wetlands Management_Controlled Estuarine (Unit 2a) _Restore estuarine nursery habitat inside protection levee
