FR941005-2-00005 FR941005-2-00003 DATES: Comments related to the scope of the analysis should be received by October 31, 1994 to ensure timely consideration. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments and suggestions to Corey P. Wong, District Ranger, Clear Creek Ranger District, 101 Chicago Creek, P.O. Box 3307, Idaho Springs, Colorado, 80452. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sue Greenley, Project Coordinator, Clear Creek Ranger District, 101 Chicago Creek, P.O. Box 3307, Idaho Springs, Colorado, 80452, (303) 567&hyph;2901. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Loveland Basin and Loveland Valley ski areas have operated under special use permit since 1937 on National Forest System lands administered by the Arapaho and Roosevelt National Forests. The permit covers 2,300 acres of National Forest System land, the area where these projects are proposed. The ski areas operate in accordance with the Master Development Plan that was approved by the Forest Service on March 1, 1977. Specific operations on National Forest Service lands are authorized under a special use permit issued by the Forest Service on January 26, 1994. The proposed action is consistent with the long-range goals for this area as defined in the Land and Resource Management Plan for the Arapaho and Roosevelt National Forests and Pawnee National Grassland, approved on May 4, 1984. Under that Forest Plan, the area encompassed by Loveland Basin and Loveland Valley ski areas is assigned to management under prescription 1B&hyph;1. This management prescription provides management emphasis for the provision of downhill skiing on existing downhill sites. The purpose of prescription 1B&hyph;1 is to integrate ski area development and use with other resource management to provide healthy tree stands, vegetative diversity, forage production for wildlife and livestock, and opportunities for nonmotorized recreation. The proposed area for guided backcountry skiing, adjacent to Loveland Basin ski area, is assigned to management under prescription 1B&hyph;2. This management prescription provides for potential winter sports sites. The purpose of prescription 1B&hyph;2 is for these sites to be maintained for future downhill skiing recreation opportunities and recreation opportunities focus on dispersed recreation uses. Vegetation treatment focuses on perpetuating a healthy forest. The Forest Service does not anticipate the need for any amendments to the Land and Resource Management Plan as a result of this proposal. A range of reasonable alternatives to the proposed action will be considered in the analysis. Reasonable alternatives are those which fulfill the purpose and need for the proposals and address significant issues that are identified during the scoping process. The only specific alternative that has been identified at this time is the ``no action'' alternative. If the ``no action'' alternative is selected, the proposed project would not take place at this time. The analysis will address major issues and concerns about the proposed action and alternatives and will disclose the direct and indirect impacts related to those issues. The following tentative issues have been identified: (1) Impacts to wetlands and floodplains; (2) Impacts to water quality; (3) Impacts to threatened and endangered species; (4) Impacts to visual quality; (5) Impacts to downhill skiers. It is anticipated that the Draft Environmental Impact Statement will be published by November 30, 1994. The Final Environmental Impact Statement will be completed in March, 1995. The comment period on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency publishes the Notice of Availability in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft Environmental Impact Statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp v. NRDC 435 US 519, 533 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the Draft Environmental Impact Statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the Final Environmental Impact Statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel (9th Circuit, 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris , 490 F. Supp. 1334 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45 day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the Final Environmental Impact Statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council of Environmental Quality regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. Dated: September 22, 1994. Corey P. Wong, District Ranger. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24661 Filed 10&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
