FR940407-2-00153 FR940407-2-00081 Applications which pass the pre-rating review will be assessed and scored by reviewers. Each reviewer will give a numerical score for each application reviewed. These numerical scores will be supported by explanatory statements on a formal rating form describing major strengths and weaknesses under each applicable criterion published in the announcement. The in-depth assessment and review process will use the following criteria coupled with the specific requirements described in Part III. Scoring will be based on a total of 100 points. ( Note: the following review criteria reiterate the collection of information requirements contained in Part VI of this announcement. These requirements are approved under OMB Control Number 0970&hyph;0062 expiration 09&hyph;30&hyph;95.) A. Criteria for Review and Assessment of Applications in Priority Areas 1.0 and 2.0 Criterion I: Organizational Experience in Program Area and Staff Responsibilities (Maximum: 15 Points) (i) Agency's Commitment and Experience in Program Area The application includes documentation which summarizes two similar projects undertaken by the applicant agency and the extent to which the stated and achieved performance targets, including permanent benefits to low-income populations, have been achieved. Application indicates how the agency will verify the extent to which the performance targets are achieved in this project. Application notes and justifies the priority that this project will have within the agency including the facilities and resources that it has available to carry out the project. In addition, the application describes how the job creation activities planned in this project relate to the job creation activities of the agency and how this project will continue without investment from this source. ( Note: The maximum number of points will be given only to those organizations with a demonstrated record of achievement in promoting job creation and enterprise opportunities for low-income people.) (ii) Staff Skills, Resources and Responsibilities The application must profile two or three individuals who will have the most responsibility for shaping the project, connecting it to customers, and achieving performance targets. The focus should be on the energy, capacity and commitment of those persons who will implement the project. Because this is a demonstration project within an already-established agency, OCS expects that the key staff person(s) would be identified, if not hired. The application must include the minimum qualifications and a position description for the third-party evaluator (independent entity, i.e. an entity organizationally distinct from, and not under the control of the applicant). A third-party evaluator must have knowledge about and have experience in conducting process and outcome evaluations, evaluating issues in the job creation field, expansion of businesses and the creation of self-employment and small business opportunities for low-income neighborhoods and understands the complexity of the problems that target population faces. The competitive procurement regulations (45 CFR Part 74, Appendix H) apply to service contracts such as those for evaluators when the costs of such service will exceed $25,000. Described the facilities and resources (i.e. space, equipment, etc.) that it has available to carry out the project. Criterion II: Analysis of Need (Maximum: 15 Points) The application includes a description of the geographic area and population to be served as well as a discussion of the nature and extent of the problem to be solved. It should indicate what the unemployment rates are in the geographic areas to be served and (to the extent practicable) cite how the proposed businesses and subsequent jobs will impact on the nature and extent of the problem. It should also include documentation regarding the number and percentage of individuals receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children and the total number of individuals which make up the population in the area where the project will operate.
