FR940705-2-00143 FR940705-2-00090 Appendix P-II-B&hyph;2-a-(2). The term `greenhouse facility' includes the actual greenhouse rooms or compartments for growing plants, including all immediately contiguous hallways and head-house areas and is considered part of the confinement area. Appendix P-II-B&hyph;2-b. Greenhouse Design (BL2&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-B&hyph;2-b-(1). A greenhouse floor composed of an impervious material. Concrete is recommended, but gravel or other porous material under benches is acceptable unless propagules of experimental organisms are readily disseminated through soil. Soil beds are acceptable unless propagules of experimental organisms are readily disseminated through soil. Appendix P-II-B&hyph;2-b-(2). Windows and other openings in the walls and roof of the greenhouse facility may be open for ventilation as needed for proper operation and do not require any special barrier to exclude pollen or microorganisms; however, screens are required to exclude small flying animals (e.g., arthropods and birds). Appendix P-II-B&hyph;2-c. Autoclaves (BL2&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-B&hyph;2-c-(1). An autoclave shall be available for the treatment of contaminated greenhouse materials. Appendix P-II-B&hyph;2-d. Supply and Exhaust Air Ventilation Systems (BL2&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-B&hyph;2-d-(1). If intake fans are used, measures shall be taken to minimize the ingress of arthropods. Louvers or fans shall be constructed such that they can only be opened when the fan is in operation. Appendix P-II-B&hyph;2-e. Other (BL2&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-B&hyph;2-e-(1). BL2&hyph;P greenhouse containment requirements may be satisfied by using a growth chamber or growth room within a building provided that the external physical structure limits access and escape of microorganisms and macroorganisms in a manner that satisfies the intent of the foregoing clauses. Appendix P-II-C. Biosafety Level 3_Plants (BL3&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1. Standard Practices (BL3&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-a. Greenhouse Access (BL3&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-a-(1). Authorized entry into the greenhouse shall be restricted to individuals who are required for program or support purposes. The Greenhouse Director shall be responsible for assessing each circumstance and determining those individuals who are authorized to enter the greenhouse facility. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-a-(2). Prior to entering the greenhouse, personnel shall be required to read and follow instructions on BL3&hyph;P practices and procedures. All procedures shall be conducted in accordance with accepted greenhouse practices that are appropriate to the experimental organisms. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-b. Records (BL3&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-b-(1). A record shall be kept of experimental plants, microorganisms, or small animals that are brought into or removed from the greenhouse facility. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-b-(2). A record shall be kept of experiments currently in progress in the greenhouse facility. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-b-(3). The Principal Investigator shall report any greenhouse accident involving the inadvertent release or spill of microorganisms to the Biological Safety Officer, Greenhouse Director, Institutional Biosafety Committee, NIH/ORDA, and other appropriate authorities immediately (if applicable).
