FR940407-2-00114 FR940407-2-00061 [Release No. 34&hyph;33840; File No. SR&hyph;PTC&hyph;93&hyph;04] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Participants Trust Company; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Percentage Margin Applied by PTC With Respect to GNMA Project, Construction, and Mobile Home Securities March 31, 1994. On November 8, 1993, the Participants Trust Company (``PTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;PTC&hyph;93&hyph;04) pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''). 1 Notice of the proposal appeared in the Federal Register on January 31, 1994. 2 No comments were received. For the reasons discussed below, the Commission is approving the proposed rule change. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33513 (January 24, 1994), 59 FR 4302. I. Description PTC seeks permanent approval of its proposed rule change establishing the percentages to be deducted from the market value of certain securities to determine how those securities should be valued for purposes of participants' Net Free Equity. 3 The current proposal is substantially the same as the one the Commission temporarily approved on October 7, 1991. 4 3 Net Free Equity is calculated as the sum of: (1) The cash balance in the account; (2) The market value of securities in the account, less the appropriate haircut for such securities (``Applicable Percentage''); and (3) The value of all Supplemental Processing Collateral; minus (4) Reserve on Gain on transfers made that day. Supplemental Processing Collateral includes the following: (1) The value of optional deposits to the participants fund allocated to that account (optional deposits to the participants fund are deposits that exceed the minimum deposit required pursuant to PTC's rules and procedures); and (2) 20% of the mandatory deposits to the participants fund for the Master Account (mandatory deposits to the participants fund are minimum deposits required to be deposited into such fund pursuant to PTC's rules and procedures). Reserve on Gain means: (1) The contract value credited to the cash balance of a delivering participant or limited purpose participant over the market value of securities credited to the transfer account associated with the account of the receiving participant; or (2) The market value of securities credited to the transfer account associated with the account of a receiving participant over the contract value credited to the cash balance of the delivering participant or limited purpose participant. PTC Rules, Article I, Rule 1. 4 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29793 (October 7, 1991), 56 FR 51732. Under PTC's rules, the Applicable Percentage 5 of the market value of securities is used in computing a participant's Net Free Equity. PTC's rules require participants to maintain Net Free Equity of zero or greater in each of their agency, pledgee transfer, or proprietary accounts in order for transactions to be processed. PTC has the right to borrow against or liquidate those assets that comprise the Net Free Equity computations in those accounts in the event that the participant responsible for one or more of those accounts fails to pay the account debit balance at the end of the day. By including only a portion of the market value of securities in Net Free Equity, i.e. , the Applicable Percentage, PTC attempts to limit the risk caused by fluctuations in the market value of securities in those accounts. 5 ``Applicable Percentage'' means that percentage of the market value of securities that is included in the computation of Net Free Equity. The Applicable Percentage is determined by deducting certain percentages ( i.e. , margin) from the market value of securities. See also supra note 3. Under the proposal, PTC is seeking permanent approval of the following margin levels: GNMA Project Loan Securities_10% GNMA Project Note Securities_10% GNMA Construction Loan Securities_12% GNMA Mobile Home Securities_20% PTC deducts 5% from the market value of GNMA Single-Family securities to arrive at their Applicable Percentage. That percentage is based upon historical price volatility figures. Historical volatility of the Project, Construction, and Mobile Home GNMA securities is similar to that of Single-Family GNMA securities, but PTC believes that the market for those securities is less liquid. This is reflected in the higher margin levels for those securities. II. Discussion The Commission believes that PTC's proposed rule change is consistent with section 17A of the Act, and, specifically, with sections 17A(b)(3) (A) and (F). 6 Those sections require a clearing agency to be organized, and its rules be designed, to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to assure the safeguarding of securities and funds which are in its custody or control or for which it is responsible. 6 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3) (A) & (F).
