FR940817-2-00265 FR940817-2-00113 The notion of threshold may be useful in explaining mechanisms associated with specific types of toxicity. What little is known about mechanisms of neurotoxicity suggests that both threshold and nonthreshold scenarios are possible (Silbergeld, 1990). However, for one of the most studied neurotoxicants, lead, there has been a steady decline in exposure levels shown to have effects, suggesting to some that no threshold dose is apparent (Bondy, 1985). Sette and MacPhail (1992) also consider the threshold as a mathematical assumption and as a population sensitivity and conclude that ``the idea of no threshold seems experimentally untestable.␣.␣.␣.'' The RfD approach relies on single experimental observations (the NOAEL or LOAEL) instead of complete dose-response curve data to calculate risk estimations. Chemical interactions with biological systems are often specific, stereoselective, and saturable. Examples include enzyme-substrate binding leading to substrate metabolism, transport, and receptor-binding, any or all of which may be a requirement of an agent's effect or toxicity. Therefore, a chemical's dose-response curve may not be linear. The certainty of low-dose extrapolation has been determined to be markedly affected by the shape of the dose-response curve (Food and Drug Administration Advisory Committee on Protocols for Safety Evaluation, 1971). Therefore, the appropriate use of dose-response curve data should enhance the certainty of risk estimations when thresholds are not assumed or determined. Dose-response models have generated considerable interest as more appropriate and quantitative alternatives to the safety-factor approach in risk assessment. Rather than routinely applying a ``fixed'' safety factor to the NOAEL (based on a single dose) to obtain a ``safe'' dose, another approach uses data from the entire dose-response curve. Two fundamentally different approaches in the use of dose-response data to estimate risk have been developed. Dews and coworkers (Dews, 1986; Glowa and Dews, 1987; Glowa et al., 1983) and Crump (1984) demonstrated an approach in which they used information on the shape of the dose-response curve to estimate levels of exposure associated with relatively small effects (i.e., a 1, 5, or 10 percent change in a biological endpoint). Both Dews and Crump fit a mathematical function to the data and provided an estimate of the variability in exposure levels associated with a relatively small effect. An alternative approach developed by Gaylor and Slikker (1990) first establishes a mathematical relationship between a biological effect and the dose of a given chemical. The second step determines the distribution (variability) of individual measurements of biological effects about the dose-response curve. The third step statistically defines an adverse or ``abnormal'' level of a biological effect in an untreated population. The fourth step estimates the probability of an adverse or abnormal level as a function of dose utilizing the information from the first three steps. The advantages of these dose-response models are that they encourage the generation and use of data needed to define a complete dose-response curve. Although more quantitative dose-response assessment models have emerged in recent years, uncertainty remains as to what biological endpoints from which species with what dosing regimen should be analyzed. Within a species, a given agent may produce a variety of effects, including neurochemical, neuropathological, and behavioral effects. In other instances, a chemical may produce alterations of one endpoint but not others (Slikker et al., 1989). Species selection may also dramatically affect the outcome of risk assessments. The Parkinson-like syndrome produced by single doses of MPTP in the human or nonhuman primate is not observed in rats given comparable MPTP doses (Kopin and Markey, 1988). Although endpoint and species selection appear to have a tremendous effect on the outcome of an assessment, only a few studies have systematically investigated the effect on assessment outcome of varying either the species or the endpoint within a species (McMillan, 1987; Hattis and Shapiro, 1990; Gaylor and Slikker, 1992).
