FR940907-2-00116 FR940907-2-00083 Decision Date: July 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Franklin D. Benson, Minneapolis Airports District Office, (612) 725&hyph;4221. Public Agency: City of Quincy, Illinois. Application Number: 94&hyph;01&hyph;C&hyph;00&hyph;UIN. Application Type: Impose and Use PFC Revenue. PFC Level: $3.00. Total Approved Net PFC Revenue: $115,517. Earliest Charge Effective Date: October 1, 1994. Estimated Charge Expiration Date: July 1, 1997. Class Of Air Carriers Not Required To Collect PFC's: Charter operators. Determination: Approved. Based on the information submitted by the public agency, the FAA has determined that the proposed class accounts for less than 1 percent of the total annual enplanements at the Quincy Municipal Airport-Baldwin Field. Brief Description Of Projects Approved For Collection And Use: Acquire snow [plow] truck, Overlay and mark taxiway and main entrance road, Grading and drainage for east quadrant fixed based operator area, Taxiway guidance signs, replace high intensity runway lights and medium intensity runway lights, and improvements to terminal building, Hydraulic lift, Relocate and modernize the lighting control vault, Prepare airport layout plan. Brief Description Of Project Partially Approved For Collection and Use: Replace medium intensity taxiway lights. Decision: Partially approved. This was an AIP project and the construction bids were lower than expected; therefore, the estimated local share was reduced. Decision Date: July 8, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Louis H. Yates, Chicago Airports District Office, (708) 294&hyph;7335. Public Agency: Port of Portland, Portland, Oregon. Application Number: 94&hyph;02&hyph;C&hyph;00&hyph;PDX. Application Type: Impose and Use PFC Revenue. PFC Level: $3.00. Total Approved Net PFC Revenue: $53,653,440. Charge Effective Date: November 1, 1994. Estimated Charge Expiration Date: September 1, 1999. Class Of Air Carriers Not Required To Collect PFC's: Air taxi/commercial operator as further defined in the Port of Portland's Ordinance No. 359 as adopted. Determination: Approved. Based on information submitted by the public agency, the FAA has determined that the proposed class accounts for less than 1 percent of the total annual enplanements at Portland International Airport. Brief Description Of Projects Approved For Collection And Use: Runway 10R/28L (south) rehabilitation, Runway 10L/28R (north) rehabilitation, Terminal apron between concourses C and D rehabilitation, Taxiways H, D, and Weather Service apron rehabilitation, Rehabilitate north ramp from concourse E to the general aviation area, Rehabilitate fire station west road, Construct taxiway C high speed exists, Airfield emergency generator upgrade, Construct snow and ice control materials storage facility, Construct new taxiway from concourse C to taxiway E, Fillet paving A5, A6, and A7, Purchase emergency mobile command unit, Install runway distance remaining markers, Install centerline lights on taxiway A from A2 to taxiway E to taxiway M, phase 2, Install centerline lights on taxiway T from concourses E to A, phase 2, Apron widening at concourse D, Install centerline lights on taxiway C from exit C1 to taxiway E, phase 2, Light 10L lead on/off at A1 and A7, Northeast corner fillet widening at B5 from taxiway T to concourse B, Install centerline lights on taxiway C from C6 to C8 with lead on/off, Relocate fire station, Replace E&hyph;89, Replace F&hyph;81, Add third lane to Airport Way westbound, Add second lane to 82nd Avenue and third lane to Airport Way eastbound, Extend east frontage road, Central utility plant boiler and upgrade, Federal Inspection Station (FIS) expansion, Renovate concourses B and C security checkpoints. Brief Description Of Projects Approved For Collection Only: Taxiway A and connectors rehabilitation, Runway 2/20 rehabilitation, Taxiway F rehabilitation, Taxiway GA rehabilitation, Signalize Airport Way and west frontage road. Brief Description of Projects Approved, In Part, For Collection And Use: Roadway signing improvements. Determination: Approved in part. The signage along Airport Way is eligible under AIP criteria; however, the replacement of signage in the parking lots, is ineligible. Replace terminal roofs. Determination: Approved in part. A portion of this project, equal to the percentage of eligible area in the terminal, is eligible under AIP criteria. The FAA concurs with the Port of Portland's determination that 46 percent of the terminal space is eligible; therefore, 46 percent of this project is eligible. Brief Description Of Projects Disapproved: Storm water treatment ponds. Determination: Disapproved. Although Public Law 102&hyph;581 amended section 503(a)(2) of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 to make projects to comply with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 or a State water quality agency eligible under AIP, specific language in that legislation does not permit water quality stand-alone projects to be determined eligible for PFC funding. The limited exception to this prohibition is the use of PFC revenue for local match of AIP-funded water quality projects. The financial plan for this project shows the total cost of the project to be funded with PFC revenue. Therefore, this project does not meet the requirements of ยง158.15(b). FIS screening point. Determination: Disapproved. This project involves the purchase and installation of equipment and related structures for a security checkpoint at the FIS. This type of project is a requirement of Part 108. AIP and PFC eligibility is limited to equipment and facilities required by Part 107. Therefore, this project does not meet the requirements of ยง158.15(b). Brief Description Of Projects Withdrawn: Construct equipment storage shed. Determination: The Port of Portland withdrew this project by letter dated April 5, 1994. Enplaning roadway expansion, phase 1.
