FR941102-2-00063 FR941102-2-00046 Further changes to the check posting rules may also lead to the creation of intraday float. As an example, a scheme whereby check credits are posted at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time and check debits continue to be posted on the clock hour at least one hour following presentment would generate as much as $23 billion in debit float at 11:00 a.m., and an average of $6 billion in float over the course of the day. However, even this radical a change to the posting rules would not eliminate a significant fraction of cap breaches caused by the implementation of the new posting rules. Many non-Fedwire-caused cap breaches would continue due to the posting of ACH debit transactions, at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time, and net settlement entries from private clearing houses, as determined by the individual settlement arrangements. Many small depository institutions may continue to encounter difficulties in funding these transactions on a timely basis during the day. Another possible change to the check posting rules would be to shift the first check debiting time from 11:00 a.m., Eastern Time to 11:00 a.m., Local Time. It was initially believed that such an approach might make the fractional check crediting option more feasible for many institutions in the Central, Mountain, and Pacific time zones. Upon further analysis, however, the Board determined that because of the later debiting times in western time zones, the corresponding crediting times would shift later in the day as well, thereby lessening any positive benefit of the delayed check debits. A final alternative is to establish a new set of posting rules for cap administration different from the posting rules for the assessment of daylight overdraft fees. The Board does not believe such an approach would be desirable, as it would likely lead to more, rather than less, of an administrative burden on small institutions and could create a significant amount of confusion in the banking industry about the focus of the PSR initiative. The Board has, therefore, not elected to make any changes to the established intraday posting procedures at this time. By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, October 27, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27122 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
