FR940304-2-00034 FR940304-2-00028 [FRL&hyph;4845&hyph;5] Delaware: Final Determination of Adequacy of the State's Municipal Solid Waste Permit Program AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (Region III). ACTION: Notice of final determination of full program adequacy for the State of Delaware's application. SUMMARY: Section 4005(c)(1)(B) of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), as amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments (HSWA) of 1984, requires states to develop and implement permit programs to ensure that municipal solid waste landfills (MSWLFs) which may receive hazardous household waste or small quantity generator waste will comply with the revised Federal MSWLF Criteria (40 CFR part 258). RCRA section 4005(c)(1)(C) requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to determine whether states have adequate ``permit'' programs for MSWLFs, but does not mandate issuance of a rule for such determinations. EPA has drafted and is in the process of proposing a State/Tribal Implementation Rule (STIR) that will provide procedures by which EPA will approve, or partially approve, State/Tribal landfill permit programs. The Agency intends to approve adequate State/Tribal MSWLF permit programs as applications are submitted. Thus, these approvals are not dependent on final promulgation of the STIR. Prior to promulgation of the STIR, adequacy determinations will be made based on the statutory authorities and requirements. In addition, states/tribes may use the draft STIR as an aid in interpreting these requirements. The Agency believes that early approvals have an important benefit. Approved State/Tribal permit programs provide interaction between the State/Tribe and the owner/operator regarding site-specific permit conditions. Only those owners/operators located in State/Tribes with approved permit programs can use the site-specific flexibility provided by part 258 to the extent the State/Tribal permit program allows such flexibility. EPA notes that regardless of the approval status of a State/Tribe and the permit status of any facility, the federal landfill criteria will apply to all permitted and unpermitted MSWLF facilities. The State of Delaware through the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control (DNREC) applied for a determination of adequacy under section 4005 of RCRA. EPA has reviewed Delaware's MSWLF application and proposed a determination on November 15, 1993, that Delaware's MSWLF permit program is adequate to ensure compliance with the revised MSWLF Criteria. As no comments or opposition to EPA's tentative determination were received, EPA is today issuing a final determination that the State of Delaware's program is adequate. EFFECTIVE DATE: The determination of adequacy for the State of Delaware shall be effective March 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: USEPA Region III, 841 Chestnut Building, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107, Attn: Mr. Christopher Luksic, mailcode (3HW53), telephone (215) 597&hyph;2842. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background
