FR940111-1-00005 FR940111-1-00001 §51.2930 Mature. Mature means having reached the stage of development which will insure a proper completion of the ripening process. §51.2931 Well formed. Well-formed means having the shape characteristic of the variety. §51.2932 Damage. Damage means any specific defect defined in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or a combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the apricot. The dimensions given for these defects are based on an apricot with a diameter of 17/8 inches (4.8 cm). Correspondingly larger or smaller dimensions are allowed on larger or smaller apricots. The following specific defects shall be considered as damage: (a) Growth Cracks which are well healed and over three-eighths of an inch in length. (b) Limbrubs which are smooth and shallow and are more than one-fourth inch (6.4 mm) in diameter. (c) Russeting which is reddish to brown in color and exceeds 10 percent of the surface or thick, rough, and very dark and exceeds 5 percent of the surface. (d) Dirt including spray residue appearing to the extent that it is readily apparent. (e) Scab spots when cracked or aggregating more than three-eighths inch (9.5 mm) in diameter. (f) Scale occurring as scale insects, scale marks, or similar marks which are heavily concentrated or are scattered and aggregating more than one-fourth inch (6.3 mm) in diameter. (g) Hail when the skin has been broken or when not shallow and superficial or more than three-eighths inch (9.5 mm) in diameter in the aggregate. (h) Bruises when: (1) The flesh is discolored deeper than one-eighth of an inch (3.1 mm); or (2) Any bruise causing discoloration exceeding the area of a circle three-eighths inch (9.5 mm) in diameter; or (3) An aggregate of lesser bruises detracting from the appearance, edible or shipping quality of the apricot as much as paragraph (h) (1) or (2) of this section. (i) Skin Breaks including cuts or punctures which exceed individually or in the aggregate an area equivalent to a circle three-sixteenths inch (4.8 mm) in diameter. (j) Stem Pulls which exceed an area equivalent to a circle three-eighths inch (9.6 mm) in diameter. §51.2933 Serious damage. Serious Damage means any specific defect defined in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or a combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the apricot. The dimensions given for these defects are based on an apricot with a diameter of 17/8 inches (4.8 cm). Correspondingly larger or smaller dimensions are allowed on larger or smaller apricots. The following specific defects shall be considered as serious damage: (a) Growth Cracks which are unhealed or when well healed and over one-half inch (12.7 mm) in length. (b) Limbrubs which are smooth and shallow and are more than one-half inch (12.7 mm) in diameter. (c) Russeting which is reddish to brown in color and exceeds one-third of the surface or thick, rough, and very dark and exceeds 15 percent of the surface. (d) Dirt including spray residue which is readily apparent and seriously affects the appearance. (e) Scab spots when cracked or when well healed and aggregating more than one inch (2.5 cm) in diameter. (f) Scale occurring as scale insects, scale marks, or similar marks aggregating more than one-half inch (12.7 mm) in diameter. (g) Hail when the skin has been broken or when more than three sixteenths (4.8 mm) of an inch deep or more than one-half inch (12.7 mm) in diameter in the aggregate. (h) Bruises when: (1) The flesh is discolored deeper than three-sixteenths of an inch (4.8 mm); or (2) Any bruise causing discoloration exceeding the area of a circle five-eighths inch (15.9 mm) in diameter; or (3) An aggregate of lesser bruises detracting from the appearance, edible or shipping quality of the apricot as much as paragraph (h) (1) or (2) of this section. (i) Skin Breaks including cuts or punctures which exceed individually or in the aggregate an area equivalent to a circle three-eighths inch (9.6 mm) in diameter. (j) Stem Pulls which exceed an area equivalent to a circle one-half inch (12.7 mm) in diameter. §51.2934 Diameter. Diameter means the greatest diameter, measured through the center of the apricot, at right angles to a line running from the stem to the blossom end. Dated: January 3, 1994. Lon Hatamiya, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;426 Filed 1&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
