FR940405-2-00153 FR940405-2-00065 Finally, the proposal will change the time by which exercise notices will be assigned under DGOC's Procedures Section 1002. Currently, exercise notices are assigned at or before 8 a.m. on the business day following acceptance of an exercise notice by DGOC's clearing bank. Under the proposal, assignments will take place at or before 5 p.m on the same business day that the clearing bank accepts an exercise notice. The proposal will permit participants with short positions to receive more timely notice of their assignments of exercises and will allow them to manage more precisely their financial exposure following assignments by permitting them to engage in other trading on that business day. The proposal also will provide a method whereby DGOC will allocate exercise notices in a fairer manner. The new cutoff time for submission of exercise notices, the pro rata assignment of exercise notices, and the earlier notice of assignments are consistent with the policies and practices of the over-the-counter market. DGOC states in its filing that upon publication of this notice DGOC will inquire of all its participants that maintain long positions with DGOC whether they perceive any special burden associated with the one hour reduction in the time available for exercise. DGOC states that if any participant should wish to maintain the 5 p.m. exercise notice tendering time on any outstanding option, DGOC will defer implementation of the proposed rule change until one day following the expiration of all such outstanding options subject to the 5 p.m. time. DGOC further states in the filing that once the formal inquiry of participants has been completed, participants should expect to receive notice from DGOC that all options issued by DGOC and expiring after a certain date will be subject to the changes made in this proposal. From its informal polling of participants, DGOC estimates that implementation of the 4 p.m. cutoff time shall occur during the first quarter of 1994. DGOC believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the Act and particularly with section 17A of the Act in that it will facilitate the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. 2 2 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1 (1987) B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition DGOC does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose a burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others No written comments were received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will:
