FR940620-1-00027 FR940620-1-00006 (1) Specify that the State must pay all premiums on behalf of recipients enrolled in the group health plan as provided in §435.240; (2) Specify a methodology for determining the cost-effectiveness of an individual's enrollment in a COBRA group health plan. This methodology, at minimum, must account for the employee's COBRA premiums. It also must compare these costs to the likely Medicaid expenditures for the individual. The methodology must also include an assessment explaining why the State would be likely to incur Medicaid expenditures on behalf of the individual in the absence of enrollment in COBRA continuation coverage. (3) Treat the COBRA group health plan as a third party resource in accordance with the third party liability requirements specified in §433.138, except FFP is available as provided in §435.1002. (4) Specify the basic requirements for payment of group health insurance premium expenses on behalf of any individual specified in §435.240. (f) Requirements for Medicaid payments for recipients under group health plans. In the case of the 50 States and the District of Columbia, the agency must specify that it meets the requirements of §435.186 of this part. 5. The title of subpart B is revised to read as follows: Subpart B_Mandatory Coverage of the Categorically Needy and for Special Groups 6. A new undesignated center heading and §435.186 are added at the end of subpart B to read as follows: Eligibility for Special Groups §435.186 Medicaid payments for recipients under group health plans. (a) Scope and applicability. The provisions of this section are mandatory in the 50 States and the District of Columbia. (b) Basic requirements. The agency must_ (1) Identify cases in which enrollment of a Medicaid recipient in an employer-based group health plan is cost-effective and require, as a condition of eligibility, that individuals (or in the case of a child, the child's parent) apply for enrollment in such plans, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section; (2) Specify a methodology for determining the cost-effectiveness of an individual's enrollment in a group health plan that is acceptable to HCFA. The agency may_ (i) Use the methodology established by the Secretary; or (ii) Use an alternative methodology, which, at a minimum, must include factors accounting for the employee's premiums, coinsurance, deductibles, and other cost-sharing obligations under the group health plan. It also must compare these factors to the State's average Medicaid expenditures for an equivalent set of services for an individual in similar circumstances, and may include factors not specified in this paragraph, for example, considering recipients' diagnosis. (3) Include in its Medicaid plan provisions for payment of all enrollee premiums necessary for such enrollment, and all deductibles, coinsurance, and other cost-sharing obligations for services under the State plan for Medicaid recipients enrolled in an employer-based group health plan that has been determined by the State to be cost effective; (4) Provide for payment for premiums for non-Medicaid eligible family members only if the cost-effective employer-based group health plan requires enrollment of a non-Medicaid eligible family member as a condition for a Medicaid eligible family member to enroll in the group health plan; (5) Treat the group health plan as a third party resource in accordance with third party liability requirements as specified in §435.138, except FFP is available as provided in §435.1002; and (6) Specify that the Medicaid recipient will receive Medicaid services pending the submission of the group health plan application during the group health plan's next open season. (c) Exceptions. The agency may not require, as a condition of Medicaid eligibility, that a child enroll in a cost-effective employer-based group health plan, when the parent of that child fails to enroll the child in a group health plan in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 7. In §435.201, the introductory text of paragraph (a) is republished, and paragraph (a)(7) is added to read as follows: §435.201 Individuals included in optional groups. (a) The agency may choose to cover as optional categorically needy any group or groups of the following individuals who are not receiving cash assistance and who meet the appropriate eligibility criteria for groups specified in the separate sections of this subpart: * * * * *
