FR940622-0-00073 FR940622-0-00011 (2) A transfer to another medical facility will be appropriate only in those cases in which_ (i) The transferring hospital provides medical treatment within its capacity that minimizes the risks to the individual's health and, in the case of a woman in labor, the health of the unborn child; (ii) The receiving facility_ (A) Has available space and qualified personnel for the treatment of the individual; and (B) Has agreed to accept transfer of the individual and to provide appropriate medical treatment; (iii) The transferring hospital sends to the receiving facility all medical records (or copies thereof) related to the emergency condition which the individual has presented that are available at the time of the transfer, including available history, records related to the individual's emergency medical condition, observations of signs or symptoms, preliminary diagnosis, results of diagnostic studies or telephone reports of the studies, treatment provided, results of any tests and the informed written consent or certification (or copy thereof) required under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, and the name and address of any on-call physician (described in paragraph (f) of this section) who has refused or failed to appear within a reasonable time to provide necessary stabilizing treatment. Other records (e.g., test results not yet available or historical records not readily available from the hospital's files) must be sent as soon as practicable after transfer; and (iv) The transfer is effected through qualified personnel and transportation equipment, as required, including the use of necessary and medically appropriate life support measures during the transfer. (3) A participating hospital may not penalize or take adverse action against a physician or a qualified medical person described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(C) of this section because the physician or qualified medical person refuses to authorize the transfer of an individual with an emergency medical condition that has not been stabilized, or against any hospital employee because the employee reports a violation of a requirement of this section. (e) Recipient hospital responsibilities. A participating hospital that has specialized capabilities or facilities (including, but not limited to, facilities such as burn units, shock-trauma units, neonatal intensive care units, or (with respect to rural areas) regional referral centers) may not refuse to accept from a referring hospital within the boundaries of the United States an appropriate transfer of an individual who requires such specialized capabilities or facilities if the receiving hospital has the capacity to treat the individual. (f) Termination of provider agreement. If a hospital fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) through (e) of this section, HCFA may terminate the provider agreement in accordance with ยง489.53. (g) Consultation with Peer Review Organizations (PROs) _(1) General. Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, in cases where a medical opinion is necessary to determine a physician's or hospital's liability under section 1867(d)(1) of the Act, HCFA requests the appropriate PRO (with a contract under Part B of title XI of the Act) to review the alleged section 1867(d) violation and provide a report on its findings in accordance with paragraph (g)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section. HCFA provides to the PRO all information relevant to the case and within its possession or control. HCFA, in consultation with the OIG, also provides to the PRO a list of relevant questions to which the PRO must respond in its report. (2) Notice of review and opportunity for discussion and additional information. The PRO shall provide the physician and hospital reasonable notice of its review, a reasonable opportunity for discussion, and an opportunity for the physician and hospital to submit additional information before issuing its report. When a PRO receives a request for consultation under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the following provisions apply_ (i) The PRO reviews the case before the 15th calendar day and makes its tentative findings. (ii) Within 15 calendar days of receiving the case, the PRO gives written notice, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the physician or the hospital (or both if applicable).
