FR940805-1-00100 FR940805-1-00013 (iv) Transfer of health information if appropriate; and (v) Transportation arrangements, if required. (4) Sentence reduction. Where tribal code permits, the administrator or designee shall allow sentence reduction based on evidence of good behavior. (5) Detainers. The presence of a detainer shall not automatically prevent the release of a resident from the community residential facility. ยง10.34 Resident programs and services. (a) Individual program plan _(1) Development of individual program plan. Within the first two weeks of admission, the facility staff shall design a written program, tailored for each individual, with and for each resident. The staff and resident shall sign and date the plan, which shall include measurable criteria of expected behavior and accomplishments and a time schedule for achieving specified goals. (2) Program review. Staff shall review resident progress at least monthly either through staff meetings or by individual staff; staff shall document the outcome of each review. (3) Change in program. Staff shall review and discuss any change in an individualized program with the resident. Staff and resident shall document the review by signature and date. (4) Removal from program. The administrator shall govern the removal of any resident from the program. (5) Case management. Facility staff shall use a case management approach to provide counseling services for each resident. Staff of the community residential facility shall either provide or coordinate this service. (6) Facility reimbursement. The administrator shall govern the facility's reimbursement by residents. (7) Resident budget. Residents who earn money shall develop a written personal budget. (b) Program coordination _(1) Availability of programs. The administrator or designee shall develop a written plan for resident activities, programs and services to prevent enforced idleness. Resident programs and services shall be available in the facility or accessible in the community. Programs and services shall include, but not be limited to social services, religious services, including traditional religious practices and ceremonies, recreation and leisure time activities, counseling, library services, education programs and substance abuse programming. (2) Inventory of community services. The administrator or designee shall maintain and make available to all staff and residents a periodic inventory of functioning community services. (c) Work programs _(1) Work assignments. The administrator or designee shall develop a written resident work assignment plan that provides work assignments for residents include the disabled. Work may include facility maintenance duties and community service projects. The administrator shall prohibit discrimination in resident work assignments based on race, creed, gender, age, marital status, disability or tribal affiliation. (2) Regulation of work programs. Facility resident work programs shall comply with applicable federal regulations. (d) Recreation, library and religious programming _(1) Comprehensive recreation program. The administrator or designee shall require that residents be offered opportunities for recreation and leisure time activities. A facility staff member or trained volunteer shall coordinate the recreation program. (2) Library. The administrator or designee shall develop a written plan to provide reading materials to residents. The plan shall include the location where reading materials are kept, the process by which residents obtain and return these materials and designation of the staff member or trained volunteer who is responsible for library services. The administrator shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. (3) Religious programs. Residents shall have the right to practice their religion, subject only to the limitations necessary to maintain institutional order and security. (e) Correspondence and telephone _(1) Regulation of correspondence. The administrator shall regulate resident correspondence and shall make this policy available to all staff and residents. The administrator shall review this policy annually and update it as needed. (2) Limitations on resident correspondence. The administrator shall not limit the volume of lawful correspondence (e.g., letters, packages and publications) a resident may send or receive and shall not restrict the length, language, content or source of the correspondence, except where there is clear and convincing evidence to justify the limitations for reasons of public safety, facility order or security. (3) Indigents' correspondence. The administrator or designee shall provide indigent residents with a system that enables them to send a minimum of two letters per week. (4) Inspection of letters and packages. The administrator or designee may open resident letters or packages, both in-coming and out-going, to inspect them for contraband. The administrator or designee shall notify residents when in-coming or out-going letters or packages are rejected. The administrator or designee shall deposit any cash, checks, or money orders in the resident's account and issue a receipt to both the resident and the sender. The administrator or designee shall forward any contraband found to the appropriate law enforcement authority. The supervisor shall forward all mail within twenty-four hours of receipt except for Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. Residents shall be prohibited from carrying money in the facility. (5) Privileged correspondence. The administrator shall permit residents to send sealed letters to specified groups of persons and organizations including, but not limited to, courts, including probation staff, counsel, officials of the confining authority, administrators of grievance systems and the media. Mail to residents from this specified class of persons and organizations shall be opened only to inspect for contraband and only in the presence of the resident. (6) Holding and forwarding mail. The administrator or designee shall forward or return first-class letters and packages for residents after transfer or release. (7) Telephone. The administrator or designee shall provide for resident access to telephones. (f) Visiting _(1) Visiting rules. The administrator shall establish rules for resident visiting.
