FR940110-1-00089 FR940110-1-00006 (1) Adjusting the household income limit according to the following adjustment factors for households of more than or fewer than four persons: ␣ 1No persons 1Percent adjustment 1 70. 2 80. 3 90. 4 Base. 5 108. 6 116. 7 124. 8 132. (2) For each person in excess of eight, eight percent of the four-person household base income limit shall be added to the income limit for an eight-person household for the area. Advance means a loan from a Bank that is: (1) Provided pursuant to a written agreement; (2) Supported by a note or other written evidence of the borrower's obligation; and (3) Fully secured by collateral in accordance with the Act and part 935 of this chapter. Affordable for low- or moderate-income households means: (1) For purposes of rental housing units, that rents, including reasonable utility costs, charged to households for such units do not exceed 30 percent of the income of a household (assuming a household size of 1.5 persons per bedroom or 1.0 person per unit without a separate bedroom) which has an income of 80 percent of the median income for the area, as adjusted and published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, except that in areas where the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development adjusts this income figure downward because of prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes, then ``affordable for low- or moderate-income households'' means that rents, including reasonable utility costs, charged to households for such units do not exceed 30 percent of the income of a household which has an income of 80 percent of the median income for the area, as published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, with adjustment for household size, but without the adjustments made by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes; or (2) If a rental housing unit is targeted to households whose income is less than 80 percent of the median income for the area, then ``affordable for low- or moderate-income households'' means that the rent, including reasonable utility costs, charged to a household for such unit does not exceed 30 percent of the maximum qualifying income of the targeted households of the size expected to occupy the unit. Affordable for very low-income households means: (1) For purposes of rental housing units, that rents, including reasonable utility costs, charged to households for such units do not exceed 30 percent of the income of a household (assuming a household size of 1.5 persons per bedroom or 1.0 person per unit without a separate bedroom) which has an income of 50 percent of the median income for the area, as adjusted and published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, except that in areas where the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development adjusts this income figure downward because of prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes, then ``affordable for very low-income households'' means that rents, including reasonable utility costs, charged to households for such units do not exceed 30 percent of the income of a household which has an income of 50 percent of the median income for the area, as published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, with adjustment for household size, but without the adjustments made by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes. (2) If a rental housing unit is targeted to a household whose income is less than 50 percent of the median income for the area, then ``affordable for very low-income households'' means that the rent, including reasonable utility costs, charged to a household for such unit does not exceed 30 percent of the maximum qualifying income of the targeted households of the size expected to occupy the unit. AHP means the Affordable Housing Program established pursuant to this part. Applicant means a member that applies to the Bank of which it is a member for AHP funds to be used pursuant to the requirements of this part. Area means, for purposes of defining ``median income for the area,'' a metropolitan statistical area, a county, or a nonmetropolitan area, as established by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget. Bank means a Federal Home Loan Bank established under the authority of the Act.
