FR940804-1-00055 FR940804-1-00014 Federal agencies expected to have involvement with Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii and Downingia concolor var. brevior include the Forest Service, Army Corps of Engineers, and National Park Service. These agencies either administer lands containing these species or authorize, fund, or otherwise conduct activities that may affect these species. In addition, the allocation of funding through the Federal Emergency Management Act, Housing and Urban Development, Federal mortgage programs, and the Veteran's Administration may be involved with these species. The Act and its implementing regulations found at 50 CFR section 17.61, 17.62, and 17.63 for endangered, and 17.71 and 17.72 for threatened species, set forth a series of general prohibitions and exceptions that apply to all endangered or threatened plants. With respect to Downingia concolor var. brevior and Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii , all trade prohibitions of section 9(a)(2) of the Act, implemented by 50 CFR 17.61 or 17.71, would apply. These prohibitions, in part, make it illegal for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to import or export, transport in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of a commercial activity, sell or offer for sale any such species in interstate or foreign commerce, or to remove and reduce to possession any such species from areas under Federal jurisdiction. Seeds from cultivated specimens of threatened plant species are exempt from these prohibitions provided that a statement of ``cultivated origin'' appears on their containers. In addition, for listed plants, the 1988 amendments (Pub. L. 100&hyph;478) to the Act prohibit the malicious damage or destruction on Federal lands and the removal, cutting, digging up, or damaging or destroying of listed plants in knowing violation of any State law or regulation, including State criminal trespass law. Certain exceptions apply to agents of the Service and State conservation agencies. The Act and 50 CFR 17.62, 17.63, and 17.72 also provide for the issuance of permits to carry out otherwise prohibited activities involving endangered or threatened species under certain circumstances. Permits may be issued to carry out otherwise prohibited activities involving endangered or threatened plants under certain circumstances. Regulations governing permits are codified at 50 CFR 17.62 and 17.63. Such permits are available for scientific purposes, to enhance the propagation or survival of the species. Trade permits will not likely be sought or issued for any of the plant species considered herein because they are not in cultivation. Requests for copies of the regulations on plants and inquiries regarding them should be addressed to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Endangered Species Permits, 911 N.E. 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon, 97232&hyph;4181 (telephone 503/231&hyph;6241). Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final action resulting from this proposal will be as accurate and as effective as possible. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this proposed rule are hereby solicited. Comments particularly are sought concerning: (1) Biological, commercial trade, or other relevant data concerning any threat (or lack thereof) to Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii and Downingia concolor var. brevior . (2) The location of any additional populations of these species and the reasons why any habitat should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act; (3) Additional information concerning the range, distribution, and population size of these species; and (4) Current or planned activities in the subject area and their possible impacts on these species. The final decision on this proposal will take into consideration the comments and any additional information received by the Service, and such communications may lead to a final regulation that differs from this proposal. The Endangered Species Act provides for a public hearing on this proposal, if requested. Requests must be received within 45 days of the date of publication of the proposal. Such requests must be made in writing and addressed to the Field Supervisor of the Carlsbad Field Office (see ADDRESSES section). National Environmental Policy Act The Fish and Wildlife Service has determined that an Environmental Assessment, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in connection with regulations adopted pursuant to section 4(a) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244).
