FR940317-1-00147 FR940317-1-00013 (a) As provided in the MOA, claims offices will recover from automobile insurers, while MTFs will recover from health benefits and medicare supplemental insurance. (b) As provided in the MOA, MTFs will obtain insurance and other relevant information from persons receiving inpatient and outpatient treatment for injuries resulting from an accident. MTF personnel will also screen emergency room logs, clinic records, and patient admission information to identify accident cases. MTFs will refer these cases to claims offices in a timely manner, assist claims offices in obtaining medical records and cost computations, and route requests for medical records from injured parties and attorneys through the RJA. (c) In return, claims offices will notify the MTFs of the final disposition of cases referred, deposit money recovered under 10 U.S.C. 1095 to the operations and maintenance account of the MTF that provided the care (see §536.231(d)), and report the amounts deposited to an MTF's account on a monthly basis. (d) As provided in the MOA, the head of each claims office may enter into a local Memorandum of Agreement with his or her supporting Army MTF commander. Such agreements should cover procedures, the degree of staffing each office will provide, and time frames for providing records or information. Such agreements may also provide for the MTF to assist the claims office's medical care recovery effort, either by giving back money deposited by the claims office into the MTF's Operations & Maintenance fund to the claims office, or by providing personnel or other support. Any personnel provided or money returned to the claims office under such an agreement will only be used to support affirmative claims collection efforts. (e) If care was wholly or partly provided in an MTF on or after 5 November 1990 and recovery is possible from both a health benefits insurer and an automobile insurer, the MTF will first attempt to collect from the health insurer. If the MTF cannot recover the full value of the Government's claim from the health insurer, the MTF will forward the claim file to the installation claims office for collection from the automobile insurer. Recovering and Depositing on Claims §536.227 Post demand procedures. (a) Uninsured Motorists. If the tortfeasor is an uninsured motorist, affirmative claims personnel will assert a demand against the tortfeasor, and will request suspension of the tortfeasor's driving and registration privileges under a State financial responsibility law if the tortfeasor does not pay promptly. If collection from the tortfeasor is not feasible, claims personnel will pursue recovery from any State uninsured motorist's fund or, on a medical care claim, from the injured party's uninsured motorist's coverage. (b) Periodic review of pending claims. Whether or not the injured party's attorney has agreed to assert the Government's claim, claims personnel will review the status of pending claims every 60 days and take follow-up action as appropriate. Claims personnel should periodically contact the injured party's attorney to determine the status of pending cases, and should call or send follow-up letters to an insurer or tortfeasor who fails to respond to a demand or provides an unacceptable response. Follow-up action should be documented on the claims chronology sheet. (c) Adjusting the amount asserted. The RJA should adjust the amount asserted on a claim as further treatment is provided. The RJA should delay settlement if it appears that extensive treatment is necessary or should consider this in negotiating a settlement. (d) Forwarding claims to higher authorities. The RJA or head of a claims office will terminate action or will act on requests for waiver or offers to compromise that are within his or her settlement authority (see §536.216). If a higher settlement authority must act on the claim, the RJA will forward a completed worksheet to the area claims office (if that office has authority to take action) or to USARCS as appropriate. When time is of the essence in securing a settlement, an RJA may contact USARCS telephonically for authorization to waive or compromise a claim. Prior to the expiration of the statute of limitations, the RJA should contact USARCS for guidance on disposing of any claim which cannot be recovered in full, compromised, terminated or litigated. §536.229 Settling affirmative claims. Claims personnel will reflect the basis for any settlements other than payment in full in the claims file. Note that under some circumstances, settlement authority may not waive or compromise a claim that he or she would normally have authority to act on (see §536.216(g)).
