FR940112-2-00018 FR940112-2-00012 [Project No. 2354&hyph;018] Georgia Power Co.; Notice of Intent To Prepare an Environmental Assessment January 6, 1994. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has received an application for relicensing of the existing North Georgia Hydroelectric Project (project). The project is located on the Tallulah, Tugalo, and Chattooga Rivers in Northeast Georgia and Northwest South Carolina. The project consists of six hydroelectric developments and is within the Savannah River Basin. The FERC staff intends to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) on the hydroelectric project in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act. The EA will objectively consider both site-specific and cumulative environmental impacts of the project and reasonable alternatives, and will include economic and engineering analyses. A draft EA will be issued and circulated for review by all interested parties. All comments filed on the draft EA will be analyzed by the staff and considered in the final EA. The staff's conclusions and recommendations will then be presented for the consideration of the Commission in reaching its final licensing decision. The purpose of this notice and the scoping document, which is being sent to interested individuals, organizations, and agencies with environmental expertise and concerns, is to solicit from those entities comments that will assist the staff in identifying the scope of environmental issues that should be analyzed in the EA. The scoping document will: (1) Identify preliminary environmental issues related to the proposed project, (2) identify preliminary resource issues that are not important and do not require detailed analysis, (3) identify reasonable alternatives to be addressed in the EA, and (4) solicit all available information, especially quantified data, on the resource issues, including points of view in opposition to, or in support of, the staff's preliminary views. Written comments must be filed no later than March 3, 1994 with: Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426. All written correspondence should clearly show the following caption on the first page: North Georgia Hydroelectric Project, (FERC Project No. 2354&hyph;018) Intervenors, those on the Commission's service list for this proceeding (parties), are reminded of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, requiring parties filing documents with the Commission, to serve a copy of the document on each person whose name appears on the official service list. Further, if a party or interceder files comments or documents with the Commission relating to the merits of an issue that may affect the responsibilities of a particular resource agency, they must also serve a copy of the document on that resource agency. A two-day site visit to the project is planned for January 31 and February 1, 1994. Those who wish to attend should contact Ms. JoLee Gardner, Georgia Power Company, at (404) 526&hyph;3576, by January 20, 1994, for details. Any questions regarding this notice may be directed to Joe Davis, Environmental Coordinator, at (202) 219&hyph;2865. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;717 Filed 1&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
