FR940318-0-00253 FR940318-0-00024 Measurement method is a means of measuring radon gas or radon decay products encompassing similar measurement devices, sampling techniques, or analysis procedures. Organization is any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, business, company, corporation, college or university, government agency (includes Federal, State and local government entities), laboratory, or institution. Participant is an individual or organization engaged in radon measurement and/or mitigation activities or in offering radon measurement and/or mitigation services to consumers and others, whose proficiency program application EPA has accepted. Primary measurement services (primary) refers to radon measurement services using a specific device which services include the capability to read and/or analyze the results generated from the device. Radon Contractor Proficiency (RCP) program refers to EPA's program to evaluate radon mitigation contractors and the contractor's ability to communicate information to the public. Radon Measurement Proficiency (RMP) program refers to EPA's program to evaluate organizations and individuals offering measurement services to consumers. It provides a means for organizations to demonstrate their proficiency in measuring radon and its decay products in indoor air. Radon mitigation contractor means a contractor who provides radon mitigation services to the public. Secondary radon measurement services (secondary) refers to radon measurement services that do not include the reading or the ability to analyze the results of the measurement devices used. These services may include placement and retrieval of devices, reporting results, and/or consultation with consumers. Subpart B_Fees ยง195.20 Fee payments. (a) Fee amounts. Applicants to and participants in the RMP and RCP programs shall pay fees according to the following fee schedule: (1) RMP program primary organizations. (i) In order to remain a listed participant, each primary organization that is a listed participant in the RMP program on April 18, 1994 shall pay an initial annual fee of $375 for each device listed in the program. (ii) Each primary organization that is not a listed participant in the RMP program on April 18, 1994 and submits an initial application after April 18, 1994 shall pay an initial annual fee of $375 per device. This fee will be prorated quarterly, based on the acceptance date of an organization's application. (iii) Primary organizations that have or are seeking secondary listings for their primary devices are not required to pay additional fees applicable to secondary organizations. (2) RMP program secondary organizations. (i) In order to remain a listed participant, each secondary organization that is a listed participant in the RMP program on April 18, 1994 shall pay an initial annual fee of $75. (ii) Each secondary organization that is not a listed participant in the RMP program on the effective date of this section and submits an initial application after the effective date of this section shall pay an initial annual fee of $75. This fee will be prorated quarterly, based on the acceptance date of an organization's application. (iii) Primary organizations that have or are seeking secondary listings for methods other than those for which they are listed as a primary, are subject to this fee. (3) Individual proficiency component of the RMP program. (i) In order to remain a listed participant, each individual who is a listed participant in the RMP individual proficiency program on the effective date of this section shall pay an initial annual fee of $150. (ii) Each individual who is not a listed participant in the RMP program on the effective date of this section and submits an initial application after the effective date of this section shall pay an initial annual fee of $150. This fee will be prorated quarterly, based on the acceptance date of an individual's application. (iii) Individuals in the individual proficiency component of the RMP program who fail the exam and wish to re-take the exam shall pay an application processing charge of $50. Individuals wishing to re-take the exam will not be reassessed the fees required under paragraphs (a)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section. (iv) Individuals who have or are seeking listing status as an RMP primary or secondary organization are subject to the applicable fees required in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section. (4)(i) RCP Program. (A) In order to remain a listed participant, each individual who is a listed participant in the RCP program on the effective date of this section shall pay an initial annual fee of $200. (B) Each individual who is not a listed participant in the RCP program on the effective date of this section and submits an initial application after the effective date of this section shall pay an initial annual fee of $200. This fee will be prorated quarterly, based on the acceptance date of an individual's application.
