FR940325-0-00109 FR940325-0-00016 (2) To incorporate this uncertainty, the authorized official should derive a range of probability estimates for the important assumptions used to determine damages. In these instances, the damage estimate will be the net expected present value of the costs of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources and, if relevant, compensable value. * * * * * (f) Substitutability. In calculating compensable value, the authorized official should incorporate estimates of the ability of the public to substitute resource services or uses for those of the injured resources. This substitutability should be estimated only if the potential benefits from an increase in accuracy are greater than the potential costs. (g) Compensable value during the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. (1) In determining the amount of damages, the authorized official has the discretion to compute compensable value for the period of time required to achieve the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. (2) When calculating compensable value during the period of time required to achieve restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources, the authorized official should follow the procedures described below. The procedures need not be followed in sequence. (i) The ability of the injured resources to recover over the recovery period should be estimated. This estimate includes estimates of natural recovery rates as well as recovery rates that reflect management actions or resource acquisitions to achieve restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. (ii) A recovery rate should be selected for this analysis that is based upon cost-effective management actions or resource acquisitions, including a ``No Action-Natural Recovery'' alternative. After the recovery rate is estimated, compensable value should be estimated. (iii) The rate at which the uses of the injured resources and their services will be restored through the restoration or replacement of the services should be estimated. This rate may be discontinuous, that is, no uses are restored until all, or some threshold level, of the services are restored, or continuous, that is, restoration or replacement of uses will be a function of the level and rate of restoration or replacement of the services. Where practicable, the supply of and demand for the restored services should be analyzed, rather than assuming that the services will be utilized at their full capacity at each period of time in the analysis. Compensable value should be discounted using the rate described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. This estimate is the expected present value of uses obtained through restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. * * * * * (h) Scope of the analysis. (1) The authorized official must determine the scope of the analysis in order to estimate compensable value. (2) In assessments where the scope of analysis is Federal, only the compensable value to the Nation as a whole should be counted. (3) In assessments where the scope of analysis is at the State level, only the compensable value to the State should be counted. (4) In assessments where the scope of analysis is at the tribal level, only the compensable value to the tribe should be counted. Subpart F_Post-Assessment Phase 18. Section 11.90 is amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: ยง11.90 Post-assessment phase_Report of Assessment. * * * * * (c) Type B assessments. For a type B assessment conducted in accordance with the guidance in subpart E of this part, the Report of Assessment shall consist of all the documentation supporting the determinations required in the Injury Determination phase, the Quantification phase, and the Damage Determination phase, and specifically including the test results of any and all methodologies performed in these phases. The preliminary estimate of damages shall be included in the Report of Assessment. The Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan, along with comments received during the public review of that Plan and responses to those comments, shall also be included in the Report of Assessment. 19. Section 11.91 is amended by adding a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: ยง11.91 Post-assessment phase_demand. * * * * * (e) Statute of limitations. For the purposes of section 113(g) of CERCLA, the date on which regulations are promulgated under section 301(c) of CERCLA is the date on which the later of the revisions to the type A rule and the type B rule, pursuant to State of Colorado v. United States Department of the Interior , 880 F.2d 481 (D.C. Cir. 1989), and State of Ohio v. United States Department of the Interior, 880 F.2d 432 (D.C. Cir. 1989), is published as a final rule in the Federal Register .
