FR940128-1-00076 FR940128-1-00006 FDA also invites comment on the effect of using a modified approach on the regulation of imports, especially with regard to the types of products described in item (5) above. B. Exempting Small Firms FDA invites comment on whether small firms should be exempt from the proposed regulation. Even if exempted, these firms would still be subject to the requirements of current food safety law and to inspection by FDA and State authorities. As stated earlier in this preamble, small operations are the norm in the seafood industry. A significant majority of processors have total revenues of under 1 million dollars. If small firms are to be exempted, FDA invites comment on the criteria that should be used for exempting them, including how a small firm should be defined for purposes of an exemption. The implementation of HACCP may be more burdensome for small firms than for large firms. Large firms tend to have quality control personnel already in place. In addition, many regulatory requirements are less burdensome for a large firm in proportion to output than they are for a small firm. On the other hand, FDA is taking steps, such as the preparation of its HACCP guidance, to minimize the cost of these regulations for small businesses. Thus, such an exemption may not be needed. The agency also points out that, because many large firms already have quality control systems, an exemption for small business would appear to result in requiring HACCP for that segment of the industry (i.e., large firms) that needs it the least. Large processors, moreover, tend to process relatively low risk products, such as breaded fish and shrimp and raw fish blocks. Many high-risk processors, such as processors of cooked, ready-to-eat products, tend to be small, and processors of raw molluscan shellfish tend to be very small. Nonetheless, an exemption for small business could be limited to those small businesses that produce low risk products, and FDA invites comment on this approach. As stated earlier, however, the criteria for determining low as well as high risk are not clear, due largely to the limitations of the U.S. foodborne illness reporting system. Moreover, a case can be made that risk also relates to the margin for error in a processing operation and to the consequences of failure as well as to the actual occurrence of illness. With these points in mind, FDA invites comment on how to define ``low risk.'' FDA also invites comment on what the nature of the exemption should be. Should a firm be exempt from all or part of the HACCP requirements? As circumstances change, a HACCP-based analysis of risk by a firm might reveal that the firm has become a high risk processor rather than a low risk processor. In addition, FDA invites comment on whether such an exemption should be obtained by petitioning the agency. Finally, even if an exemption were to be adopted in the final rule based on the comments received, the agency would still encourage voluntary adoption of HACCP systems by exempted firms. The advantages that HACCP is expected to provide in terms of consumer confidence, control of process, and access to international markets warrant adoption of this system.
