FR940216-0-00225 FR940216-0-00010 (ii) The covered area will be deemed to have failed surveys for VOC and NO X emissions performance, and survey series for benzene and oxygen, and toxic and NO X emissions performance. (c) General survey requirements. (1) During the period January 1, 1995 through December 31, 1997: (i) Any sample taken from a retail gasoline storage tank for which the three most recent deliveries were of gasoline designated as meeting: (A) Simple model standards shall be considered a ``simple model sample''; or (B) Complex model standards shall be considered a ``complex model sample.'' (ii) A survey shall consist of the combination of a simple model portion and a complex model portion, as follows: (A) The simple model portion of a survey shall consist of all simple model samples that are collected pursuant to the applicable survey design in a single covered area during any consecutive seven-day period and that are not excluded under paragraph (c)(6) of this section. (B) The complex model portion of a survey shall consist of all complex model samples that are collected pursuant to the applicable survey design in a single covered area during any consecutive seven-day period and that are not excluded under paragraph (c)(6) of this section. (iii) (A) The simple model portion of each survey shall be representative of all gasoline certified using the simple model which is being dispensed in the covered area. (B) The complex model portion of each survey shall be representative of all gasoline certified using the complex model which is being dispensed in the covered area. (2) Beginning on January 1, 1998: (i) A survey shall consist of all samples that are collected pursuant to the applicable survey design in a single covered area during any consecutive seven-day period and that are not excluded under paragraph (c)(6) of this section. (ii) A survey shall be representative of all gasoline which is being dispensed in the covered area. (3) A VOC survey, and prior to January 1, 2000, a NO X survey, shall consist of any survey conducted during the period June 1 through September 15. (4) (i) A toxics, oxygen, and benzene survey series shall consist of all surveys conducted in a single covered area during a single calendar year. (ii) A NO X survey series shall consist of all surveys conducted in a single covered area during the periods January 1 through May 31, and September 16 through December 31 during a single calendar year. (5) (i) Each simple model sample included in a survey shall be analyzed for oxygenate type and content, benzene content, aromatic hydrocarbon content, and RVP in accordance with the methodologies specified in §80.46; and (ii) Each complex model sample included in a survey shall be analyzed for oxygenate type and content, olefins, benzene, sulfur, and aromatic hydrocarbons, E&hyph;200, E&hyph;300, and RVP in accordance with the methodologies specified in §80.46. (6) (i) The results of each survey shall be based upon the results of the analysis of each sample collected during the course of the survey, unless the sample violates the applicable per-gallon maximum or minimum standards for the parameter being evaluated plus any enforcement tolerance that applies to the parameter ( e.g., a sample that violates the benzene per-gallon maximum plus any benzene enforcement tolerance but meets other per-gallon maximum and minimum standards would be excluded from the benzene survey, but would be included in the surveys for parameters other than benzene). (ii) Any sample from a survey that violates any standard under §80.41, or that constitutes evidence of the violation of any prohibition or requirement under this subpart D, may be used by the Administrator in an enforcement action for such violation. (7) Each laboratory at which samples in a survey are analyzed shall participate in a correlation program with EPA to ensure the validity of analysis results. (8) (i) The results of each simple model VOC survey shall be determined as follows: (A) For each simple model sample from the survey, the VOC emissions reduction percentage shall be determined based upon the tested values for RVP and oxygen for that sample as applied to the VOC emissions reduction equation at §80.42(a)(1) for VOC-Control Region 1 and §80.42(a)(2) for VOC-Control Region 2; (B) The VOC emissions reduction survey standard applicable to each covered area shall be calculated by using the VOC emissions equation at §80.42(a)(1) with RVP=7.2 and OXCON=2.0 for covered areas located in VOC-Control Region 1 and using the VOC emissions equation at §80.42(a)(2) with RVP=8.1 and OXCON=2.0 for covered areas located in VOC-Control Region 2; and (C) The covered area shall have failed the simple model VOC survey if the VOC emissions reduction average of all survey samples is less than VOC emissions reduction survey standard calculated under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section. (ii) The results of each complex model VOC emissions reduction survey shall be determined as follows: (A) For each complex model sample from the survey, the VOC emissions reduction percentage shall be determined based upon the tested parameter values for that sample and the appropriate methodology for calculating VOC emissions reduction at §80.47; and (B) The covered area shall have failed the complex model VOC survey if the VOC emissions reduction percentage average of all survey samples is less than the applicable per-gallon standard for VOC emissions reduction. (9) (i) The results of each simple model toxics emissions reduction survey series conducted in any covered area shall be determined as follows: (A) For each simple model sample from the survey series, the toxics emissions reduction percentage shall be determined based upon the tested parameter values for that sample and the appropriate methodology for calculating toxics emissions performance reduction at §80.42.
