FR940223-2-00225 FR940223-2-00104 Table of Contents 1. Introduction 1.1␣Background 1.2␣ Programs and Purpose 1.3␣ General Program Requirements 1.4␣ Eligibility Requirements 2. Program Descriptions 2.1␣ Overview 2.2␣ Rehabilitation, Reclamation, and Beautification of Transportation-Related Facilities 2.3␣ Transit Ambassadors 2.4␣ Operation Lifesaver 2.5␣ Hazardous Materials Transportation Emergency Preparedness Assistance 2.6␣Youth Traffic Safety Education Programs 3. Submission of Proposals 3.1␣Content and Format for Proposals 3.2␣Address, Number of Copies, Deadline for Submission 3.3␣Coordination with State Community Service Plan 4. Selection Criteria 4.1␣General Criteria 4.2␣Priority Consideration 4.3␣Priorities for Specific DOT Programs 4.4␣Preferences Applying to Urban Youth Corps Programs 5. Funding 5.1␣Direct Funding from DOT 5.2␣National Service Corporation Funding 5.3␣Matching Funds 5.4␣Restrictions on Use of Federal and Corporation Funds Application Form for Proposals_Appendix A 1. Introduction 1.1␣Background On September 21, 1993, the President signed into law the National and Community Service Trust Act (the ``Act''). The purpose of the Act is to engage Americans of all ages and backgrounds in community-based service to address the Nation's educational, public safety, human, and environmental needs. The Act establishes several different types of service programs designed to accomplish these goals, and establishes the Corporation for National and Community Service (the ``National Service Corporation'') to administer these programs. The service program that this Request for Proposals (``RFP'') addresses is the ``AmeriCorps'' program. The AmeriCorps program will enable dedicated individuals to work on a variety of community and national service programs on a full-time or part-time basis for a period of at least nine months. In exchange for their contribution, participants will receive living stipends and, at the end of their terms of service, may receive educational awards to pay for further education or to pay off student loans. In order to further the goals of his national service initiative, the President has urged all Federal agencies to explore ways in which to incorporate national and community service into their Federal programs. To encourage the integration of national and community service with Federal programs, the National Service Corporation has earmarked up to $16.3 million that may be available specifically for the planning and operation of national and community service programs to be operated by Federal agencies or by other eligible entities (as defined in Section 1.4.1, ``Eligible Service Organizations,'' of this RFP) in partnership with Federal agencies. Federal agencies may also apply for educational awards for program participants. At the Department of Transportation (``DOT''), we intend to fully embrace this opportunity to use national and community service programs to further our transportation-related community, state, and national goals. It is our mission to provide future generations with a transportation system that is safer, more environmentally sound, and more efficient. The strategic goals that we have set to accomplish this mission go hand-in-hand with the goals of the National and Community Service Trust Act. At DOT, we are striving to: _Tie America together through an effective intermodal transportation system; _Promote safe and secure transportation; _Actively enhance our environment through wise transportation decisions; _Put people first in our transportation system by making it relevant and accessible to users. We believe that national and community service can contribute effectively to the achievement of all of these transportation-related goals. 1.2␣Programs and Purpose Since DOT is new to the community service field, our intent is to tap the resources of existing community service organizations to implement our national and community service programs. The purpose of this RFP is to solicit proposals from eligible service organizations for transportation-related national and community service projects. Applicants may submit proposals involving activities within one or a combination of the five transportation-related programs that have been developed by DOT as being particularly suitable for national and community service projects: 1. Rehabilitation, Reclamation and Beautification of Transportation-Related Facilities; 2. ``Transit Ambassadors''_providing assistance to the elderly, disabled, and children in Head Start programs in using public transportation systems;
