FR940627-0-00214 FR940627-0-00019 (ii) Pursuant to §79.52(b)(1)(i) and §79.57(d)(2)(ii), emission generation and characterization must be repeated three times when the selected vehicle/engine is normally operated without an emissions aftertreatment device and six times when the selected vehicle/engine is normally operated with an emissions aftertreatment device. In the latter case, the emission generation and characterization process shall be repeated three times with the intact aftertreatment device in place and three times with a non-functioning (blank) aftertreatment device in place. (iii) From both light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles/engines, samples of vapor phase, semi-volatile phase, and particulate phase emissions shall be collected, except that semi-volatile phase, and particulate emissions need not be sampled for fuels and additives in the methane and propane families (pursuant to § 79.56(e)(1)(v) and (vi)). The number and type of samples to be collected and separately analyzed during one emission generation/characterization process are as follows: (A) In the case of combustion emissions generated from light-duty vehicles/engines, the samples consist of three bags of vapor emissions (one from each segment of the light-duty exhaust emission cycle) plus one sample of particulate-phase emissions and one sample of semi-volatile-phase emissions (collected over all segments of the exhaust emission cycle). If the mass of particulate emissions or semi-volatile emissions obtained during one driving cycle is not sufficient for characterization, then the driving cycle may be performed again and the extracted fractions combined prior to chemical analysis. Particulate-phase emissions shall not be combined with semi-volatile-phase emissions. (B) In the case of combustion emissions generated from heavy-duty engines, the samples consist of one sample of each emission phase (vapor, particulate, and semi-volatile) collected over the entire cold-start cycle and a second sample of each such phase collected over the entire hot-start cycle (see 40 CFR 86.334 through 86.342). (iv) Emission collection and storage. (A) Vapor phase emissions shall be collected and stored in Tedlar bags for subsequent chemical analysis. Storage conditions are specified in §79.52(b)(2). (B) Particulate phase emissions shall be collected on a particulate filter (or more than one, if required) using methods described in 40 CFR 86.1301 through 86.1344. These methods, ordinarily applied only to heavy-duty emissions, are to be adapted and used for collection of particulates from light-duty vehicles/engines, as well. The particulate matter may be stored on the filter in a sealed container, or the soluble organic fraction may be extracted and stored in a separate sealed container. Both the particulate and the extract shall be shielded from ultraviolet light and stored at ^20 ○C or less. Particulate emissions shall be tested no later than six months from the date they were generated. (C) Semi-volatile emissions shall be collected immediately downstream from the particulate collection filters using porous polymer resin beds, or their equivalent, designed for their capture. The soluble organic fraction of semi-volatile emissions shall be extracted immediately and tested within six months of being generated. The extract shall be stored in a sealed container which is shielded from ultraviolet light and stored at ^20 ○C or less. (D) Particulate and semi-volatile phase emission collection, handling and extraction methods shall not alter the composition of the collected material, to the extent possible. (v) Additional requirements for combustion emission sampling, storage, and characterization are specified in § 79.52(b). (2) Generating whole combustion emissions for biological testing. (i) Biological tests requiring whole combustion emissions shall be conducted using emissions generated from the test vehicle or engine operated in general accordance with the FTP procedures cited in this section. The emissions shall be generated continuously throughout the animal exposure periods, diluted by an amount appropriate for the test being performed as specified in §79.61(d)(3), passed through a mixing chamber, and routed to the biological test chamber. (ii) Light-duty test vehicles/engines shall be operated over the Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule (or equivalent engine dynamometer trace, per paragraph (e)(1)(i)(A) of this section) and heavy-duty test engines shall be operated over the Engine Dynamometer Schedule (see 40 CFR part 86, appendix I). (A) The tolerances of the driving cycle shall be two times those of the Federal Test Procedure and must be met 95 percent of the time. (B) The driving cycle shall be repeated as many times as required for the biological test session. (C) Light-duty dynamometers shall be calibrated prior to the start of a biological test (40 CFR 86.118&hyph;78), verified weekly (40 CFR 86.118&hyph;78), and recalibrated as required. Heavy-duty dynamometers shall be calibrated and checked prior to the start of a biological test (40 CFR 86.1318&hyph;84), recalibrated every two weeks (40 CFR 86.1318&hyph;84(a)) and checked as stated in 40 CFR 86.1318&hyph;84(b) and (c). (D) The fuel reservoir for the test vehicle/engine shall be large enough to operate the test vehicle/engine throughout the daily biological exposure period, avoiding the need for refueling during testing. (iii) An apparatus to integrate the large concentration swings typical of transient-cycle exhaust is to be used between the FTP-Constant Volume Sampler (CVS) source of emissions and the exposure chamber containing the animal test cage(s). The purpose of such apparatus is to decrease the variability of the biological exposure atmosphere. (A) A large mixing chamber is suggested for this purpose. The mixing chamber would be charged from the CVS at a constant rate determined by the exposure chamber purge rate. Flow to the exposure chamber would begin at the conclusion of the initial transient cycle with the associated mixing chamber charge. (B) A potential alternative apparatus is a mini-diluter (see, for example, AIGER/CRADA, February, 1994 in §79.57(g)). (C) The mixing chamber (or any alternative emission moderation apparatus) must function such that the average concentration of total hydrocarbons leaving the apparatus shall be within 10 percent of the average concentration of hydrocarbons entering the chamber. (iv) Emission dilution. (A) Dilution air can be pre-dried to lower the relative humidity, thus permitting a lower dilution rate and a higher concentration of hydrocarbons to be achieved without condensation of water vapor. (B) With gasoline fuels, a minimum dilution ratio of about 1:5 raw exhaust (dewpoint about 125 ○F) with dry, clean filtered air is required to reduce the water concentration to a dewpoint of about 68 ○F. The minimum dilution ratio (maximum exhaust flow rate) occurs at about 200 seconds into the UDDS transient driving cycle. Larger minimum dilution ratios are required if the dilution air includes water vapor. However, the minimum dilution ratio will vary with fuel composition. Fuels which generate greater engine exhaust water concentrations (e.g., alcohol and natural gas fuels) will require greater initial dilutions. Heated transfer ducts or tubing can be used to avoid water condensation in much of the system, but the mixing chamber described in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section will generally be at or near laboratory temperature, and CVS dilution will have to be adequate to assure that the cumulative dew point in the chamber remains below laboratory temperature at all times (further guidance on this topic may be found in Black and Snow, 1994 in §79.57(g)). (C) After the initial exhaust dilution to preserve the character of the exhaust, the exhaust stream can be further diluted in the mixing chamber (and/or after leaving the chamber) to achieve the desired biological exposure concentrations.
