FR940223-2-00065 FR940223-2-00036 The Proposed Consent Order The first paragraph of the proposed order defines certain other terms used in the order. Paragraph II would prohibit Columbia from acquiring, without the prior approval of the Federal Trade Commission, all or any significant part of a general acute care hospital in the ``Charlotte Country area'' (an area including most of Charlotte County, Florida, and some adjacent portions of DeSoto and Sarasota Counties in Florida). It would also prohibit Columbia from transferring, without prior Commission approval, any general hospital or significant part thereof it operates in that area to another person operating (or simultaneously acquiring) a general hospital in the area. These provisions would give the Commission authority to prohibit any substantial combination of the general acute care hospital operations of Columbia with those of any non-Columbia general hospital in the Charlotte County area, unless Columbia convinced the Commission that a particular transaction would not endanger competition in the Charlotte County area hospital market. Paragraph III would require Columbia to provide advance notice to the Commission of joint ventures with non-Columbia hospitals for the establishment of new hospital facilities or services in the Charlotte County area. This Paragraph would not apply to transactions subject to the prior approval requirement of Paragraph II, or to the Clayton Act's premerger notification requirements. Both Paragraph II and Paragraph III would not cover acquisitions and joint ventures where the value of the acquired assets, or the assets contributed to a joint venture by participants other than Columbia, is $1 million or less. Nor would Paragraph III apply to joint ventures between Columbia and non-Columbia hospitals that are limited to the provision of certain specified hospital support services (such as laundry or laboratory testing) or the establishment of new health plans (such as health maintenance organizations). In addition, Paragraphs II and III would both expire ten years after the order becomes final. Paragraph IV of the proposed order would prohibit, for ten years, Columbia from transferring any hospital in the Charlotte County area to any other person without first filing with the Commission an agreement by the transferee to be bound by the order. Paragraphs V and VI of the proposed order would require Columbia to make annual reports to the Federal Trade Commission, and to make certain documents and personnel available to the Commission upon request, so the Commission may verify compliance with the order. Finally, Paragraph VII of the proposed order would require Columbia to notify the Commission at least thirty days before any proposed change in corporate structure that may affect compliance with the order. The purpose of this analysis is to invite public comment concerning the proposed order, in order to assist the Commission in its determination whether to make the order final. This analysis is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and order or to modify their terms in any way. The agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by the respondent that its proposed acquisition violated or would have violated the law, as alleged in the Commission's complaint. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. Separate Statement of Commissioner Mary L. Azcuenaga Concurring in Part and Dissenting in Part in Columbia Hospital Corporation, Docket 9256 I concur in the decision to publish the proposed consent agreement for comment, but I would have preferred that the proposed order require Columbia to provide notice of acquisitions outside the relevant market. Prior notice can be useful, the Commission has required such relief in other litigated hospital merger cases, see, e.g., Hospital Corporation of America, 106 F.T.C. 361, 524 (1985), aff'd, 807 F.2d 1381 (7th Cir. 1986), cert. denied, 107 S. Ct. 1975 (1987), and there is no apparent reason for granting more favorable treatment to this respondent. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4043 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
