FR941021-0-00185 FR941021-0-00022 204. In the Notice, we also requested comment on whether any additional public service requirements should be imposed on Big LEO licensees. Those favoring such a requirement were instructed to provide an analysis of the utility of Big LEO systems to provide these services and an analysis of the existing systems used to provide these services, including their costs. Several commenters recognize the important potential of MSS for educational and public service uses. 290 The Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), for example, discusses the promise of Big LEO systems to provide educational services to those in remote areas and to allow users throughout the world to take ``electronic field trips.'' CPB urges that to ensure public access to these services, the Commission should require licensees to make their systems available to educators and students at preferential rates. It further argues that even if the Commission does not mandate a rate preference in this proceeding, it should consider imposing such a requirement in a variety of other services. 290 See Joint Comments of the Association of America's Public Television Stations and Public Broadcasting Service at 2; Comments of National Public Radio at 2; Comments of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting at 2&hyph;3. 205. None of the LEO applicants support a mandatory service or preferential rate requirement. Ellipsat notes that MSS systems are unsuitable for providing the envisioned services. According to Ellipsat, Big LEO systems have inherently low data rates and cannot supply the high bandwidth required to support the contemplated educational services without drastically absorbing MSS capacity. 291 Motorola further argues that requiring Big LEO operators to dedicate a portion of their capacity to non-revenue generating activities would unduly constrain MSS systems and would handicap them in their ability to compete with other wireless services and with foreign MSS providers. 292 TRW and Motorola argue that none of the proponents of such a requirement have provided a detailed analysis of existing systems and costs, as required. In the absence of this analysis, they conclude that there is no basis upon which the Commission could impose public service requirements. 293 291 Ellipsat Reply Comments at 36. 292 Motorola Reply Comments at 58. 293 TRW Reply Comments at 95; Motorola Reply Comments at 59. 206. In light of the service hardships alleged by the system proponents, we believe that a strong demonstration of need and feasibility is required prior to adopting specific public service requirements for Big LEO systems. We agree with Motorola and TRW that there is not sufficient information in this record to support such requirements at this time. 207. The National Communication Systems (NCS) believes that Big LEO licensees should be required to cooperate in providing national security/emergency preparedness services (NS/EP) and that any discussion of technical requirements for Big LEO systems should address survivable and endurable communications. NCS does not propose specific rules but instead requests that the Commission consider these issues in its report and order. We note that the Commission has chartered a federal advisory committee, the Network Reliability Council (NRC), to consider whether and to what extent essential services, including emergency 9&hyph;1&hyph;1 service, health, safety and other emergency communications services, are compromised during network outages. 294 The NRC agreed that national security would be included within the topic of emergency services pursuant to its charter. 295 We further note that on September 19, 1994 the Commission adopted a Notice of Inquiry requesting comment on the extent to which mobile radio services, including LEO MSS, should be required to meet compatibility requirements with 9&hyph;1&hyph;1 services. 296 The Commission will consider issues regarding the availability of reliable emergency services in these proceedings. 294 See 59 FR 31246 (June 17, 1994). 295 See Minutes of the Network Reliability Council Meeting, July 6, 1994. 296 See Enhanced 9&hyph;1&hyph;1 Notice, note 278, supra . F. Mobile Earth Station Licensing 208. In the Notice, the Commission proposed a licensing procedure for the earth station segment of the satellite system. We indicated that the ground segment will be comprised of central fixed-earth ``gateway'' stations operating in the feeder link frequency bands, mobile user transceiver units operating in the mobile satellite frequency bands, and tracking, telemetry and command (TT&C) earth stations operating in either the feeder link, mobile service or space bands. We proposed to license gateway and TT&C stations as fixed-satellite earth stations under Part 25. In addition, we proposed a blanket licensing approach for the user transceivers. Under this approach, a service vendor, which may or may not be the space station licensee, would hold the authorization and would be responsible for a specified number of technically identical transceiver units. Blanket applications would include a demonstration that the operation of transceivers will not interfere with other authorized users. License term would be ten years from date of grant and requests for additional units would be treated as minor license modifications. 297 In addition, we proposed that an end user be required to obtain authorization of the space station operator before the user may transmit to that system and, that once access authority is obtained, the operations of that transceiver would fall under the blanket earth station license of the space station operator or the vendor. Our proposed rules would not preclude bilateral, government-to-government discussions regarding international roaming arrangements. They would also permit roaming into the United States by users having technically compatible transceivers designed to operate with U.S. licensed systems and once authorized to access a U.S. system, a roaming user's transceiver operations would fall within the blanket license of the satellite operator or the service vendor. The regulatory treatment of earth station licensees providing commercial mobile radio services would be as common carriers. 298 297 See proposed §§25.115(d), 25.130(b), 25.133(b), 25.136, and 25.213. 298 See Notice, note 2, supra, at paras. 88&hyph;90. 209. The comments received in response to our proposals were favorable 299 and thus we will adopt the rules substantially as proposed. Constellation and Motorola, suggested several minor clarifications to the final rules and we will adopt these suggestions. 300 We will not, however, adopt at this time a complete revision of §25.115, Applications for Earth Station Authorizations, as suggested by Motorola. If experience with these licensing procedures indicates that this rule, as it applies to the Big LEO service, needs to be amended, we will consider doing so at a later time. 301 299 See e.g., Comments of TRW, Inc. and Comsat Corporation. 300 These include adding to §25.115(d)(3) the words ``if not already licensed under this subpart'' to clarify that gateway, TT&C and Network Control earth stations can be licensed under other procedures; adding to §25.120(e) language relating to renewals and cut-off periods; clarifying §25.136(b) to distinguish between authorization of a particular unit and use of the system; clarifying §25.130(b) to recognize specific procedures for NVNG MSS transceiver units; and clarifying §25.136(a) to include cockpit communications. 301 Other than §25.213(b), we will not adopt specific technical requirements for Big LEO transceivers at this time. These requirements are being considered in domestic and international fora and will be codified, if necessary, when earth station applications have been filed. We note that user transceivers will be required to comply with all applicable domestic and international standards governing their operations, including the radiofrequency radiation levels recommended by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). See 47 CFR 1.1.1307(b).
