FR940128-1-00136 FR940128-1-00006 Where reference is made in this Appendix to temperature-indicating devices and temperature-recording devices, the following conditions should apply: a. Temperature-indicating devices . Temperature-indicating devices should be installed where they can be easily read and located to ensure that they accurately measure the warmest temperature of the refrigeration equipment and the coldest temperature of the smoking equipment, as appropriate. Temperature-indicating devices should be calibrated at the routine operating temperature of the refrigeration, cooling, or smoking equipment against a known accurate standard thermometer upon installation and at least once a year thereafter, or more frequently, if necessary, to ensure their accuracy. Records of accuracy checks for temperature-indicating devices required to be maintained under 21 CFR 123.8 should specify the date, standard used, method used, results, and person performing the test. A temperature-indicating device that has a divided fluid column or that cannot be adjusted to the standard should be immediately repaired or replaced. b. Temperature-recording devices . Temperature-recording devices should be installed where they can be easily read and the sensors for such devices should be installed to ensure that they accurately measure the warmest temperature of the refrigeration equipment and the coldest temperature of the smoking equipment, as appropriate. Computerized storage of temperature data may be used in place of recorder thermometer charts if the use of such a system has been validated and can be shown to be substantially equivalent to the use of a temperature-recording device. Each temperature-recording device should be checked for accuracy at the beginning and end of each production day and adjusted as necessary to agree as nearly as possible with the reference temperature-indicating device. A record of these accuracy checks should be maintained that specifies the time, date, temperatures indicated by both devices before adjustment, corrective action taken, where applicable, and person performing the accuracy check. 8. Packaging a. Vacuum- or modified atmosphere-packaging should be conducted only within the facilities in which the product is produced. b. Permanently legible code marks should be placed on each finished product package and shipping container. These marks should identify the plant where the product was packed and the date of packing. 9. Corrective Action Under 21 CFR 123.7, whenever a deviation occurs at a critical control point, the processor is required to segregate and hold the product until a review can be made to determine the effect of that deviation and take corrective action as necessary. For smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products, when a deviation occurs at a brining or smoking critical control point, the processor should meet the requirements of ยง123.7 either by destroying the product; by fully reprocessing, where possible, that portion of the production involved, keeping full records of the reprocessing conditions; or by setting aside that portion of the product involved for further evaluation as to any potential public health significance. Such an evaluation should be made by a process authority and should be in accordance with procedures recognized by process authorities as being adequate to detect any unacceptable hazard to public health. Unless this evaluation demonstrates that the product had been rendered safe for its intended use, the product set aside should be either fully reprocessed to correct the deficiency or destroyed. A record should be made of the evaluation procedures used and the results. Either upon completion of full reprocessing or after the determination that no significant public health hazard exists, that portion of the product involved may be shipped in normal distribution. Otherwise, the portion of the product involved should be destroyed. 10. Sanitary Zones In addition to the requirements of 21 CFR 123.10, sanitary zones should be established around areas in which a smoked product is handled or stored. In such areas, objects and employees that have come into contact with waste, raw product, or other insanitary objects are excluded. Packaging material, equipment, employees, and in-process materials that enter a sanitary zone should be treated in a manner that will minimize the risk of the introduction of microorganisms. Air handling systems should be designed to minimize the risk of airborne contamination into sanitary zones and to provide positive air pressure in the sanitary zone relative to the surrounding areas. 11. Alternative Parameters A processor of smoked or smoke-flavored fishery products may use parameters other than those provided in Appendix C, section 5.a., if those parameters will achieve the following, as demonstrated by adequate scientific studies: (1) For botulism, zero toxin production in the product through a time period slightly beyond the shelf life of the product, demonstrated through inoculated pack studies under normal and moderate abuse conditions, and (2) For listeria, no detectable Listeria monocytogenes in the final product. A processor using alternative parameters should have on file, subject to the requirements of 21 CFR 123.8(d), a description, including the results of, the scientific studies.
