FR940419-2-00158 FR940419-2-00086 (e) Long-Term Viability and Reasonable Cost On Form HUD&hyph;52822, CIAP Application, the HA shall indicate whether the developments proposed for modernization have long-term viability, including prospects for full occupancy. During Joint Review, the Field Office shall determine whether the estimated costs are reasonable for the proposed work items and, if not, adjust the costs. The Field Office shall review estimated costs against national indices, adjusted to reflect local conditions, such as R.S. Means Index, the Dodge Report or Marshall and Swift, as well as using actual, local experience. The Field Office is no longer required to compare estimated modernization costs against computed Total Development Cost (TDC) limits. Where the HA or Field Office believes that a particular development may not have long-term viability, the Field Office shall make a final viability determination, using the following criteria: (1) Any special or unusual conditions have been adequately explained, all work has been justified as necessary to meet the modernization and energy conservation standards, including development specific work necessary to blend the development in with the design and architecture of the neighborhood; and (2) Reasonable cost estimates have been provided, and every effort has been made to reduce costs; and (3) Rehabilitation of the existing development is more cost-effective in the long-term than construction or acquisition of replacement housing; or (4) There are no practical alternatives for replacement housing. (f) Use of Dwelling Units for Economic Self-Sufficiency Services and/or Drug Elimination Activities On August 24, 1990, the Department issued HUD Notice PIH 90&hyph;39 (PHA), concerning the eligibility for funding under the Performance Funding System of dwelling units used to promote economic self-sufficiency services for residents and anti-drug programs. CIAP funds may be used to convert units for these purposes. Also refer to the Family Self-Sufficiency Program Guidelines (56 FR 49592, September 30, 1991). (g) Availability of Funding (1) Where available, authorized residual receipts or debt forgiveness replacement reserve funds shall be used in lieu of CIAP funds. Residual receipts may be retained for only two years. (2) The HA shall not receive duplicate funding for the same work item or activity under any circumstance and shall establish controls to assure that an activity, program, or project that is funded under any other HUD program, shall not be funded by CIAP. (3) A building which is assisted with Major Reconstruction of Obsolete Projects (MROP) funding after FY 1988 which has not yet reached Date of Full Availability (DOFA) is not eligible for CIAP funding. A building which was assisted with MROP funding during FYs 1986&hyph;1988 which has not yet expended all MROP funds is not eligible for CIAP funding. VI. Application Deadline Date and Summary of FY 1994 CIAP Processing Steps See section III(d) for the deadline date for submission of the FY 1994 CIAP application. Dates for other processing steps will be established by each Field Office to reflect local workload issues. The Field Office shall notify HAs of its processing schedule before the application deadline date. Summary of Processing Steps 1. HA submits CIAP Application. 2. Field Office conducts completeness review and requests corrections to deficient applications. 3. HA submits corrections to deficient applications within 21 calendar days of notification from Field Office.
