FR940705-0-00034 FR940705-0-00002 (B) Section 4.5_Measure the attenuation increase of the wound sample at the test temperature and specified wavelengths in accordance with EIA&hyph;455&hyph;20. (C) For armored cable, the armor overlap must be on the outside of the bend. (D) For self-supporting cable, the jacketed support messenger and connection web must be removed prior to testing. (iv) The cable may be allowed to warm to room temperature before visual inspection. The bent area of the cable must show neither visible evidence of fracture of the jacket nor delamination of the bond at the overlap and to the outer jacket in nonflooded cable. After removal of the jacket, there must be no visible evidence of fracture of the armor, when present, and of the components in the core. (2) Cable impact test. (i) All cables manufactured in accordance with the requirements of this section must be capable of meeting the following impact test without exhibiting an increase in fiber attenuation greater than 0.10 dB for single mode fibers and 0.40 dB for multimode fibers, and without cracking or splitting of the cable jacket. (ii) Measure the attenuation of the optical fibers in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(ii) of this section. (iii) After measuring the attenuation of the optical fibers, test the cable in accordance with EIA/TIA&hyph;455&hyph;25A. (3) Cable compression test. (i) All cables manufactured in accordance with the requirements of this section must be capable of meeting the following compressive strength test without exhibiting an increase in fiber attenuation greater than 0.10 dB for single mode fibers and 0.4 dB for multimode and without cracking or splitting of the cable jacket when subjected to a minimum compressive load of 440 newtons per centimeter for armored cable and 220 newtons per centimeter for nonarmored cable. (ii) Measure the attenuation of the optical fibers in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(ii) of this section. (iii) After measuring the attenuation of the optical fibers, test the cable in accordance with EIA&hyph;455&hyph;41 using a rate of 3 millimeters to 20 millimeters per minute and maintaining the load for 10 minutes. (4) Cable twist test. (i) All cables manufactured in accordance with the requirements of this section must be capable of meeting the following twist test without exhibiting an increase in fiber attenuation greater than 0.10 dB for single mode fibers and 0.40 dB for multimode fibers, and without cracking or splitting of the cable jacket. (ii) Measure the attenuation of the optical fibers in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(ii) of this section. (iii) After measuring the attenuation of the optical fibers, test the cable in accordance with EIA/TIA&hyph;455&hyph;85A, using a maximum cable twisting length of 4 meters. (5) Cable flex test. (i) All cables manufactured in accordance with the requirements of this section must be capable of meeting the following flex test without exhibiting an increase in fiber attenuation greater than 0.10 dB for single mode fibers and 0.40 dB for multimode fibers. (ii) Measure the attenuation of the optical fibers in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(ii) of this section. (iii) After measuring the attenuation of the optical fibers, test the cable in accordance with EIA/TIA&hyph;455&hyph;104A, Test Conditions I and II, flexed for 25 cycles using a sheave diameter not less than 20 times the cable diameter (Test condition letter B). (iv) After completion of the test, the bent area of the cable must show neither visible evidence of fracture of the jacket nor delamination of the bond at the overlap and to the outer jacket in nonflooded cable. After removal of the jacket, there must be no visible evidence of fracture of the armor, when present, and of the components in the core. (6) Water penetration test. (i) A one meter length of completed fiber optic cable must be preconditioned for 24 hours at 23 # 5 ○C and then tested in accordance with EIA/TIA&hyph;455&hyph;82B using a one meter water head over the sample or placed under the equivalent continuous pressure for one hour. (ii) After the one hour period, there must be no water leakage through the sheath interfaces, under the core wrap, between the cable core interstices or through the fiber buffers. (iii) If water leakage is detected in the first sample, one additional 3 meter sample from EACH END of the same reel must be tested in accordance with paragraph (q)(6)(i) of this section. If either sample exhibits water leakage, the entire reel of cable is to be rejected. If the samples exhibit no leakage, the entire reel of cable is considered acceptable. (7) Compound flow test. (i) Three 300 millimeter long test samples must be preconditioned for 24 hours at 23 # 5 ○C and then tested in accordance with EIA/TIA&hyph;455&hyph;81A using a test temperature of 80 # 1 ○C. (ii) The amount of filling or flooding compounds that flowed or dripped from any of the suspended cable specimens must be less than or equal to 0.5 grams of material. The measurement of an amount greater than 0.5 grams for any of the suspended cable specimens constitutes failure. (r) Preconnectorized cable (optional). (1) At the option of the manufacturer and upon request by the purchaser, the cable may be factory terminated with connectors acceptable to REA. (2) All connectors must be accepted by REA prior to their use. (s) Acceptance testing and extent of testing. (1) The tests described in Appendix A of this section are intended for acceptance of cable designs and major modifications of accepted designs. What constitutes a major modification is at the discretion of REA. These tests are intended to show the inherent capability of the manufacturer to produce cable products that have satisfactory performance characteristics, long life and long-term optical stability but are not intended as field tests. (2) For initial acceptance, the manufacturer must submit: (i) An original signature certification that the product fully complies with each section of the specification;
