FR940513-0-00122 FR940513-0-00031 Generally, the original specifications for flash rates were drawn around a time period of one second. The proposed revisions to flash or operating rates range on either side of one per second. IR&hyph;2 is clarified by restatement of the flash rates in terms of flashes or cycles per minute. F. Oscillating Lights (ยง229.133(b)(4)) The Florida East Coast Railway Company commented that its locomotives have been equipped since 1978 with an Oscitrol warning light that performs the functions of an oscillating light. This warning light consists of two lamps co-located in the same fixture, aimed three degrees to either side of the locomotive centerline, which flash alternately at a rate of approximately 50 times per minute. It also uses one red lamp, which is actuated by a heavy application of the train air brake. The red light is used for purposes other than improved conspicuity at highway-rail crossings. It need be addressed only to the extent that the actuation of a red oscillating light generally extinguishes the white light. Its primary purpose is to alert approaching trains on adjacent tracks that the train displaying the red light has undergone a heavy brake application, and could possibly foul the adjacent track. FRA believes that the warning lights used by Florida East Coast are effective and within the family of oscillating lights defined in the enabling legislation. They are therefore included in the definition of an acceptable oscillating light. Display of the red light, overriding the white light, occurs only in specific, critical situations when necessary to avoid potential train collisions. The safety benefit of this type of red light, in the rare circumstances under which it is used, outweighs the consequences of the short-term loss of the oscillating white light. This feature is permitted, but not mandated, in acceptable interim oscillating light systems. Regulatory Impact Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This interim rule has been evaluated in accordance with existing regulatory policies and procedures and is considered to be a nonsignificant regulatory action under DOT policies and procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979). This rule also has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866 and is considered ``nonsignificant'' under that Order. This interim rule does not require the use of an auxiliary lighting system. Instead, the rule encourages the installation and use of auxiliary lighting arrangements on locomotives. Although ``nonsignificant,'' FRA nonetheless has prepared a regulatory evaluation addressing the economic impact of the rule. This regulatory evaluation estimates that economic costs are negligible because installation of the auxiliary external lights on locomotives by railroads is not mandatory. Anticipated benefits and impacts of the rule will not be known until all relevant data is collected and examined by FRA. This regulatory evaluation has been placed in the docket and is available for public inspection and copying during normal business hours in Room 8201, Office of Chief Counsel, FRA, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Copies may also be obtained by submitting a written request to the FRA Docket Clerk at the above address. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) requires a review of rules to assess their impact on small entities, unless the Secretary certifies that a final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This interim rule will not have an adverse impact on any entity because it does not place any new requirements or burdens on the public. Therefore, it is certified that the interim rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
