FR940524-1-00026 FR940524-1-00008 Appendix A._Affected Interests and Proposed Members [Persons Selected for Membership Are Indicated by an Asterisk] 1Interests 1Person applied or nominated Regular Common Carrier Conference, a trade association representing approximately 200 motor carriers providing primarily less-than-truckload service. RCCC is an active participant in many Commission tariff matters and proceedings *James C. Harkins. EC-MAC Motor Carriers Service Association, Inc., an organization of several hundred motor freight carriers, many of whom are regional and smaller sized. EC-MAC serves as the tariff publishing agent for its members and has had a lengthy and extensive use of electronic data processing machinery *James T. Henry. National Motor Freight Traffic Association, Inc., a trade association whose 900 members are for-hire motor common carriers. NMFTA has been a party to numerous Commission tariff proceedings and publishes The National Motor Freight Classification on file with the agency *Charles E. Jackson. Southern Motor Carriers Rate Conference Inc., a tariff publishing bureau, which develops various electronic media formats and products to transmit tariff data and information to tariff users *Chester S Zadroga. American Movers Conference (AMC), the trade association for household goods carriers, with nearly 3000 members, and the Household Goods Carriers' Bureau Committee (HGCBC), a standing, autonomous committee of AMC that handles the ratemaking function for 2,000 moving companies parties to the HGCBC Agreement. HGCB Committee also publishes Mileage Guides in tariff form for 2,000 members and 14,000 non-household goods motor carriers *Patricia Jennings. Thomas D. Berry. Barrett Transportation Consultants (BTC), a company that publishes and maintains tariffs on behalf of many motor, rail and water carrier clients. BTC also researches and reports on tariff filings of carriers of all modes. It has developed a proprietary system of electronic maintenance of tariffs and publishes a monthly publication on computerization and electronic data interchange (EDI) *Colin Barrett. Rex Evilsizor and Associates, a longtime specialist in computers, tariffs, Commission regulations, and transportation issues Rex Evilsizor. Glenserve Company, whose applicant participated on the Automated Tariff Filing and Information (ATFI) Advisory Committee to the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC), which helped to develop the present FMC ATFI program. Glenserve is a tariff publishing agent *Thomas J. Tomasco. Station List Publishing Company publishes the ICC OPSL 6000 Official Open and Prepay Station List semi-monthly on behalf of over 500 rail carriers. It serves as agent for many rail carriers. It has developed its own electronic products based on printed tariff matter and is actively involved in the rail industry's Rate EDI Network initiatives *John Alber. Rand McNally-TDM, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Rand McNally & Company, develops and produces highway mileage guides for the Household Goods Carriers' Bureau which are filed with the ICC, FMC and 30 state regulatory agencies. These tariffs include HGB Mileage Guide (ICC HGB 100), HGB U.S. Government Mileage Guide (ICC HGB 108) and HGB National 3-digit zip code Mileage Guide (ICC HGB 105). Rand McNally develops and distributes tariff data in printed and electronic form *Thomas D. Berry. Niagara Frontier Tariff Bureau, Inc., a publishing agent with interests in U.S. and Canadian (international) traffic Kenneth Leising. Rocky Mountain Motor Tariff Bureau, Inc., which publishes tariffs for over 260 for-hire motor common carriers, and is an interested party in this proceeding Don R. Devine. Don H. Norman Associates, Inc., a firm with a broad base of carrier, shipper, and association clients, that prepares and files thousands of tariff pages at the ICC and has submitted expert testimony concerning tariff application and interpretation before the ICC *Don H. Norman. Thomas K. Ledman. Logistec, a company providing tariff publication services, computerized tariff preparation software, transportation pricing and tariff consultation, automatic rating software, rate data bases, tariff rate retrieval, and watching services to both carriers and shippers Perry Engler. The American Short Line Railroad Association, an organization with more than 400 short line and regional railroad members *K. Grant Osburn, Jr. Illinois Commerce Commission, Transportation Division, a state regulatory agency *Fred Carson. Joseph L. Steinfeld, an attorney who has represented primarily bankrupt motor carriers in undercharge cases Joseph L. Steinfeld, Jr. *Don H. Norman. International Brotherhood of Teamsters, representative of a large sector of employees in the motor carrier industry *Marc J. Fink. The Association of American Railroads, representing class I railroads Jerry Crum. *Steve Gardner. Wandaleen Poynter. The National Industrial Transportation League, an organization of shippers and groups of shippers who utilize various modes of transportation and are substantial users of transportation services George M. Fuchs. Ronald Reedy. *Nancy E. Smith. Robert A. Voltman. American Forest & Paper Association, represents member companies of the forest and paper industry, one of the largest customers of the nation's railroads *David Hershey. Transportation Brokers Conference of America, represents 1,000 property brokers licensed by the ICC who arrange transportation for both shipper and carrier customers *Donald Sooey. Allen Lund. Illinois Legislative Board, United Transportation Union, represents the interests of certain rail employees who are employed by class I rail carriers *Gordon P. MacDougall. Railroad Publication Services and Western Railroad Association, a tariff publishing agency for the principal U. S. railroads *Robert C. Becker. Leon H. Carrington, an ICC practitioner and software developer specializing in the development of geographic systems for transporta-tion and distribution, especially for small businesses Leon H. Carrington. United Parcel Services, Inc., a small package carrier that is also a developer and user of specialized logistics and electronic data systems *Eduardo I. Coloma. American Trucking Associations, Inc., an association representing motor freight carriers *Doug Anderson. Kent Jamison. John Strickland. Reggie Mutter. Kenneth Siegal. Interstate Commerce Commission, whose nominee is a staff expert on electronic tariff filing *James W. Greene. Rijnhaave Information Service Inc., a company involved in the ATFI electronic tariff filing process David W. Garay.
