FR940627-0-00073 FR940627-0-00012 (ii) Timing of provision of property or services. Generally an employer determines its lines of business on the basis of the property and services it provides to its customers for consideration during the testing year. However, it is not necessary both that property or services actually be provided, and that consideration for the property or services actually be paid, during the current testing year. For an employer to be considered to provide property or services to customers for consideration during a testing year under this paragraph (b)(2), it is sufficient that the property or services actually be provided to customers during the testing year, the consideration actually be paid during the testing year, or the employer actually incur significant costs during the testing year associated with the provision of the property or services to a specified customer or specified customers. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (3) *␣*␣* Example 1. Employer H operates several dairy farms and dairy product processing plants. The dairy farms provide part of their output of milk and milk by-products to Employer H's dairy product processing plants and also sell part to retail distributors unrelated to Employer H. The dairy farms' provision of milk and milk by-products to Employer H's dairy product processing plants does not constitute the provision of property or services to customers of Employer H because the milk and milk by-products are not provided to a person other than employer H. However, the dairy farms' provision of milk and milk by-products to independent retail distributors does constitute the provision of property or services to customers of Employer H under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1, except that the dairy farms provide their entire output of milk and milk by-products to Employer H's dairy product processing plants. The dairy farms' provision of milk and milk by-products to the dairy product processing plants generally does not constitute the provision of property or services to customers of Employer H because the milk and milk by-products are not provided to a person other than Employer H. However, paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section provides a special rule for vertically integrated businesses that satisfy §1.414(r)&hyph;3(d)(2)(iii)(B). If §1.414(r)&hyph;3(d)(2)(iii)(B) is satisfied, then, under the special rule of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the milk and milk by-products are deemed to be provided to customers of Employer H. * * * * * §1.414(r)&hyph;3 [Amended] Par. 11. Section 1.414(r)&hyph;3 is amended as follows: 1. The second sentence of paragraph (b)(4) is revised. 2. Paragraph (c)(2)(ii) is revised. 3. Paragraph (c)(4) is revised. 4. Paragraph (c)(5)(iii) is revised. 5. The last sentence of the introductory text of paragraph (c)(6) is revised. 6. A sentence is added to the end of Example 2 of paragraph (c)(6). 7. In paragraph (c)(6), the phrase ``(in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section)'' is removed from the seventh sentence of Example 3, the fifth sentence of Example 4, the fifth and sixth sentences of Example 5, and the fifth sentence of Example 7 . 8. Two sentences are added to the end of Example 5 of paragraph (c)(6).
