FR940920-2-00088 FR940920-2-00040 DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3816; FR&hyph;3772&hyph;N&hyph;01] Single Family Property Disposition Sales Program for Public Safety Employees AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, HUD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Today, HUD is announcing a sales initiative under the Single Family Property Disposition Regulations that is designed to enhance the quality of life and make more homeownership opportunities available to employees who are charged with the responsibility of ensuring the safety and well-being of residents in the community. Under this effort, HUD will allow governmental entities to purchase HUD-owned properties for resale to their public safety employees, such as police officers, firefighters and emergency medical technicians. These properties will be occupied by the public safety employees as their primary residences. Assisting local governments by making properties available for purchase by public safety employees will further the Department's objective of creating a safe and decent housing environment for all American families. DATES: September 20, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ann M. Sudduth, Director, Single Family Property Disposition Division, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW, Washington, DC 20410; telephone (202) 708&hyph;0740; Hearing or speech-impaired individuals may call HUD's TDD number (202) 708&hyph;4594. (These telephone numbers are not toll free.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background HUD's regulations at 24 CFR part 291, Disposition of HUD-Acquired Single Family Property, allow the Secretary to sell properties to governmental entities. On October 20, 1993, the Department published an interim rule, which subsequently became effective on November 19, 1993, amending certain provisions of part 291 to allow for a greater flexibility in fluctuating market situations and to provide greater opportunities for affordable housing to families and to State and local governments or nonprofit organizations serving low- and moderate-income families. A major goal of the Department is to use its resources in a manner that enhances the general well-being of American communities. Promoting safe neighborhoods is a critical component of the Nation's housing policy. The Department wants to assist these kinds of efforts. Accordingly, it will utilize its authority under 24 CFR part 291 to make single family properties nationwide available for this purpose. II. Requirements for Purchase of Properties Only a unit of state or local government may purchase properties under this program. Governmental entities will receive a discount of 30 percent for those properties which are uninsurable and located in revitalization areas. Insurable properties in revitalization areas will be offered at a discount of 10 percent. It is anticipated that this discount will be passed on to the public safety employee. Governmental entities purchasing properties under this program should establish a means to ensure that its intent is not abused by the potential purchaser, the public safety employee. The public safety employee should be required to occupy the property as his or her principal residence for at least one year from the date of HUD's closing. Exceptions may be granted by the governmental entity to this occupancy requirement. III. Participation in this Program Properties will be sold to governmental entities through competitive bidding or direct sale. Interested governmental entities should contact the local HUD Field Office in their jurisdiction for information on this program. Dated: September 13, 1994. Jeanne K. Engel, General Deputy Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23238 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;P
