FR940722-2-00061 FR940722-2-00040 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry [ATSDR_462] Announcement of Cooperative Agreement to the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials Summary The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a sole source cooperative agreement with the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO) to continue educating State and territorial health officials in health effects of hazardous substances in the environment. Approximately $75,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund this cooperative agreement. It is expected that the award will begin on or about September 30, 1994, for a 12-month budget period within a 3-year project period. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and availability of funds. The proposed cooperative agreement is to address the need to improve information exchange and transfer between State and Federal agencies, and among State agencies; to increase training opportunities to help States improve the capacity to conduct risk assessment and risk communication; to recommend a strategic plan to increase public and State health professionals' awareness of the toxic pollution problems in the Great Lakes States, improve their ability to diagnose, treat and manage illness or injury related to environmental problems, and enhance their ability to communicate health risk information; and to build capacity to respond to community concerns by providing training and guidance in addressing issues of community concern related to hazardous waste sites. Funding is to support a full time position to implement and conduct these activities. ATSDR will collaborate with the planning, implementation, and evaluation of risk communication training programs, Public Learning Institute, teleconference briefings, consultation service, newsletter column and materials; and development, printing, and distribution of the national directory of risk assessors and environmental scientists. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of Environmental Health. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section Where to Obtain Additional Information.) Authority This program is authorized under Sections 104(i) (14) and (15) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended, by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) [42 U.S.C. 9604 (i), (14) and (15)]. Smoke-Free Workplace PHS strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicant Assistance will be provided only to ASTHO for this project. No other applications are solicited. The program announcement and application kit have been sent to ASTHO. ASTHO represents the chief public health official of each State and territory. Through its own membership, the ASTHO Environment Committee, the Association of State and Territorial Health Risk Assessors (ASTHRA), other affiliate organizations, and the Public Health Foundation, ASTHO has developed unique knowledge and understanding of the needs and operations of State health agencies. Association members have already developed an enormous wealth of experience in risk communication and have identified risk communication programs as a priority need for State health agencies.
