FR940722-0-00020 FR940722-0-00003 The final rule clarifies that bank senior officer compensation information is part of the financial information that should be made available to shareholders of both the bank and its related associations upon request. When the disclosure regulations in part 620 of this chapter were initially adopted, the FCA determined that, due to the structure of the System and the impact the banks have on the financial results of the associations, there was a need for association shareholders to receive the financial information of the bank in addition to the financial information of the association. Existing §620.4(b) implements this philosophy by requiring banks to distribute their annual reports to shareholders of related associations. Likewise, under the proposed rule, both the shareholders of the bank and related associations would have received the bank's annual report containing individual compensation information on the five most highly compensated bank senior officers. Although the disclosure requirement for individual senior officer compensation information was limited to CEOs in the final rule, the FCA Board continues to believe that it is important for shareholders of related associations to have access to individual compensation information of bank senior officers included in the aggregate disclosure required by §620.5(i)(2)(i)(B). Therefore, the required disclosure statement in proposed §620.5(i)(2)(iv) was modified to clarify its requirements and is now contained in §620.5(i)(2)(iii) in the final rule. Final §620.5(i)(2)(iii) requires institutions to include a statement in the annual report or the AAMIS (if the association chooses to include compensation information in the AAMIS) that ``information concerning the total compensation paid during the last fiscal year to any senior officer or to any other officer included in the aggregate whose compensation exceeds $50,000 is available and will be disclosed to shareholders of the institution and shareholders of related associations (if applicable) upon request.'' 3. Travel, subsistence, and other related expenses The disclosure requirements for travel, subsistence, and other related expenses in the final regulation remain unchanged from the proposed regulation with one exception. Pursuant to the preceding discussion, the final rule clarifies that the institution's policy regarding travel, subsistence, and other related expenses should also be made available to shareholders of related associations (if applicable) upon request. List of Subjects 12 CFR Part 611 Agriculture, Banks, banking, Rural areas.
