FR940826-1-00043 FR940826-1-00008 When adjudicating exception requests, HCFA will utilize the above data to determine if the facility's patients received supplies that are medically necessary to meet special medical needs of the facility's patients. Section 413.186␣Payment Exception: Isolated Essential Facility We would redesignate §413.170(g)(2) as new §413.186, retain the existing content of §413.170(g)(2) and add documentation requirements for facilities to use when applying for a payment rate exception based on being an isolated essential facility. Isolated Facility To be considered ``isolated,'' a facility must document that it is located outside an established Metropolitan Statistical Area and provides dialysis to a permanent patient population, as opposed to a transient patient population. Essential Facility To be considered essential, the facility must document that a substantial number of its patients cannot obtain dialysis services elsewhere without substantial additional hardship and the additional hardship the patients will incur, generally, will be in travel time and cost. Cost per Treatment The facility must document that its cost per treatment is reasonable and explain how the facility's cost per treatment in excess of its composite rate relates to the isolated essential facility criteria. For example, if a facility incurs higher supply costs, it will need to identify the additional costs incurred on a per treatment basis and then relate that additional cost per treatment to the exception criteria. Additional Information The facility must also furnish, in a format that concisely explains the facility's cost and patient data to support its request, the following information: •A list of current and requested payment rates for each modality. •An explanation of how the facility's costs in excess of its composite rate payment are attributable to the isolated essential facility criteria specified above in this section. •An explanation of any unusual geographic conditions in the area surrounding the facility. •A copy of the latest filed cost report and a budget estimate for the next 12 months on cost report forms. •An explanation of unusual costs reported on the facility's actual or budgeted cost reports and any significant changes in budgeted costs and data compared to actual costs and data reported on the latest filed cost report. •The name, location of, and distance to, the nearest ESRD facility. •A list of patients, treatment modality, commuting distance and commuting time to current and next nearest ESRD facility.
