FR940627-2-00076 FR940627-2-00031 National Institutes of Health Office of Science Policy and Technology Transfer; Developing Sponsored Research Agreements: Considerations for Recipients of NIH Research Grants and Contracts AGENCY: National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, DHHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The National Institutes of Health (NIH) intends to publish a document which provides institutions which receive funding from the NIH a number of issues and points to consider when they review proposed sponsored agreements with commercial organizations. The document is presented below. DATES: Comments on the document must be received on or before July 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to 6011 Executive Boulevard, Suite 325, Rockville, Maryland 20852&hyph;3804. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Theodore J. Roumel, Assistant to the Deputy Director for Science Policy and Technology Transfer, NIH, 6011 Executive Boulevard, Suite 325, Rockville Maryland 20852&hyph;3804, (301) 496&hyph;7057, ext. 203 (this is not a toll-free number). Dated: June 20, 1994. Daryl A. Chamblee, Acting Deputy Director for Science Policy and Technology Transfer, National Institutes of Health. Developing Sponsored Research Agreements Considerations for Recipients of NIH Research Grants and Contracts Introduction The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is the principal biomedical and behavioral research agency within the Federal Government. Its mission is to improve human health by increasing scientific knowledge related to health and disease through the conduct and support of biomedical and behavioral research. The NIH advances its mission through intramural research activity and the award of research grants and contracts to institutions of higher education, research institutes and foundations, and other non-profit and for-profit organizations. Entities funded through NIH research grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements (hereafter collectively referred to as Grantees) are required to maximize the use of their research findings by making them available to the research community and the public at large and through their timely and effective transfer to industry for development. In general, interactions between Grantees and industry take many forms, including industrial liaison programs, spinoff companies, consortia, commercial licenses, material transfers, consultations, and clinical trial agreements. This document addresses one form of Grantee/industry interaction, sponsored research agreements, on which the NIH has focused a substantial amount of its recent attention. Sponsored research agreements are agreements between Grantees and commercial entities in which Grantees receive funding or other consideration to support their research in return for preferential access and/or rights to intellectual property deriving from their research results. In developing sponsored research agreements, Grantees must consider the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980 1 (hereafter referred to as ``Bayh-Dole'' or ``the Act'') and NIH funding agreements and refrain from engaging in activities which undermine a Grantee's ability to fulfill its responsibilities and obligations to the Federal government. Although Grantees are primarily responsible for the implementation of the Act, NIH, as a steward of Federal funds, has a responsibility to provide guidance on issues regarding sponsored research agreements which may put Grantees at odds with the Act or NIH funding requirements. 1 Public Law 96&hyph;517, enacted December 12, 1980, Chapter 38_Patent Rights in Inventions Made with Federal Assistance. Purpose The purpose of this document is to provide Grantees with issues and points to consider in developing sponsored research agreements with commercial entities. The intent is to assist Grantees in ensuring that those agreements comply with the requirements of the Act and NIH funding agreements while upholding basic principles of academic freedom. This document represents the culmination of various activities, under the aegis of the NIH Task Force on Commercialization of Intellectual Property Rights from NIH Supported Extramural Research, which included the review and analysis of 375 sponsored research agreements from 100 Grantees, meetings with industry, academia, and other Government agencies, and a specially convened public forum involving subject matter experts from outside of the NIH. The NIH recognizes that sponsored research agreements are unique, creative devices which reflect the needs and interests of the parties involved and require a delicate balance of risks and benefits to all of the parties. Although this document identifies a number of points to consider, with some necessitating more scrutiny than others, no single point or issue is so dominant that it is likely to be fatal to an agreement. Rather, the juxtaposition of multiple factors or clauses in an agreement and their synergy needs to be assessed. Therefore, Grantees should review the provisions of proposed sponsored research agreements both individually and in their totality. Background While NIH policies on the use of research results have been in effect for some time, commercial development of research results took a major step forward with the passage of the Bayh-Dole Act. Congress passed the Act in response to significant concerns about the United States' competitiveness and data indicating that rights to many inventions developed under Federal grants and contracts and assigned to the Federal government were not being commercialized. In general, the Act authorizes Grantees to retain title to inventions resulting from their Federally funded research and to license such inventions to commercial entities for development. Specifically, the policy and objective of the Bayh-Dole are to: •Promote collaboration between commercial concerns and nonprofit organizations, including universities; •Promote the utilization of inventions arising from Federally supported research or development; •Encourage maximum participation of small business firms in Federally sponsored research and development efforts; •Ensure that inventions made by nonprofit organizations and small business firms are used to promote free competition and enterprise; •Promote the commercialization and public availability of inventions made in the United States by United States industry and labor; •Ensure that the Government obtains sufficient rights in Federally sponsored inventions to meet the needs of the Government and protect the public against nonuse or unreasonable use of inventions; and •Minimize the costs of administering policies in this area.
