FR941212-2-00035 FR941212-2-00031 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20755; 812&hyph;8622] PaineWebber Incorporated, et al.; Notice of application December 6, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: PaineWebber Incorporated (the ``Sponsor''); and Paine, Webber Municipal Bond Fund, The Municipal Bond Fund, The Corporate Bond Trust, PaineWebber Pathfinders Trust, The PaineWebber Federal Government Trust, and The PaineWebber Equity Trust (the ``Trusts''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested pursuant to section 6(c) for exemptions from sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 22(c), 22(d), and 26(a)(2)(C) of the Act and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder, and pursuant to section 11(a) to amend two prior orders (the ``Prior Orders'') granting relief from section 11(c). 1 1 Paine, Webber Municipal Bond Fund First Series, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 11301 (Aug. 12, 1980) (notice) and 11344 (Sept. 10, 1980) (order); amended by Paine Webber Inc., Investment Company Act Release Nos. 14910 (Jan. 22, 1986) (notice) and 14945 (Feb. 18, 1986) (order). SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek to impose sales charges on a deferred basis and waive the deferred sales charge in certain cases, exchange Trust units having deferred sales charges, and exchange units of a terminating series of a Trust for units of the next available series of that Trust. FILING DATE: the application was filed on October 15, 1993 and amended on June 23, 1994, August 19, 1994 and November 22, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on January 3, 1995, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of the date of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, 1200 Harbor Boulevard, Weehawken, New Jersey 07087. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Each of the Trusts is a unit investment trust sponsored by the Sponsor. The Trusts are made up of one or more separate series (``Series''). Over five hundred Series have been created by the Trusts collectively. 2. Each Series is created by a trust indenture among the Sponsor, a banking institution or trust company as trustee, and an evaluator. The Sponsor acquires a portfolio of securities and deposits them with a trustee in exchange for certificates representing fractional undivided interests in the portfolio of securities (``Units''). Units currently are offered to the public through the Sponsor and other underwriters and dealers at a price based upon the aggregate offering side evaluation of the underlying securities plus an up-front sales charge. The sales charge currently ranges from 4.75% to 2% of the public offering price, and is subject to reduction as permitted by rule 22d&hyph;1. 3. Applicants seek an order under section 6(c) exempting them from sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 22(c), 22(d), and 26(a)(2)(C) and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder to let them impose sales charges on Units on a deferred basis and waive the deferred sales charge in certain cases. Under applicants' proposal, the Sponsor will continue to determine the amount of sales charge per Unit at the time portfolio securities are deposited in a Series. The Sponsor will have the discretion to defer collection of all or part of this sales charge over a period following the purchase of Units. The Sponsor will in no event add to the deferred amount initially determined any additional amount for interest or any similar or related charge to reflect or adjust for such deferral. 4. The Sponsor anticipates collecting a portion of the total sales charge immediately upon purchase of Units. A portion of the outstanding balance will be deducted periodically by the trustee from distributions on the Units and paid to the Sponsor until the total amount of the sales charge is collected. If distribution income is insufficient to pay a deferred sales charge installment, the trustee will have the ability under the trust indenture to sell portfolio securities in an amount necessary to provide the requisite payments. If a unitholder redeems or sells to the Sponsor his or her Units before the total sales charge has been collected from installment payments, the balance of the sales charge may be collected at the time of such redemption or sale. 5. For purposes of calculating the amount of the deferred sales charge due upon redemption or sale of Units, it will be assumed that Units on which the balance of the sales charge has been collected from installment payments are liquidated first. Any Units disposed of over such amounts will be redeemed in the order of their purchase, so that Units held for the longest time are redeemed first. 6. The Sponsor intends to waive collection of the unpaid balance of the deferred sales charge upon any sale or redemption of Units. If applicants later decide to collect the unpaid balance of the deferred sales charge upon sale or redemption, they may nonetheless waive payment of the balance of the deferred sales charge on redemptions or sales of Units in certain specific cases. Any such waiver will be disclosed in the prospectus and will satisfy the other conditions of rule 22d&hyph;1.
