FR941017-1-00007 FR941017-1-00001 The proposed use of the total effective dose equivalent, or TEDE, is based upon two considerations. First, since it utilizes a risk consistent methodology to assess the radiological impact of all relevant nuclides upon all body organs, use of TEDE promotes a uniformity and consistency in assessing radiation risk that may not exist with the separate whole body and thyroid organ dose values in the present regulation. Second, use of TEDE lends itself readily to the application of updated accident source terms, which can vary not only with plant design, but in which additional nuclides besides the noble gases and iodine are predicted to be released into containment. The Commission has examined the current dose criteria of 25 rem whole body and 300 rem thyroid with the intent of selecting a TEDE numerical value equivalent to the risk implied by the current dose criteria. These risks consist of the risk of developing cancer some time after the exposure (latent cancer incidence), as well as a delayed risk of cancer fatality (latent cancer fatality). For a dose of 25 rem whole body, the individual risk of latent cancer fatality is estimated to be about 2.5×10 ^2 ; the risk of latent cancer incidence is about twice that (using risk coefficients expressed by ICRP Publication 60 and in NUREG/CR&hyph;4214). For a dose of 300 rem thyroid, the risk of latent cancer fatality is about 2×10 ^3 ; the risk of latent cancer incidence is about a factor of ten higher. If the risk of latent cancer fatality is selected as the appropriate risk measure to be used, the current dose criteria represent a risk of about 2.7×10 ^2 . Using a risk coefficient of about 10 ^3 per rem, the risk of latent cancer fatality implied by the current dose criteria is equivalent to 27 rem TEDE. (BEIR V estimates a latent cancer fatality risk coefficient of about 5×10 ^4 per rem, if the dose is received over a period of days or more; however, if the exposure period is shorter, such as 2 hours, the risk coefficient is approximately double.) If latent cancer incidence rather than fatality were used, the current dose criteria would correspond to a value of about 35 rem TEDE. The Commission is proposing to use the risk of latent cancer fatality as the appropriate risk measure since quantitative health objectives (QHOs) for it have been established in the Commission's Safety Goal policy. Although the current dose criteria are equivalent in risk to 27 rem TEDE, as noted above, the Commission is proposing to use 25 rem TEDE as the dose criterion for plant evaluation purposes, since this value is essentially the same level of risk as the current criteria. Nevertheless, the Commission is specifically requesting comments on the use of TEDE. Comments are requested on whether the current dose criteria should be modified to utilize the total effective dose equivalent, or TEDE, concept. The Commission is also requesting comments on whether a TEDE value of 25 rem (consistent with latent cancer fatality), or 34 rem (consistent with latent cancer incidence), or some other value should be used. Finally, because the thyroid weighting factor is equal to a value of 0.03, there exists a theoretical possibility that an accidental release composed only of iodine could result in a TEDE less than 25 rem, yet result in a thyroid dose of over 800 rem. Although the Commission believes that the likelihood that an actual accident would release only iodine is highly unlikely, comments are also requested as to whether the dose criterion should also include a ``capping'' limitation, that is, an additional requirement that the dose to any individual organ not be in excess of some fraction of the total.
