FR940302-2-00068 FR940302-2-00049 National Park Service Proposal To Award Concession Contract; Hot Springs National Park, AR AGENCY: National Park Service, Interior. ACTION: Public notice. SUMMARY: Public notice is hereby given that the National Park Service proposes to award a concession contract authorizing continued thermal water bathhouse facilities and services for the public at Hot Springs National Park, Arkansas, for a period of ten (10) years from the date of final execution of the concession contract. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested parties should contact the Regional Director, Southwest Region, P.O. Box 728, Santa Fe, New Mexico 87504&hyph;0728 to obtain a copy of the prospectus describing the requirements of the proposed contract. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This contract renewal has been determined to be categorically excluded from the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act and no environmental document will be prepared. The existing concessioner has performed its obligations to the satisfaction of the Secretary under an existing contract which expired by limitation of time on December 31, 1990, and has been operating under interim letter of authorization since that time, and therefore pursuant to the provisions of section 5 of the Act of October 9, 1965 (79 Stat. 969; 16 U.S.C. 20d), is entitled to be given preference in the renewal of the contract and in the negotiation of a new contract, providing that the existing concessioner submits a responsive offer (a timely offer which meets the terms and conditions of the Prospectus). This means that the contract will be awarded to the party submitting the best offer, provided that if the best offer was not submitted by the existing concessioner, then the existing concessioner will be afforded the opportunity to match the best offer. If the existing concessioner agrees to match the best offer, then the contract will be awarded to the existing concessioner. If the existing concessioner does not submit a responsive offer, the right of preference in renewal shall be considered to have been waived, and the contract will then be awarded to the party that has submitted the best responsive offer. The Secretary will consider and evaluate all proposals received as a result of this notice. Any proposal, including that of the existing concessioner, must be received by the Regional Director not later than the sixtieth (60th) day following publication of this notice to be considered and evaluated. Dated: December 6, 1993. John E. Cook, Regional Director, Southwest Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4664 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;M
