FR941227-2-00170 FR941227-2-00112 (ii) A familiarity with the area to be served. Range 0 to 25 points. This factor rates the applicant's knowledge of the resources of the service area, and the proposed linkages, coordination, and partnerships with different segments of the community within a designated service delivery area_to further the training and placement of farmworkers into new and better jobs; i.e., plans for involving appropriate area agencies and programs in the design and delivery of training and other services proposed to meet the needs of participants. It includes a demonstrated knowledge of approximate size and location within the State of the eligible client population, current and changing market place needs, including areas of emerging technologies, and how the changing skill requirements will be reflected in the proposed program activities. Ratings are based on a clear and concise narrative demonstrating this familiarity, and documented programmatic ties to appropriate area agencies and programs. (iii) A previously demonstrated capability to administer effectively a diversified employability development program. Range 0 to 30 points. This factor rates program experience, and capability to meet or exceed planned goals. Ratings are based on a previously demonstrated capability to administer effectively a diversified employability development program for migrant and seasonal farmworkers; documentation that planned performance goals were either met or exceeded during the period of performance; and satisfactory description of the employment and training components and procedures necessary to undertake the goals of this grant solicitations. (iv) General administrative and financial management capability. Range 0 to 25 points. This factor rates the applicant's managerial experience, and the potential for efficient and effective administration of the proposed program. In the case of applicants competing for two or more States or sub-State areas, the application for each State or sub-State area should contain a statement describing the manner in which the grant recipient will conduct monitoring and provide technical assistance and support to each of the States' operations for which it achieves responsibility to the Department of Labor. Ratings are based on consideration of the administrative expertise of present and proposed managerial and decision-making staff, and the extent to which the management plan demonstrates the ability to capably and economically operate a multi-activity delivery system. Finally, the applicant should expound on those cost benefits which will accrue to the Department of Labor through a multi-jurisdiction (State) approach over that offered through the management of a single venue grant. Content and Format of Funding Application Exclusive of letters of support and commitment, the funding application should not exceed 50 pages of double-spaced unreduced type. Detailed budgets and program planning estimates are not to be part of the funding application. These will be negotiated later with applicants selected for grant awards. The required application format shall be followed and contain the sections listed below. The sections correspond to the rating criteria listed in the preceding subpart of this notice, so that information pertinent to specific rating criterion item (i) is contained in Section I, information pertinent to rating criterion item; (ii) is contained in Section II, etc.
