FR940505-1-00134 FR940505-1-00012 Emission permits must be prominently displayed at all times in boats operating in the FIP area under this proposal. EPA will enforce this permit system through the inspection of permits at boat ramps, marinas, and other access points, and through patrols of boating areas. EPA will have the authority to inspect boat engines, permits, and any other required documentation. Failure to display the proper daily or annual permit, falsification of a permit or of any documentation required to get a permit, or failure to surrender documentation or allow inspection of a boat or engine will be strictly prohibited and will be punishable by fines of up to $25,000. As explained above, in promulgating a FIP under section 110(c) of the Act, EPA may take any actions that the state could take. As Section 209 of the CAA does not preempt states from regulating the use of marine engines, EPA believes that it, acting on California's behalf in the context of the FIP, may adopt this fee program. (3) Measures for Nonroad SI Engines over 19 kW and CI Engines under 37 kW. The Agency will decide whether to propose and implement national control programs for emissions from heavy-duty SI nonroad engines greater than 19 kW and small CI nonroad engines under 37 kW by November 1996. These small CI engines are used in such types of equipment as generator units, pumps, air compressors, welders, and pressure washers. The heavy-duty SI engines are used in forklifts and a small percentage of farm tractors. Today's proposal does not contain provisions for controlling emissions from these engines except for certain SI engines over 37 kW. The Agency does not today have information sufficient to determine whether such engines should be regulated in the context of section 213 (a)(3). The Agency solicits comments on the greatest degree of emissions reductions which may be achieved from these engines through the application of various technologies and information on the costs of such technologies; the time period within which manufacturers could implement technologies; and the safety, noise, and energy implications of such technologies. d. Enhanced In-Use Compliance Program for Nonroad Engines Over 37kw. EPA is proposing an enhanced in-use compliance program for nonroad engines that is intended to apply to most of the larger nonroad engines, both compression ignition (CI) and spark ignition (SI). More specifically, it covers all nonroad engines at or above 37 kilowatt (kw)(50 horsepower (HP)) in size except for engines used in aircraft, locomotives, underground mining equipment, SI engines used in recreational marine engines and low speed CI (diesel) engines used in oceangoing ships. Most of these engine categories are dealt with in other portions of this FIP. The proposal is very similar to the program for new heavy-duty onhighway engines. The program will contain tighter NO X standards for the FIP areas. It will also have an HC standard and evaporative free requirements to prevent a shift to engines operating on high volatility fuels, such as gasoline. Finally, a ``normal maintenance'' recall program and engine rebuild requirements will be applied. Readers should refer to the onhighway descriptions of these programs (contained in Sections A. and B. of Appendix I) as well as Appendix I, Section C., regarding nonroad, for more information. These nonroad engines are proposed to be regulated because of their significance to the FIP area emissions inventories. In 1990, emissions from nonroad engines constituted 24 to 27 percent of the NO X emissions, depending on the FIP area concerned. NO X emissions reductions of 40 to 70 percent are required for attainment of the ozone standard. These reductions are well beyond those expected from the soon to be adopted Federal nonroad standards. EPA's data shows that without control beyond the national standard, the percentage contribution of these engines will increase by almost one-third in each FIP area. The standards being proposed are the same as those proposed for onhighway heavy-duty engines. Since the engines involved are often derived from onhighway engine designs, the technologies used for compliance in the onhighway sphere can also be applied here. These rules ensure that similar stringency is applied across engine categories in the FIP. Many of the provisions for nonroad engines that are being proposed are similar to EPA's earlier proposed Federal nonroad program. That program was proposed in May of 1993 (58 FR 28809, May 17, 1993), and when finalized will provide details regarding definitions, test procedures, general certification and enforcement protocols. The reader is referred to that proposal for further information.
