FR941206-0-00072 FR941206-0-00011 (b) Sterilization sources using less than 1 ton (see definition) are not subject to the emissions standards in §63.362. The recordkeeping requirements of §63.367(c) apply. (c) This subpart does not apply to beehive fumigators. (d) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities as defined in section 112(c)(7) of title III of the Clean Air Act Amendment of 1990. (e) This subpart does not apply to ethylene oxide sterilization operations at stationary sources such as hospitals, doctors offices, clinics, or other facilities whose primary purpose is to provide medical services to humans or animals. (f) The owner or operator of a source using 1 ton (see definition) is required to obtain a title V permit from the permitting authority in which the source is located. (g) The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of this subpart as follows: (1) All sources subject to the emissions standards in §63.362 with an initial startup date before December 8, 1997, no later than 3 years after the effective date. (2) All sources subject to the emissions standards in §63.362 with an initial startup date after December 8, 1997, immediately upon initial startup of the source. (3) All sources using less than 10 tons that increase their ethylene oxide usage after December 8, 1997 such that any vent becomes subject to the emissions standards in §63.362, immediately upon becoming subject to the emissions standards. §63.361 Definitions. Terms and nomenclature used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act (the Act) as amended in 1990, §§63.2 and 63.3 of subpart A of this part, or in this section. For the purposes of subpart O, if the same term is defined in subpart A and in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section. Aeration room means any vessel or room that is used to facilitate off-gassing of ethylene oxide at a sterilization facility. Aeration room vent means the point(s) through which the evacuation of ethylene oxide-laden air from an aeration room occurs. Baseline temperature means any temperature at the outlet point of a catalytic oxidation unit control device or at the exhaust point from the combustion chamber for a thermal oxidation unit control device established during the performance test when the respective unit achieves at least 99-percent control of ethylene oxide emissions. Chamber exhaust vent means the point(s) through which ethylene oxide-laden air is removed from the sterilization chamber during chamber unloading following the completion of sterilization and associated air washes. Compliance date means the date by which a source subject to the emissions standards in §63.362 is required to be in compliance with the standard. Effective date means the date of promulgation in the Federal Register notice. Initial startup date means the date when a source subject to the emissions standards in §63.362 first begins operation of a sterilization process. Manifolding emissions means combining ethylene oxide emissions from two or more different vent types for the purpose of controlling these emissions with a single control device. Maximum ethylene glycol concentration means any concentration of ethylene glycol in the scrubber liquor of an acid-water scrubber control device established during a performance test when the scrubber achieves at least 99-percent control of ethylene oxide emissions. Maximum liquor tank level means any level of scrubber liquor in the acid-water scrubber liquor recirculation tank established during a performance test when the scrubber achieves at least 99-percent control of ethylene oxide emissions. Oxidation temperature means the temperature at the outlet point of a catalytic oxidation unit control device or at the exhaust point from the combustion chamber for a thermal oxidation unit control device. Parametric monitoring means monitoring of a specific operating parameter of the control device that demonstrates that the control device is operating under conditions that meet the standard. Source(s) using less than 1 ton means source(s) using less than 907 kg (1 ton) of ethylene oxide within all consecutive 12-month periods after December 6, 1996. Source(s) using 1 ton means source(s) using 907 kg (1 ton) or more of ethylene oxide within any consecutive 12-month period after December 6, 1996. Source(s) using 1 to 10 tons means source(s) using 907 kg (1 ton) or more of ethylene oxide in any consecutive 12-month period but less than 9,070 kg (10 tons) of ethylene oxide in all consecutive 12-month periods after December 6, 1996. Source(s) using less than 10 tons means source(s) using less than 9,070 kg (10 tons) of ethylene oxide in all consecutive 12-month periods after December 6, 1996. Source(s) using 10 tons means source(s) using 9,070 kg (10 tons) or more of ethylene oxide in any consecutive 12-month period after December 6, 1996. Sterilization chamber means any enclosed vessel or room that is filled with ethylene oxide gas, or an ethylene oxide/inert gas mixture, for the purpose of sterilizing and/or fumigating at a sterilization facility. Sterilization chamber vent means the point (prior to the vacuum pump) through which the evacuation of ethylene oxide from the sterilization chamber occurs following sterilization or fumigation, including any subsequent air washes. Sterilization facility means any stationary source where ethylene oxide is used in the sterilization or fumigation of materials. Sterilization operation means any time when ethylene oxide is removed from the sterilization chamber through the sterilization chamber vent or the chamber exhaust vent or when ethylene oxide is removed from the aeration room through the aeration room vent. §63.362 Standards. (a) Each owner or operator of a source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with these requirements on and after the compliance date specified in §63.360(g). The standards of this section are summarized in Table 1 of this section.
