FR940106-0-00165 FR940106-0-00022 (ii) When an approved training program involves more than one course and involves breaks in training (within or between courses, or within or between terms, quarters, semesters and academic years), all such breaks in training are subject to the ``14-day break in training'' provision in §617.15(d), for purposes of receiving TRA payments. An individual's approved training program may be amended by the State agency to add a course designed to satisfy unforeseen needs of the individual, such as remedial education or specific occupational skills, as long as the length of the amended training program does not exceed the 104-week training limitation in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. (4) Full-time training. Individuals in TAA approved training shall attend training full time, and when other training is combined with OJT attendance at both shall be not less than full-time. The hours in a day and days in a week of attendance in training shall be full-time in accordance with established hours and days of training of the training provider. * * * * * 17. Section 617.24 is revised to read as follows: §617.24 Preferred training. Training programs that may be approved under §617.22(a) include, but are not limited to_ (a) On-the-job training, (b) Any training program provided by a State pursuant to Title III of the Job Training Partnership Act, (c) Any training program approved by a private industry council established under the Job Training Partnership Act, (d) Any program of remedial education, (e) Any training program (other than a training program described in paragraph (c) of §617.25) for which all, or any portion, of the costs of training the worker are paid_ (1) Under any other Federal or State program other than this Subpart C, or (2) From any other source other than this section, but not including sources personal to the individual, such as self, relatives, or friends, and (f) Any other training program approved by the Department. 18. Section 617.25 is revised to read as follows: §617.25 Limitations on training under Subpart C of this part. The second sentence of amended section 236(a)(1) of the Act provides that an adversely affected worker shall be entitled to have payment of the costs of training approved under the Act paid on the worker's behalf, subject, however, ``to the limitations imposed by'' section 236. The limitations in section 236 which are implemented in this section concern the restrictions on approval of training which are related directly or indirectly to the conditions on training which are approvable or on the funding of training costs. (a) On-the-job training. The costs of on-the-job training approved Subpart C of this part for a worker, which are paid from TAA funds, shall be paid in equal monthly installments. Such costs may be paid from TAA funds, and such training may be approved under subpart C of this part, however, only if the State agency determines that: (1) No currently employed individual is displaced by such eligible worker, including partial displacement such as a reduction in the hours of non-overtime work, wages, or employment benefits; (2) Such training does not impair existing contracts for services or collective bargaining agreements; (3) In the case of training which would be inconsistent with the terms of a collective bargaining agreement, written concurrence has been obtained from the concerned labor organization; (4) No other individual is on layoff from the same or any substantially equivalent job for which such eligible worker is being trained; (5) The employer has not terminated the employment of any regular employee or otherwise reduced the work force with the intention of filling the vacancy so created by hiring the eligible worker; (6) The job for which the eligible worker is being trained is not being created in a promotional line that will infringe in any way upon the promotional opportunities of currently employed individuals; (7) Such training is not for the same occupation from which the worker was separated and with respect to which such worker's group was certified pursuant to section 222 of the Act;
