FR941128-0-00025 FR941128-0-00007 The CAA requires conformity with regard to federally-supported NO X -generating activities in relevant nonattainment and maintenance areas. However, EPA's conformity rules explicitly provide that these NO X requirements would not apply if the EPA grants an exemption under section 182(f). In response to the comment that section 182(b)(1) should be the appropriate vehicle for dealing with exemptions from the NO X requirements of the conformity rule, the EPA notes that this issue has previously been raised in a formal petition for reconsideration of the EPA's final transportation conformity rule and in litigation pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on the substance of both the transportation and general conformity rules. The issue, thus, is under consideration within the EPA, but at this time remains unresolved. Additionally, subsection 182(f)(3) requires that NO X exemption petition determinations be made by the EPA within six months. The EPA has stated in previous guidance that it intends to meet this statutory deadline as long as doing so is consistent with the public notice requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act. Absent the EPA action now, this deadline, as it applies with respect to the DFW and El Paso exemption requests, which were submitted in June 1994, would not be met. The EPA, therefore, believes that until a resolution of this issue is achieved, the applicable rules governing this issue are those that appear in the EPA's final conformity regulations, and the EPA remains bound by their existing terms. Comment: Three groups provided a generic comment on all section 182(f) actions that the modeling required by EPA is insufficient to establish that NO X reductions would not contribute to attainment since only one level of NO X control, i.e., ``substantial'' reductions, is required to be analyzed. They further explained that an area must submit an approvable attainment plan before EPA can know whether NO X reductions will aid or undermine attainment. Response: The EPA does not believe that this comment is applicable to the DFW or El Paso actions because attainment plans have been submitted for both areas in conjunction with the section 182(f) petitions. The TNRCC based its petitions for DFW and El Paso on a demonstration that the NO X reductions would be in excess of the reductions necessary for attainment. In contrast, the above comment refers to section 182(f) petitions that are based on a demonstration that NO X reductions would not contribute to attainment. Such a demonstration requires that various emission reduction scenarios be modeled which include substantial reductions of NO X . As described in Chapter 6 of the EPA's December 1993 section 182(f) guidance, the excess reductions demonstration used by the TNRCC for DFW and El Paso must be tied to the areas' attainment demonstration SIPs. This test must show that the excess reductions are reductions in excess of those specified in the attainment demonstration required by section 182, and either contained in the approved SIP or as adopted by the State to meet the section 182 attainment demonstration requirement, and submitted to the EPA for approval. The EPA believes that the more precise modeling analysis contained in the State's attainment demonstration SIP is required for the excess reduction test because the demonstration must show that a specific portion of the total area-wide NO X emissions is not beneficial under one of the three tests listed above. The tie to the attainment demonstration assures that an excess reductions petition would not arbitrarily be based on small emissions and would not undermine the State's control strategy. In addition, the EPA's guidance specifies that photochemical grid modeling is generally needed to document cases where NO X reductions do not contribute to attainment or include excess reductions. The UAM is an acceptable model for these purposes. The EPA guidance also states that application of UAM should be consistent with techniques specified in the EPA ``Guideline on Air Quality Models (Revised).'' Further, application of UAM should also be consistent with procedures contained in the EPA ``Guidelines for Regulatory Application of the Urban Airshed Model'' (July 1991). Comment: Three groups provided a generic comment on all section 182(f) actions that three years of ``clean'' data fail to demonstrate that NO X reductions would not contribute to attainment. Response: The EPA does not believe that this comment is applicable to the DFW and El Paso actions because neither area has based its section 182(f) petition on ``clean'' air monitoring data. Comment: Three groups provided a generic comment on all section 182(f) actions that a waiver of NO X controls is unlawful if such waiver will impede attainment and maintenance of the ozone standard in separate downwind areas. Response: The EPA believes that, while this generic comment may be applicable to proposed NO X exemption actions for other areas, it is not applicable to the DFW and El Paso exemption actions because the EPA is unaware of, and the comment itself does not specify, any downwind area for which NO X transport is of concern. This is unlike the case regarding comments received by the EPA for certain areas for which NO X exemptions are pending such as in Ohio, for example, where the downwind areas of concern are clearly identified as areas in the Northeast Ozone Transport Region. It should also be noted that neither DFW nor El Paso is located near or within an ozone transport region.
