FR940217-2-00129 FR940217-2-00074 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration Availability of Environmental Document and Public Hearing; Greater Rockford Airport, Rockford, IL AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice to hold a public hearing and accept additional scoping comments. SUMMARY: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is issuing this notice to advise the public that an Environmental Document has been prepared for proposed development at Greater Rockford Airport, Rockford, Illinois. In addition, it is the intent of this notice to also inform the public that the Airport will be conducting a Public Hearing. Major development items, proposed to be completed over the next 5 to 10 years, are depicted on the Airport Layout Plan (ALP). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Melissa Wishy, Community Planner, Federal Aviation Administration, Chicago Airports District Office, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018, (708) 294&hyph;7524. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FAA issued a Federal Register Notice on April 22, 1993 announcing its intent to prepare an Environmental Document (possible Environmental Impact Statement) and to hold a May 26, 1993 scoping meeting. At the scoping meeting no significant impacts were identified. Some concerns were expressed over possible noise, floodplain and wetland impacts. The airport sponsor indicated that any impacts would be mitigated below the level of significance as an integral part of the development. Recently, United Parcel Service (UPS) announced their intention to initiate a cargo hub at the airport in an area not covered by the previous scoping meeting. Below is a refined listing of the major associated and indirect development projects, incorporating items scoped originally and those newly identified as part of the UPS project. 1. Develop the midfield area for aviation-related industrial users. (scoped originally) 2. Expand the existing cargo apron and buildings west of the existing terminal building to accommodate a minimum of 26 cargo aircraft. (expansion scoped originally; to accommodate 26 aircraft_new) 3. Extend Runway 7/25 to a length of 10,000 feet by constructing a 3,500-foot southwesterly extension with parallel and connecting taxiways and associated lighting and navigation aids. This would include the installation of a CAT II Instrument Landing System (ILS) for Runway 7. (scoped originally) 4. Relocate approximately 12,000 feet of Belt Line Road and 9,300 feet of Kishwaukee Road. (scoped originally) 5. Expand the existing terminal building and auto parking lot and upgrade the existing airport entrance roadway. (scoped originally) 6. Construct a general aviation apron and T-hangars. (scoped originally) 7. Remove miscellaneous support buildings. (scoped originally) 8. Construct a new 4,000-foot general aviation visual approach runway, parallel to and 5,100 feet southeast of existing Runway 7/25, with associated taxiways and instrumentation. (scoped originally) 9. Construct and realign various taxiways parallel to Runway 1/19. The majority of the realignment work proposed is adjacent to and west of the approach end of Runway 19. (scoped originally) 10. Implement actions recommended in the 1993 Master Drainage/Stormwater Management Plan. (scoped originally) 11. Implement actions recommended in the updated Noise Compatibility Plan. (scoped originally) 12. Acquire approximately 1,100 acres of land for airfield development and noise and floodway mitigation. Included in this acquisition is the relocation of approximately 28 residential dwellings, of which only eleven are considered to be noise impacted and must be acquired and residents relocated prior to the start of any operation resulting from the Proposed Action Alternative. The remaining residential dwellings would be acquired for purposes of airfield development and floodway mitigation. (land acquisition scoped originally; new noise impacted homes)
