FR940725-0-00170 FR940725-0-00019 As explained in Section I, Background , and Section II, Summary and Explanation of the Final Rule , earlier in this preamble, and Section IV, Summary of Final Regulatory Analysis , below, OSHA has determined that confined and enclosed spaces and other dangerous atmospheres in shipyard employment pose significant risks to employees and that the provisions of the final rule are reasonably necessary to protect affected employees from those risks. OSHA believes that compliance is economically feasible, because, as documented in the Regulatory Impact Analysis, all regulated sectors can readily absorb or pass on compliance costs. As presented in Section IV, Summary of Final Regulatory Analysis , later in this preamble, and in Table 1, the standard's costs, benefits, and compliance requirements are consistent with those of other OSHA safety standards, such as the Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response (HAZWOPER) standard. OSHA assessed employee risk by evaluating exposure to the hazards associated with confined and enclosed spaces and other dangerous atmospheres in shipyard employment. Section IV, Summary of Final Regulatory Analysis , later in this preamble, presents OSHA's estimate of the costs and benefits of the Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Shipyard Employment standard. OSHA has set the scope of the Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres standard to address situations in which employees are exposed to these hazards, regardless of the location, shipboard vs. land-side. The Agency believes, based on analysis of the elements of the hazards identified, that there is sufficient information for OSHA to determine that employees in the covered sectors face significant risks related to confined and enclosed spaces and other dangerous atmospheres in shipyard employment. Therefore, the Agency has determined that all employees within the scope of the Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Shipyard Employment standard face a significant risk of material harm and that compliance with these standards is reasonably necessary to protect affected employees from that risk. OSHA has considered and responded to all substantive comments regarding the proposed Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Shipyard Employment on their merits in Section II, Summary and Explanation of the Final Rule , earlier in this preamble. In particular, OSHA evaluated all suggested changes to the proposed rule in terms of their impact on worker safety, their feasibility, their cost effectiveness, and their consonance with the OSH Act. IV. Final Regulatory Impact Analysis, Regulatory Flexibility Certification, and Environmental Impact Assessment A. Summary The Agency has concluded that the final Subpart B standard for confined spaces in shipyards is technologically and economically feasible. Subpart B incorporates the approach of the previous standard and subpart A (as it applies to subpart B) while mandating new, comprehensive program elements such as training, duty to other employers, and rescue. The Agency estimates that the final rule will result in no new significant costs for the industry. In addition, the Agency finds that the final Subpart B is the most cost-effective approach. The Agency agrees with its Shipyard Employment Standards Advisory Committee (SESAC) that the current approach of making confined and enclosed spaces and other dangerous atmospheres safe before entry and using Marine Chemists and competent persons to test and certify spaces has succeeded well and will continue to provide a safe working environment for employees.
