FR940727-0-00106 FR940727-0-00025 Figure H&hyph;1. Procurement Fraud Indicators Procurement Fraud Indicators 1. During the identification of the government and services. a. Need determinations for items currently scheduled for disposal or reprocurement, or which have predetermined reorder levels. b. Excessive purchase of ``expendables'' such as drugs or auto parts. c. Inadequate or vague need assessment. d. Frequent changes in the need assessment or determination. e. Mandatory stock levels and inventory requirements appear excessive. f. Items appear to be unnecessarily declared excess or sold as surplus, while same items are being reprocured. g. It appears that an item or service is being purchased more as a result of aggressive marketing efforts rather than in response to a valid requirement. h. Need determination appears to be unnecessarily tailored in ways that can only be met by certain contractors. i. Items and services are continually obtained from the same source due to an unwarranted lack of effort to develop second sources. 2. During the development of the statements of work and specifications. a. Statements of work and specifications appear to be intentionally written to fit the products or capabilities of a single contractor. b. Statements of work, specifications, or sole source justifications developed by or in consultation with a preferred contractor. c. Information concerning requirements and pending contracts is released only to preferred contractors. d. Allowing companies and industry personnel who participated in the preparation of bid packages to perform on subsequent contracts in either a prime or subcontractor capacity. e. Release of information by firms or personnel participating in design or engineering to companies competing for prime contract. f. Prequalification standards or specifications appear designed to exclude otherwise qualified contractors or their productions. g. Requirements appear split up to allow for rotating bids, giving each contractor his or her ``fair share.'' h. Requirements appear split up to meet small purchase requirements (that is, $25,000) or to avoid higher levels of approval that would be otherwise required. i. Bid specifications or statement of work appear inconsistent with the items described in the general requirements. j. Specifications appear so vague that reasonable comparisons of estimate would be difficult. k. Specifications appear inconsistent with previous procurements of similar items of services. 3. During the presolicitation phase. a. Sole source justifications appear unnecessary or poorly supported. b. Statements justifying sole source or negotiated procurements appear inadequate or incredible. c. Solicitation documents appear to contain unnecessary requirements which tend to restrict competition. d. Contractors or their representatives appear to have received advanced information related to the proposed procurement on a preferential basis. 4. During the solicitation phase. a. Procurement appears to be processed so as to exclude or impede certain contractors. b. The time for submission of bids appears to be unnecessarily limited so that only those with advance information have adequate time to prepare bids or proposals. c. It appears that information concerning the procurement has been revealed only to certain contractors, without being revealed to all prospective competitors. d. Bidders conferences are conducted in a way that apparently invites bid rigging, price fixing, or other improper collusion between contractors. e. There is an apparent intentional failure to fairly publish notice of the solicitation. f. Solicitation appears vague as to the details such as time, place and manner, of submitting acceptable bids. g. There is evidence of improper communications or social contract between contractors and government personnel. h. Controls over the number and destination of bid packages sent to interested bidders appear inadequate. i. Indications that government personnel or their families may own stock or have some other financial interest in either a contractor or subcontractor. j. Indications that government personnel are discussing possible employment for themselves or a family member with a contractor or subcontractor or indications that a proposal for future employment from a contractor or subcontractor to a government employee or his or her family members has not been firmly rejected. k. Indications that any contractor has received special assistance in preparation of his or her bid or proposal. l. It appears that a contract is given an expressed or implied reference to a specific subcontractor. m. Failure to amend solicitation to reflect necessary changes or modifications. 5. During the submission of bids and proposals. a. Improper acceptance of a late bid. b. Documents, such as receipts, appear falsified to obtain acceptance of a late bid. c. Improperly attempting to change a bid after other bidders prices are known. d. Indications that mistakes have been deliberately planted in a bid to support correction after bid opening. e. Withdrawal by a low bidder who may later become a subcontractor to a higher bidder who gets the contract. f. Apparent collusion or bid rigging among the bidders. g. Bidders apparently revealing their prices to each other. h. Required contractor certifications appear falsified. i. Information concerning contractor's qualifications, finances, and capabilities appears falsified. 6. During the evaluation of bids and proposals. a. Deliberately losing or discarding bids of certain contractors. b. Improperly disqualifying the bids or proposals of certain contractors. c. Accepting apparently nonresponsive bids from preferred contractors. d. Unusual or unnecessary contacts between government personnel and contractors during solicitation, evaluation, and negotiation. e. Any apparently unauthorized release of procurement information to a contractor or to non-government personnel. f. Any apparent favoritism in the evaluation of the bid or proposal of a particular contractor. g. Apparent bias in the evaluation criteria or in the attitude or actions of the members of the evaluation panel. 7. During contract formation and administration. a. Defective pricing by the contractor usually associated with submitting false cost and pricing data under the Truth in Negotiation Act. b. Cost/Labor mischarging. c. Product substitution. d. Progress payment fraud. For more details on these subjects see DA PAM 27&hyph;153, Contract Law, paragraph 23&hyph;5.
