FR940429-0-00038 FR940429-0-00009 § XXX .400 Participatory agreement. Each program participant must sign a participatory agreement governing the utilization of supportive services and the payment of supportive services fees. The agreement must be renegotiated with the participant annually by the grantee. § XXX .405 Reserve for supplemental adjustment. The Secretary concerned may reserve not more than 5 percent of the amounts made available in each fiscal year to supplement grants awarded to owners under this section when, in the determination of the Secretary concerned, supplemental adjustments are required to maintain adequate levels of services to eligible residents. Requests to utilize supplemental funds by the grantee shall be transmitted to the Secretary concerned in such form as may be required. Funds in the reserve which are not used during the first six months of each annual review cycle may be used for future CHSP grants. § XXX .415 Recapture. (a) The Secretary concerned may impose sanctions, recapture grant funds or terminate grants for supportive services for: (1) Grantee's non-compliance with the grant agreement, regulations of HUD or FmHA requirements; or (2) Failure of the grantee to provide supportive services within 12 months of execution of the Congregate Housing Services Program grant. (b) Sanctions include but are not limited to the following: (1) Temporary withholding of reimbursements, extensions or renewals under the grant agreement, pending correction of deficiencies by the grantee; (2) Contract conditioning; (3) Termination of the grant; (4) Substitution of grantee; (5) And any other action deemed necessary by the Secretary concerned. § XXX .420 Reports. Each grantee shall submit annual and other program and fiscal reports to the Secretary concerned in such form and at such times, as the Department concerned requires. § XXX .425 Budget submissions. Each grantee shall submit a supportive services budget for the first year of supportive services delivery, and annually thereafter, in such form as the Department concerned requires. The budget for the first year normally will utilize less than 20 percent of the funds potentially available, due to start-up. Any utilization of less than 20 percent of supportive services funds in any year can be carried forward for use in later years. § XXX .430 Program costs. (a) Allowable costs. (1) Allowable costs for direct provision of supportive services includes the provision of supportive services and others approved by the Department concerned for: (i) Direct hiring of staff, including a Service Coordinator; (ii) Supportive service contracts with third parties; (iii) Equipment and supplies (including food) necessary to provide services; (iv) Operational costs of a transportation service (e.g., mileage, insurance, gasoline and maintenance, driver wages, taxi or bus vouchers); (v) Purchase or leasing of vehicles; (vi) Direct and indirect administrative expenses for administrative costs such as annual fiscal review and audit, telephones, postage, travel, professional education, furniture and equipment, and costs associated with self evaluation or assessment (not to exceed one percent of the total budget for the activities approved) and (vii) States, Indian tribes and units of general local government with more than one project included in the grant may receive up to 1% of the total cost of the grant for monitoring the projects. (2) Allowable costs shall be reasonable, necessary and recognized as expenditures in compliance with the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) Cost Policies, i.e., OMB Circular A-87, 24 CFR 85.36, and OMB Circular A-128. (Copies of OMB Circulars may be obtained from E.O.P. Publications, room 2200, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503, telephone (202) 395&hyph;7332. (This is not a toll-free number.) There is a limit of two free copies.
