FR940630-0-00024 FR940630-0-00008 (i) The unit must be used for either economic self-sufficiency activities directly related to maximizing the number of employed residents or for anti-drug programs directly related to ridding the development of illegal drugs and drug-related crime. The activities must be directed toward and for the benefit of residents of the development. (ii) The PHA must demonstrate that space for the service or program is not available elsewhere in the locality and that the space used is safe and suitable for its intended use or that the resources are committed to make the space safe and suitable. (iii) The PHA must demonstrate satisfactorily that other funding is not available to pay for the non-utility operating costs. All rental income generated as a result of the activity must be reported as income in the operating subsidy calculation. (iv) Operating subsidy may be approved for only one site (involving one or more contiguous units) per public housing development for economic self-sufficiency services or anti-drug programs, and the number of units involved should be the minimum necessary to support the service or program. Operating subsidy for any additional sites per development can only be approved by HUD Headquarters. (v) The PHA must submit a certification with its Performance Funding System Calculation that the units are being used for the purpose for which they were approved and that any rental income generated as a result of the activity is reported as income in the operating subsidy calculation. The PHA must maintain specific documentation of the units covered. Such documentation should include a listing of the units, the street addresses, and project/management control numbers. * * * * * 8. In §990.110, paragraph (c)(1)(i) is revised to read as follows: §990.110 Adjustments. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (1) Rates. (i) A decrease in the Utilities Expense Level because of decreased utility rates_to the extent funded by the operating subsidy_will be deducted by HUD from future operating subsidy payments. However, where the rate reduction covering utilities, such as water, fuel oil, electricity, and gas, is directly attributable to action by the PHA, such as wellhead purchase of natural gas, or administrative appeals or legal action beyond normal public participation in rate-making proceedings, then the PHA will be permitted to retain one-half of the cost savings attributable to its actions for the first year and, upon determination that the action was cost-effective in the first year, for up to an additional six years, as long as the actions continue to be cost-effective, and the other one-half of the cost savings will be deducted from operating subsidy otherwise payable. * * * * * Dated: June 24, 1994. Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15846 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;33&hyph;P
