FR941117-0-00071 FR941117-0-00011 (c) Standard forms. Standard forms may be obtained in small quantities from the FCC. Standard forms may be reproduced and the copies used. Computer-generated standard forms may also be used after approval by the FCC staff. Standard forms used for applications, amendments, notifications and reports in the Public Mobile Services are listed in Table B&hyph;1 of this section. (d) Microfiche required. All filings and submissions related to stations in the Public Mobile Services, including applications (including exhibits and attachments), notifications, amendments, reports, correspondence and pleadings must be submitted in microfiche form, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1) and (g) of this section. (1) Emergency filings, such as requests for special temporary authority, need not be submitted in microfiche form. Filings and submissions (other than standard application forms) that are no longer than three pages need not be submitted in microfiche form. Standard application forms must be submitted in microfiche forms, even if they comprise three pages or less. (2) Three microfiche copies of each filing or submission must be submitted, except that, for initial Phase I unserved area applications in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service (see §22.949), two microfiche copies must be submitted. Each microfiche copy must be a complete copy of the signed paper original. Each microfiche must be a 148␣mm by 105␣mm negative (clear transparent characters appearing on a background providing sufficient contrast to make legible copies) at 24× or 27× reduction. At least one of the microfiche copies must be a silver halide camera master or a copy made on silver halide film such as Kodak Direct Duplicatory Film. Microfiche must be placed in paper microfiche envelopes and submitted in a 5 ’ ’ by 71/2 ’ ’ envelope. Applicants must leave Row ``A'' (the first row for page images) of the first microfiche blank for FCC use. (3) The following information must be printed on the mailing envelope, the microfiche envelope, and the title area at the top of the microfiche: (i) For notifications, amendments, reports, correspondence, pleadings and applications, other than initial applications in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service_the name of the applicant, the city and state of the application and the call sign of the station, if the application refers to an existing station. (ii) For initial applications in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service_the name of the applicant, the market name, the market number, and the channel block. (4) The microfiche copies of opposition and reply pleadings may be submitted after the required paper originals, in accordance with §1.45 of this chapter. (e) Paper original required. The paper originals of notifications, amendments, reports, correspondence and applications, other than initial Phase I unserved area applications in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service, must be submitted at the same time as the microfiche required by paragraph (d) of this section. The paper originals of initial Phase I unserved area applications selected in random selection processes must be submitted 7 days after the release of the public notice announcing the tentative selectee. The paper originals of opposition and reply pleadings must be submitted within the time frames established by §1.45 of this chapter. Each paper original must be stamped ``ORIGINAL'' on the top page. In addition to the paper original, paper copies of pleadings must be submitted as required by §1.51 of this chapter. (f) Correspondence. Correspondence concerning a submitted application must clearly identify the name of the filer, nature of the filing, the Public Mobile service involved, the call sign of the relevant existing station, if any, and the file number (if assigned) of the relevant pending application. Correspondence may be sent directly to Mobile Services Division, Common Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications, Washington, DC 20554. (g) Magnetic disks. To assist the FCC in maintaining an accurate technical licensing database, applicants are encouraged to submit the technical and administrative data contained in applications and notifications on magnetic disks. Applicants may also submit, in lieu of the microfiche required by paragraph (d) of this section, entire applications and notifications on magnetic disks, by including graphics files containing the images of the signed paper originals. (1) Each application must be submitted on a separate labeled standard 31/4 ’ ’ magnetic disk, formatted to be readable by high-density floppy drives operating under MS&hyph;DOS (3.X or later compatible versions). A copy of each disk must also be submitted (2 identical disks per application). (2) [Reserved] Note: Paragraph (g) of §22.105 is not effective until further notice. §22.106 Filing fees; place. Applications, amendments, notifications and other filings must be submitted to the FCC at the appropriate address, with the appropriate filing fee. The fee amounts and addresses are listed in part 1, subpart G of this chapter (§1.1105 in particular), and in the publication ``Common Carrier Services Fee Filing Guide'' which is available from the Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. §22.107 General application requirements. In general, applications for authorizations, assignments of authorizations, or consent to transfer of control of licensees in the Public Mobile Services must: (a) Demonstrate the applicant's qualifications to hold an authorization in the Public Mobile services; (b) State how a grant would serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity;
