FR941027-0-00004 FR941027-0-00002 Rural Electrification Administration 7 CFR Part 1703 RIN 0572&hyph;AB04 Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program: Empowerment Zones AGENCY: Rural Electrification Administration, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Rural Electrification Administration (REA) hereby amends its regulation for the Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program by adding a provision which will enhance the potential of funding for applications from areas that: Were recently designated by the President as natural disaster areas; have experienced severe economic dislocation due to the loss, removal, or closing of a major source of employment; have experienced long-term and severe economic deterioration, demonstrated by severe unemployment or a high percentage of population out-migration; or have been designated as a Rural Empowerment Zone or Rural Enterprise Community. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation is effective on November 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lawrence L. Bryant, Jr., Chief, Planning Branch, Rural Development Assistance Staff, Rural Electrification Administration, Room 2237, South Building, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 14th and Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250&hyph;1500 (202) 690&hyph;3594. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule: (1) Will not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies; (2) Will not have any retroactive effect; and (3) Will not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit challenging the provisions of this rule. In compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Administrator certifies that this action would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities as defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). Based on current and historical funding levels for this program and a projected average size loan and/or grant in the range of $300,000 to $400,000, it is estimated that 50 to 60 loans and/or grants will be made nationwide each year under the existing rule. Applicants whose rural development projects are enhanced by this action are projected to be less numerous, and therefore, the rule will have a limited impact upon small businesses. Since credit will be channeled to areas which are generally underdeveloped and financially depressed, job creation and economic development resulting from newly emerging businesses and community facilities funded by REA will not pose undue competition or other adverse effects upon existing businesses. Therefore, this rule will have no effect upon businesses or entities other than those to be funded through this program.
