FR941104-1-00021 FR941104-1-00002 (1) OPM will provide placement assistance to an employee with restoration rights in the executive or legislative branch, who either has competitive status, or if in the legislative branch is able to acquire competitive status under 5 U.S.C. 3304(c), provided_ (i) The employee's executive branch agency is abolished and its functions are not transferred, or it is not possible for the agency to restore the employee, or (ii) It is not possible for a legislative branch employee to be restored in the legislative branch. (2) If OPM determines the individual is qualified for a position in the executive branch which is either vacant or filled under temporary appointment, the returning employee will be offered the position. (b) Employee returning from compensable injury. OPM will provide placement assistance to an employee with restoration rights in the executive, legislative, or judicial branches who cannot be placed in his or her former agency and who either has competitive status or is eligible to acquire it under 5 U.S.C. 3304(c). If the employee's agency is abolished and its functions are not transferred, or it is not possible for the employee to be restored in his or her former agency, OPM will provide placement assistance by enrolling the employee in OPM's Priority Placement Program under part 330 of this chapter. (c) This section does not apply to employees serving under a temporary appointment pending establishment of a register (TAPER). ยง353.111 Restoration rights of TAPER employees. An employee serving in the competitive service under a temporary appointment pending establishment of a register (TAPER) under section 316.201 of this chapter (other than an employee serving in a position classified above GS&hyph;15), is entitled to be restored to the position he or she left or an equivalent one in the same commuting area. Subpart B_Military Service ยง353.201 Leave of absence. (a) Entitlement. (1) The following employees are entitled under 38 U.S.C. 4304 to a leave of absence in connection with military duty: (i) A member of a Reserve component (Reserve or National Guard) who performs active duty for training or inactive duty (38 U.S.C. 4304(d)), or (ii) An employee who reports for enlistment, induction or physical examination (38 U.S.C. 4304(e)). (2) There is no limitation in law as to the timing or duration of leaves of absence, nor is there any authority for an agency to deny a leave of absence. If an agency has concerns about the timing, frequency, or length of an employee's requests for a leave of absence, it should contact the commander of the military unit to determine if the duty can be changed. (b) Authorization required. To be eligible for a leave of absence, the employee must be under military orders. Any of the following is acceptable evidence of orders: (1) Written military orders,
