FR940620-0-00075 FR940620-0-00026 10. No commenter opposes our proposals to expand our waiver policy regarding terrain shielding to mutually-exclusive applicants and to permit applicants to consider terrain shielding as a basis for resolving situations of mutual exclusivity. Commenters support these proposals as a practical approach to acceptance of applications that more realistically reflects a station's actual potential to interfere with another station. Some commenters also propose changes to our existing terrain shielding procedures. 8 8 In Commission Policy Regarding Terrain Shielding, 3 FCC Rcd 7105 (1988), we concluded that case-by-case evaluation of terrain shielding ``affords the administrative flexibility to select from among available prediction models one that applies to the topographic features in each case.'' The existing flexible guidelines have worked well in practice and we see no need to revise them. Moreover, we believe that modifications to our current policy would be at odds with our aim in this proceeding, which is to streamline the LPTV application process. We decline, therefore, to pursue further in this proceeding these suggested modifications to our current LPTV terrain shielding policy. 11. We will adopt the proposals advanced in the Notice regarding terrain shielding waivers. We believe that if intervening terrain prevents an LPTV applicant from interfering with other LPTV or full-power TV stations or other LPTV facilities proposed in pending applications, the applicant should be permitted to take that situation into account, regardless of whether the application is mutually-exclusive with another LPTV application. The proposals we adopt in this proceeding do not affect the nature of applicants' terrain shielding waiver submissions, nor the manner in which the staff evaluates such submissions, as provided in the Commission's LPTV Terrain Shielding Policy Statement . LPTV applicants seeking terrain shielding waivers should continue to follow the existing criteria for demonstrating noninterference based on terrain considerations, i.e., submitting either detailed profiles of the terrain in pertinent directions toward the protected signal contours of potentially affected stations or letters of assent from the licensees of such stations, agreeing that terrain shielding would prevent interference but without surrendering the right to be protected against any actual interference. Also, mutually-exclusive applicants may now use either of these methods to demonstrate that their respective station proposals could co-exist without an interference conflict. 9 Further, while we strongly urge applicants to fully address applicable terrain shielding conditions at the initial application stage, we will accept a satisfactory terrain shielding showing for the first time in response to a deficiency letter. We believe that this will facilitate the initiation of new or modified LPTV station operations by treating the omission of terrain shielding data like any other error in an otherwise substantially complete application and giving the applicant an opportunity to make appropriate corrections. 9 We reiterate that where two mutually-exclusive applicants choose to resolve the exclusivity by agreeing that interference between their two facilities would not be likely due to the existence of intervening terrain, the parties will be responsible for eliminating any interference that might occur, and the parties are expected to cooperate fully to that end. See Notice at 2772. 12. In adopting the LPTV terrain shielding proposals in the Notice , we are simply removing administrative barriers that were necessary when the LPTV Terrain Shielding Policy Statement was first established. Had the current LPTV application processing climate existed at that time, we would not have found it necessary to limit consideration of terrain shielding among LPTV applicants. In the more than five years since its adoption, our terrain policy has enabled the grant of more than 200 LPTV and TV translator stations that otherwise would not have been possible. The policy also has been successful in terms of interference protection. LPTV stations are not permitted to interfere with the regularly viewed signals and programs of full-power TV stations. We know of no instance in which the grant of a terrain shielding waiver in the LPTV service has resulted in interference to the reception of another broadcast facility. Thus, our broadening of eligible LPTV applicants for terrain shielding waivers should not increase the likelihood that LPTV stations will cause interference to the reception of full-power TV stations. Call Signs 13. In the Notice, we proposed to amend our rules to permit LPTV stations to request four-letter call signs rather than the five-character alpha-numeric call signs that are currently assigned. We stated our belief that such a modification may be competitively beneficial to the LPTV industry and may reduce confusion to viewers, who are accustomed to four-letter call signs. We proposed to append a distinctive suffix such as ``LP'' to any LPTV four-letter call sign to avoid confusion with full-power television stations. 14. The Notice presented two options for assigning four-letter call signs. Under the first option, four-letter call signs would be permitted only for LPTV stations that meet certain threshold requirements, including a minimum number of hours of operation and a given amount of locally originated programming, as well as other requirements currently imposed on full-power stations such as the multiple ownership, children's programming, main studio and public file requirements. Alternatively, the second option would permit all LPTV stations to request four-letter call signs upon applying for a license. We stated our inclination to favor the second option. 15. No commenter opposes permitting LPTV stations to use four-letter call signs, and all parties specifying a preference prefer the second option. Commenters contend that four-letter call signs will facilitate marketing and will be easier to include in ratings books and ratings surveys. They also argue that four-letter call signs will alleviate public confusion regarding the nature of LPTV stations; they submit that the current call signs can lead the public to mistake LPTV stations for amateur radio operations. 16. Most commenters, primarily LPTV operators, oppose the adoption of an ``LP'' suffix as unnecessarily segregating LPTV stations from full-power television stations. They analogize that licensees in different broadcast services use four-letter call signs without any suffix requirement. For example, they note, a Class A FM station is not designated any differently from a Class C FM station, nor do AM daytimers have to distinguish themselves from full-time AM stations. Some of these commenters suggest that if the Commission does require a suffix, the suffix should be ``CT'' (for ``community television''), ``TX'' (as used in the FCC TV engineering database), or ``TV.'' 17. Another area in which some commenters differ with the Notice deals with when an LPTV station should be eligible to request a four-letter call sign. The Notice proposed to award four-letter call signs at the time the LPTV license is applied for rather than at the construction permit stage. Several commenters contend that early assignment of a four-letter call sign will allow the LPTV station to more effectively market itself to the public.
