FR941025-2-00152 FR941025-2-00080 2. Forum will waive the amount of any fee that it would otherwise be entitled to receive from each Blended Fund for that portion of the assets of the Blended Fund invested in the Portfolios. 3. Shares of Core Trust will not be subject to a sales load or redemption fee, and Core Trust will not assess any distribution fee under a plan adopted in accordance with rule 12b&hyph;1. 4. Investment in shares of Core Trust will be in accordance with each Blended Fund's respective investment restrictions and will be consistent with its policies as recited in its registration statement. 5. The board of trustees of each Blended Fund will review reports at least annually identifying all instances in which one Portfolio enters a buy order for a particular security at approximately the same time another Portfolio enters a sell order for that security. When it reviews the reports, the board will consider whether the duplication of brokerage costs resulting from such transactions has become significant. If the duplication of brokerage costs has become significant, the board will promptly adopt procedures designed to limit such duplication. 6. Each Blended Balanced Fund will limit any redemptions resulting from a reallocation in its equity and fixed income positions to no more than 1 percent of a Portfolio's total outstanding securities during any period of less than thirty days. 7. Each Blended Fund will continue to invest in portfolios of Core Trust only if the board of trustees of each Blended Fund determines, at least annually, that investment in portfolios of Core Trust is in the best interest of the shareholders of such Blended Fund. 8. Each Blended Fund will, as part of its reports to shareholders under section 30(d) of the Act and rule 30d&hyph;1 thereunder, list the securities held by the portfolios of Core Trust in which the Blended Fund has invested and the amount and value of such Blended Fund's pro rata interest in each security to the same extent as if such securities or interests therein were held directly by such Blended Fund. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26429 Filed 10&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
