FR940426-0-00027 FR940426-0-00007 Food Safety and Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 313 [Docket No. 91&hyph;035F] RIN 0583&hyph;AB54 Use of Carbon Dioxide in the Humane Slaughter of Swine AGENCY: Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: FSIS is amending the Federal meat inspection regulations to permit the use of carbon dioxide to induce death in swine. The amendment, prompted by a petition from the Danish and Swedish Meat Research Institute, is based on scientific research showing the use of carbon dioxide to induce death in swine to be an effective and humane slaughtering method. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 26, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. William O. James, Director, Slaughter Inspection Standards and Procedures Division, room 202 Annex Building, FSIS, USDA, 300 12th Street SW., Washington, DC 20250&hyph;3700, (202) 720&hyph;3219. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive Order 12866 This final rule has been determined to be not-significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. Executive Order 12778 This final rule has been reviewed pursuant to Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This final rule will permit swine to be humanely slaughtered in official meat-packing establishments through the administration of carbon dioxide. State and local jurisdictions are preempted under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) from imposing any requirements with respect to federally inspected premises and facilities, and operations of such establishments, that are in addition to, or different than, those imposed under the FMIA. States and local jurisdictions are also preempted under the FMIA from imposing any marking, labeling, packaging, or ingredient requirements on federally inspected meat or meat food products that are in addition to, or different than, those imposed under the FMIA. States and local jurisdictions may, however, exercise concurrent jurisdiction over meat products that are outside official establishments for the purposes of preventing the distribution of meat products that are misbranded or adulterated under the FMIA or, in the case of imported articles, which are not at such an establishment, after their entry into the United States. States and local jurisdictions may also make requirements or take other actions that are consistent with the FMIA, with respect to any other matters regulated under the FMIA. Under the FMIA, States that maintain meat inspection programs must impose requirements on State-inspected products and establishments that are at least equal to those required under the FMIA. These States may, however, impose more stringent requirements on such State-inspected products and establishments. No retroactive effect will be given to this final rule, and applicable administrative procedures must be exhausted before any judicial challenge can be taken to the application of these provisions. Those administrative procedures are set forth in 9 CFR 306.5. Effect on Small Entities The Administrator has determined that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, as defined by the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601). The use of the carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) slaughtering methods is voluntary. FSIS is not aware of any domestic establishments that are currently planning to use this swine slaughtering method. Even if some establishments decide to use the method, there is no indication that a substantial number of establishments will. There will be no impact on entities other than establishments engaged in the slaughter of swine and the sale of swine carcasses and parts for human food. A significant investment will be required by large or small entities establishing CO 2 slaughtering facilities. Inspection program experts estimate that an investment of $50,000 to $100,000 per slaughtering line would be necessary, depending on the size and complexity of the establishment. The decision to make this initial investment will be entirely up to the establishment, although this rule authorizing CO 2 slaughtering of swine could be a factor in making the decision. This investment could be more than offset by a reduction in manpower required for restraining, stunning, and handling hogs after stunning.
