FR941110-0-00183 FR941110-0-00016 Response: The purpose of all remedies is to protect residents against inadequate care and to motivate providers to promptly comply with the participation requirements so they may continue to provide quality services. Sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act specify that the State or HCFA may impose multiple sanctions to achieve these purposes. Limiting the authority of the Secretary and the State, as suggested by this comment, would reduce the ability of the Secretary and the State to tailor remedies to fit each unique situation of noncompliance, particularly those situations in which multiple remedies are warranted. If HCFA or the State chooses to impose a remedy, the procedures set forth in §§488.404 and 488.408 of this rule are followed to determine the most appropriate remedy or remedies. Section 488.432␣When Penalty Is Collected Comment: Many commenters questioned the proposed provisions of §488.230(b) which stated that HCFA will not and the State may not impose a civil money penalty while the facility has a hearing pending on the imposition of a remedy. A few commenters recommended that the word ``impose'' be changed to ``collect'' at §488.230(b). Commenters wanted more information about: •When a fine begins; •Whether a fine is assessed for the days between the survey date and the hearing date, or only for days after the hearing date; •Whether there is a conflict between §488.230(b) and §488.230(i) of the proposed rule. The commenters' recommendations included: •Stop the assessment of civil money penalties on the date that a formal hearing is requested. If the appeal outcome upholds the remedy then the civil money penalty is imposed retroactive to the date that the appeal was requested. •Permit the States and HCFA to impose but not collect a civil money penalty during the pendency of any hearing. The penalty would accumulate during the appeal until the deficiency is corrected or the appeal is decided; and •Do not stop the clock from running on a civil money penalty while the appeal is pending, as this can insulate noncompliant facilities against the imposition of these penalties. Response: We are revising redesignated §488.432 to be more specific and discuss when penalties are collected. We say that, when a facility requests a hearing on the noncompliance which led to the imposition of the civil money penalty, HCFA or the State will not initiate collection of the penalty until a final administrative decision is rendered which upholds the determination of noncompliance. If a facility does not request a hearing within the time period for requesting a hearing, collection of the penalty will begin when the facility achieves substantial compliance or is terminated. If a facility waives its right to a hearing in writing within 60 days of the date of the notice of intent to impose the penalty, collection is initiated when the facility achieves substantial compliance with the participation requirements or is terminated. This section now references §488.440, which discusses the accrual of the civil money penalty and computation and notice of the amount due, and §488.442, which discusses when payments for civil money penalties are due. Comment: A commenter stated the proposed regulation does not permit the survey agency to impose a remedy for a second deficiency found as a result of a complaint survey until a pending hearing on a deficiency cited from a previous survey is concluded. Response: This regulatory provision does not compromise the ability of the Secretary or the State to impose another remedy if one is warranted for a second situation of noncompliance before a final administrative decision is concluded on the first situation of noncompliance which has led to the pending imposition of a civil money penalty. However, if a civil money penalty is the preferred remedy for the second instance of noncompliance, as it was for the first, it will not be collected until the final administrative decision supporting its imposition is concluded. In this case, the State or HCFA could increase the civil money penalty amount if the noncompliance found later creates a situation of immediate jeopardy. If the second situation of noncompliance results from repeated deficiencies, HCFA or the State would increase the civil money penalty. However, the noncompliance found at a later time may warrant a remedy other than a civil money penalty which could be imposed before there is a final administrative decision on the first situation of noncompliance.
