FR940711-2-00093 FR940711-2-00040 B. Assess the State public health agency's ability to address violence against women issues, including conducting inventories of existing violence against women prevention programs. C. Develop collaborative relationships with voluntary, community-based, and public and private organizations already involved in preventing violence against women. D. Determine the effectiveness of specific interventions in preventing violence against women, including evaluation of existing interventions and development and evaluation of new interventions, and determine how to combine specific interventions into effective programs. (Emphasis should be placed on violence against women that is committed by family members and intimates rather than by strangers.) Alcohol-Related Injuries An award for identification and prevention of alcohol-related injuries is designed to develop, implement, and evaluate a surveillance system based at acute care hospitals and to increase the effectiveness of hospital-based screening, intervention, and treatment referral for injured individuals with alcohol problems. This program will establish or strengthen the ability of the State public health agency to work with acute care hospitals and other organizations in efforts to facilitate access and improve treatment outcomes for injured individuals in need of alcohol treatment services. State public health agencies will define the nature and extent of alcohol-related injuries, provide leadership in developing and implementing essential clinical prevention services, and evaluate the effectiveness of these services in terms of their impact on the incidence of alcohol-related injuries. Specifically, programs to prevent alcohol-related injuries are intended to: A. Develop or improve surveillance activities to identify alcohol-related injuries treated in inpatient or outpatient departments of acute care hospitals, including data describing the magnitude of the problem, who is affected, and the costs of associated acute care. B. Promote collaborative working relationships among community and voluntary organizations. State alcohol and drug abuse treatment agencies, treatment providers and other mental health professionals, professional organizations, insurance companies, and other parties involved in delivering or improving clinical prevention services for individuals with alcohol-related injuries. C. Establish or enhance statewide programs based in acute care hospitals designed to improve identification, reduce alcohol consumption, achieve necessary referrals to specialized alcohol treatment, and assure continuity of care of drinkers with alcohol-related injuries. D. Determine the effectiveness of specific components of new or enhanced clinical prevention services provided to patients with alcohol-related injuries, including methods of screening and intervening at acute care hospitals. Emphasis should be placed on using the surveillance system to measure the impact of these services on the incidence of recurrent alcohol-related injuries. Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient will be responsible for the activities under A. (Recipient Activities), and CDC will be responsible for the activities listed under B. (CDC Activities). A. Recipient Activities In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient shall: 1. For Bicycle-Related Head Injury Prevention Programs a. Provide a full-time director/coordinator and staff who have authority, responsibility, and expertise to carry out the program. b. Define the magnitude of the bicycle-related head injury problem; define the population at risk, and collect adequate injury data. These data include deaths and injuries attributable to bicycle-related head injury, helmet use rates among various age groups in the community, and barriers to helmet use. Potential data sources include: E-coded hospital discharge data, emergency department data, head and spinal cord injury registries, and random digit dial phone surveys of community residents to obtain information on behaviors. c. Develop and implement community-based prevention programs to encourage the use of bicycle helmets. These include educational, promotional, and legislative strategies utilized in a multifaceted approach. d. Promote and develop local and statewide legislation requiring bicycle helmet usage for all riders and passengers under 16 years of age.
