FR940512-2-00018 FR940512-2-00008 (3) Accelerated Depreciation: We agree with respondents that there are formal mechanisms in place at the Ministry of Finance and CENPRO to prevent flower producers and exporters from claiming accelerated depreciation. At verification, we found that the signatories have not used the accelerated depreciation program. (4) CIEX: We agree with respondents that this program was terminated in 1988 and that no flower producers or exporters have received benefits from this program during the five years required for termination. (5) CAT: We agree with respondents that all changes during the period of review to this program have reduced and/or restricted the receipt of benefits. (6) Income Tax Exemption for Export Earnings: The agreement requires signatories to maintain separate accounting records of exports to receive income tax exemptions for export earnings. Contrary to the argument of petitioner, the Department has verified that the signatories maintained these records. A company must maintain separate accounting records in order to receive an exemption from duties on non-physically incorporated inputs. Only one company, American Flower, maintained these separate accounting records for the exemption from duties on non-physically incorporated inputs, and only American Flower received this exemption on duties. All companies maintained separate records of imports eligible for tax and duty exemptions and domestic purchases eligible for tax credits on inputs physically incorporated into exports of the subject merchandise. Further, under ยง355.25(b)(2) of the Department's regulations, the government of the affected country may request termination of a suspension agreement during the fifth and subsequent annual anniversary months of the suspension of the investigation. In the current proceedings, the fifth anniversary month was January 1992 and the review period for termination is January 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991. Therefore, contrary to petitioner's argument, the fifth anniversary month, January 1992, and the 1991 review period is the ``time of revocation'' within the meaning of ยง355.25(a)(2), and the Department may terminate the agreement without information regarding the 1992 and 1993 review periods. Based upon the foregoing, in accordance with section ยง355.25(a)(2)(ii) of the Department's regulations, we determine that it is not likely that the producers or exporters will in the future apply for or receive a net subsidy on the subject merchandise. Comment 3: Petitioner argues that the ability to export to the U.S. market is essential for Costa Rican flower producers and exporters to remain viable. Petitioner asserts that because Costa Rican flower producers and exporters must compete with hundreds of Colombian flower producers who dominate the U.S. market, the Costa Rican flower producers and exporters continue to have a need for flower subsidies. Respondents counter that throughout the life of the agreement, Costa Rican flower producers and exporters of the subject merchandise have been able to compete in the U.S. market without receiving subsidies. They also argue that the GOCR is committed to eliminating incentives that distort trade because they are no longer needed to maintain competitiveness, and because they cost too much. Department's Position: We disagree with petitioner. As stated in Comment 1, the original signatories still accounted for substantially all of the exports of the subject merchandise to the United States in 1991, the period of review. The Department has determined that the original signatories have not received subsidies on exports of the subject merchandise to the United States during at least five consecutive years. Hence, there is no evidence that Costa Rican flower producers and exporters continue to need subsidies to compete. Final Results of Review After considering all of the comments received, we determine that the signatories have complied with the terms of the agreement for the period January 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991. In addition, we determine that the signatories have met the requirements for termination of the agreement. The original signatories have not applied for or received any net subsidy on the subject merchandise for five consecutive years and they have filed the certifications required by 19 CFR ยง355.25(b)(2). Based on the foregoing, we determine that there is no likelihood that the signatories will apply for or receive any net subsidy in the future. Therefore, we determine to terminate the Suspension of the Countervailing Duty Investigation on Fresh Cut Flowers from Costa Rica. As a result, we will also terminate the reviews in progress for the agreement covering the 1992 and 1993 periods. The administrative review and notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1)(C) and 751(c) of the Tariff Act (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)(C) and 1675(c)) and 19 CFR 355.22 and 355.25. Dated: May 5, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11590 Filed 5&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;M
