FR940317-1-00009 FR940317-1-00003 2. Comment. The Commission received a potpourri of comments on other aspects of the petition. A number of commenters disagreed with the petition, arguing that medical licensees should not receive an exemption, as the costs of such an exemption would be borne by other licensees to whom the additional fees would have no relation, and that every licensee should pay its fair share. Other commenters stated that the fees should be abolished entirely, which would remove the dilemma over granting exemptions. One commenter argued for basing an exemption on the function for which the license is utilized, not the function of the licensed organization. Some commenters argued that fees should be based on factors such as the amount of radioactive sources possessed, the number of procedures performed or the size of the nuclear department within a hospital. Certain commenters suggested expanding the number of exemptions to include Government agencies, along with those licensees which provide products and services to medical and educational entities. One commenter requested that the NRC take Agreement State schedules into account when setting its own fee schedule. Another commenter raised concerns as to the expense of NRC contractors and the quality of NRC regulation. And a few commenters urged the NRC to reevaluate or abolish its then-recently instituted Quality Management (QM) Program. Response. As the Commission stated above, it is denying this petition for rulemaking, and therefore not exempting medical licensees for services provided in a nonprofit institution. The Commission cannot abolish its fees unilaterally, as the requirement to collect 100 percent of the agency's annual budget authority through user and annual fees is statutorily mandated by Congress, see section 6101 of OBRA&hyph;90. The Commission has explained in the past why it did not believe that basing fees on factors such as number of sources or the size of the facility would result in a fairer allocation of the 100 percent recovery requirement. (See FY 1991 Final Rule, 56 FR 31472; July 10, 1991, and Appendix A to that Final Rule; and Limited Revision of Fee Schedules, 57 FR 13625; April 17, 1992.) The Commission has seen no evidence in the petition or comments on the petition which would lead it to change its current approach of charging fees by class of licensee. For reasons similar to those stated in the earlier rules cited above, the Commission does not believe it would be feasible to base an exemption on the function for which a license is utilized rather than on the function of the licensed organization. The Commission has also explained in prior rulemakings why it has decided to charge Federal agencies annual fees, and has seen nothing in comments on the petition which would cause it to change its position on this policy matter. (See FY 1991 Final Rule, 56 FR 31472, 31474&hyph;45; July 10, 1991.) The Commission also does not believe that the exemption for nonprofit educational institutions should be expanded to cover those private companies supplying services and products to medical or educational licensees. The fact that the cost of these services and products impacts upon exempt licensees is not sufficient reason to exempt private for-profit licensees. By exempting nonprofit educational institutions from fees, the Commission has addressed the direct impact of its fees on those institutions. Additionally, the Commission has discussed in both prior and current rulemakings the necessity of a high threshold for exemption requests and the overarching requirement to collect as close to 100 percent of its annual budget authority as possible; these factors remain valid here. While the Commission acknowledges that in many cases Agreement States base their fee schedules in some measure on the NRC's fee schedule, the NRC cannot do the reverse. The NRC must conform its fees to the 100 percent recovery requirements mandated by OBRA&hyph;90, independent of Agreement State fee schedules over which the agency has no control. Finally, the Commission believes that comments on the agency's QM program, NRC contracting practices and the overall quality of NRC regulation are beyond the scope of this notice. However, the Commission notes that the agency's regulation codifying its QM program was challenged and ultimately upheld in court. See American College of Nuclear Physicians and Society of Nuclear Medicine v. United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission and United States of America, No. 91&hyph;1431, slip op. at 2 (DC Cir. May 22, 1992) (per curiam). Because each of the issues raised in the petition has been substantively resolved, the NRC has denied this petition. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 11th day of March, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Samuel J. Chilk, Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6232 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;P
