FR940511-0-00033 FR940511-0-00014 The Refuge Recreation Act of 1962 (16 U.S.C. 460k) authorizes the Secretary to administer such areas for public recreation as an appropriate incidental or secondary use only to the extent that it is practicable and not inconsistent with the primary purposes for which the area was established. Section 304 of ANILCA requires the Secretary to prescribe such regulations and impose such terms and conditions as may be necessary and appropriate to ensure that any activities carried out on a national wildlife refuge in Alaska under any permit or easement granted under any authority are compatible with the purposes of that refuge. Section 1306 of ANILCA permits the Service to provide visitor facilities in the refuge if compatible with the unit's purpose. This rule is being generated to help structure public use. Adequately regulated public use is consistent with and will not interfere with the refuge purposes delineated above, and is thus compatible with the purposes for which Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge was established according to 16 U.S.C. 668(dd). Request for Comments Department of Interior policy is, whenever practicable, to afford the public a meaningful opportunity to participate in the rulemaking process. A 60 day comment period is specified in order to both facilitate public input and move forward to protect important refuge resources. Accordingly, interested persons may submit written comments concerning this interim rule to the persons listed above under the heading ADDRESSES. All substantive comments will be reviewed and considered. Paperwork Reduction Act This rulemaking does not contain information collection requirements that require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. Environmental Considerations This rulemaking is categorically excluded under 40 CFR 1508.4 from the requirements of the National Environmental Protection Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321&hyph;4347) as an administrative action that will have no potential for causing substantial environmental impact. Economic Effect Implementation of this interim rule will seasonally close two tenths of one percent (.02%) of Kodiak Refuge lands, to commercial operators and public use not connected with the organized bear viewing program. Observations by refuge personnel indicate that commercial use of the closure area has historically been steady. All use (commercial and non-commercial) was estimated to have averaged 266 user days during 1989 and 1990, and 353 user days during 1991. These levels of use will clearly be exceeded by the amount of commercial use (minimum of 480 user days) that will be allowed under terms of a permit authorizing the bear viewing program. Thus, a net gain of commercial use is expected to occur. Also, at least a portion of the commercial use previously occurring in the closure area will simply be displaced to another location and therefore not lost to the local economy. Changes in use of the resource will have no significant effect on national income. Private income will be enhanced, but dollar amounts will be small and have insignificant impact on the local economy. Agency costs for monitoring the closure and the bear viewing commercial operation will be approximately $40,000 less than that expended during fiscal year 1992 for program operation by the government. This rulemaking was not subject to Office of Management and Budget review under Executive Order 12866. In addition, a review under the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) has been done to determine whether the rulemaking would have a significant effect on a substantial number of small entities, which include businesses, organizations or governmental jurisdictions. This interim rule would have minimal effect on such entities.
