FR940819-1-00006 FR940819-1-00001 (1) Hard surface _a street with a portland cement concrete, asphaltic concrete, or bituminous wearing surface or other hard surfaces which are acceptable and suitable to the local public body for use with local climate, soil, gradient, and volume and character of traffic. (2) All-weather _a street that can be used year-round with a minimum of maintenance, such as the use of a grader and minor application of surface material, and is acceptable and suitable to the local public body for use with local climate, soil, gradient, and volume and character of traffic. Subdivision. Five or more contiguous (developed or undeveloped) lots, or building sites. Subdivisions may be new or existing. ยง1924.105 Planning/performing development. (a) General. Planning is an evaluation of specific development for specific land uses. Planning must take into consideration topography, soils, climate, adjacent land use, environmental impacts, energy efficiency, local economy, aesthetic and cultural values, public and private services, housing and social conditions and a degree of flexibility to accommodate changing demands. Although all planning and performing development work is the responsibility of the applicant or developer, close coordination must occur with local planning officials and with the respective Agency office to minimize the chances of spending money on development that does not meet the Agency's requirements. All development will be arranged and completed according to applicable local, State or Federal regulations including applicable health and safety standards, environmental concerns and requirements of this subpart. When a public authority requires inspections prior to final acceptance, written assurance by the responsible public authority, of compliance to local, city, county, State or other public codes, regulations and ordinances is required prior to final acceptance by the Agency. (1) Agency advice and assistance. Applicants and developers shall be encouraged to seek the advice and assistance of the Agency before significant expenditures are made. Actions taken which are not in accordance with this subpart may jeopardize the possibility of receiving future financial assistance from the Agency. When receiving an inquiry about a Single Family Housing site development or a Multiple Family Housing project, the Agency official receiving the request will: (i) Provide information regarding publications, site planning, engineering data, environmental data, soils data, and other technical advice and assistance which are available through local, State, and Federal agencies, planning commissions, and private institutions and organizations. (ii) Explain the requirements for compliance with subpart G of part 1940 of this chapter, as well as the limitations on applicants during the application review process as prescribed in ยง1940.309 of subpart G of part 1940 of this chapter.
