FR940318-0-00179 FR940318-0-00023 Evaluating halon substitutes also requires assessing the efficacy of substitute agents. The efficacy of a fire protection agent can be compared using a cup burner or full scale test to obtain the extinguishing concentration in a particular fuel. NFPA standards require an additional 20 percent be added to obtain the design concentration. Most values identified in this rule are obtained by cup burner, while some are obtained by full scale testing, and most are in heptane. This measure is included in the discussion of halon substitutes for information and comparative purposes, and EPA does not assert that the efficacy values listed here are appropriate for all fire or explosion hazards. The user community is cautioned to consult the appropriate NFPA standard, relevant OSHA regulations, and professional fire consultants to determine actual requirements. After concluding the analysis of halon alternatives, EPA in some cases finds acceptable the use of an agent only under certain conditions. In implementing its use of conditions, the Agency has sought to avoid overlap with other existing regulatory authorities. EPA believes that section 612 clearly authorizes imposition of use conditions to ensure safe use of replacement agents. EPA's mandate is to list agents that ``reduce the overall risk to human health and the environment'' for ``specific uses.'' In light of this authorization, EPA is only intending to set conditions for the safe use of halon substitutes in the workplace until OSHA incorporates specific language addressing gaseous agents into OSHA regulation. Under OSHA Public Law 91&hyph;596, section 4(b)(1), OSHA is precluded from regulating an area currently being regulated by another federal agency. EPA is specifically deferring to OSHA, and has no intention to assume responsibility for regulating workplace safety especially with respect to fire protection. EPA's workplace use conditions will not bar OSHA from regulating under its Public Law 91&hyph;596 authority. The substitutes for halons in fire protection applications are discussed in the next section by class of chemical. a. Brominated hydrofluorocarbons. Brominated hydrofluorocarbons (HBFCs) are effective halon substitutes. Because these substances contain bromine, they act as chemical action agents in the same manner as the halons. In fact, some HBFCs are more effective than Halons 1211 and 1301 in specific applications. For this reason, HBFCs can replace Halons 1211 and 1301 on nearly a one-to-one basis and appear to have significant applicability in existing systems. However, the presence of bromine also means that these agents have higher ozone-depleting potentials than other halon substitutes. At this time, only one HBFC, HBFC&hyph;22B1, is expected to be commercially available in the near term. HBFC&hyph;22B1 can, however, serve only as an interim substitute for halons. The substance has an ODP of 0.74 and has been listed as a class I substances. Under the Montreal Protocol and the Clean Air Act, production of HBFC&hyph;22B1 is required to end January 1, 1996. b. Hydrochlorofluorocarbons. A number of hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) have also been suggested as halon replacements. These include HCFC&hyph;22, HCFC&hyph;123, and HCFC&hyph;124. These HCFCs will extinguish fires but because they are physical action agents, they are considerably less effective than halons or HBFCs. Thus, high concentrations must be achieved to extinguish fires. Further, although the ozone depletion potential of HCFCs is considerably lower than that of either halons or HBFCs, they are listed as class II chemicals under the Clean Air Act. The production of HCFC&hyph;141b will be phased out beginning January 1, 2003; HCFC&hyph;22 and HCFC&hyph;142b beginning January 1, 2020; and all other HCFCs beginning January 1, 2030 (58 FR 65018, December 10, 1993). In addition, under section 610(d) of the CAA as amended, HCFCs in pressurized dispensers are banned from sale or distribution after January 1, 1994. Under the final rulemaking for section 610 (58 FR 69637, December 30, 1993) EPA interpreted section 610(d) to exclude HCFCs which are part of an installed `system.' The final rule exempts total flooding systems and those streaming applications which incorporate fixed, automatic systems. However, section 610(d) only allows the sale of an HCFC in a portable fire extinguisher where other unregulated agents are not suitable for the intended applications. Because alternatives are available for residential uses, EPA intends to publish a proposed rulemaking under section 612 to update the SNAP list of acceptable substitutes and to ban the sale and use of HCFCs in portable fire extinguishers for residential applications. However, in commercial (including industrial and military) settings, the variety of hazards are too broad to create standards through rulemaking, and therefore under section 610(d) EPA has established industry-based mechanisms for controlling the sale of HCFCs. Generally, while HCFCs can serve only as interim halon substitutes due to their scheduled phaseout as class II substances, EPA believes that they serve an important transitional role in the phaseout of class I substances. HCFC&hyph;22 has been suggested as a total flooding agent, but this compound is unlikely to be used as a single agent in normally occupied areas due to its cardiotoxic profile.
