FR940114-2-00006 FR940114-2-00003 Restoration Plan for the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Area, Prince William Sound, Gulf of Alaska, and Alaska Peninsula, AK AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Revised notice of intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement. SUMMARY: On April 10, 1992 (57 FR 12473&hyph;12475) on behalf of the Exxon Valdez Trustee Council, the Department of Agriculture, Forest Service published a Notice of Intent to prepare a programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the development of a Restoration Plan following the March 24, 1989, Exxon Valdez oil spill. This notice revises the dates for completion of the Draft and Final EIS and provides more information on the proposed action. The responsible official for the preparation of the EIS is the Regional Forester, Michael A. Barton. The Restoration Plan will establish management direction and guide all natural resource restoration activities covered by the civil settlement to the Exxon Valdez oil spill. DATES: Initial comments concerning the proposed development of a Restoration Plan should be received by February 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to or for further information contact Rod Kuhn, EIS Project Manager, 645 G Street, Anchorage, Alaska, 99501; phone (907) 278&hyph;8012. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Introduction On October 8, 1991, a federal court approved settlement between the State and Federal governments and Exxon under which Exxon will pay $1 billion in criminal restitution and civil damages to the governments. The State and Federal Trustees will receive $900 million in civil damages from Exxon over the 10 years. The funds are to be used to restore to their pre-spill condition the natural resources and the services they provide, that were injured by the Exxon Valdez oil spill. This includes the restoration of any natural resource injured, lost or destroyed and the services provided by that resource or which replaces or substitutes for the injured, lost or destroyed resource and affected services. Restoration includes all phases of injury assessment, restoration, replacement, and enhancement of natural resources, and acquisition of equivalent resources and services. All decisions about restoration and uses of restoration funds are determined by six natural resources Trustees, three Federal and three State. The three Federal Trustees are: The Administrator for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, and the Secretaries of the Department of Agriculture and of the Interior. The three State Trustees are: The Commissioners of Fish and Game and Environmental Conservation, and the Attorney General. A Trustee Council, located in Alaska, which is made up of designees of the Federal Trustees and the three State Trustees, is responsible for decisions relating to the assessment of injuries, uses of the restoration funds, and all restoration activities including the preparation of a Restoration Plan. On April 10, 1992 (57 FR 12473&hyph;12475) on behalf of the Exxon Valdez Trustee Council, the Forest Service published a Notice of Intent to prepare an EIS on the Restoration Plan. Since then the Trustee Council has developed a draft Restoration Plan which has become the proposed action for the analysis to be conducted in the EIS. B. Draft Restoration Plan The proposed action (Draft Restoration Plan) consists of nine policy statements, a discussion of categories of restoration actions and broad objectives for injured resources. The policies for identifying and conducting restoration actions are: 1. The restoration program will take an ecosystem approach. 2. Restoration activities may be considered for any injured resource or service. 3. Most restoration activities will occur within the spill area. However, restoration activities outside the spill are, but within Alaska, may be considered when the most effective restoration actions for an injured migratory population are in a part of its range outside the spill area or when the information acquired from research and monitoring activities outside the spill area will be important for restoration or understanding injuries within the spill area. 4. Restoration activities will emphasize resources and services that have not recovered. Resources and service will be enhanced, as appropriate, to promote restoration. Restoration projects should not adversely affect the ecosystem. 5. Projects designed to restore or enhance an injured service must have a sufficient relationship to an injured resource; must benefit the same user group that was injured; and, should be compatible with the character and public uses of the area. 6. Competitive proposals for restoration projects will be encouraged. 7. Restoration projects will be subject to independent scientific review before Trustee Council approval. 8. Meaningful public participation in restoration decisions will be actively solicited. 9. Government agencies will be funded only for restoration work that they do not normally conduct.
