FR940922-1-00007 FR940922-1-00004 LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 36 CFR Part 701 [Docket No. LOC 94&hyph;3] Credit and Recognition Policy on the Use of the Library of Congress Name, Seal, or Logo AGENCY: Library of Congress. ACTION: Proposed rules. SUMMARY: The Library of Congress proposes to revise its policy on the use of its name, seal, or logo to assure that the Library of Congress is properly and appropriately identified and credited as a source of materials in publications that rely on Library resources, so that the public may know that the resources in its national library are being used productively and in fulfillment of its mission. DATES: Comments should be received on or before October 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: Ten copies of written comments should be addressed, if sent by mail to: Library of Congress, Mail Code 1050, Washington, D.C. 20540. If delivered by hand, copies should be brought to: Office of the General Counsel, James Madison Memorial Building, Room LM&hyph;601, First and Independence Avenue, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20540&hyph;1050, (202) 707&hyph;6316. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Johnnie M. Barksdale, Regulations Officer, Office of the General Counsel, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 20540&hyph;1050. Telephone No. (202) 707&hyph;1593. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under the authority of 2 U.S.C. 136, the Librarian of Congress is authorized to make rules and regulations for the government of the Library. 18 U.S.C. 1017 contains criminal provisions on the misuse of official U.S. Government seals. Part 701 is revised to clarify the boundaries of when and how much credit or recognition the Library of Congress should appropriately receive when its name, seal, or logo are used in conjunction with a commercial product. It outlines also the current circumstances under which the use of both the name and seals of the Library may be granted and the procedures for doing so. This part combines and revises the provisions set forth in parts 701.35 and 701.36 of 36 CFR Chapter VII. Part 701.36 of 36 CFR Chapter VII, Use of the Seal of the Library of Congress and the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board, will be removed. List of Subjects in 36 CFR Part 701 Libraries, Seals and insignias. Proposed Regulation In consideration of the foregoing the Library of Congress proposes to amend Part 701 of 36 CFR to read as follows: PART 701_PROCEDURES AND SERVICES 1. The authority citation for part 701 is revised to read as follows: Authority: Sec. 1, 29 Stat. 544, 546; 2 U.S.C. 136; 18 U.S.C. 1017. 2. Section 701.35 is revised to read as follows: ยง701.35 Credit and Recognition Policy on the Use of the Library Name, Seal, or Logo. (a) Purpose . The purpose of this part is to assure that the Library of Congress is properly and appropriately identified and credited as a source of materials in publications that rely on Library resources, so that the public may know that the resources in its national library are being used productively in fulfillment of its mission. (b) Definitions . (1) Publication means any tangible expression of words or thoughts in any form or format, including print, sound recording, television, optical disc, software, online delivery, or other technology now known or hereinafter created. It includes the whole range of tangible products from simple signs, posters, pamphlets, and brochures to books, television productions, and movies. (2) Internal Library publication means a publication over which any unit of the Library has complete or substantial control or responsibility. (3) Collaborative publications means those in which any unit of the Library is providing more than routine assistance. The assistance may be pursuant to a formal agreement or may simply be an extensive courtesy. (4) Commercial publications means those known or likely to involve subsequent mass distribution, whether by a for-profit or not-for-profit organization or individual. (5) Noncommercial user means an individual whose publication includes a significant number of Library references, but the intended purpose of which is personal, scholarly, or noncommercial. (6) Official Library logo means any official seal of the Library. (c) Credit and recognition policy. (1) The name ``Library of Congress,'' or any abbreviation thereof, shall be used officially to represent the Library of Congress and its programs, projects, functions, activities, or elements thereof. The Library's name shall be used only when it is in the interest of the Library. Any other use of the Library's name by any person or organization, except as provided by this part, is prohibited. (2) The Library of Congress seal symbolizes the Library's authority and standing as an official agency of the U.S. Government. As such, it shall be displayed only on official documents or publications of the Library. The seal of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board shall be affixed to documents of that body as prescribed by the Librarian of Congress. Procedures governing the use of any other Library of Congress logo are set out in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(10). (3) Questions regarding the appropriateness of the recognition or credit shall be referred to the Public Affairs Office. (4) Internal publications. Each internal Library publication shall include a copy of an official Library logo in a position, format, and location suitable to the particular media involved. The logo may be alone or in addition to an approved unit or activity logo, but shall be no less prominent than any other logo used, except in the cases of the Copyright Office, the Congressional Research Service, and the Center for the Book. Other exceptions to this policy may be made only if a written request is approved by the Management Team member under whose jurisdiction the publication falls. (5) Collaborative/commercial publications . (i) Individuals with whom the Library is engaged in a collaborative publication, and individuals requesting assistance for commercial publications, shall be instructed regarding Library policy on credit, recognition, and endorsement by the Library employee with whom they are dealing. (ii) Ordinarily, the Library logo accompanied by a concise acknowledgement should appear in an appropriate and suitable location on all collaborative and all commercial publications. The Library requires that a credit line accompany reproductions of images from its collections. (iii) The size, location, and other attributes of the logo and credit line should be positioned in such a way that they do not imply Library endorsement of the publication unless such endorsement is expressly intended by the Library, as would be the case in copublication or coproduction activities. Use of the Library name or logo in any context suggesting an explicit or implicit endorsement may be approved in only those instances where the Library has sufficient expertise to pass judgment on the subject matter, where that expertise has been engaged or applied, and where the terms of the collaborative undertaking are such that the Library has sufficient control over the publication to make changes necessary to reflect Library expertise.
