FR940317-2-00058 FR940317-2-00041 Administration for Children and Families Agency Information Collection Under OMB Review Under the provisions of the Federal Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35), the National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect (NCCAN) of the Administration for Children and Families (ACF) is requesting clearance from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for instruments to be used for the Site Visit Interview Component of the National Evaluation of Emergency Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Services Demonstration Projects. The Emergency Services Demonstration projects were designed to address services to families experiencing the coexisting problems of substance abuse and child maltreatment. ADDRESSES: Copies of the information collection may be obtained from Edward E. Saunders of the Office of Information Systems Management, ACF, by calling (202) 205&hyph;7921. Written comments and questions regarding this information collection should be sent directly to: Laura Oliven, OMB Desk Officer for ACF, OMB Reports Management Branch, New Executive Office Building, room 3002, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503, (202) 395&hyph;7316. Information on Document Title: Evaluation of the Emergency Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Services Demonstration. OMB No.: New Request. Description: The Emergency Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Services Demonstration projects, funded by the National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect of the Administration for Children and Families (ACF), were designed to address services to families experiencing the coexisting problems of substance abuse and child maltreatment. The national evaluation is comprised of two primary components_the Site Visit Interview Component and the Document Review Component. The site visit data, in conjunction with information obtained from reviews of program reports and third-party evaluation documents (obtained from the Document Review component) will be used to assess the extent to which demonstration programs have met the goals of (1) developing emergency service delivery models to provide crisis intervention for children and adolescents at risk for maltreatment from substance-abusing family members; and (2) removing barriers to treatment for substance-abusing parents or family members in order to prevent maltreatment of children in these at-risk households. The Site Visit Interview Component will be conducted through visits to 49 projects and interviews with key members at the project site. The information obtained by the Site Visit Interview Component will be used by NCCAN in decision-making regarding policy and programs pertaining to services to children and families experiencing the coexisting problems of substance abuse and child maltreatment. The information also will provide the fields of substance abuse and child abuse prevention and intervention with new models for working together and for serving families from a holistic perspective. Annual Number of Respondents: 188. Frequency: 1. Average Burden Hours Per Response: 2.02. Total Burden Hours: 379.75. Dated: March 10, 1994. Larry Guerrero, Deputy Director, Office of Information Systems Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6204 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;M
