FR940429-0-00090 FR940429-0-00011 (A) A list of the loans which the institution alleges would, due to improper loan servicing or collection, result in an inaccurate or incomplete calculation of the cohort default rate. (B) Copies of all of the loan servicing or collection records and any other evidence relating to a loan that the institution believes has been subject to improper servicing or collection. The records must be in hard copy or microfiche format. (C) An explanation of how the alleged improper servicing or collection resulted in an inaccurate or incomplete calculation of the cohort default rate. (D) A summary of the institution's appeal, listing the number of loans insured by each guaranty agency that were included in the calculation of the institution's cohort default rate, and the number of loans that would be excluded from the calculation of that rate by application of the results of the review of the sample of loans provided to the institution to the population of loans for each guaranty agency. (E) A certification by an authorized official of the institution that all information provided by the institution in the appeal is true and correct. (v) The Secretary or his designee reviews the information submitted by the institution and issues a decision. (A) In making a decision under this paragraph the Secretary presumes that the information provided by the guaranty agency is correct unless the institution provides substantial evidence showing that the information maintained by the guaranty agency is not correct. (B) If the Secretary finds that the evidence presented by the institution shows that some of the loans included in the sample of loan records reviewed by the institution should be excluded from calculation of the cohort default rate under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the Secretary reduces the institution's cohort default rate, in accordance with a statistically valid methodology, to reflect the percentage of defaulted loans in the sample that should be excluded. (vi) The Secretary notifies the institution, in writing, of the decision. (vii) An institution may not seek judicial review of the Secretary's determination of the institution's cohort default rates until the Secretary or his designee issues the decision under paragraph (f)(3)(v) of this section. (viii) For purposes of this paragraph a loan is considered to have been serviced or collected improperly only if, under applicable rules, the Department would decline to pay reinsurance on the principal of the loan. (ix) For purposes of this paragraph, improper servicing or collection is considered to have caused a loan to default for purposes of the calculation of the cohort default rate only if the improper servicing or collection resulted in a failure to notify the borrower that he or she must begin repaying the loan. (x) For cohort default rates issued by the Secretary for federal fiscal years from 1989 to 1991, the procedures in this paragraph apply, except that the 10-day period for initiating an appeal with the guaranty agency starts on the effective date of these regulations. (g) Effect of decision. An institution may challenge the calculation of a cohort default rate under this section no more than once. The Secretary's determination of an institution's appeal of the calculation of a cohort default rate is binding on any future appeal by the institution. An institution that fails to challenge the calculation of a cohort default rate under this section within 10 working days of receiving notice of the determination of the cohort default rate is prohibited from challenging that rate in any other proceeding before the Department. (h) Review of default rate data. Effective on October 1, 1994, an institution has an opportunity to review and correct the information provided to the Secretary by the guaranty agencies for the purpose of calculating a cohort default rate on the loans to be included in the calculation of the institution's cohort default rate before the final rate is calculated. (1) (i) Once the Secretary has received the information used in calculating the cohort default rates from the guaranty agencies, the Secretary calculates draft cohort default rates for each institution. (ii) The Secretary sends all institutions with draft cohort default rates equal to or in excess of 20 percent a copy of the information provided by the guaranty agencies in regard to loans included in the institution's cohort default rate. (iii) An institution with a draft cohort default rate less than 20 percent will receive a notice of the draft default rate and may request a copy of the information provided by the guaranty agencies within 10 working days of receiving the notice from the Secretary. Upon receiving the request from the institution, the Secretary will send the institution a copy of the information requested. The time frames provided in this paragraph will not start until the institution receives or should have received the information from the Secretary. (2) Within 30 calendar days of receiving the default rate information from the Secretary, the institution must notify the guaranty agency of any information included in the default rate data that it believes is incorrect. The institution must also provide the guaranty agency with any evidence that it believes supports its contention that the default rate data are incorrect. (3) Within 30 calendar days of receiving the institution's challenge under paragraph (h)(2) of this section, the guaranty agency shall respond to the institution's challenge. The guaranty agency's response must include a response to each allegation of error made by the institution and any evidence supporting the agency's position. (4) The guaranty agency shall provide a copy of its response to the institution to the Secretary and identify any errors in the information previously submitted to the Secretary. (5) The information used to calculate cohort default rates will be changed to reflect allegations of error made by an institution and confirmed by the guaranty agency prior to releasing final cohort default rates. (6) The draft default rate issued by the Secretary under paragraph (h)(1) of this section may not be considered public information and may not be otherwise voluntarily released by the Secretary or the guaranty agency. (7) An institution may not appeal a cohort default rate under paragraph (d)(1) of this section on the basis of any alleged errors in the default rate information unless errors were identified by the institution in a challenge to its preliminary default rate under paragraph (h) of this section. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10132 Filed 04&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
