FR940428-2-00028 FR940428-2-00018 Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Regional Roundtables on Climate Change Action Plan for Stabilizing Greenhouse Gas Emissions AGENCY: Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice of roundtables. SUMMARY: The U.S. DOE is announcing the fourth and fifth in a series of regional roundtables to solicit comments and feedback from stakeholders, which include state and local officials, utility representatives, industry representatives, public interest groups and other interested parties on the Climate Change Action Plan, the Clinton Administration's blueprint for stabilizing greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels by the year 2000. DATE AND LOCATION: May 4, 1994, Radisson Hotel Atlanta, Courtland and International Blvd., Atlanta, Georgia, May 11, 1994, Park Hyatt Chicago Hotel, 800 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Arlene Anderson or Carol Tombari, U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Green Room, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;7541. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On October 19, 1993, President Clinton made a national commitment to stabilizing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at 1990 levels by the year 2000. The blueprint for achieving this goal is known as the Climate Change Action Plan (CCAP), a volume of 46 emissions-reducing ``actions'' the U.S. will take during the remainder of the decade. The Plan is founded on the principle that cost-effective energy efficiency programs provide energy cost reductions that more than offset the investment to increase efficiency. The CCAP focuses on and accelerates the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 1992. As a result, the overall Plan is estimated to require no net increase in Federal funding as it creates jobs, reduces home and business energy bills, and induces over $60 billion in new domestic investment. The Department of Energy's (DOE's) Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy has the responsibility for implementing the renewable energy and energy efficiency actions in the President's plan. An executive summary of the Plan may be obtained by calling DOE, (202) 586&hyph;7541. Several other Federal agencies and offices have important implementation responsibilities for the remaining actions and for other aspects of the Plan. DOE's Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy and the National Association of State Energy Officials will conduct regional roundtables to solicit comments and feedback on the Climate Change Action Plan. The purpose of the roundtables is to describe and solicit feedback on DOE's preliminary proposals to implement its actions under the Plan. Rather than design individual implementation plans, however, DOE has examined its implementation responsibilities from the standpoint of comprehensiveness, integration, and leverage. As a result, DOE has developed an implementation approach that has the potential to integrate all CCAP activities, not only into DOE's programs, but also into other energy efficiency activities and programs. Through these roundtables DOE hopes to begin soliciting input from a wide variety of stakeholders. The agency seeks feedback on the comprehensive strategy as well as specifics of proposed implementation activities. Comments or questions from the public may be submitted in person or in writing at the roundtable. Following the roundtable, written comments or questions may be sent to the address listed above. For several of the actions, DOE presents several implementation options rather than a single proposed implementation plan. In these instances, DOE seeks input that will help guide our selection of one of these options. The roundtable format will provide a forum for representatives from state and local governments, utilities, industry, public interest groups and other interested parties to provide comments. The roundtable format is sufficiently flexible to allow participants to offer comments, either on specific actions or on the entire package, through the use of breakout sessions for key groups of actions. All comments will be considered. Facilitators will be provided for each session. A copy of a summary of the roundtable proceedings may be obtained by calling or writing to the address listed above. PROPOSED AGENDA: 8 a.m. Registration Welcome and Introduction Overview of Climate Change Action Plans Break-out Sessions •Utilities/Energy Supply •Buildings •Industry •Transportation (Chicago) 12 p.m. Working Lunch Break-out Sessions (Cont'd) Feedback and Closing Comments Adjourn Detailed information about the roundtables can be obtained from: Carol Tombari or Arlene Anderson (202) 586&hyph;7541. Issued in Washington, D.C., on April 20, 1994. Frank M. Stewart, Jr., Chief of Staff, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10079 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
