FR940606-1-00083 FR940606-1-00012 (6) A restricted gauge is not used as a means of verifying the reading obtained by the closed gauge or as a means of sampling. (b) The words ``Cancer Suspect Agent'' must be added to the warning sign, as required by §154.1830(f). (c) Signs bearing the legend ``CANCER SUSPECT AGENT IN THIS AREA_PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT REQUIRED_AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY'' must be posted whenever hazardous operations, such as tank cleaning, are in progress. (d) When vinyl chloride transfer operations are conducted, the vessel must be designated as a regulated area and access must be limited to authorized persons. A daily roster of persons authorized to enter the regulated area must be maintained on the vessel. (e) Personnel engaged in hazardous operations, such as tank cleaning, must be provided with, and required to wear and use, respirators under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Also, protective garments capable of preventing skin contact with liquid vinyl chloride must be provided. The garments must be clean and dry for each use. 56. In §154.1760, designate the text as paragraph (a) and add a new paragraph (b) to read as follows: §154.1760 Liquid ammonia. * * * * * (b) For pressure vessels and pipelines made of carbon-manganese steel, the oxygen content of the vapor space must be reduced to the minimum level practicable before the introduction of liquid ammonia at temperatures of greater than ^20 ○C (^4 ○F). 57. Sections 154.1765, 154.1770, and 154.1775 are added to read as follows: §154.1765 Diethyl ether; vinyl ethyl ether. (a) Diethyl ether and vinyl ethyl ether cargoes must be discharged by deepwell pumps or by hydraulically operated submerged pumps. (b) When a diethyl ether or vinyl ethyl ether cargo is carried in independent tanks type C, inert gas displacement may be used to discharge the cargo if the cargo system is designed for the expected pressure. §154.1770 Propylene oxide and mixtures of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide containing not more than 30% ethylene oxide by weight: Requirements for carriage. (a) Vessels carrying propylene oxide or a mixture of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide containing not more than 30% ethylene oxide by weight must meet the following: (1) Acetylene must not be present in the propylene oxide or the mixture of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide. (2) Cargo piping, vent piping, refrigeration equipment, and inert gas supply lines must be completely separate from piping systems for all other tanks, including empty tanks and cargo compressors. If the piping systems are not separate, they may be made separate by removing spool pieces, valves, and other pipe sections and installing blank flanges. (3) Valves, flanges, fittings, and accessory equipment must be made of steel, stainless steel, or other material specially approved by the Commandant (G&hyph;MTH). (4) Valve disk faces, seats, and other wearing parts of valves must be made of stainless steel containing not less than 11% chromium. (5) Gaskets must be constructed of spirally wound stainless steel with teflon or other material specially approved by the Commandant (G&hyph;MTH). Gaskets made of neoprene or natural rubber, asbestos or asbestos mixed with other materials, or materials containing oxides of magnesium must not be used in propylene oxide containment systems. (6) Cargo piping must not have threaded joints. (7) The vessel must have an exterior water spray system under §154.1105 that protects the above deck cargo piping. (8) The vessel must have a nitrogen inerting system or on board nitrogen gas storage system capable of maintaining, for a period of thirty days at an oxygen level of 2% or less, an inert atmosphere in the vapor space of a tank carrying these cargoes. (b) Cargo tanks carrying propylene oxide which have a design vapor pressure of less than 0.6 Bar gauge (8.5 psig) and cargo tanks carrying mixtures of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide containing not more than 30% ethylene oxide by weight which have a design vapor pressure of less than 1.2 Bar gauge (17.1 psig) must have a refrigeration system that maintains the product at a temperature below the reference temperature under §154.1844(b). (c) Cargo tanks in which the product is to be carried must meet the following: (1) Be constructed of steel or stainless steel. (2) For independent tanks of type C, have pressure relief valves settings that are_ (i) Not less than 0.2 Bar gauge (2.8 psig);
