FR941205-2-00073 FR941205-2-00043 Therefore, in response to this comment, the Department has amended Section I(b) of the Proposal by changing the clause to read as follows (the new language being underlined): ``*␣*␣* and the procedures established by the Funds pursuant to Rule 17a-7 for the valuation of such assets.'' The applicant states further that the valuation procedures used by a mutual fund for determining the net asset value of its shares may differ slightly from the valuation procedures used for Rule 17a&hyph;7 transactions. For example, the applicant notes that although the rules and procedures for determining net asset value parallel the valuation rules of Rule 17a&hyph;7(b) for securities for which market quotations are readily available, the net asset value rules permit the amortized cost method to be used for valuing certain types of securities, such as short-term fixed-income securities, and permit the use of one, rather than three, independent brokers or pricing services to value securities which are not exchanged-traded. However, the applicant represents that the net asset value determinations by the Funds are made on an objective and consistent basis, in accordance with the applicable SEC rules and internal procedures established by the board of directors of the Funds (the Board). The applicant states that all the members of the Board are independent of M&I, the investment adviser of the Funds. The procedures established by the Board are described in the Statement of Additional Information issued to Fund investors. These procedures include the time of day at which net asset value will be determined and the specific independent pricing services that will be used by the Funds. Accordingly, the Department has determined that no further modifications to Section I(b) of the Proposal are necessary. In response to a question raised by the Department regarding the utilization of sub-advisers, the applicant states that M&I currently uses a third party sub-adviser for one of the Funds but otherwise is the sole investment adviser to the Funds' existing portfolios and presently contemplates no change with respect to such existing portfolios. M&I states that in the event that other, particularly more specialized, portfolios are started, third party sub-advisers may be utilized to enhance the investment alternatives and the investment advisory services available to the Funds for such portfolios. M&I represents that each Client Plan's credit of all investment advisory fees charged by M&I to the Funds will include any investment advisory fees paid by M&I to third party sub-advisers. In response to the applicant's comment, the Department has amended Section II(d) of the Proposal as follows (new language being underlined): ``*␣*␣* Each Client Plan receives a credit, either through cash or the purchase of additional shares of the Funds pursuant to an annual election made by the Client Plan, of such Plan's proportionate share of all fees charged to the Funds by M&I for investment advisory services, including any investment advisory fees paid by M&I to third party sub-advisers, within no more than one business day of the receipt of such fees by M&I.'' In response to a further question raised by the Department regarding changes in fees received by M&I for secondary services, the applicant has agreed to add a new condition to Section II of the Proposal which requires prior disclosure of the addition of a secondary service for which a fee is charged or an increase in fees as a result of a decrease in the number or kind of services performed for an existing secondary service fee. This condition, as discussed in paragraph (l) of Section II, requires M&I to provide written notice to the Second Fiduciary, at least thirty days in advance of the implementation of such additional service or fee increase, explaining the nature and the amount of the additional service for which a fee will be charged or the nature and amount of the increase in fees of the affected Fund. Such notice must be accompanied by a Termination Form. With respect to purchases and sales of Fund shares, Section II(c) of the Proposal states that neither M&I nor an affiliate, including any officer or director of M&I, may purchase or sell shares of the Funds from or to any Client Plan. The applicant states that while purchases or redemptions of Fund shares by the Client Plans are made with the Funds' distributor, which is independent of M&I, purchase and redemption orders may be placed through the Client Plan's account representative at M&I. The applicant requests that the Department clarify that the language of Section II(c) of the Proposal does not affect the ability of Client Plans to place orders through M&I personnel.
