FR940721-2-00069 FR940721-2-00036 •By the HHS Office of Child Support Enforcement for locating parents who owe child support; •By the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health for epidemiological research studies required by the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1974; •By the SSA Office of Refugee Resettlement for administering Cuban refugee assistance payments; and •By the HHS Health Care Financing Administration for administering Title XVIII claims. Information in this system is also used by SSA to prevent the processing of an SSN card application for an individual whose application is identified as having been supported by evidence that either: •Is suspect and being verified, or •Has been determined to be fraudulent. With this system in place, clerical investigation and intervention is required. Social Security offices are alerted in case an applicant attempting to obtain an SSN might visit other offices and might attempt to find one which would unwittingly accept fraudulent documentation. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Disclosure may be made for routine uses as indicated below: 1. Employers are notified of the SSNs of employees in order to complete their records for reporting wages to SSA pursuant to the Federal Insurance Contributions Act and section 218 of the Social Security Act. 2. To State welfare agencies, upon written request, of the SSNs of Aid to Families with Dependent Children applicants or recipients. 3. To the Department of Justice (DOJ), Federal Bureau of Investigation and United States Attorneys, for investigating and prosecuting violations of the Social Security Act. 4. To the DOJ, Immigration and Naturalization Service, for the identification and location of aliens in the United States pursuant to requests received under section 290(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1360(c)). 5. To a contractor for the purpose of collating, evaluating, analyzing, aggregating or otherwise refining records when SSA contracts with a private firm. (The contractor shall be required to maintain Privacy Act safeguards with respect to such records.) 6. To the Railroad Retirement Board for: (a) Administering provisions of the Railroad Retirement and Social Security Acts relating to railroad employment; and (b) Administering the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act. 7. To the Department of Energy for its study of the long-term effects of low-level radiation exposure. 8. To the Department of the Treasury for: (a) Tax administration as defined in section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 6103); and (b) Investigating the alleged theft, forgery, or unlawful negotiation of Social Security checks. 9. To a congressional office in response to an inquiry from the office made at the request of the subject of a record.
