FR940913-1-00031 FR940913-1-00013 Regulatory History On April 19, 1990, the Coast Guard published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) for Commercial Fishing Industry Vessels (55 FR 14924). In the NPRM, the Coast Guard proposed to regulate U.S. documented or state numbered uninspected fishing, fish processing, and fish tender vessels, including vessels engaged in the Aleutian Trade, to implement the provisions of the Commercial Fishing Industry Vessel Safety Act of 1988. Subsequent to the NPRM, Congress enacted the Aleutian Trade Act of 1990 (ATA), significantly affecting the impact of the proposed regulations on vessels engaged in the Aleutian trade. The ATA provides for continued cargo service to remote communities in Alaska while ensuring increased safety standards for fish tender vessels operating in the Aleutian trade. As a result of the ATA, the Coast Guard published a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking, (SNPRM), in the Federal Register on October 27, 1992 (57 FR 48670). In response to the SNPRM, the Coast Guard received over 206 comments specifically opposing, and only 4 comments favoring, the proposed ATA regulations. In a second SNPRM, the Coast Guard is now proposing to increase the safety standards for these vessels consistent with the comments received to the first SNPRM and establish a separate subpart in 46 CFR Part 28 for vessels engaged in the Aleutian trade. Background and Purpose The Aleutian Trade Act of 1990. On November 16, 1990, the President signed Pub. L. 101&hyph;595, The Aleutian Trade Act of 1990 (``the ATA''). The ATA applies only to fish tender vessels engaged in the transportation of cargo (including fishery related products) for hire to or from a place in Alaska west of 153 ○ West longitude and east of 172 ○ East longitude and only, if that place receives weekly common carrier service by water, to or from a place in the United States (except a place in Alaska). The ATA requires these fish tender vessels to meet new safety and manning standards over a specified period of time. Additional background information concerning the ATA and the Coast Guard's interpretation of the Act, may be found at page 48670 of the SNPRM published October 27, 1992. Discussion of Comments In response to the SNPRM of October 27, 1992, the Coast Guard received four comments supporting the ATA. They were from a common carrier, a ship yard, a naval architect and an interested party that did not identify its affiliation. Additionally, the Coast Guard received 206 comments opposing the ATA. These comments were from fishermen, fishing vessel companies, naval architects, shipyards, the State Legislature and Governor of Alaska, an insurance company, and the general public. The primary objections to the proposed requirements were: (1) The potential for severe economic hardship to the operators of ATA vessels, and the people and companies the vessels serve in the outlying areas; (2) the possibility that common carriers serving the Aleutian area would have a monopoly on seaborne commerce in this area and could significantly increases rates; and (3) the lack of need for additional regulations when considering the positive safety record of ATA vessels. Additionally, comments opposed the proposed rules by arguing that: (1) The Coast Guard greatly underestimated the cost of compliance; (2) the Commercial Fishing Industry Vessel Safety Act states that the Coast Guard cannot require alterations to existing vessels; and (3) the standards proposed are excessive and greater than those required of an inspected cargo vessel. Discussion of Proposed Rules In response to the large number of comments opposing the first SNPRM, the Coast Guard will revise its proposed regulations and issue a second SNPRM. The Coast Guard believes this SNPRM proposes standards that would upgrade safety requirements aboard ATA vessels and yet be responsive to the comments received to the first SNPRM. In this SNPRM, the Coast Guard is proposing a new subpart G, to be entitled Aleutian Trade Act Vessels. Each section is summarized in the following paragraphs. Subpart A_General Provisions Section 28.040␣Incorporation by Reference This section lists the industry standards that are incorporated by reference and the corresponding sections where each standard is reference as the governing requirement. In the interest of keeping the regulations as uncomplicated as possible, the number of standards incorporated by reference has been minimized. National Fire Protection Association, NFPA, sections 310&hyph;13 and 310&hyph;15 of NFPA 70 is referenced in §28.865. Society of Automotive Engineers, SAE, section J1475 is needed for compliance in §28.880. Underwriters Laboratories, UL, standard 217&hyph;1985, ``Single and Multiple Station Smoke Detectors'' to supplement the information in §28.830 Subpart G_Aleutian Trade Act Vessels Section 28.800␣Applicability and General Requirements This section describes the revised applicability for ATA vessels proposed for this subpart. Fish tender vessels engaged in the Aleutian trade are subject to inspection under the provisions of 46 U.S.C. 3301 (1), (6), or (7) except those that: 1. Are not more than 500 gross tons; 2. Have an incline test performed by a marine surveyor; and 3. Have written stability instructions posted on board the vessel. Section 28.805␣Launching of Survival Craft This section would require ATA vessels to comply with 46 CFR subpart B, which requires inflatable liferafts (SOLAS A Packs) for 100% complement coverage. To facilitate the manual launching of survival craft which have a mass of more than 110 pounds, (50 kg), each vessel must have a gate or another opening in its bulwarks, deck rails, or lifelines. Section 28.810␣Deck Rails, Lifelines, Storm Rails and Hand Grabs This section would adopt the same requirements of subpart D, which are essentially identical to those found in subchapter I. Section 28.815␣Bilge Pumps, Bilge Piping, and Dewatering Systems This section would require two power bilge pumps, each with a separate source of power (e.g. one electric pump and one mechanically driven or power take-off (PTO) pump) connected to a fixed system. However, a portable powered pump could substitute for one of the required pumps as long as it meets specific criteria as promulgated in these regulations. In contrast, subpart D requires one powered bilge pump connected to a fixed system while subchapter I requires three powered pumps for cargo vessels. Section 28.820␣Fire Pumps, Fire Mains, Fire Hydrants, and Fire Hoses
