FR940803-0-00108 FR940803-0-00040 EPA has not established a timeline for the development of emission standards or test procedures for hydrogen, electric, and solar powered vehicles. EPA will continue to assess the need for establishing emission standards and test procedures for these vehicles. The Department of Energy, under the Chrysler Corporation Loan Guarantee Act of 1979, is responsible for developing petroleum equivalency factors for electric vehicles for the purpose of including such vehicles in the CAFE program. The CAFE calculation and test procedures for electric vehicles are contained in 10 CFR 474.4. The petroleum equivalency factors for electric vehicles were not extended past 1987. However, due to continued technology development and a strong industry interest in the CAFE treatment of electric vehicles, DOE is currently developing a notice of proposed rule to establish new petroleum equivalency factors. EPA is currently developing a reformulated gasoline program. Reformulated gasoline will be used in current gasoline-fueled vehicles. The AMFA does not provide CAFE credits for reformulated gasoline-fueled vehicles. B. Fuel Specifications Summary of the Proposal The Agency proposed that alcohol fuel and natural gas fuel used for fuel economy testing and service accumulation shall be representative of commercially available fuel for motor vehicles. Summary of Comments Several automobile manufacturers recommended that definite fuel specifications for methanol and natural gas fuels used for emissions and fuel economy testing be adopted. The commenters stated that the proposed procedure allows for too much potential inconsistency between the manufacturers and EPA in fuels used for testing. Without fuel specifications, fuel economy and emission results could vary in response to differences in fuel properties. The manufacturers suggested that specifications for methanol blends be based on chemical grade methanol (ASTM D 1152) and certification grade gasoline (40 CFR 86.113&hyph;82a). EPA Response to Comments The Agency agrees that setting fuel specifications for alternative fuels for emission and fuel economy testing would reduce the uncertainty associated with certification using unspecified commercially representative fuels. However, EPA believes that, to the extent variability in fuel specifications can affect emissions, fuel specifications for methanol, natural gas, and other alternative fuels used for emissions testing (and, therefore, fuel economy testing since they are calculated from the same test) should be representative of fuels encountered in-use. Certified automobiles are expected to comply with emission standards under normal in-use conditions, which includes the use of fuels that are representative of those commercially available. The Administrator reserves the right to test vehicles using fuels representative of those that in-use vehicles will encounter. Ideally, fuel specifications should be developed that are representative of in-use fuels. However, since the markets for these fuels for use in motor vehicles are not yet established, and the fuels that become commercially available could vary significantly in composition, a single set of specifications may not be representative of the fuels that could be used. Also, it is difficult to identify which compositions are representative in the absence of established markets. On April 11, 1989, EPA published a final rulemaking in the Federal Register (54 FR 14426) which established emission standards and test procedures for methanol-fueled automobiles. In that rulemaking, methanol test fuels were required to be representative of in-use fuels. However, the methanol fuel market is not yet at a level of development to allow for the determination of a representative fuel. EPA has developed a package of proposed technical amendments (58 FR 11816, March 1, 1993) to the above-mentioned final rule to improve the quality of emissions data and increase the flexibility for manufacturers to meet the requirements. One of the proposals in this package is to allow a combination of chemical grade methanol and certification gasoline for test fuels in proportions that reflect the composition of the intended in-use fuel (currently this would be 85% methanol and 15% gasoline) until specifications for a fuel representative of in-use fuel can be determined. EPA plans to apply these provisions for both emissions and fuel economy testing purposes. For natural gas, the issue of setting fuel specifications is being addressed in a separate rulemaking (``Standards for Emissions From Natural Gas-Fueled, and Liquified Petroleum Gas-Fueled Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Engines *␣*␣*'' NPRM published on November 5, 1992, 57 FR 52912). In the interim, EPA will allow a manufacturer to petition the Administrator to use a specific composition of natural gas, provided that the manufacturer can demonstrate that this fuel is similar in composition to currently available in-use fuel. If standard grade fuels emerge when methanol, natural gas, ethanol, and other alternative fuels become commercially available, EPA will consider such fuels for setting test fuel specifications. C. Energy Efficiency of Dual-Fueled Automobiles Summary of the Proposal EPA proposed a method for determining whether a vehicle meets the AMFA energy efficiency requirements to be eligible for CAFE credit. The method proposed by EPA required each fuel economy data vehicle to be tested under both the city and highway test cycles using the alternative fuel, the petroleum fuel, and, for alcohol dual-fueled vehicles, a 50 percent by volume alcohol and 50 percent petroleum (gasoline or diesel) fuel mixture. The calculation of energy efficiency that was proposed would require manufacturers to determine, and the Administrator to approve, the net heating values and densities of the alternative fuel, petroleum fuel, and 50/50 mixture. Summary of the Comments
