FR941007-2-00034 FR941007-2-00014 Reconsideration of mounding at the East Mound location will delay potential direct and indirect impacts to adjacent vernal pools within the Miramar Mounds Natural Landmark until additional environmental documentation has been prepared. Such information could be developed within the 3+ years of Phase I WMLOD activity. It is anticipated that supplemental Section 7 consultation with the USFWS will be required to implement WMLOD activity proposed to occur as Phase II/III projects. Biological Opinion It is the opinion of the USFWS that the Proposed GDP and FIRP/NSPF/WMLOD Projects are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of the coastal California gnatcatcher, least Bell's vireo, San Diego fairy shrimp, San Diego button-celery, or San Diego mesa mint. Mandatory terms and conditions are included in the USFWS Biological Opinion and will be implemented as part of the Project. The conclusions of the Biological Opinion are made for the following reasons: (1) Direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts of this proposed action have been minimized and will be compensated; and (2) Direct impacts to suitable habitat for these species represents a small percentage of the suitable habitat within San Diego County. Key measures to mitigate impacts to biological resources, as embodied within the EIS and in the Terms and Conditions of the USFWS Biological Opinion, include, but are not limited to: Resource avoidance measures such as clearly delineating proposed limits of grading, controlling dust generation and potential erosion/sedimentation, educating construction personnel about local biological resources and other measures to protect biological resources from direct and indirect impacts of project development nearby; revegetation requirements for areas of temporary disturbance such as the FIRP/NSPF pipeline corridor and the overburden disposal mounds; offsite resources acquisition to compensate for onsite permanent loss of biological resources. This latter requirement particularly relates to vernal pool impacts and provides for offsite vernal pool acquisition and/or restoration as mitigation for onsite impacts. Mitigation Monitoring A comprehensive mitigation monitoring program has been developed in conjunction with the EIS analysis of the GDP and of the FIRP/NSPF and WMLOD projects and will be implemented through all phases of the project. A copy of the mitigation monitoring program may be obtained at the address set forth below. Clean Air Act Conformity Determination In compliance with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations promulgated through 40 CFR Part 93, the Department of the Navy included within the EIS an analysis of the project's conformity with the Clean Air Act. The analysis found that the project emissions, both in terms of emissions for each element of the GDP and for the GDP as a whole (cumulative emissions), would be below the de minimis levels established by the rule. It should be noted that while the ozone attainment status for the San Diego Air Basin is currently being revised from ``Severe'' to ``Serious'', the de minimis finding is based on the more restrictive standard (e.g., project total NOX emissions are less than the 25 tons per year (TPY) standard for ``Severe'' nonattainment areas; which is well below the 50 TPY standard for ``Serious'' nonattainment areas). Questions regarding the action may be directed to: Commanding Officer, NAS Miramar, 45429 Miramar Way, San Diego, CA 92145&hyph;5005 (Attn: Mr. Roger Hillhouse, Staff Civil Engineer, Code 187.RH), telephone (619) 537&hyph;1102. Dated: September 30, 1994. Elsie L. Munsell, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Environment and Safety). Dated: October 4, 1994. Saundra K. Melancon, Alternate Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24879 Filed 10&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3810&hyph;AE&hyph;M
