FR940314-1-00011 FR940314-1-00004 1. Select service bulletins, applicable to each airplane model in the transport fleet, to be recommended for mandatory modification of aging airplanes; 2. Develop corrosion-directed inspections and prevention programs; 3. Review the adequacy of each operator's structural maintenance program; 4. Review and update the Supplemental Inspection Documents (SID); and 5. Assess repair quality. The working group assigned to review the Fokker Model F&hyph;27 series airplanes has completed its work on Item (2) and has developed a baseline program for controlling corrosion problems that may jeopardize the continued airworthiness of the Model F&hyph;27 fleet. The program is contained in Fokker Document SE&hyph;291, ``F&hyph;27 Corrosion Control Program,'' with revisions through October 1, 1993. (Hereafter, this publication is referred to as ``the Document.'') The Rijksluchtvaartdienst (RLD), which is the airworthiness authority for the Netherlands, classified this Document as mandatory and issued Netherlands Airworthiness Directive (BLA) 91&hyph;113, Issue 2, dated June 26, 1992, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in The Netherlands. Section 2.1 of the Document defines three levels of corrosion: Level l corrosion is that which does not exceed certain limits; Level 2 corrosion is that which exceeds those limits; and Level 3 corrosion is significant corrosion which is potentially an urgent airworthiness concern. Sections 2.2 and 2.3 of the Document provide general guidelines to develop a corrosion prevention and control program. These guidelines address such things as a baseline program, implementation ages, access for inspection, repetitive inspection intervals, operating environment, newly-acquired airplanes, general cleanliness of the airplane, and the fact that sampling is unreliable in effectively controlling corrosion. Section 2.4 of the Document sets forth the general implementation schedule for the corrosion inspection/control program. As described in that section, each ``aircraft zone'' is assigned an ``Initial Inspection Time'' and a ``Repeat Inspection Time.'' The program is applicable to each aircraft zone on all Model F&hyph;27 series airplanes whose age has reached or exceeded the Initial Inspection Time for that zone. For airplanes that have not reached or exceeded the Initial Inspection Time of the specific aircraft zone, a particular inspection task has to be performed before the airplane has reached the Initial Inspection Time for the specific aircraft zone, or before the Repeat Inspection Time of the task is exceeded (a maximum of 6 years), whichever occurs later. For airplanes that have already reached or exceeded the Initial Inspection Time of the specific aircraft zone, a particular inspection has to be performed before the Repeat Inspection Time of the task is exceeded or within 6 years, whichever occurs first. Section 2.4 of the Document also identifies the specific aircraft zones that are subject to the program, and describes the ``basic task'' to be accomplished in each defined aircraft zone as part of the baseline program, along with the initial inspection time and repeat inspection time for each area, and other information necessary to carry out the program for each area. The Document defines a ``basic task'' as including not only the pertinent visual inspections of all primary and secondary structures, but any necessary repairs, application of sealants or corrosion inhibitors, and other follow-on procedures, as well. A basic task may also include detailed visual and non-destructive inspections (NDI); where NDI's are employed, adequate standards and procedures must be developed and properly recorded for the area inspected. Section 2.5 establishes the procedures for reporting the results of the inspections conducted under the corrosion prevention and control program. Section 2.6 provides for periodic review and update of the data contained in the Document. This airplane model is manufactured in the Netherlands and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of Section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, the RLD has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of the RLD, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since corrosion is likely to exist or develop on airplanes of this type design, an AD is proposed which would require adoption of a corrosion prevention and control program that is equivalent to or better than the program specified in the Document previously described. Operators would be permitted to accomplish this either by performing the specific basic tasks described in the Document (the ``task-by-task method''), or by revising their FAA-approved maintenance program to include such a program. Paragraph (a) of the proposal sets forth the proposed compliance times for the initial basic task of each affected aircraft zone. These compliance times are measured from a date one year after the effective date of the final rule. (The proposed compliance times are consistent with those of other similar AD's that the FAA has issued on this subject.) Generally, operators would be required to complete the initial basic task before reaching the ``Initial Inspection Time'' plus one ``Repeat Inspection Time'' interval for the aircraft zone, as detailed in the Document. The basic task would be required to be repeated at a time interval not to exceed the ``Repeat Inspection Time'' interval for that area, as detailed in the Document. Paragraph (a) includes paragraph (a)(1)(iii), which states that, for each area that exceeds the initial inspection time for that area, operators must accomplish the initial basic task at a minimum rate of one such area every two years, beginning one year after the effective date of the final rule. The FAA recognizes that this may cause a hardship on some small operators; in those circumstances, the FAA anticipates evaluating requests for adjustment to the implementation rate on a case-by-case basis under the provisions of paragraph (h) of the proposed rule. (A note to this effect is included in the proposal.) Operators should note that the proposal does not contain a paragraph specifically to address repair actions. The FAA considers that any repairs would be carried out necessarily as a part of each basic task, as it is defined in the Document. As discussed previously, a ``basic task'' is defined in the Document as including not only the pertinent inspection, but any necessary repairs, application of corrosion inhibitors, and other follow- on procedures, as well. Paragraph (a) contains a note to reference the portion of the Document that defines a basic task, and to emphasize the importance of these corrective actions. Paragraph (b) of the proposal provides for an optional method of complying with the rule. In lieu of performing the task-by-task requirements proposed in paragraph (a), operators may revise their FAA-approved maintenance/inspection programs to include the corrosion prevention and control program defined in the Document or an equivalent program approved by the FAA. Paragraph (b) also would require that, subsequent to the accomplishment of the initial basic task, any extensions of Repeat Inspection Time intervals specified in the Document must be approved by the FAA. Any operator electing to comply with proposed paragraph (b) would be permitted to use an alternative recordkeeping method to that otherwise required by Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) section 91.417 or section 121.380, provided it is approved by the FAA and is included in a revision to the FAA-approved maintenance/inspection program. In response to questions raised previously concerning recordkeeping and record retention requirements as they relate to the programmatic approach proposed in this AD action and other similar proposals that have been issued applicable to other airplane models, the FAA offers the following:
