FR940325-0-00096 FR940325-0-00016 The Department does not believe that absence of a requirement that trustee officials implement the same exact alternative selected in the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan will eliminate trustee officials' incentive to conduct accurate assessments. The Restoration Plan is subject to public review and comment, and trustee officials who propose restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternatives that differ from those used as a basis for damages will have to explain the reasons for the difference. The Department believes that making the draft Restoration Plan available for public review and comment should provide interested parties with adequate notice of proposed changes from the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan. Comment: A few commenters requested guidance on determining when restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources is complete. Some commenters suggested that trustee officials provide PRPs with a certification when restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources is essentially completed so that PRPs will not remain liable indefinitely. Response: Section 11.73(a) provides that the recovery period is the time until baseline services have been reestablished. The Department does not believe it is necessary to require trustee officials to provide PRPs with a certification when restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources is essentially completed. The extent of a PRP's continuing liability after damages have been collected depends on the terms of the judgment or settlement agreement. Additional clarification is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. Comment: Some commenters stated that any portion of collected damages that is not spent to restore, rehabilitate, replace, and/or acquire the equivalent of the injured resources or to supply lost uses should be returned to the PRPs. These commenters disagreed with the Department's statement in the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice that such a requirement was unnecessary because there should never be excess funds after completion of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. These commenters noted that because damages are based on estimated costs of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources and estimated compensable values, there will be excess funds whenever trustee officials overestimate costs or compensable values. Response: The Department believes that revision of the regulations to address the disposition of any excess damage recoveries is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. Comment: One commenter asked the Department to recognize the right of co-trustees to spend collected damages on implementation of different Restoration Plans. Response: Nothing in the rule prohibits co-trustees from implementing different Restoration Plans. Additional clarification of this issue is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. P. Miscellaneous Comments 1. Funding of Tribal Assessments
