FR941102-0-00067 FR941102-0-00020 2. Section 97.5 is revised to read as follows: ยง97.5 Station license required. (a) The person having physical control of the station apparatus must have been granted a station license of the type listed in paragraph (b) of this section, or hold an unexpired document of the type listed in paragraph (c) of this section, before the station may transmit on any amateur service frequency from any place that is: (1) Within 50 km of the Earth's surface and at a place where the amateur service is regulated by the FCC; (2) Within 50 km of the Earth's surface and aboard any vessel or craft that is documented or registered in the United States; or (3) More than 50 km above the Earth's surface aboard any craft that is documented or registered in the United States. (b) The types of station licenses are: (1) An operator/primary station license. One, but only one, operator/primary station license is granted to each person who is qualified to be an amateur operator. The primary station license is granted together with the amateur operator license. Except for a representative of a foreign government, any person who qualifies by examination is eligible to apply for an operator/primary station license. The operator/primary station license document is printed on FCC Form 660. (2) A club station license. A club station license is granted only to the person who is the license trustee designated by an officer of the club. The trustee must be a person who has been granted an Amateur Extra, Advanced, General, Technician Plus, or Technician operator license. The club must be composed of at least two persons and must have a name, a document of organization, management, and a primary purpose devoted to amateur service activities consistent with this Part. The club station license document is printed on FCC Form 660. (3) A military recreation station license. A military recreation station license is granted only to the person who is the license custodian designated by the official in charge of the United States military recreational premises where the station is situated. The person must not be a representative of a foreign government. The person need not have been granted an amateur operator license. The military recreation station license document is printed on FCC Form 660. (4) A RACES station license. A RACES station license is granted only to the person who is the license custodian designated by the official responsible for the governmental agency served by that civil defense organization. The custodian must be the civil defense official responsible for coordination of all civil defense activities in the area concerned. The custodian must not be a representative of a foreign government. The custodian need not have been granted an amateur operator license. The RACES station license document is printed on FCC Form 660. (c) The types of documents are: (1) A reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee (FCC Form 610&hyph;AL) issued to the person by the FCC.
