FR940407-1-00008 FR940407-1-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;06&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;100 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;100 series airplanes. This proposal would require modification of the potentiometer lever stops on the nose wheel steering. This proposal is prompted by a report that the potentiometer stops installed currently on these airplanes are too short to limit excessive uncontrolled potentiometer movement in the event of a mechanical link failure. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent the airplane from departing the runway during takeoff or landing in the event of the failure of the mechanical link between the rudder pedals and the potentiometer. DATES: Comments must be received by June 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;06&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Bombardier Inc., Bombardier Regional Aircraft Division, Garratt Boulevard, Downsview, Ontario M3K 1Y5, Canada. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, Valley Stream, New York. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bradford Chin, Electronics Engineer, Systems and Equipment Branch, ANE&hyph;173, FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, room 202, Valley Stream, New York 11581; telephone (516) 791&hyph;6427; fax (516) 791&hyph;9024. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;06&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;06&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion Transport Canada Aviation, which is the airworthiness authority for Canada, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;100 series airplanes. Transport Canada Aviation advises that when a Model DHC&hyph;8 series airplane is in the high speed taxi mode during takeoff or landing, nose gear steering is limited to 7 degrees left or right of center and is controlled through rudder pedal movement. Rotary movement of the rudder input quadrant is transmitted to a dual potentiometer via a mechanical link and fork lever. The potentiometer converts this movement into electrical signals, which are sent to an electronic control unit (ECU) located in the nose of the airplane. Subsequently, the ECU signals the electro-hydraulic actuator on the nose gear, thereby rotating the nose gear in the required direction. If the mechanical link connecting the potentiometer to the rudder input quadrant fails, excessive uncontrolled potentiometer lever movement is restricted by small metal stops located outside the normal angular travel of the fork lever. These ``potentiometer stops'' limit the size of the signal sent to the ECU only in the event of a mechanical link failure. On certain Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;100 series airplanes, the currently installed potentiometer stops are too short to restrict excessive fork lever movement in the event of a mechanical link failure. In this case, a signal that is too large would be sent to the ECU, which could cause the nose gear to exceed its 7-degree limitation. This condition, if not corrected, could result in the airplane departing the runway during takeoff or landing.
