FR940926-0-00042 FR940926-0-00010 EDO, NGVC, Thomas, NYCFD, and Volvo GM addressed the proposed labeling requirements. EDO and NYCFD stated that the label should include the maximum fill pressure at a location close to the fill receptacle. NGVC recommended that a blank area for the container installation date be included in the label to be filled in by the installer. Volvo GM stated that only containers that are manufactured after the standard's effective date, and therefore actually subject to the standard, should be entitled to display the DOT symbol as certification of compliance with the standard. Thomas stated, without elaboration, that the labeling requirements of NGV2 should be adopted. NHTSA's proposal did not include certain additional information included in NGV2, including the type of container, inspector symbols, trademarks, manufacturer's part number, and serial numbers. After reviewing the comments, NHTSA has decided to adopt the proposed labeling requirements with a slight modification from the proposed format. In item (a), the agency has modified the proposal which states ``The tank manufacturer's name and address'' to state the following: include the statement that ``If there is a question about the proper use, installation, or maintenance of this container, contact [ manufacturer's name, address, and telephone number ].'' The agency has decided not to require the other additional items of information in NGV2 since the agency did not propose the inclusion of such information in the NPRM. Notwithstanding the agency's decision not to require this additional information, a manufacturer may list such information on the label, provided the additional information does not obscure or confuse the required information. In particular, NHTSA encourages manufacturers to include the container type, e.g., Type 1, 2, 3 or 4, since the agency has decided to adopt NGV2's design and material specifications in this final rule. Specifying the type of container should facilitate oversight of compliance tests since each type of container is required to undergo hydrostatic burst tests, but with different safety factors. In the upcoming SNPRM, NHTSA anticipates proposing additional requirements about the CNG fuel container's label, including the container type. In addition, the agency anticipates proposing that the label include an additional statement addressing the container's inspection and maintenance. Specifically, the label would state that ``This container should be visually inspected after an accident or fire or at least every 12 months for damage and deterioration in accordance with the applicable Compressed Gas Association guidelines.'' The agency believes that such a statement would alert owners to the desirability for reinspection over time or in the event of an accident. NHTSA will also propose requirements related to the label's location, in response to EDO's and NYCFD's comment that the maximum service pressure should be labeled in an area close to the fill receptacle. G. Leadtime In the NPRM, NHTSA proposed to make the equipment requirements effective on September 1, 1994. The agency believed that this would provide a reasonable time period for manufacturers to make minor modifications in container design. This proposal was based on the agency's belief that the proposed requirements were similar to RSPA standards currently in effect. The agency requested comment on the feasibility of this effective date. NHTSA received eleven comments about the proposed effective date applicable to the container requirements. The commenters were TMC, the U.S. Department of Energy, TBB, Oklahoma Gas, NGVC, EDO, Volvo/GM, AAMA, ARC, Navistar, and NGV Systems. EDO and Navistar requested that the final rule be issued as early as possible. DOE and Oklahoma Gas recommended an effective date of September 1, 1995. NGVC recommended an effective date of September 1, 1996, unless NGV2 were adopted which would permit an immediate supply of containers. NGV Systems stated that an earlier effective date would be difficult to meet since the rule, as proposed, would require new tooling, process development, and perhaps equipment modification. ARC stated that the rule, as proposed, would require major modifications, since its containers have been designed to comply with NGV2. AAMA and Volvo/GM stated that the effective dates for the vehicle requirements and the equipment requirements should not be concurrent. NHTSA notes that these comments were based on the requirements, as proposed in the NPRM. Since the final rule has been made essentially consistent with NGV2 (with the exception of carbon fiber containers), the agency anticipates that container manufacturers can for the most part already certify that containers, other than carbon fiber ones, comply with the new standard. This belief is based on comments on the NPRM and meetings with NGVC, the CGA, and CNG container manufacturers. With regard to manufacturers of carbon fiber containers, EDO indicated that it already complies with the standard and Brunswick indicated that it would need less than one month lead time for a safety factor greater than 2.25. Brunswick further stated that it would need an unspecified time period to modify the mounting brackets and other hardware. The CNG industry groups have informed the agency that they want a CNG fuel container standard to be effective as quickly as possible. In addition, they favor having an opportunity to ``voluntarily certify compliance'' to the standard once the final rule is published. The CNG industry groups believe that it is necessary for Federal standards to be in place as soon as possible, given the expected increased demand for CNG containers in light of Federal and State fleet programs for clean fuel vehicles. They also favor quick adoption of a Federal standard to preempt state regulations that otherwise may be promulgated and to ensure that substandard CNG containers are not marketed. After reviewing the comments, NHTSA has decided to establish an effective date six months after the final rule is issued. As explained above, most CNG containers can be certified to comply with the new Federal motor vehicle safety standard since they already comply with NGV2 or can be modified so that they comply within six months. Nevertheless, the agency believes that it is necessary to provide a leadtime of six months to allow manufacturers time to make whatever design changes are necessary and to conduct testing so that they can certify that their containers comply with the new standard. In the meantime, prior to the standard's effective date, the industry is free to advertise containers as meeting the CNG equipment standard that will take effect in six months. 8 Manufacturers have taken the approach of seeking early compliance with respect to other agency requirements such as those relating to dynamic side impact protection and air bags. Therefore, the agency encourages manufacturers to seek, to the extent feasible, to manufacture their CNG containers to meet these new requirements before the date the standard takes effect. 8 However, the agency emphasizes that a manufacturer may not certify a container as meeting the equipment standard until the standard goes into effect. Under the Vehicle Safety Act, a certification is a statement that a vehicle or item of equipment meets all applicable Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards that are then in effect. Therefore, until a standard is effective, manufacturers may not certify compliance with it. With regard to the concern expressed by AAMA and Volvo GM that the effective date of the container regulation should precede that of the vehicle regulation, AAMA based its comments on the belief that it will need to know the performance of the containers it will use in the fuel systems of its vehicles. NHTSA notes that CNG containers now typically meet NGV2 and thus should comply with NHTSA's standards. Therefore, AAMA members already have access to and detailed knowledge about containers that should meet the new requirements.
