FR940318-2-00079 FR940318-2-00064 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration for Children and Families [Program Announcement No. OCS 94&hyph;07] Family Violence Prevention and Services Program AGENCY: Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Family (ACF), HHS. ACTION: Notice of the availability of funding for grants for family violence intervention and prevention activities to State domestic violence coalitions. SUMMARY: This announcement governs the proposed award of Family Violence Prevention and Services Act grants to private non-profit State domestic violence coalitions to conduct activities to promote domestic violence intervention and prevention, and to increase public awareness of domestic violence issues. This announcement sets forth the application process and requirements for grants to be awarded for fiscal year (FY) 1994. CLOSING DATES FOR APPLICATIONS: Applications meeting the criteria specified in this announcement must be received no later than May 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Address the applications to: Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Attn: William D. Riley, Fourth floor - East Wing, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., Washington, DC 20447. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William D. Riley (202) 401&hyph;5529. A. Legislative Authority Title III of the Child Abuse Amendments of 1984 (Pub. L. 98&hyph;457, 42 U.S.C. 10401 et seq.) is entitled the ``Family Violence Prevention and Services Act'' (the Act). It was first implemented in FY 1986 and was reauthorized for Fiscal Years 1993 through 1995 and amended on May 28, 1992 by Public Law 102&hyph;295. B. Background Section 311 of the Act authorizes the Secretary to award grants to Statewide private non-profit State domestic violence coalitions to conduct activities to promote domestic violence intervention and prevention and to increase public awareness of domestic violence issues. During FY 1993 the Department made grant awards to 49 State domestic violence coalitions (Delaware did not apply), the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. During FY 1994, grant awards will again be available to one statewide domestic violence coalition in each State, the U.S. Territories, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. C. Eligibility To be eligible for grants under this program announcement an organization shall be a statewide private non-profit domestic violence coalition with the following characteristics: (1) The membership of the coalition includes representatives from a majority of the programs for victims of domestic violence operating within the State (a State domestic violence coalition may include representatives of Indian Tribes and Tribal Organizations as defined in the Indian Self Determination and Education Assistance Act); (2) The Board of Directors' membership is representative of a majority of the programs for victims of domestic violence in the State; and (3) The purpose of the coalition is to provide services, community education, planning and monitoring, and technical assistance to programs to establish and maintain shelter and related assistance for victims of domestic violence and their children (Sec 311(b)). D. Funds Available Approximately $2,500,000 is available for grants to State domestic violence coalitions. Grants of $47,170 each will be available for the State domestic violence coalitions of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia. The Coalitions of the U.S. Territories (Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands, Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Palau)) are eligible for grant awards of approximately $9,434 each. E. Grant Award Period The grant award period for the program will be one year from the date of the grant award. Therefore, all FY 1994 funds must be obligated by the grantee within one year of the date of the grant award and liquidated not later than two years from the date of the grant award.
