FR940202-2-00182 FR940202-2-00074 (f) statement certifying that the Individual Program Plan for each resident will include participation in an out-of-the-home activity program for at least six hours each work day. IV. Additional Information A. Sites The National Affordable Housing Act requires Sponsors submitting applications for section 811 fund reservations to provide either (a) evidence of site control, or (b) reasonable assurances that it will have control of a site within 6 months of notification of fund reservation. Accordingly, if a Sponsor has control of a site at the time it submits its application, it must include evidence of such as described in ยง890.265. If it does not have site control, it must provide the information required in ยง890.265 as a reasonable assurance that site control will be obtained within 6 months of fund reservation notification. Sponsors may select a site different from the one(s) submitted in their original applications if the original site is not approvable. Selection of a different site will require HUD performance of an environmental review on the new site, which could result in rejection of that site. However, if a Sponsor does not have site control for any reason 12 months after notification of fund reservation, the assistance will be recaptured and reallocated. Sponsors submitting satisfactory evidence of an approvable site ( i.e. , site control) will compete against each other in Category A. Sponsors submitting proper identification of a site will compete against each other in Category B. HUD first shall select applications in the descending order of funding priority from Category A that most closely approximates the capital advance authority provided to the allocation area. If capital advance authority remains after selecting all approvable applications from Category A, HUD shall then select applications in the descending order of funding priority from Category B that most closely approximates the capital advance authority remaining in the allocation area. Applications containing evidence of site control where either the evidence or the site is not approvable will not be rejected provided the application indicates the Sponsor's willingness to select another site and an assurance that site control will be obtained within six months of fund reservation notification. Such applications will compete for selection in Category B. However, only those applications where the evidence of site control was not approvable will be eligible to receive any of the possible 17 points under selection criteria (b) (2) and (3) (see I.D.3.(b) (2) and (3) above). Applications where the site was rejected will receive 0 points under selection criteria (b) (2) and (3). In the case of a scattered site application submitted with evidence of site control for all of the sites, the evidence must be satisfactory for each site and all the sites must be approvable for the application to compete in Category A. If such an application does not fulfill this requirement, it will be placed in Category B and will be eligible to receive a prorated share of the 17 points possible under selection criteria (b) (2) and (3) based on the number of sites that are approvable. The same applies to a scattered site application in which the Sponsor has control of some of the sites and has identified others. It would also be considered in Category B and would be eligible for a prorated share of the 17 points as stated above.
