FR940516-1-00076 FR940516-1-00005 E. Selection of the Format of the Proposed Standards The formats of the proposed standards were selected in order to give facilities the most flexibility possible in achieving the level of control required by the selected regulatory alternative. Because the MACT floor for the process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater portion of the source reflects control by various methods, the format needs to allow sufficient flexibility for facilities to meet the level of the standard using the various control methods already in place to the extent possible. Of the formats considered (mass emission limits, percent concentration, percent reduction, equipment standards, work practice standards), the mass emission limit format was chosen because various combinations of controls can be employed among several emission points to achieve the same mass emission rate. Also, mass emission limits encourage facilities to reduce emissions through process changes, work practice changes, and other methods to avoid costly add-on controls. In this way, mass emission limits serve to encourage pollution prevention. An equipment standard format is not needed for this source because an emission limit can be established. Formats such as specifying a concentration or a percent reduction, offer no advantages over the emission limit format, and would be more cumbersome from an enforcement standpoint due to the different characteristics of the emission points that make up the source of process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater. For process vent, storage tank, and wastewater emission points within new sources, however, equipment standards have been proposed. An emission limit format cannot be used for these emission points within new sources because it would identify specific facilities' production levels, which are claimed as confidential business information. However, facilities would have the opportunity to employ other technologies to meet the standard by demonstrating equivalence. The EPA solicits comments on the equipment standard format of the standards for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater at new facilities. In particular, the EPA solicits comments on whether performance standards for vents, tanks, and wastewater at new facilities can be used without compromising confidential business information and whether operators can comply with performance standards for vents, tanks, and wastewater at new facilities without compromising confidential business information. The LDAR program of 40 CFR part 63, subpart H is a combination of an equipment standard/work practice format. Under section 112 of the Act, national emission standards must, whenever possible, take the format of a numerical emission standard. Typically, an emission standard is written in terms of an allowable emission rate, performance level, or allowable concentration. These types of standards require the direct measurement of emissions to determine compliance. For some emission points, emission standards cannot be prescribed because it is not feasible to measure emissions. Section 112(h)(2) recognizes this situation by defining two conditions under which it is not feasible to establish an emission standard. These conditions are: (1) If the pollutants cannot be emitted through a conveyance designed and constructed to emit or capture the pollutant; or (2) if the application of measurement methodology is not practicable due to technological and economic limitations. If an emission standard cannot be established, the EPA may instead establish a design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard or combination thereof. For equipment leak emission points, such as pumps and valves, EPA has previously determined that it is not feasible to prescribe or enforce emission standards. Except for those items of equipment for which standards can be set at a specific concentration, the only method of measuring emissions is total enclosure of individual items of equipment, collection of emissions for a specified time period, and measurement of the emissions. This procedure, known as bagging, is a time-consuming and prohibitively expensive technique considering the great number of individual items of equipment in a typical process unit. Moreover, this procedure would not be useful for routine monitoring and identification of leaking equipment for repair. Therefore, LDAR program of 40 CFR, subpart H, an equipment/work practice standard, was chosen for the equipment leaks emission point. F. Selection of Compliance and Performance Testing Provisions and Monitoring Requirements The proposed regulation contains compliance provisions that require owners or operators to conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the proposed standards. As a means of demonstrating compliance with the standards following the initial performance test, the owner or operator must also establish source-specific parameters based on the characteristics of the emission stream, process, or type of control device used. The Administrator determined that these provisions were necessary to meet the monitoring requirements of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A).
