FR940207-1-00011 FR940207-1-00002 (h) Consumer Comment 2(h)&hyph;3 clarifies coverage issues for retirement plans. For example, the proposed comment states that SEP accounts and IRAs are considered consumer accounts for purposes of the regulation. The Board believes that although institutions are named as trustees, SEP accounts and IRAs are equivalent to other accounts opened for consumer purposes. On the other hand, the proposed comment would exclude from coverage accounts held in a Keogh plan, which is established by a self-employed individual. The Board believes Keogh accounts are similar to accounts held by a sole proprietor, which Congress intended not to cover. Comment 2(h)&hyph;4 provides factors to consider in determining whether an account is held by an unincorporated nonbusiness association of natural persons. Associations with paid staff are likely to be more sophisticated in their investment decisions and are not as likely to need disclosures. The Board solicits comment on whether the use of factors is appropriate for providing guidance in this area. In addition, the Board solicits comment on the proposed factors and on what additional factors might indicate an account is held by or offered to an unincorporated association of natural persons. (p) Passbook Savings Account Comment 2(p)&hyph;1 clarifies that institutions may consider accounts as ``passbook savings,'' even if direct deposits such as social security payments are made to the account without the use of the passbook. The proposed comment is consistent with the requirements of Regulation E (12 CFR 205.9). Accounts that permit other electronic fund transfers_whether or not called ``passbook''_and thus trigger Regulation E's requirement to send statements at least quarterly are not passbook savings accounts, and institutions must comply with the periodic statement disclosures in ยง230.6 of this part. (t) Tiered-rate Account Comment 2(t)&hyph;1 clarifies that time accounts that pay different rates based solely on the amount of the initial deposit are not considered tiered-rate accounts. In this case, advertisements and account disclosures would not reflect tiered-rate disclosures for the account. Section 230.3_General Disclosure Requirements (b) General Comment 3(b)&hyph;1 provides guidance on the specificity required for the disclosures of the compounding and crediting frequencies. The Board believes slight variations in cycles are consistent with the notion of ``monthly'' cycles, which are often not based on an actual calendar month. (c) Relation to Regulation E Comment 3(c)&hyph;1 provides examples of disclosures under Regulation E that also comply with this regulation. The comment clarifies that an institution may rely on Regulation E's disclosure rules regarding fees imposed at ATMs and limitations on the frequency and amount of electronic fund transfers, including security-related exceptions. But any fees assessed for_or any limitations placed on the number or amount of_``intra-institutional transfers'' from other accounts at the institution must be disclosed under this regulation, even though those transactions are exempt from Regulation E. (See ยง230.4(b) of this part.) Section 230.4_Account Disclosures (a) Delivery of Account Disclosures (a)(1) Account Opening The regulation requires institutions to provide account disclosures before an account is opened. Comment 4(a)(1)&hyph;1 provides examples of events that do and do not trigger the delivery of new account disclosures. Comment 4(a)(1)&hyph;1 provides guidance to institutions that deem an account to be closed, then receive a deposit from the consumer. The circumstances under which an institution may deem an account closed is governed by state or other law. However, the Board believes that if an institution accepts a deposit from a consumer on an account the institution has deemed to be ``closed'' (such as with a balance of $0) opening account disclosures are required. The proposed comment also provides that an account acquired in a merger or acquisition is not a new account. Comment is solicited on whether the rules for acquisitions involving the Resolution Trust Corporation and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation should be distinguished from the rules for other acquisitions, since they may involve the acquisition of deposits, not accounts. (a)(2) Requests Paragraph (a)(2)(i) Comment 4(a)(2)(i)&hyph;3 clarifies that ten business days (a period consistent with other timing rules for providing disclosure to consumers that open accounts by telephone, for example) is a reasonable time for responding to requests for disclosures. (b) Content of Account Disclosures Paragraph (b)(1) Rate Information Paragraph (b)(1)(i) Annual Percentage Yield and Interest Rate Comment 4(b)(1)(i)&hyph;1 provides that no rate or yield other than the interest rate and annual percentage yield may be stated in account disclosures, with the exception of a periodic rate corresponding to the interest rate (since it is easily understood by consumers).
