FR940314-2-00103 FR940314-2-00058 Classification: UI. Correspondence Symbol: TEURL. Date: February 16, 1994. Directive: Unemployment Insurance Program Letter No. 14&hyph;94 To: All State Employment Security Agencies From: Mary Ann Wyrsch, Director, Unemployment Insurance Service Subject: North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 103&hyph;182)_Provisions Affecting the Federal-State Unemployment Compensation (UC) Program relating to Self-Employment Assistance Rescisions: None. Expiration Date: February 28, 1995. 1. Purpose. To advise State agencies of the provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act which affect the Federal-State UC Program. 2. References. The Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA); Title III of the Social Security Act (SSA); the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 (EUCA), as amended; section 9152 of Public Law 100&hyph;203; section 507 of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (NAFTA), Public Law 103&hyph;182; Unemployment Insurance Program Letter (UIPL) 29&hyph;83, Change 1: General Administration Letter (GAL) 7&hyph;94; and UI Occasional Paper 92&hyph;2. 3. Background. On December 8, 1993, the President signed into law the NAFTA, Public Law 100&hyph;182, which affects the UC program in two ways. First, NAFTA created a transitional adjustment assistance program designed to address worker dislocation caused by NAFTA. This aspect of NAFTA was addressed in GAL 7&hyph;94. Second, NAFTA amended Federal law to give States the option of permitting, for a five-year period, certain individuals to receive a payment from the State's unemployment fund for the purpose of assisting such individuals in establishing a business and becoming self-employed. It is this second aspect of NAFTA which is the subject of this UIPL. 4. Discussion. a. In General. The ``withdrawal standard'' of Section 3304(a)(4), FUTA, and section 303(a)(5), SSA, limits withdrawals (with specified exceptions not relevant here) from a State's unemployment fund to payments of ``compensation'' and prior to the enactment of NAFTA would have prohibited withdrawals for the purpose of paying self-employment allowances. The term ``compensation'' is defined in section 3306(h), FUTA, as ``cash benefits payable to individuals with respect to their unemployment.'' Due to this requirement that the payment be with respect to ``unemployment,'' the withdrawal standard has previously, with one temporary exception, prohibited States from using unemployment funds to assist individuals in establishing themselves in self-employment. The previous temporary exception was created by section 9152 of Public Law 100&hyph;203, the Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987. Public Law 100&hyph;203 authorized three demonstration projects to test the feasibility of providing self-employment allowances, payable from a State's unemployment fund, to individuals. Only Massachusetts operated a demonstration project. The initial report on this project was issued in UI Occasional Paper 92&hyph;2, Self-Employment Programs for Unemployed Workers, and is available by writing Ingrid Evans, United States Department of Labor, Unemployment Insurance Service, 200 Constitution Ave. NW., room S&hyph;4231, Washington, DC 20210. A final report will be available in 1994. NAFTA amended Federal law to allow payments to self-employed individuals under specified conditions during the five years following NAFTA's date of enactment. The report of the House Ways and Means Committee describes the intent behind the new Self-employment provision: Providing States the authority to establish and operate self-employment programs would significantly benefit workers that may be dislocated because of the NAFTA. The traditional system of unemployment compensation is primarily designed to provide income support for workers who are temporarily laid off or expect to be unemployed for only a short time. However, as a result of the NAFTA, some workers may lose their jobs permanently and need additional tools besides the basic income maintenance provided by the unemployment insurance system in order to re-enter the work force. For some of those workers, access to a self-employment program would be the best path for them to re-enter the work force. This provision gives states the ability to add the tool of self-employment training and support to the options available to help speed the transition of dislocated workers back into the work force. [H. Rept. No. 361, Part 1, 103rd Cong., 1st Sess. 94 (1993).] Specifically, section 507, NAFTA, amended the withdrawal standard (and the definition of ``unemployment fund'' in section 3306(f), FUTA) to provide that amounts may be withdrawn from the unemployment fund of a State ``for the payment of allowances under a self-employment assistance program (as defined in section 3306(t)) *␣*␣*'' FUTA. This exception to the withdrawal standard applies solely to the self-employment assistance (SEA) allowances described in section 3306(t), FUTA, which was also added to FUTA by section 507(a), NAFTA. Under new section 3306(t)(1), SEA allowances are payable ``in lieu of regular'' UC for the purposes of assisting individuals in establishing a business and becoming self-employed. b. Eligibility for SEA Allowances. SEA allowances are to be payable ``in the same amount, at the same interval [e.g., payment with respect to a period will be made weekly if that is the State's usual practice for claims for regular UC or every other week if that is the usual practice], on the same terms, and subject to the same conditions as'' regular UC. (Section 3306(t)(2), FUTA.) This ``equal treatment'' provision applies to all monetary and nonmonetary (including reporting and certification) eligibility requirements except where specifically prohibited by other provisions of Federal law pertaining to SEA allowances. It also applies to notice and appeal rights.
