FR941205-1-00046 FR941205-1-00014 8. Effective Agreements Under the Proposed Rule The Commission's present intentions regarding the treatment of effective agreements under the regulations proposed in this proceeding are as follows. Upon publication of a final rule, the regulations would become effective immediately for new agreements, which thus would be required to comply with the revised Information Form provisions. However, the proper application of the new regulations to agreements already in effect could not be determined immediately, because the market share data necessary to separate Class A/B agreements into Class A and Class B will not be readily available. Accordingly, the Commission intends to stay application of the final rule to effective agreements. The Commission then will direct all existing Class A/B agreements to submit reports under section 15 of the 1984 Act that would include all the information demanded of new Class A/B agreements under the Information Form regulations, including market share data. Upon review of these reports, those agreements will be appropriately classified into Class A or Class B, the stay of the final rule will be lifted, and the orderly filing of the regular monitoring reports (including those applicable to Class C agreements) will begin. The initial section 15 reports will provide baselines (albeit not pre- implementation baselines) against which the subsequent reports will be compared as part of the continuous monitoring of each agreement. For those agreements already in effect that are subject to reporting requirements negotiated by the Commission's staff, those requirements will be superseded by the final rule. The Federal Maritime Commission certifies, pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, including small businesses, small organizational units and small government jurisdictions. The ocean carriers affected by the rule are not ``small organizations'' or ``small governmental jurisdictions'' as defined by 5 U.S.C. 601 and, as large and predominantly foreign-based enterprises, are not ``small business concerns'' as defined by 15 U.S.C. 632 and regulations issued thereunder. The collection of information requirements contained in this proposed rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Public Law 96&hyph;511), as amended. The incremental public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to range from an average of 46 hours to 144 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Bruce A. Dombrowski, Deputy Managing Director, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573, and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503. List of Subjects in 46 CFR Part 572 Administrative practice and procedure; maritime carriers; reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
