FR940208-2-00183 FR940208-2-00093 (b) with respect to an extraordinary challenge of a panel review of a final determination made in Canada, information that was accepted by the Deputy Minister or the Tribunal as confidential in the proceedings before the Deputy Minister or the Tribunal and with respect to which the person who designated or submitted the information has not withdrawn the person's claim as to the confidentiality of the information; ``Protective Order Application'' means an application, (a) in respect of a review of a final determination by the International Trade Administration of the United States Department of Commerce, in a form prescribed by, and available from, the International Trade Administration of the United States Department of Commerce; and (b) in respect of a review of a final determination by the United States International Trade Commission, in a form prescribed by, and available from, the United States International Trade Commission; ``responsible Secretariat'' means, with respect to an extraordinary challenge of a panel review, the section of the Secretariat located in the country in which the final determination reviewed by the panel was made; ``responsible Secretary'' means the Secretary of the responsible Secretariat; ``Secretariat'' means the Secretariat established pursuant to Article 1909 of the Agreement; ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the United States Section or the Secretary of the Canadian Section of the Secretariat and includes any person authorized to act on behalf of a Secretary; ``service address'' means (a) with respect to a Party or panelist, the address filed with the Secretariat as the service address of the Party or panelist, including any facsimile number submitted with that address, (b) with respect to a participant other than a Party or panelist, the service address of the participant in the panel review, or (c) where a Change of Service Address has been filed by a participant, the new address set out as the service address of the participant in that form, including any facsimile number submitted with that address; ``Tribunal'' means the Canadian International Trade Tribunal or its successor and includes any person authorized to act on its behalf. 5. The definitions set forth in Article 1911 of the Agreement are hereby incorporated into these rules. Part I_General 6. An extraordinary challenge proceeding commences on the day on which a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee is filed with the Secretariat and terminates on the day on which a Notice of Completion of Extraordinary Challenge is effective. 7. The general legal principles of the country in which a final determination was made apply in an extraordinary challenge of the decision of a panel with respect to the final determination. 8. A committee may review any part of the record of the panel review relevant to the extraordinary challenge. Internal Functioning of Committees 9. (1) For routine administrative matters governing its own internal functioning, a committee may adopt procedures not inconsistent with these rules or the Agreement. (2) Subject to subrule 35(b), meetings of a committee may be conducted by means of a telephone conference call. 10. Only committee members may take part in the deliberations of a committee, which shall take place in private and remain secret. Staff of the Secretariat and assistants to committee members may be present by permission of the committee.
