FR940304-1-00013 FR940304-1-00002 Appendix D._Step-by-Step Procedure for Closing Out Telephone Construction Contract_Labor and Materials, REA Form 515 1Sequence 2Step No. 2When 1By 1Procedure 1. Prior to completion of construction Borrower's Engineer Receives instructions from the GFR concerning the closeout procedure. 2. Upon completion of construction Borrower's Engineer Prepares the following: 1 set of Key Maps, when applicable, which show work done under the construction contract marked with red pencil. 1 set of Detail Maps, which show work done under the construction contract marked with red pencil. 1 copy of Tabulation of Staking Sheets. 1 copy of tentative Final Inventory, REA Forms 724, 724a. 3. After construction has been completed and acceptance tests made Borrower's Engineer Forwards letter to the borrower with copies to the GFR stating that the project is ready for final inspection. 4. Upon receipt of letter from borrower's engineer GFR Promptly arranges with borrower, borrower's engineer, and contractor for final inspection of construction. It is contemplated that final inspections will be made on sections of line as construction is completed, leaving a minimum amount to be inspected at this time. 5. When requested by the GFR REA Field Accountant Audits REA Form 281, if borrower supplied part of the materials. 6. Inspection date scheduled Borrower's Engineer Shall have the following documents available for the GFR: 1 set of ``as constructed'' Key Maps (when applicable). 1 set of ``as constructed'' Detail Maps. 1 copy of the List of Construction Change Orders. 1 set of Final Staking Sheets. 1 copy of Tabulation Staking Sheets. 1 copy of Treated Forest Products Inspection Reports or Certificates of Compliance. 1 copy of tentative Final Inventory REA Form 724, 724a. 1 copy of tentative Tabulation, REA Form 231, if borrower furnished part of material. 1 copy of Report on Results of Acceptance Tests. 7. During inspection Borrower's Engineer Issues instructions to contractor covering corrections in construction found during inspection by GFR in the company of the borrower's engineer and the contractor or his/her representative. 8. During inspection Contractor Corrects defects in construction on basis of instructions from the borrower's engineer. The corrections should proceed closely behind the inspection in order that the borrower's engineer can check the corrections before leaving the system. 9. During inspection Borrower's Engineer With GFR inspects and approves corrected construction. 10. During inspection Borrower's Engineer Marks inspected areas on the Key Map, if available, otherwise on the Detail Maps. 11. Upon completion of inspection Borrower's Engineer Prepares or obtains all the closeout documents listed in Appendix C. Makes distribution of the copies of the documents as indicated in Appendix C. Forwards the documents for REA to the GFR. 12. After reviewing final documents REA GFR Reviews documents and distributes copies as indicated in Appendix C. 13. After signing final inventory Borrower Prepares and submits Financial Requirement Statement, REA Form 481, requesting amount necessary to make final payment due under contract. 14. On receipt of final advance Borrower Promptly forwards check for final payment to contractor. 15. During next loan fund audit review after final payment to contractor REA Field accountant Makes an examination of borrowers construction records for (1) compliance with the construction contract and Subpart F and (2) REA Form 281, Tabulation of Materials Furnished by Borrowers, if any, for appropriate costs.
