FR941006-0-00018 FR941006-0-00004 List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 246 Food assistance programs, Food donations, Grant programs_Social programs, Infants and children, Maternal and child health, Nutrition education, Public assistance programs, WIC, Women. Accordingly, 7 CFR Part 246 is amended as follows: PART 246_SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN 1. The authority citation for part 246 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1786. 2. In §246.16: a. Paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(3) and (e)(2)(i) are revised; and b. Paragraph (r) is redesignated as paragraph (p) and all internal references to the redesignated paragraph are revised. The revisions read as follows: §246.16 Distribution of funds. * * * * * (c) Allocation formula. *␣*␣* (1) Use of participation data in the formula. Wherever the formula set forth in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section require the use of participation data, the Department shall use participation data reported by State agencies according to §246.25(b). * * * * * (3) Allocation of food benefit funds. In any fiscal year, any amounts remaining from amounts appropriated for such fiscal year and amounts appropriated from the preceding fiscal year after making allocations under paragraph (a)(6) of this section and allocations for nutrition services and administration (NSA) as required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be made available for food costs. Allocations to State agencies for food costs will be determined according to the following procedure: (i) Fair share allocation. (A) For each State agency, establish a fair share allocation which shall be an amount of funds proportionate to the State agency's share of the national aggregate population of persons who are income eligible to participate in the Program based on the 185 percent of poverty criterion. The Department will determine each State agency's population of persons categorically eligible for WIC which are at or below 185% of poverty, through the best available, nationally uniform, indicators as determined by the Department. If the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) also operates in the area served by the WIC State agency, the number of participants in such area participating in the CSFP but otherwise eligible to participate in the WIC Program, as determined by FNS, shall be deducted from the WIC State agency's population of income eligible persons. (B) The Department may adjust the respective amounts of food funds that would be allocated to a State agency which is outside the 48 contiguous states and the District of Columbia when the State agency can document that economic conditions result in higher food costs for the State agency. Prior to any such adjustment, the State agency must demonstrate that it has successfully implemented voluntary cost containment measures, such as improved vendor management practices, participation in multi-state agency infant formula rebate contracts or other cost containment efforts. The Department may use the Thrifty Food Plan amounts used in the Food Stamp Program, or other available data, to formulate adjustment factors for such State agencies. (ii) Stability allocation. If funds are available, each State agency shall receive a stability allocation equal to its final authorized grant level as of September 30 of the prior fiscal year plus a full inflation increase. The inflation factor shall reflect the anticipated rate of food cost increases as determined by the Department. If funds are not available to provide all State agencies with their full stability allocation, all State agencies shall receive a prorata reduction from their full stability allocation as required by the short fall of available funds.
