FR940323-2-00089 FR940323-2-00067 Projects supported under SPRANS are expected to be part of community-wide, comprehensive initiatives, to reflect appropriate coordination of primary care and public health activities, and to target HRSA resources effectively to fill gaps in the Nation's health system for at-risk mothers and children. This applies especially to projects in the 15 communities in the Nation which have received grants from HRSA under the Healthy Start initiative. Grantees in these communities providing services related to activities of a Healthy Start program are expected to coordinate their projects with the Healthy Start program efforts. Healthy Start communities include: Aberdeen Area Indian Nations, NE/ND/SD; Baltimore, MD; Birmingham, AL; Boston, MA; Chicago, IL; Cleveland, OH; Detroit, MI; Lake County, IN; New Orleans, LA; New York, NY; Oakland, CA; Philadelphia, PA; Pittsburgh, PA; PeeDee Region, SC; Washington, DC. 3. Project Review and Funding The Secretary will review applications for funds under the specific project categories in section 4 below as competing applications and will fund those which, in the Secretary's judgement, are consistent with the statutory mandate, with special emphasis on improving service delivery to women and children from culturally distinct populations; and which best address achievement of the Healthy People 2000 objectives related to maternal, infant, child and adolescent health and service systems for children at risk of chronic and disabling conditions, and otherwise best promote improvements in maternal and child health. 3.1␣Criteria for Review The following criteria are used, as pertinent, to review and evaluate applications for awards under all SPRANS grants and cooperative agreement project categories announced in this notice. Further guidance in this regard is supplied in application guidance materials, which may specify variations in these criteria. _The quality of the project plan or methodology. _The need for the services, research, training or technical assistance. _The cost-effectiveness of the proposed project relative to the number of persons proposed to be benefitted, served or trained, considering, where relevant, any special circumstances associated with providing care or training in various areas. _The extent to which the project will contribute to the advancement of MCH and/or CSHCN services. _The extent to which rapid and effective use of grant funds will be made by the project. _The effectiveness of procedures to collect the cost of care and service from third-party payment sources (including government agencies) which are authorized or under legal obligation to make such payment for any service (including diagnostic, preventive and treatment services). _The extent to which the project will be integrated with the administration of the Maternal and Child Health Services block grants, State primary care plans, public health, and prevention programs, and other related programs in the respective State(s). _The soundness of the project's management, considering the qualifications of the staff of the proposed project and the applicant's facilities and resources. _The extent to which the project gives special emphasis to improving service delivery to women and children from culturally identifiable populations who have been disproportionately affected by barriers to accessible care and ensures that members of culturally distinct groups are appropriately represented in the activities of approved grants and cooperative agreements. _In communities with Healthy Start projects, a commitment by applicants whose projects are related to activities of a Healthy Start program to coordinate their projects with Healthy Start program efforts. _The strength of the project's plans for evaluation. _The extent to which the application is responsive to special concerns and program priorities specified in this notice. 3.2␣Funding of Approved Applications Final funding decisions for SPRANS grants are the responsibility of the Director, MCHB. In considering scores for the ranking of approved applications for funding, preferences may be exercised for groups of applications, e.g., competing continuations may be funded ahead of new projects. Within any category of approved projects, the score of an individual project may be favorably adjusted if the project addresses specific priorities identified in this notice. In addition, special consideration in assigning scores may be given by reviewers to individual applications that address areas identified in this notice as special concerns. 4. Special Projects of Regional and National Significance Project categories for SPRANS awards are grouped in this notice under two sections: Grants and Cooperative Agreements.
