FR940524-1-00024 FR940524-1-00008 INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION 49 CFR Parts 1312 and 1314 [Ex Parte No. 444] Electronic Filing of Tariffs AGENCY: Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC). ACTION: Notice of proposal to establish a negotiated rulemaking committee. SUMMARY: The ICC intends to establish a committee under the Negotiated Rulemaking Act to develop rules for electronic tariff filing (ETF). The ICC has requested and received approval from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to establish the Committee. In a notice (First Notice) published April 6, 1994 in the Federal Register , the ICC invited applications and nominations for Committee membership. This Second Notice lists the submitted applications and nominations, the persons selected, the interests they represent, and a proposed agenda and schedule for completing the work of the Committee. The public is asked to comment, particularly on the proposed composition of the Committee and whether all interests are represented. DATES: Comments are due on June 23, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments (an original and 10 copies) referring to Ex Parte No. 444 to: Interstate Commerce Commission, Office of the Secretary, Case Control Branch, Washington, DC 20423. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James W. Greene, (202) 927&hyph;5597, or Charles E. Langyher, III, (202) 927&hyph;5160. TDD for hearing impaired: (202) 927&hyph;5721. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In a previous decision and notice (First Notice) in this proceeding, 1 the Commission announced its intention to begin development of a comprehensive ETF system through means of a negotiated rulemaking committee. The Commission concluded that public comments received earlier support development of ETF, and that use of a rulemaking committee here would be in the public interest as defined in the Negotiated Rulemaking Act of 1990, ยง583 (Reg-Neg ACT). 2 1 See decision served April 1, 1994, and notices published April 6, 1994 at 59 FR 16164 and in the ICC Register. 2 P.L. 101&hyph;461. The comments received in response to the First Notice were generally favorable to the proposal, and a number of persons have submitted applications or nominations for the Committee. In this notice (Second Notice), we are offering the public a second chance to comment on our selection of members, and are setting forth the proposed agenda and schedule for the Committee. 3 3 The OMB and the General Services Administration have approved the proposal for an ETF negotiated rulemaking committee. Background. The First Notice described in detail the subject and scope of the rule to be developed and the issues to be considered. In brief, the Committee will identify the needs that an ETF system would serve, review the ETF options, and recommend appropriate technology and regulations. 4 If the Committee agrees on the rules for an ETF system, we expect to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking containing those rules. 4 See the prior decision or the First Notice for an extensive discussion on the subject and scope of the rules to be developed. We also indicated our willingness to provide administrative support and meeting rooms, to appoint an employee to represent the agency on the Committee, and, if necessary, to investigate agency hiring of a technical expert to assist the Committee. The members of the Committee would be expected to pay their own expenses of participating on the Committee. Committee Membership. Committee membership is generally limited to 25, 5 and must include at least one person from the Commission. Reg-Neg Act, ยง585(b). The Committee must also have members representing all interests that will be significantly affected by the rule. The First Notice requested public comment as to these interests and solicited applications and nominations for participation on the Committee. Based on the comments and our own consideration of the issue, we believe that the following interests should be represented on the Committee: motor, rail, and water common carriers; carrier employees; publishing agents; tariff analysts; and shippers. Rate bureaus may represent the interests of both publishing agents and carriers. 5 A committee may have more than 25 members if the agency determines that a greater number is necessary for the functioning of the committee or to achieve balanced membership. Reg-Neg Act, ยง585(b). A list of those persons who have applied, or been nominated for the Committee, and their affiliations, is attached as Appendix A. Because more than 25 persons applied or were nominated, we selected those whose scope of representation, skills, and interest appear to be most appropriate to the needs of the Committee. Where we have selected more than one person nominated by the same organization, we believe the persons selected have different skills and/or represent different interests. Those who were selected are noted with an asterisk on Appendix A. We seek public comment on the proposed composition of the Committee and whether all interests affected by the rule are represented. Persons believing that the proposed Committee does not adequately represent their interests are encouraged to apply for membership. Persons submitting applications or nominations after publication of this Second Notice will have to state the reasons that the persons selected in this notice do not adequately represent the interests of the person submitting the application or nomination.
