FR940913-2-00097 FR940913-2-00069 The CBOE proposal also provides that if one of its members initiates, accepts for execution, transmits for execution, or executes a short sale of an NM security without properly identifying it, such a sale may violate certain CBOE rules. In addition, if a participant designates a short sale as a bid test exempt sale, including claiming the sale to be exempt by reason of the market maker exemption, but does not satisfy the requirements for such an exemption, or if the sale is made with the purpose of disrupting or manipulating the market in the security that is the subject of the sale of a related option, such a sale may also violate certain CBOE rules. 24 The CBOE has designed surveillance procedures to monitor member compliance with the CBOE's proposed rule once it becomes effective. 25 Finally, the CBOE has stated its commitment to notify the NASD if the CBOE determines that there has been a substantial, willful, or continuing violation of its proposed rule. 24 See CBOE Proposed Rule 15.10(f). 25 See CBOE Amendment No. 1, supra note 6. C. The Phlx's Proposal The Phlx proposal is substantially the same as the CBOE proposal. The Phlx's proposal creates new Rule 1072 entitled Reporting Requirements Applicable to Short Sales in NASD/NM Securities. The Phlx proposal applies to Registered Options Traders (``ROTs'') and specialists. In its original filing, Phlx ROTs and specialists were both limited to designating Nasdaq NM securities underlying no more than twenty of the options or index options, which the specialist or ROT has been allocated or assigned respectively, as designated Nasdaq NM securities. The Phlx has since amended its proposal to state that a Phlx specialist may designate all Nasdaq NM securities in which it is registered. 26 The Phlx proposal also amends Phlx Rule 455(d)(12) (Short Sales) by adding a reference to its new Rule 1072. 26 See Phlx Amendment No. 2. D. The Amex's Proposal The Amex proposal is substantially the same as the CBOE proposal. The Amex proposal adds a new paragraph (d) to its Rule 957, Accounts, Orders and Records of Registered Traders Specialists and Associated Persons. The Amex refers to options specialists and registered options traders, as those terms have the same basic meaning as the CBOE term ``market maker.'' The Amex proposal also amends Amex Rule 590 (Minor Rule Violation Fine Systems) by adding a reference to new paragraph (d) of its Rule 957. 27 27 When the Amex originally submitted its rule proposal, its proposed amendment of Rule 590 incorrectly made reference to a Rule 992. The Amex amended its proposal to correct this error. See Amex Amendment No. 1, supra note 8.
