FR940404-0-00019 FR940404-0-00009 PART 771_[AMENDED] 2. Section 771.20, formerly reserved, is revised to read as follows: §771.20 General License GLX; exports to Country Groups QWY and the People's Republic of China. (a) Scope. A general license designated GLX is established, authorizing exports to civil end-users in Country Group QWY and the People's Republic of China (PRC) of certain specified items. (b) Eligible exports. The items eligible for this general license are those described in the Advisory Notes in the CCL that indicate likelihood of approval for ``Country Groups QWY and the PRC,'' except items described in the notes to ECCNs 1C18A and 2B18A. Likelihood of approval notes that apply only to the PRC, or to specified destinations in Country Group Y, also qualify for this general license to all eligible destinations (however, those notes indicating Country Group Q or W, but not Y, or individual countries in Q or W, are specifically not eligible). In addition, those entries and sub-entries listed in Supplement No. 1 to this Part 771 are eligible for export under this general license. However, this general license is not available for items that are also subject to missile technology (MT), nuclear nonproliferation (NP), or foreign policy (FP) controls to the recipient country. (c) Eligible consignees. This general license is available only for exports to civil end-users for civil end-uses. Exports under this general license may not be made to military end-users or to known military uses. Such exports will continue to require an individual validated license and be considered on a case-by-case basis. In addition to conventional military activities, military uses include any proliferation activities described in Part 778 of this subchapter. Retransfers to military end-users or end-uses in eligible countries are strictly prohibited without prior authorization. 3. §771.23 is amended by adding a new sentence after the fifth sentence to paragraph (c) to read as follows: §771.23 General License GFW. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* In addition, GFW may be used to export to eligible countries any commodities (but not software or technology) listed in Supplement No. 1 to this part 771 as eligible for General License GLX. *␣*␣* * * * * * Supplement No. 1 to Part 771 [Amended] 4. Supplement No. 1 to part 771, formerly reserved, is revised to read as follows: Supplement No. 1_Additional Items Eligible for General License GLX Note: Portions of some items listed in this Supplement are controlled for missile technology (MT), nuclear proliferation (NP), or foreign policy (FP) reasons. Exporters are reminded that such portions are not eligible for General License GLX. Refer to the specific ECCNs to identify those portions of entries subject to MT, NP, or FP controls.
