FR940916-1-00123 FR940916-1-00016 Example 3 A passenger railroad operates a fleet of 600 cars that are used in intermediate speed service. The phase-in period required by ยง232.609 has been completed for this fleet of cars. FRA becomes concerned over the quality of the brake inspection, test, and maintenance program used by this railroad. As a result, FRA requires the railroad to keep the records described in ยง232.615 that are normally optional. FRA monitors the scheduled single car test program for a period of one year. Since a single car test is required once every four months for cars used in intermediate speed passenger service, 1,800 scheduled single car tests are conducted by the railroad resulting in 126 failures of the brake control valve or the relay valve to pass the passenger car single car test. The test failure rate is calculated as 126/1,800=.07. The failure rate of .07 versus the sample size of 1,800 is plotted on Table B&hyph;5 from Appendix B to Part 232. This table with plotted results is given as Table 4. BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;06&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEP16SE94.003 BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;06&hyph;C Since, for this example, the plotted results of the single car test fall in the region requiring a decrease in the time interval between required tests, the FRA would require the passenger railroad to decrease the time between required single car tests by one month, from four months to three months. Appendix C This Appendix contains the proposed definition of ``mountain grade territory'': (30/V) 2 G 2 D>12 G=average grade x 100 D=distance in miles over which average grade is taken V=speed of train Also included is a graph illustrating application of the definition. Several commenters provided various opinions on how ``mountain grade territory'' should be defined. Most of these commenters suggested some type of formula based on a variety of factors including train tonnage, speed, length of grade, percent of grade, and distance of grade. FRA has developed an empirical relationship to define ``mountain grade territory'' based on train speed, percentage of grade, and distance of grade. ``Mountain grade territory'' was selected to be an algebraic function of the square of the grade because grade was determined to be a more important perameter than the distance over which the grade occurs. The ratio of 30 mph divided by the actual velocity of the train was selected because 30 mph is the threshold speed for requiring two-way EOT devices and this ratio makes the definition more stringent as the velocity of the train increases. This relationship is squared because the kinetic energy of the train varies as the square of the velocities increases. Thus, in actuality the relationship is really a ratio of kinetic energies as opposed to a ratio of velocities. The number 12 was selected because it yields a range of reasonable results for the definition. Regulatory Impact Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This proposed rulemaking has been evaluated in accordance with existing regulatory policies and procedures and is considered to be significant under DOT policies and procedures (44 FR 11304) because of Congressional and public interest in promoting rail safety. Consequently, FRA has prepared a regulatory evaluation addressing the economic impact of the proposed rule. The regulatory evaluation estimates the economic costs and consequences of this proposed rule as well as its anticipated benefits and impacts. This regulatory evaluation has been placed in the docket and is available for public inspection and copying during normal business hours in Room 8201, Office of Chief Counsel, FRA, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20590. Copies may also be obtained by submitting a written request to the FRA Docket Clerk at the above address. The proposed rule passes the benefit-to-cost test on the basis of industry cost savings alone. In terms of total costs and benefits over twenty years (at a 7 percent discount rate for both), FRA estimates that the proposed rule will cost approximately $1.13 billion while returning benefits of approximately $1.61 billion. Resulting in a benefit-to-cost ratio to the industry of 1.42 to 1. For freight railroads and Amtrak, the benefits of the proposed rule significantly outweigh its estimated costs. Shortline, commuter, and excursion railroads will see slightly higher net costs. However, the actual net costs to many of these operations could be substantially less than that currently calculated by FRA since FRA did not fully quantify the safety benefits obtained by this proposal, and because the figures used by FRA to calculate the costs of the proposed single car testing requirements are very conservative. Furthermore, although the net costs to many shortline operations may increase somewhat due to the fact that most of these types of operations are not able to take advantage of the operational benefits created by this proposal, FRA feels that the integrated nature of the freight industry requires that universally consistent requirements be imposed on shortline and Class I railroads as a group. In some areas of the proposed rule, individual railroads are offered a choice between meeting higher standards and thereby being allowed to reap major cost savings, or continuing current practices at current costs. The benefit-to-cost numbers reflect an assumption that railroads, being economically rational, will choose the higher standards/lower costs option.
