FR941220-0-00076 FR941220-0-00013 17 CFR Part 249 [Release Nos. 33&hyph;7119; 34&hyph;35095; FR 45; International Series Release No. 759; File No. S7&hyph;13&hyph;94] RIN 3235&hyph;AG16 Reconciliation of the Accounting by Foreign Private Issuers for Business Combinations AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission. ACTION: Final rules. SUMMARY: The Commission is announcing the adoption of amendments to Form 20&hyph;F to streamline the financial statement reconciliation requirements for foreign private issuers that have entered into business combinations. The amendments eliminate the requirement to reconcile to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles certain differences attributable to the method of accounting for a business combination or the amortization period of goodwill and negative goodwill, provided the financial statements comply with International Accounting Standard No. 22 , ``Business Combinations,'' as amended, regarding those items. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 20, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wayne E. Carnall, Deputy Chief Accountant, Division of Corporation Finance at (202) 942&hyph;2960 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Mail Stop 3&hyph;13, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is adopting amendments to Form 20&hyph;F 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ``Exchange Act''). 2 1 17 CFR 249.220f. 2 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq . I. Introduction The Commission is adopting amendments to streamline the financial statement reconciliation requirements for foreign private issuers that have entered into business combinations. The amendments eliminate the requirement to reconcile to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (``GAAP'') certain differences attributable to the method of accounting for a business combination or the amortization period of goodwill and negative goodwill, provided the financial statements comply with International Accounting Standard No. 22 , ``Business Combinations,'' as amended (``IAS 22''), regarding those items. The amendments adopted today were proposed by the Commission on April 19, 1994. 3 Comments received on the proposing release were divided almost evenly in their views. 4 Commenters questioning the proposal expressed concern about the lack of comparability to U.S. GAAP that would result from adoption of the proposal, and observed that the reconciled balance sheet and net income information furnished under the proposed rule would be a hybrid of U.S. GAAP and International Accounting Standards (``IAS''). Those supporting the proposal cited the cost and complexity of reconciling the pervasive differences attributable to an issuer's method of accounting for business combinations and, in the case of a supporting letter from financial analysts, the lack of comparability which exists presently under the U.S. accounting rules applicable to business combinations. 3 See Securities Act Release No. 7056 (April 19, 1994) (59 FR 21821) (the ``Proposing Release''). 4 Nine comment letters on the proposal were received. Those letters and a summary of the comments are available for public inspection and copying in File No. S7&hyph;13&hyph;94 at the Commission's Public Reference Room in Washington, DC. The Commission believes that acceptance of the guidance in IAS 22 with respect to the particular matters addressed by the amendment, without reconciliation to U.S. GAAP, will not result in the loss of material information that is necessary for a U.S. investor to make an informed investment decision. Accordingly, the amendments are being adopted substantially as proposed, although certain modifications and clarifications are included in response to recommendations and other comments received. II. Method of Accounting for Business Combinations As adopted, the amendments eliminate the requirement that foreign private issuers quantify the effects of differences arising solely from the different criteria applied to the selection of the basic method of accounting for a business combination if the criteria used in the primary financial statements for determining the method are consistently applied and are consistent with IAS 22. The two basic methods of accounting can be summarized as either ``pooling of interests'' or ``purchase'' as determined under U.S. GAAP primarily pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 16 , ``Accounting for Business Combinations'' (``APB 16''), or ``uniting of interests'' and ``acquisition'' under IAS 22. APB 16 and IAS 22 have a similar conceptual framework underlying the particular conditions they establish for determining which of the two basic accounting methods should be applied to a business combination. Both standards acknowledge limited circumstances under which remeasurement of an acquired company's assets and liabilities pursuant to the purchase or acquisition method is not appropriate, but the particular criteria qualifying a transaction for pooling of interests (under APB 16) and uniting of interests (under IAS 22) are different, with IAS 22 being generally more restrictive.
