FR940516-2-00053 FR940516-2-00042 Is evidence provided that the matching costs represent an additional effort and not a reallocation of existing resources? F. Deadline for Submittal of Applications The closing date for submittal of applications under this announcement is 60 days after publication in the Federal Register. Applications must be postmarked or hand delivered to the application receipt point no later than 5:30 p.m. on the day 60 days after publication in the Federal Register. Hand-delivered applications will be accepted Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays during the working hours of 9:00 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the lobby of the Hubert H. Humphrey building located at 200 Independence Avenue SW., in Washington, DC. When hand-delivering an application, call (202) 401&hyph;3951 from the lobby for pick up. A staff person will be available to receive applications. Faxed applications will not be accepted. An application will be considered as meeting the deadline if it is either: (1) received at, or hand-delivered to, the mailing address on or before 60 days after publication in the Federal Register, or (2) postmarked before midnight of the deadline date 60 days after publication in the Federal Register and received in time to be considered during the competitive review process. When mailing applications, applicants are strongly advised to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier (such as UPS, Federal Express, etc.) or from the U.S. Postal Service as proof of mailing by the deadline date. If there is a question as to when an application was mailed, applicants will be asked to provide proof of mailing by the deadline date. When proof is not provided, an application will not be considered for funding. Private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing. Applications which do not meet the deadline are considered late applications and will not be considered or reviewed in the current competition. DHHS will send a letter to this effect to each late applicant. DHHS reserves the right to extend the deadline for all proposals due to natural disasters, such as floods, hurricanes or earthquakes; or if there is a widespread disruption of the mail; or if DHHS determines a deadline extension to be in the best interest of the government. However, DHHS will not waive or extend the deadline for any applicant unless the deadline is waived or extended for all applicants. G. Disposition of Applications 1. Approval, disapproval, or deferral. On the basis of the review of the application, the Assistant Secretary will either (a) approve the application as a whole or in part; (b) disapprove the application; or (c) defer action on the application for such reasons as lack of funds or a need for further review. 2. Notification of disposition. The Assistant Secretary will notify the applicants of the disposition of their applications. If approved, a signed notification of the award will be sent to the business office named in the ASPE checklist. H. Application Instructions and Forms Copies of applications should be requested from and submitted to: Grants Officer, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue SW., room 405F, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, Washington, DC 20101, Phone (202) 401&hyph;3951. Questions concerning the preceding information should be submitted to the Grants officer at the same address. Neither questions nor requests for applications should be submitted after 60 days after publication in the Federal Register. Applications will not be faxed. I. Federal Domestic Assistance Catalog This program is not listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. J. State Single Point of Contact (E.O. 12372) DHHS has determined that this program is not subject to Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' because it is a program that is national in scope and does not directly affect State and local governments. Applicants are not required to seek intergovernmental review of their applications within the constraints of EO. 12372. K. Components of a Complete Application A compete application consists of the following items in this order: 1. Application for Federal Assistance (Standard Form 424); 2. budget Information_Non-Construction programs (Standard Form 424A); 3. Assurances_Non-Construction Programs (Standard Form 424B); 4. Table of contents; 5. Budget Justification for Section B Budget Categories; 6. Proof of Non-profit Status, if appropriate; 7. Copy of the applicant's Approved Indirect Cost Rate Agreement, if necessary; 8. Project Narrative Statement; 9. Any appendices or attachments; 10. Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace; 11. Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, or other Responsibility Matters; 12. Certification and, if necessary, disclosure Regarding Lobbying; 13. Supplement to Section II_Key Personal; 14. Application for Federal Assistance Checklist. Dated: May 5, 1994. David T. Ellwood, Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11842 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4151&hyph;04&hyph;M
