FR940606-2-00046 FR940606-2-00031 Citicorp, New York, New York; Request for an Exemption from Tying Provisions Citicorp, New York, New York (Citicorp), has requested, pursuant to section 106(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1971 et seq. ) (Section 106(b)), that the Board grant an exemption to permit any subsidiary of Citicorp to vary the consideration charged for mortgage loans based upon the condition or requirement that the customer obtain a loan, discount, deposit, or trust service from an affiliate. Section 106(b) permits a bank to fix or vary the consideration for extending credit or furnishing services on condition or requirement that a customer also obtain a traditional banking product (loan, discount, deposit or trust service) from that bank. However, Section 106(b) prohibits a bank from engaging in these same activities on condition that the customer obtain any additional credit or services from any affiliate. The Board may, by regulation or order, grant exceptions that are not contrary to the purposes of the section. Citicorp contends that its request is consistent with the purposes of Section 106(b) because it is not anticompetitive. Citicorp argues that the market for mortgage loans is national in scope and highly competitive. In this regard, Citicorp asserts that it does not have sufficient market power in any relevant market to restrain competition and that the highly competitive mortgage lending market prevents any mortgage lender from having sufficient market power to restrain competition in the market or force a consumer to purchase a product on uncompetitive terms. Further, Citicorp argues that its proposal is not anticompetitive because customers would not be required either directly or indirectly to accept one product in order to obtain another product. In this regard, Citicorp states that all products would be available separately at separate prices and the prices of products would be kept competitive through normal market forces. Citicorp also claims that customers would be free to choose to purchase combined or separate services from Citicorp affiliates or from competitors. Finally, Citicorp contends that the proposal would promote competition and provide public benefits in the form of reduced costs and better service. Notice of Citicorp's request is published solely in order to seek the views of interested persons on the issues presented by the request and does not represent a determination by the Board that the request meets or is likely to meet the standards of Section 106(b). The request may be inspected at the offices of the Board of Governors. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted in writing and received by William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551, not later than July 5, 1994. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, May 31, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson Associate Secretary of the Board [FR Doc. 94-13642 Filed 6-3-94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
