FR941202-2-00013 FR941202-2-00007 Benchmarks and Discount Rates Dalmine did not take out any long-term fixed rate lira denominated loans or other debt obligations in any of the years of the government loans under investigation. Therefore, in accordance with section 355.44(b)(4) of the Proposed Regulations, we used, as the benchmark interest rate, the Bank of Italy reference rate. We have determined that this rate constitutes the best approximation of the cost of long-term borrowing in Italy and the only long-term fixed interest rate commonly available in Italy. ( See Final Affirmative Countervailing Duty Determinations: Certain Steel Products from Italy (``Certain Steel from Italy'' ), 58 FR, 37327 (July 9, 1993).) We have also used this rate as the discount rate for allocating over time the benefit from non-recurring grants for the same reasons as explained in Final Affirmative Countervailing Duty Determination: Certain Steel Products from Spain, 58 FR 37374, 37376 (July 9, 1993). For long-term loans denominated in other currencies, we used, as the benchmark interest rate, the average long-term fixed interest rate denominated in the same currency. ( See section E_Article 54 Loans below.) Calculation Methodology For purposes of this preliminary determination, the period for which we are measuring subsidies (the POI) is calendar year 1993. In determining the benefits received under the various programs described below, we used the following calculation methodology. We first calculated the benefit attributable to the POI for each countervailable program, using the methodologies described in each program section below. For each program, we then divided the benefit attributable to Dalmine in the POI by Dalmine's total sales revenue, as none of the programs was limited to either certain subsidiaries or products of Dalmine. Next, we added the benefits for all programs, including the benefits for programs which were not allocated over time, to arrive at Dalmine's total subsidy rate. Because Dalmine is the only respondent company in this investigation, this rate is also the country-wide rate. Consistent with our practice in preliminary determinations, when a response to an allegation denies the existence of a program, receipt of benefits under a program, or eligibility of a company or industry under a program, and the Department has no persuasive evidence showing that the response is incorrect, we accept the response for purposes of the preliminary determination. All such responses, however, are subject to verification. If the response cannot be supported at verification, and the program is otherwise countervailable, the program will be considered a subsidy in the final determination. Based upon our analysis of the petition and the responses to our questionnaires, we preliminarily determine the following: I. Programs Preliminarily Determined To Be Countervailable A. Benefits Provided Under Law 675/77 Law 675/77 was enacted in 1977 to bring about restructuring and reconversion in the following industrial sectors: (1) electronic technology; (2) the manufacturing industry; (3) the agro-food industry; (4) the chemical industry; (5) the steel industry; (6) the pulp and paper industry; (7) the fashion sector; and (8) the automobile and aviation sectors. Law 675/77 also sought to promote optimal exploitation of energy resources, and ecological and environmental recovery. A primary goal of this legislation was to bring all government industrial assistance programs under a single law. Other goals were (1) to reorganize and develop the industrial sector as a whole; (2) to increase employment in the South; and (3) to maintain employment in depressed areas. Among other measures taken, the Interministerial Committee for the Coordination of Industrial Policy (''CIPI'') was created as a result of Law 675/77. CIPI approves individual projects in each of the industrial sectors listed above. Six main programs were provided under Law 675/77: (1) Interest contributions on bank loans; (2) mortgage loans provided by the Ministry of Industry at subsidized interest rates; (3) interest contributions on funds raised by bond issues; (4) capital grants for projects in the South; (5) personnel retraining grants; and (6) VAT reductions on purchases of capital goods by companies in the South. Dalmine reported that it received benefits under items (1), (2), and (5) above.
