FR940616-0-00064 FR940616-0-00009 15. Section 1.1156 is added to read as follows: §1.1156 Payment of charges for regulatory fees. Payment of a regulatory fee, required under §§1.1152 through 1.1155, shall be filed in the following manner: (a) Payments of regulatory fees shall be submitted with the filing of any application for a new, renewal or reinstatement of a license or other authorization in the private radio services. (1) Any regulatory fee submitted with an application in the private radio services shall include an advance payment of the total annual regulatory fee payment due for the entire term of the license or other authorization. The amount of the regulatory fee payment due with any application in the private radio service shall be the multiple of the number of years in the entire term of the requested license or other authorization multiplied by the annual fee payment required in the Schedule of Regulatory Fees, effective at the time the application is filed. Except as set forth in §1.1159, advance payments shall be final and shall not be readjusted during the term of the license or authorization, notwithstanding any subsequent increase or decrease in the annual amount of a fee required under the Schedule of Regulatory Fees. (2) Failure to file the appropriate regulatory fee with an application in the private radio service will result in the return of the accompanying application, including an application for which the Commission has assigned a specific filing deadline. (b)(1) Payments of standard regulatory fees, applicable to mass media, common carrier and cable services, shall be filed in full on an annual basis at a time announced by the Commission or the Managing Director, pursuant to delegated authority, and published in the Federal Register. (2) Large regulatory fees, as annually defined by the Commission, may be submitted in installment payments. (i) For Fiscal Year 1994, large regulatory fees may be submitted in two (2) equal installment payments at times announced by the Commission or the Managing Director, pursuant to delegated authority, and published in the Federal Register. (ii) For Fiscal Year 1994, installment payments may be submitted for: (A) VHF and UHF Commercial Television Stations with a fee requirement above $12,000; (B) Cable Television Systems whose community units' fee payments total more than $18,500; (C) Inter-Exchange Carriers with a fee requirement above $500,000; (D) Local Exchange Carriers or Holding Companies with a fee requirement above $700,000; and (E) Space Stations with a fee of $65,000 or above. (iii) Beginning in Fiscal Year 1995, payors of a large standard regulatory fee, as annually defined by the Commission, may submit their fee payments in four (4) equal installments at times to be announced by the Commission or by the Managing Director, pursuant to delegated authority, and published in the Federal Register. (c) Standard regulatory fee payments, as well as any installment payment, must be filed with a FCC Form 159, FCC Remittance Advice, and a FCC Form 159C, Remittance Advice Continuation Sheet, if additional space is needed. Failure to submit a copy of FCC Form 159 with a standard regulatory fee payment, or an installment payment, will result the return of the submission and a 25 percent penalty if the payment is resubmitted after the date the Commission establishes for the payment of standard regulatory fees and for any installment payment. (1) Any late filed regulatory fee payment will be subject to the penalties set forth in §1.1163.
