FR940228-1-00075 FR940228-1-00010 Clearly, an institution may not be certified unless the institution is eligible under the provisions of 34 CFR part 600. Further, this section would make clear that an institution could be certified only if the institution meets all the applicable standards for participation in subpart B of these regulations. Finally, because the requirement that each time an institution seeks to begin to participate in a Title IV, HEA program the specified individuals must complete ``precertification training'' provided by or approved by the Secretary is a certification requirement, the Secretary proposes to move this requirement from the current §668.12 (Institutional participation agreement) to this section. The Secretary proposes to amend this requirement to clarify that an institution subject to this training requirement may not begin participation until the individuals have completed the training. Under current regulations, the Secretary specifies that an institution may request an on-site review (instead of electing to use the precertification training procedures) before beginning its participation. In accordance with section 498(g) of the HEA, the Secretary proposes to delineate the period for which an institution may participate in a Title IV, HEA program. Generally, this period is the maximum of four years permitted by the HEA; however, the Secretary may specify a shorter period as the Secretary deems necessary. Section 498(h) of the HEA permits the Secretary to provisionally certify an institution to participate in a Title IV, HEA program in a number of circumstances. Provisional certification permits the Secretary to allow an institution that otherwise would not qualify to participate in a Title IV, HEA program to participate. However, because such an institution cannot meet all the requirements for ``full'' certification, the institution's participation would be limited. For example, an institution that is provisionally certified could be monitored more closely to the extent that the Secretary believes the institution warrants a greater degree of oversight. Further, in accordance with the statute, an institution that is provisionally certified is subject to shorter periods of participation than a fully certified institution. The Secretary notes that these limitations may vary, within the limits of the statute, to address the specific circumstances of the institution. Finally, under the terms of provisional certification, an institution will not have the right to a formal appeal under subpart G of this part if the Secretary revokes the institution's provisional certification; instead, the Secretary proposes to offer the institution a modified appeal. These limitations are addressed in more detail later in this discussion. Under section 498(h) of the HEA, the Secretary may provisionally certify an institution that: (1) Applies for initial participation in any Title IV, HEA program; (2) has its administrative capability or financial responsibility determined by the Secretary for the first time; (3) undergoes a change of ownership; (4) seeks to renew its certification and jeopardizes its ability to perform its financial responsibilities by not meeting the factors of financial responsibility or standards of administrative capability in proposed §§668.15 and 668.16 (and whose participation has been limited or suspended under subpart G of this part, or voluntarily enters into provisional certification); or (5) is a participating institution that was accredited or preaccredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency on the day before the Secretary withdrew recognition of that agency. In addition, the Secretary is proposing to add, to the list of institutions that may be provisionally certified, an institution that allowed its specified period of participation to expire without reapplying and qualifying for participation in time.
