FR941121-2-00123 FR941121-2-00093 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Customs Service [T.D. 94&hyph;91] User Fee Protests AGENCY: U.S. Customs Service; Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Customs Service is providing guidance to the public on procedures which should be followed when filing protests concerning the calculation, collection and demand for payment for user fees and other issues. This notice is intended to clarify procedures which should be followed by parties filing protests and provide information on the treatment Customs will give protests once they have been received. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David Kahne, Program Manager, User Fee Task Force, U.S. Customs Service (202) 927&hyph;0159. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: At the present time, there exists a certain level of confusion regarding the filing and processing of protests concerning the calculation, collection and demand for payment resulting from audit findings of Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) user fees, the Merchandise Processing Fee (MPF), and the Harbor Maintenance Fees (HMF). Protests concerning these user fees are being received at various Customs locations throughout the United States, and requests for guidance have been received from the public and Customs field managers as to where these protests should be filed and how Customs will process them. Customs intends to amend Part 174 of Title 19, Code of Federal Regulations, to provide specific procedures for the filing of user fee-related protests. In the meantime, this notice is published to provide flexibility in the filing of protests, accommodate the public's desire for local accountability, and provide guidance as to Customs preference regarding where protests should be filed. In addition, Customs seeks to comply with the Court of International Trade decision rendered in Norfolk and Western Railway Co. v. United States, et al., CIT Slip Op. 94&hyph;16 (Feb. 1, 1994), which held that user fee-related protests may be filed, in accordance with ยง24.73, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 24.73) at Customs headquarters. Accordingly, while Customs will continue to accept user fee-related protests at headquarters, Customs feels it serves the convenience of the public as well as that of the government to show a level of flexibility on this issue and also accept protests filed in locations more convenient to the public. To this end, it is suggested that the guidelines below be followed. I. Protests Concerning the Constitutionality of the Harbor Maintenance Fee on Exports A. Place of Filing Protests concerning the constitutionality of the Harbor Maintenance Fee (HMF) on exports should be sent to the U.S. Customs Service, National Finance Center, at the following address: Director, National Finance Center, U.S. Customs Service, 6026 Lakeside Blvd., Indianapolis, IN 46278, Attn: Revenue Branch, HMF Protest Team. Only protests which specifically concern the constitutionality of the HMF should be sent to this address. HMF protests which do not concern the constitutionality of the fee, and protests relating to user fees other than the HMF, are not covered by this procedure. See below for additional guidance. B. Form of Protests HMF constitutionality protests may be filed on Customs Form 19, or in letter form, or in the form of statements of protest affixed or appended to Customs Form 349, Quarterly Summary Report. Each protest should reference an Employer Identification Number (EIN), Internal Revenue Service (IRS) number, Customs-assigned number, or Social Security Number (SSN). C. Time of Filing Protests which concern the constitutionality of the HMF on exports should be filed in accordance with 19 U.S.C. 1514 within 90 days after the date on which each quarterly payment is due. HMF payments are due within 31 days following the end of each calendar quarter. Example: A protest filed for the calendar quarter ending March 31 would be due no later than July 30 (end of quarter: March 31; HMF payment due within 31 days: no later than May 1; protest due within 90 days of payment date: no later than July 30). D. Level of Specificity User fee-related protests should be of a level of specificity and detail equivalent to that required by ยง174.13, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 174.13). Details of the circumstances surrounding the calculation, collection, or demands for payment, as well as amounts of fees due and dates paid, should be included. Protests received by the Customs Service which do not conform to the required level of specificity will be considered incomplete, and notices will be sent to protestants which describe the additional information required. Such protests will be held until 30 days following the date of the notice that the protest is incomplete, or until expiration of the 90-day period within which such protests may be filed (90 days from the dates that the fee payments are due), whichever is longer. During this time, protestants may submit the additional information. If the requested additional information is not received prior to the expiration of this period, protests will be denied on the grounds that they are incomplete. II. Other User Fee-Related Protests, Including Other HMF Protests A. Place of Filing 1. Protests of user fee collections, calculations or demands for payment:
