FR940513-1-00085 FR940513-1-00017 Alyeska estimated that the additional amount of energy that could be conserved by recovering (instead of incinerating) tanker vapors at the VMT would be as great or greater than the energy that could be saved by recovering tanker vapors at all other U.S. crude oil loading marine terminals combined (about 250,000 barrels at current throughput). Both recovery and incineration result in other air pollutants including particulate matter (PM), sulfur oxides (SO X ), nitrogen oxides (NO X ), carbon monoxide (CO), and carbon dioxide (CO 2 ). Vapor recovery may be more advantageous when considering the overall contribution of all pollutants to the environment. The proposed standard does not treat a facility such as the VMT as a separate category or subcategory. However, the EPA is still considering whether these characteristics described above are sufficient to warrant treatment of a facility like the VMT as a separate subcategory, and is requesting additional information and public comments on this issue. Comment is also requested on the extent to which these factors, largely related to recovery devices, should be considered if such a facility can use an incinerator. Additional information is sought on the extent to which factors such as a different detonator device are relevant to the decision. The EPA also invites comment on Alyeska's suggestion that a VOC reduction requirement less stringent than 95 percent is appropriate for a terminal in an ozone attainment area in an extreme northern climate where ozone formation is not a practical concern. The EPA will evaluate all information and comments submitted in making a final determination before promulgation of the standard. Alyeska states that diminishing throughput could eliminate the need for control equipment at all berths in the future; if throughput continues to decline, the VMT will eventually be able to handle the entire throughput at only two berths instead of the four available berths. Alyeska has raised an issue concerning the need to control the berths normally not in use if they are used for ``emergency purposes.'' The issue is independent of the choice of control systems and would not be considered in a determination of whether it is appropriate to put the VMT in a separate subcategory. However, the EPA may evaluate a regulatory approach which requires full control of emissions at the primary loading berths, but allows occasional use of uncontrolled berths. This type of regulatory scenario assumes that emissions from the uncontrolled berths would be negligible when compared to emissions to the controlled berths. For the EPA to evaluate such an approach requires VMT to provide detailed information on the impacts and tradeoffs for various scenarios of the controlled versus uncontrolled berths. The EPA is requesting comments on this type of approach, including the need to limit frequency of use or mass emissions, and the details that should be in the rule to ensure compliance. If facilities with characteristics like the VMT were in a separate subcategory, the MACT floor would appear to be no control. The EPA would consider requiring control levels more stringent than the MACT floor. The tradeoffs between incineration and vapor recovery would be considered in this determination, and also in the determination of RACT under section 183(f). The declining throughput and its affect on the number of berths would also be considered in this decision. Alyeska is still studying the total impacts associated with vapor recovery systems. Currently, Alyeska has not yet provided the EPA with the control efficiency of the recovery process, the energy requirements, costs, or the secondary pollutants associated with recovery; nor has Alyeska provided evidence showing that a 93 or 95 percent reduction in emissions of HAP using a recovery device is infeasible at VMT. Moreover, given that the EPA's definition of VOC does not include methane and ethane, there is some question as to whether a 95 percent reduction in VOC is in fact possible using recovery at the VMT. Additional information is also needed on the declining throughput, its effect on the number of berths controlled, and the tradeoffs involved. The EPA could possibly consider the trade-offs among HAP, VOC, PM, SO X , NO X , CO and CO 2 in addition to energy savings when evaluating recovery versus incineration. The EPA invites comment on whether a regulatory approach that would allow the use of a less stringent vapor recovery system at the VMT is permissible and appropriate under the Act. Such comments should include the consideration of tradeoffs between HAP, other pollutants, energy, and whether consideration of such tradeoffs is permissible under sections 112 and 183(f). Before promulgating a final rule, the EPA will evaluate all additional information, data, and comments submitted. Based on this evaluation, the promulgated standards could be set at the proposed RACT and MACT levels, but the EPA will examine all information relevant to including a separate subcategory for large crude terminals and establishing a different MACT level for each subcategory.
