FR940812-2-00270 FR940812-2-00100 OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE Accession to the European Union by Austria, Finland, Norway and Sweden: Request for Comments; Trade Policy Staff Committee; Public Comments on Market Access Implications of Accession of Austria, Finland, Norway and Sweden to the European Union (EU) AGENCY: Office of the United States Trade Representative. ACTION: Request for written submissions from the public regarding the market access implications of accession of Austria, Finland, Norway and Sweden to the European Union. SUMMARY: Austria, Finland, Norway and Sweden signed a treaty of accession on June 24, 1994 with the European Union. This treaty is expected to be ratified by the end of 1994 and implemented on January 1, 1995. The Trade Policy Staff Committee (TPSC) requests written submissions from the public concerning the market access implications of the EU accession of these four countries, for U.S. production and trade in goods and services. These items would include any expected increases in tariff rates in the four countries due to their application of the EU's common external tariff. DATE: Submissions must be received on or before noon, September 16, 1994. ADDRESS: Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, 600 17th Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20506 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Kasper, Director for EFTA Affairs (202&hyph;395&hyph;3320), Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, 600 17th Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20506. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On June 24, 1994, Austria, Finland, Norway and Sweden signed a treaty of accession with the European Union (EU) and its member states. This treaty is expected to be ratified by the end of 1994 and implemented on January 1, 1995. Under Article XXIV: 7(a) of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), GATT contracting parties must formally notify the GATT of their intention to enter into a customs union, such as the European Union. A GATT working party will then be established to examine the proposed customs union in relation to the standards of Article XXIV, including the rule that the ``duties and other regulations of commerce imposed *␣*␣* in respect of trade with contracting parties not parties to such union *␣*␣* shall not on the whole be higher or ore restrictive than the general incidence of the duties and other regulations of commerce applicable in the constituent territories prior to the formation of such union *␣*␣*'' The GATT working party will examine the agreement to determine whether the duties and trade regulations of the enlarged EU will be higher or more restrictive with respect to the EU's trading partners than the duties and trade regulations of the EU and the four countries individually prior to accession. Under the treaty of accession, Austria, Finland, Norway and Sweden will begin to apply the EU's trade regime, including the EU's common external tariff schedule, for almost all items, on January 1, 1995. While the United States has yet to receive trade information from the European Union upon which to evaluate the expected trade consequences of this accession, it is likely that U.S. production and trade in some sectors will be adversely affected. If a country joining a customs union plans to raise a duty rate which is bound in its GATT schedule of concessions, it may renegotiate the tariff concession under GATT Article XXIV: 6 and the procedures of Article XXVIII. This renegotiation may result in the provision of tariff compensation (reduction of duties) covering an equivalent value of trade. The Chairman of the Trade Policy Staff Committee invites written submissions from the public on the expected implications of the accession treaty on access to the markets of Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, or the existing EU member states for U.S. products and services. Submissions will be used in decisions regarding U.S. negotiating priorities with respect to the EU enlargement. The information obtained from these submissions will be considered during the GATT working party examination of the EU accession and the GATT Article XXIV: 6 tariff compensation negotiations. Submissions should describe the product or service in question, and, in the case of products, should include the Harmonized System tariff heading(s). Submissions should describe the present market access for the products or services, including value and quantity of exports, any existing problems, and should identify the changes that are expected to result from the implementation of the accession treaty. Submissions may also include recommendations for appropriate compensation to be sought for instances of diminished market access. These recommendations could include such items as reductions in the EU common external tariff on goods, improvements to EU market access commitments on services, or other changes in the EU trade regime for goods and services. Comments must be submitted in English and provided in twenty copies to Carolyn Frank, Secretary of the Trade Policy Staff Committee, Room 414, 600 17th Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20506, no later than 12:00 noon on Friday, September 16, 1994. Public Inspection of Submissions Except for information granted ``business confidential'' status pursuant to 15 CFR 2003.6, submissions will be available for public inspection by appointment at the USTR Public Reading Room, in room 101, Office of the United States Trade Representative, 600 17th Street, NW, Washington, D.C. An appointment to review the file may be made by calling Brenda Webb, (202) 395&hyph;6186. The USTR Reading Room is open to the public from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon and from 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Any business confidential material must be clearly marked as such on the cover letter or page and each succeeding page, and must be accompanied by a nonconfidential summary of the confidential information. The nonconfidential summary will be open to public inspection. Frederick L. Montgomery, Chairman, Trade Policy Staff Committee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19704 Filed 8&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3190&hyph;01&hyph;M
