FR940504-2-00044 FR940504-2-00040 The Board has previously determined in §§225.25(b)(9) and 225.25(b)(3) of Regulation Y that the operation of a savings association and a trust company, respectively, are activities closely related to banking and permissible for bank holding companies. Applicant states that DSSB and DTC will be operated in accordance with these sections. DSSB operates out of a principal office in Paramus, New Jersey, has a branch office in San Francisco, California, and has received approval from the Office of Thrift Supervision to open 13 additional interstate offices. Applicant asserts that DRA's real estate-related investment activities are permissible under §225.25(b)(4) of Regulation Y. Applicant has committed that DRA will cease to engage in any activities that are impermissible for bank holding companies or their nonbank subsidiaries and that all subsidiaries of DRA will cease to engage in impermissible activities or be divested within 2 years after consummation of the proposed transaction. According to Applicant, the direct and indirect investments of Truepenny and Trotwood are authorized under §225.25(b)(6) of Regulation Y as equity and debt investments in corporations or projects designed primarily to promote community welfare. Applicant asserts that the Queens West Redevelopment Project is designed to make affordable housing available to persons of lower middle income and will create significant employment opportunities for low- and moderate-income communities. Applicant contends that its proposed investments in DPM, MTC and DAC are authorized under section 4(c)(7) of the BHC Act, which permits bank holding companies to acquire shares of investment companies that engage solely in acquiring 5 percent or less of the securities of other companies. With respect to the role of DPM as non-managing general partner to 2 mutual funds, Applicant claims that DPM engages only in investment activity permitted by section 4(c)(7) of the BHC Act and that the managing general partners have complete and exclusive control over the management, conduct and operation of the funds' business. Applicant commits to reduce any investment of DPM, MTC and DAC to below the 5% threshold in section 4(c)(7) of the BHC Act, including limited partnership interests that qualify as voting securities under §225.2(p) of Regulation Y. In publishing the proposal for comment, the Board does not take a position on issues raised by the proposal. Notice of the proposal is published solely in order to seek the views of interested persons on the issues presented by the application and does not represent a determination by the Board that the proposal meets, or is likely to meet, the standards of the BHC Act. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted in writing and received by William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551, not later than May 30, 1994. Any request for a hearing on this application must, as required by §262.3(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(e)), be accompanied by a statement of the reasons why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. This application may be inspected at the offices of the Board of Governors or the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, April 28, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secreary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10690 Filed 5&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P&hyph;M
