FR940204-2-00139 FR940204-2-00096 4. Five of the nine members of applicant's board of directors are direct descendants of Heber J. Grant. The other directors consist of a high governing official of the LDS Church, former and current officers of applicant's subsidiary, and a former president of a principal insurance customer of applicant's subsidiary that is the real estate arm of the LDS Church. 5. For more than fifteen years, applicant has furnished annually to its shareholders consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Applicant intends to continue to provide such annual financial statements to its shareholders. Such financial statements will not be audited because of the small amount of the assets involved and the limited nature of applicant's operations. Applicant's Legal Analysis 1. Section 3(a)(3) of the Act generally provides that an investment company includes any issuer that is engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities, and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40 percent of the value of such issuer's total unconsolidated assets. Applicant states that it currently is not subject to the Act because of the nature of the assets and operations conducted by its insurance subsidiary. After applicant's disposal of its subsidiary, investment securities will constitute applicant's principal assets. Accordingly, applicant may be subject to the Act. 2. Section 3(c)(1) of the Act excepts from the definition of ``investment company'' any issuer whose outstanding securities are beneficially owned by not more than 100 persons and which is not making, and does not presently propose to make, a public offering of its securities. Applicant asserts that section 3(c)(1) was not intended to include ``private'' investment companies within the purview of the Act and that under section 6(c) the SEC may exempt private investment companies that have more than 100 beneficial owners. See Maritime Corporation, 9 SEC 906, 909 (1941). Applicant contends that its request for a conditional order under section 6(c) of the Act is consistent with relief granted to other private investment companies substantially owned and controlled by a single family. See, e.g., Bessemer Securities Corporation, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18529 (notice) (Feb. 5, 1992) and 18594 (order) (March 3, 1992); Richardson Corporation, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 16566 (notice) (Sept. 22, 1988) and 16606 (order) (Oct. 21, 1988); 5600, Inc., Investment Company Act Release Nos. 16004 (notice) (Sept. 25, 1987) and 16067 (order) (Oct. 21, 1987). These orders were issued subject to restrictions that ensured that the investment vehicles would remain family controlled, private enterprises. 3. Applicant seeks a conditional order under section 6(c) of the Act to exempt it from all provisions of the Act and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Applicant states that it is essentially a closely-held, private company for which the protections provided to investors under the Act are not necessary or appropriate in the public interest. Applicant represents that it does not seek additional capital through the sale of securities, but focuses its investment strategy on preserving, protecting, and obtaining appreciation on the capital accumulated as a result of the business activities of its founder during his lifetime. Applicant asserts that after disposition of its insurance subsidiary, it will remain a private investment vehicle for the continuation of the business and investment principles of its founder. Applicant states that it has not taken any steps to facilitate development of a trading market for applicant's common stock, and that conditions 5 and 6, as stated below, ensure that applicant will continue to be at least 80 percent owned by the categories of shareholders that currently hold applicant's stock. 4. Applicant states that, in accordance with the Utah Revised Business Corporation Act, it will adopt an amendment to its articles of incorporation that will provide a corporate right of redemption tantamount to a right of refusal in the event that an existing shareholder proposes to sell shares of applicant's stock to a person not included in the category of shareholders described in condition 4. Applicant believes that this right of redemption will enable applicant to maintain its essentially private nature. 5. Applicant believes that the requested exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. Applicant's Conditions If the requested relief is granted, applicants agree to the following conditions: 1. Applicant will continue to hold annual meetings of its stockholders for the purpose of electing directors and transacting such other business as may properly come before such meetings.
