FR941007-2-00135 FR941007-2-00083 The Secretary will announce the final funding priorities in a notice in the Federal Register . The final priorities will be determined by responses to this notice, available funds, and other considerations of the Department. Funding of particular projects depends on the final priorities, the availability of funds, and the quality of the applications received. The publication of these proposed priorities does not preclude the Secretary from proposing additional priorities, nor does it limit the Secretary to funding only these priorities, subject to meeting applicable rulemaking requirements. Note: This notice of proposed priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under this competition will be published in the Federal Register concurrent with or following publication of the notice of final priorities. Priorities Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary proposes to give an absolute preference to applications that meet one of the following priorities. The Secretary proposes to fund under this program only applications that meet one of these absolute priorities: Proposed Priority 1: Accommodations for Individuals With Disabilities in Adult Education Programs Background In fiscal year 1991 Adult Education (AE) programs funded under the Adult Education Act (P.L. 100&hyph;297, as amended) served over 3.7 million people in Adult Basic Education, Adult Secondary Education, and English-as-a-Second-Language programs. Adult Education programs serve persons who are educationally disadvantaged, including individuals with all types of disabilities. The Office of Vocational and Adult Education estimates that at least 30 percent of the persons in AE programs have a disability. Adults (aged 16 years or older) with disabilities are enrolled in AE programs throughout the States and territories in local educational agencies, community colleges, community-based organizations, mental hospitals, rehabilitation and correctional facilities, and other facilities serving individuals with disabilities (U.S. Department of Education, Adult Learning and Literacy Clearinghouse, Fact Sheet 9, February 1994). Because they are educationally disadvantaged, some individuals with disabilities in AE programs may need accommodations. These accommodations may involve the modification of policies, practices, or procedures, or the provision of auxiliary aids and services (e.g., relaxed time requirements for tests, interpreters). Published efforts to identify accommodations for adults with disabilities in AE programs have focused on administering tests and diagnostic assessments (American Council on Education, ``GED Test Accommodations,'' Washington, D.C., 1990; American Council on Education, ``External Diploma Program Assessment Accommodations and Modifications for Adults with Special Learning Needs,'' Washington, D.C., 1990). In addition to testing and assessment accommodations, individuals with disabilities in AE programs may require accommodations related to the presentation of instructional materials, alternative formats to print materials, notetakers, alternatives to written assignments, practicums, scheduling, and a variety of other educational tasks and requirements. Adult Education administrators and teachers need to understand not only their obligations under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended, but also the resources that are available to enable them to provide the accommodations. Similarly, students with disabilities in AE programs need to understand their rights, articulate their needs, and identify the accommodations that will assist them to meet the program's requirements. Proposed Priority An R&D project on accommodations for individuals with disabilities in Adult Education programs shall_ •Survey the nature and extent to which a representative sample of AE programs are providing programmatic accommodations to students with disabilities and determine the relationship between the provision of those accommodations and program outcomes for those students (e.g., graduation rates, program completion, career advancement, etc.); •Identify and evaluate effective programmatic accommodations for individuals with disabilities in AE programs, and develop recommendations for the development of new accommodations, including, but not limited to, accommodations related to testing, presentation of instructional materials, alternative formats to print materials, notetakers, alternatives to written assignments, practicums, and scheduling;
