FR940825-1-00073 FR940825-1-00008 §812.12 Prohibition of assistance to noncitizen students. (a) General. The provisions of §§812.10 and 812.11, permitting continued assistance, prorated assistance or temporary deferral of termination of assistance for certain families, do not apply to any person who is determined to be a noncitizen student, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, or the family of the noncitizen student, as described in paragraph (c) of this section. (b) Noncitizen student. For purposes of this part, a noncitizen student is defined as a noncitizen who: (1) Has a residence in a foreign country that the person has no intention of abandoning; (2) Is a bona fide student qualified to pursue a full course of study; and (3) Is admitted to the United States temporarily and solely for purposes of pursuing such a course of study at an established institution of learning or other recognized place of study in the United States, particularly designated by such person and approved by the Attorney General after consultation with the Department of Education of the United States, which institution or place of study shall have agreed to report to the Attorney General the termination of attendance of each nonimmigrant student (and if any such institution of learning or place of study fails to make such reports promptly the approval shall be withdrawn). (c) Family of noncitizen student. The prohibition on providing assistance to a noncitizen student as described in paragraph (a) of this section also extends to the noncitizen spouse of the noncitizen student and minor children of any noncitizen student if the spouse or children are accompanying the student or following to join such student. The prohibition on providing assistance to a noncitizen student does not extend to the citizen spouse of the noncitizen student and the children of the citizen spouse and noncitizen student. §812.13 Compliance with nondiscrimination requirements. The responsible entity shall administer the restrictions on use of assisted housing by noncitizens with ineligible immigration status imposed by this part in conformity with the nondiscrimination requirements of, including, but not limited to, title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d&hyph;2000d&hyph;5), section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601&hyph;3619), and the regulations implementing these statutes, and other civil rights statutes cited in the applicable program regulations. These statutes prohibit, among other things, discriminatory practices on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, religion, age, disability and familial status in the provision of housing. §812.14 Protection from liability for responsible entities, State, local, and tribal government agencies and officials. (a) Protection from liability for responsible entities. HUD will not take any compliance, disallowance, penalty, or other regulatory action against a responsible entity with respect to any error in its determination of eligibility for financial assistance based on citizenship or immigration status: (1) If the responsible entity established eligibility based upon verification of eligible immigration status through the verification system described in §812.8; (2) Because the responsible entity was required to provide an opportunity for the family to submit evidence in accordance with §812.6; (3) Because the responsible entity was required to wait for completion of INS verification of immigration status in accordance with §812.8; (4) Because the responsible entity was required to wait for completion of the INS appeal process provided in accordance with §812.9(e); or (5) Because the responsible entity was required to provide an informal hearing in accordance with §812.9(f). (b) Protection from liability for State, local and tribal government agencies and officials. State, local and tribal government agencies and officials shall not be liable for the design or implementation of the verification system described in §812.8, and the informal hearings provided under §812.9(f), as long as the implementation by the State, local or tribal government agency or official is in accordance with prescribed HUD rules and requirements. §812.15 Liability of ineligible families for reimbursement of benefits. Where a family has received the benefit of HUD financial assistance to which it was not entitled because the family intentionally misrepresented eligible status, the ineligible family is responsible for reimbursing HUD for the assistance improperly paid. If the amount of the assistance is substantial, the responsible entity is encouraged to refer the case to the HUD Regional Inspector General's office for further investigation. Possible criminal prosecution may follow based on the False Statements Act (18 U.S.C. 1001 and 1010). PART 850_HOUSING DEVELOPMENT GRANTS 28. The authority citation for part 850 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437o and 3535(d). 29. Section 850.151 would be revised by adding one sentence at the beginning of paragraph (c), by adding two sentences at the end of paragraph (f)(1), and by adding a new paragraph (f)(3), to read as follows:
