FR940804-2-00170 FR940804-2-00088 Applicant's Conditions OFA agrees that any order of the SEC granting the requested relief shall be subject to the following conditions: 1. No Guaranteed Debt Securities will be offered or sold within the United States unless: (a) They are registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (the ``Securities Act''); (b) in the opinion of United States counsel for OFA, an exemption from registration under the Securities Act is available with respect to such offer and sale; or (c) the staff of the SEC states in writing that they will not recommend that the SEC take any enforcement action under the Securities Act if such securities are offered and sold in the United States without registration. 2. All borrowings by OFA, including the issuance by OFA of the Guaranteed Debt Securities, will be effected in accordance with the provisions of the Capital Investment Act and any applicable regulations and by-laws promulgated thereunder. All investments of funds of OFA and any Pubic Sector Client will be made by OFA in accordance with the requirements of the Capital Investment Act and any applicable regulations and by-laws promulgated thereunder. All temporary investments by OFA will be made in accordance with the requirements of the Capital Investment Act and any applicable regulations and by-laws promulgated thereunder. 3. The payment of principal of, and any interest or premium on, all Guaranteed Debt Securities issued by OFA will be irrevocably and unconditionally guaranteed by the Province pursuant to an order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council under the FAA. 4. Applicant and the Province will expressly submit to the jurisdiction of any state or federal court in the City or State of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Guaranteed Debt Securities and the Provincial Guarantee, and Applicant and the Province will agree that all claims in respect of such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or in any such federal court. Applicant and the Province also will waive the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such action or proceeding. Applicant and the Province will appoint an agent for service of process with an office in New York, New York, as agent to receive on behalf of Applicant and the Province service of copies of the summons and complaint and any other process which may be served in any such action or proceeding. Such consent to jurisdiction and appointment of an agent for service of process will be irrevocable until all amounts due and payable in respect of any such Guaranteed Debt Securities have been paid. Applicant will agree to explicitly waive any immunity it may have from jurisdiction and from execution or attachment or any process in the nature thereof in respect of any suit, action, or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Guaranteed Debt Securities. The Province will agree to explicitly waive any immunity the Province may have from jurisdiction in respect of any such action. 5. In respect of any action or proceeding brought with respect to such Guaranteed Debt Securities or Provincial Guarantee instituted in any state or federal court in the United States (other than any action or proceeding in any New York State or federal court in New York City referred to in the preceding paragraph), each of OFA and the Province will agree to accept service of process by any form of mail requiring a signed receipt effected in accordance with Sections 1608(b)(3)(B) and 1608(a)(3), respectively, of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 (28 U.S.C. 1608). In agreeing to accept such service of process in any such action or proceeding, neither OFA nor the Province will waive any claim of sovereign immunity it may have with respect to itself or its property in any such action or proceeding, consent to the subject matter jurisdiction or jurisdiction in personam of any such court, agree that any such court is a proper forum for any such action or proceeding, or waive any rights it may have to remove any such action or proceeding from state court to federal court. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18962 Filed 8&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
