FR940927-0-00042 FR940927-0-00007 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement 30 CFR Part 756 Navajo Nation Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation (AMLR) Plan AGENCY: Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM), Interior. ACTION: Final rule; approval of amendment and concurrence with certification of completion of coal reclamation. SUMMARY: Under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA), OSM is approving a proposed amendment to the Navajo Nation's AMLR plan (hereinafter referred to as the ``Navajo Nation plan'') and, on behalf of the Secretary of the Interior, in concurring with the Navajo Nation's certification that the Navajo Nation has abated or reclaimed all coal-related AML problems on its lands under the Navajo Nation plan. The amendment, which the Navajo Nation proposed in order for its plan to meet the requirements of the Federal regulations and SMCRA, to clarify ambiguities, and to improve operational efficiency, consists of statute and rule revisions pertaining to reclamation of interim program abandoned coal mines, coal priorities, certification of completion of coal reclamation, establishment of a noncoal reclamation program subsequent to certification including the authority to undertake community impact assistance and public facilities projects, and creation of a future reclamation set-aside fund. OSM's concurrence with the Navajo Nation's certification of the completion of all coal-related problems, which was requested by the President of the Navajo Nation, means that the Navajo Nation is now authorized to use monies from the Navajo Abandoned Mine Reclamation (AMR) fund for noncoal reclamation purposes, including the construction of public facilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Thomas E. Ehmett, Telephone: (505) 766&hyph;1486. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background on Title IV of SMCRA Title IV of SMCRA establishes an AMLR program for the purposes of reclaiming and restoring lands and waters adversely affected by past mining. It also provides for Tribal or State submittal to OSM of an AMLR plan. The Secretary of the Interior adopted regulations in 30 CFR 870 through 888 that implement Title IV of SMCRA. Under these regulations, the Secretary reviewed the Tribe's or State's AMLR plan and solicited and considered comments of State and Federal agencies and the public. Based upon the comments received, the Secretary determined whether a Tribe or State had the ability and necessary legislation to implement the provisions of Title IV. After making such a determination, the Secretary decided whether to approve the Tribe or State AMLR plan. Approval granted the Tribe or State exclusive authority to administer its approved plan. Following approval of a Tribe's or State's AMLR plan by the Secretary, an application may be submitted to OSM by a Tribe or State on an annual basis for funds to be expended by that Tribe or State on specific projects necessary to implement the approved plan. Such annual grant applications are reviewed and approved by OSM in accordance with the requirements of 30 CFR 886.
