FR940919-2-00090 FR940919-2-00046 The new process will result in correct decisions at the earliest possible point in the process. A correct disability decision is one that appropriately considers whether an individual does or does not meet the factors of entitlement for disability as defined by SSA's statute, regulations, rulings and policies. Correct decisions in the new process depend on: a simplified decision methodology that provides a common frame of reference for deciding disability at all levels of the process; consistent direction and training to all adjudicators; enhanced and targeted collection and development of medical evidence; an automated and integrated claim processing system that will assist adjudicators in evidence gathering, analysis and decisionmaking; and a single, comprehensive quality review process across all levels. The goal of the new process is to guide all adjudicators at all levels of the process, who will be using the same standards for decisionmaking, to making correct decisions in an easier, faster, and more cost-effective manner. A disability claim manager will handle most aspects of the disability claim at the initial level, thus eliminating many steps caused by numerous employees handling discrete parts of the claim (handoffs) and the time lost as the claim waits at each employee's workstation to be handled (queues). This will reduce the time needed to rework files and redevelop information from the same evidentiary sources. Levels of appeal will be combined and improved, reducing the need to redevelop nonmedical eligibility factors after a favorable decision because less time will have elapsed since initial filing. The new process will enable the current work force to handle an increased number of claims, freeing the most highly specialized staff (physicians and ALJs) to work on those cases and tasks that make the best use of their talents, and targeting expenditures for medical evidence to those areas most useful in determining disability. Employees will perform a wider range of functions, using their skills to their full potential, enabling them to meet the needs of claimants and minimize unnecessary rework. The new process will facilitate employees' ability to do the total job by providing technology and the training and support to use that technology. [ For ease of reference, references in this plan to ``SSA'' or ``employees'' include both Federal and State employees who participate in the disability process. ] Process Entry and Intake Customized Intake and Entry The disability claim entry and intake processes will reflect the SSA commitment to providing world-class service to the public. The hallmarks of the process will be accessible, personal service that ensures timely and accurate decisions. SSA will work to make potential claimants better informed about the disability process and fully prepare them to participate in it. Every effort will be made to provide services to meet the needs of culturally diverse, non-English speaking claimants. SSA will also be flexible in providing modes of access to the claim process that best meet the needs of claimants and the third parties and representatives who act on their behalf. SSA will provide claimants with a single point of contact for all disability claim-related business. Finally, SSA will ensure that the disability decisionmaking process promotes timely and accurate decisions. Making Program Information Available SSA will make available to the general public comprehensive information packets about the DI and SSI disability programs. [ For ease of reference, references in this plan to the SSI Disability Program include the Program for those who are blind. ] The packets will include information about the purpose of the disability programs; the definition of disability; the basic requirements of the programs; a description of the adjudication process; the types of evidence needed to establish disability; and the claimant's role in pursuing a claim. The packets may be customized locally to include referral information about other programs and resources for legal representation. The goal is to target the information to likely beneficiaries and to ensure that potential claimants and other groups involved in the disability process have a better understanding of SSA disability programs, their medical and nonmedical requirements, and the nature of the decisionmaking process. This should result in reduction of general inquiries from members of the public unfamiliar with SSA disability programs and increase the number of claimants who enter the disability process knowledgeable and prepared to assume responsibility for pursuing their claims. SSA will make disability information packets commonly available in the community, both at facilities frequented by the general public (libraries, neighborhood resource centers, post offices, the Department of Veterans Affairs offices, and other Federal government installations) and at facilities frequented by potential claimants (hospitals, clinics, other health care providers, schools, employer personnel offices, State public assistance offices, insurance companies, and advocacy groups or third-party organizations that assist individuals in pursuing disability claims). SSA studies have shown that claimants frequently rely on advice from their physicians and from State public assistance personnel in deciding whether to file a claim for disability benefits. Therefore, SSA will make a special effort to target its public information activities at these and other known sources of referrals for claims. SSA will also make the disability information packets available electronically.
