FR941205-0-00088 FR941205-0-00024 21. As noted above, Section 614(h)(1)(C) directs the Commission, when considering ADI modification requests, to promote localism by taking into account the four factors listed in that section. Press Broadcasting Company, Inc. (``Press''), the licensee of WKCF (TV), Clermont, Florida, seeks clarification or partial reconsideration of the types of evidence the Commission has indicated that it will consider in assessing proposed changes in a station's must-carry market. 22. We clarify that the two factors mentioned in the Report and Order are merely examples of the types of evidence that might be considered in a request to modify an ADI. The Commission purposely did not restrict the types of evidence that may be used to demonstrate that a station's must-carry market should be modified. The Commission declined to prejudge the importance of any of the factors set forth in the statute, noting that each case will be unique. Accordingly, we note that the factors suggested by Press may be employed by parties to show the appropriateness of altering a station's must-carry market, although the importance of such factors may differ from one situation to the next. 9 9 We note that, in stating that a station may demonstrate that it is located close to the community in terms of mileage, a station may present evidence, as suggested by Press, regarding the distance between the cable community and the station's community of license, transmitter, or other aspect of the station's operation. 23. Section 76.51 Top 100 Market List. Section 614(f) of the 1992 Cable Act directs the Commission to issue regulations that include revisions needed to update the list of top 100 television markets and their designated communities contained in §76.51. Although the Notice sought guidance on how to fulfill this requirement, the comments were general in nature and did not offer a mechanism for revising the top 100 market list, including criteria for determining when a city of license should become a designated community in a television market. Accordingly, the Commission concluded in the Report and Order that a wholesale revision of §76.51 was unnecessary and stated that it would only update the existing list by adding those designated communities requested by parties providing specific evidence that a particular market change is warranted. The Commission made three specific market modifications, and stated that further revisions to this list would be made on a case-by-case basis. The Commission stated that requests for modification should demonstrate ``commonality'' between the proposed community to be added to a market designation and the market as a whole, and that such requests would be made in accordance with the factors in Section 614(h)(1)(C) and the related rules. 24. A number of broadcast television licensees in Columbus, Ohio filed petitions for reconsideration respecting the addition of Chillicothe to the Columbus, Ohio television market. These petitioners allege that the Commission's action was taken without sufficient notice to interested parties and was therefore based on an inadequate factual record. 25. As noted above, the APA requires an agency, when issuing a general notice of proposed rule making, to provide the public with ``either the terms or the substance of a proposed rule or a description of the subject and issues involved,'' but ``does not require an agency to publish in advance every precise proposal which it may ultimately adopt as a rule.'' In the Notice, the Commission specifically requested that interested parties ``comment on what modifications to the television markets specified in §76.51 of our rules is needed to ensure that it reflects current market realities.'' In so doing, the Commission observed that this proceeding necessarily overlaps with an ongoing proceeding involving, inter alia, the makeup of the §76.51 market list in relation to the Commission's program exclusivity rules. 10 Therefore, the Commission explicitly stated that Docket 87&hyph;24 would be reopened for further comment in the context of this rulemaking in order to facilitate coordination of the overlapping aspects of the two proceedings. 11 10 Further, the pendency of Triplett's request to modify the Columbus, Ohio television market is referenced in Docket No. 87&hyph;24, 3 FCC 2d at 6176 n. 15, which was incorporated into the instant proceeding. 11 In response to the Notice in this proceeding, the proponents of three previously-filed market change petitions for rulemaking filed comments which incorporated by reference their rulemaking petitions and urged the adoption of their §76.51 market amendment proposals. One of these proponents, Star Cable Associates (``Star''), operator of a cable television system serving the community of Brazoria, Texas, and portions of Brazoria County, Texas, filed a petition for reconsideration based on the concept that although the Commission granted other requests to modify existing television markets, the Commission did not act on Star's request to amend §76.51 to add the community of Alvin to the Houston, Texas market. Star states that it has had such a request pending before the Commission since January 1991. Star's comments to the Notice in this proceeding were incorporated into and filed with Adelphia, et al. and included numerous other cable operators. These parties were arguing that the Commission need not revise the §76.51 market list, stating that ``[n]o revision to this list is needed to implement the must-carry rules since the current ADI markets are to be used for determining must-carry rights.'' It was suggested in those comments that the Commission ``might wish to update the list *␣*␣* to add new communities to existing markets for stations which have gone on the air since the list was last revised'' and, in that context noted the copyright consequences explained in the pending petition regarding the Houston market. However, neither Adelphia nor Star specifically requested action in the must-carry context on Star's pending petition for rulemaking. Under these circumstances, we do not believe that it was erroneous to defer action on the Star petition.
