FR940506-2-00021 FR940506-2-00009 During the course of such meetings, the following information may be exchanged: a. Information that is generally available to the public. b. Information that is specific to a particular Export Market, including but not limited to, reports and forecasts of sales, prices, terms, customer needs, selling strategies, and product specifications. c. Information on expenses specific to exporting to a particular Export Market, including, but not limited to, ocean freight to the terminal or port, terminal or port storage, wharfage and handling charges, insurance, agents' commissions, export sales documentation and service, and export sales financing. d. Information on U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations affecting sales to a particular Export Market. e. Information on AHH's activities in the Export Markets, including, but not limited to, customer complaints and quality problems, visits by foreign customers, and reports by foreign sales representatives. f. Information on each Member's ability to supply Products in a timely fashion pursuant to a specific export order. 3. AHH may enter into exclusive or non-exclusive agreements with other Export Intermediaries for the sale of Products in the Export Markets. Exclusive agreements are those wherein the Export Intermediary agrees to represent only AHH and/or its Members in the sale of Products and to provide Export Trade Facilitation Services only to AHH and/or its Members. 4. AHH may enter into exclusive agreements with foreign customers of Products offered by AHH whereby the customer agrees not to purchase Products from entities other than AHH. 5. Either with AHH's Members and/or Export Intermediaries with which AHH has entered into agreements pursuant to paragraph 3 above, AHH may discuss and agree on export prices to be charged by AHH, AHH's Members, or Export Intermediaries. 6. AHH may limit its membership. 7. AHH may publish and distribute a list of export prices for Products to be charged by AHH, AHH's Members, and Export Intermediaries with which AHH has entered into agreements pursuant to paragraph 3 above. 8. AHH may allocate orders for export sales, and divide profits from such sales among AHH's Members as provided in the membership agreement between AHH and AHH's Members. 9. AHH and/or AHH's Members may forward to the appropriate individual Member requests for information received from a foreign government or the foreign government's agent (including private pre-shipment inspection firms) concerning that Member's domestic or export activities (including prices and/or costs); and if such individual Member elects to respond, the Member shall respond directly to the requesting foreign government or the foreign government's agent with respect to such information. Definitions 1. Export Intermediary means a person who acts as a distributor, sales representative, sales or marketing agent, or broker, or who performs similar functions, including providing or arranging for the provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services. 2. Member means a person who has a membership in Allegheny Highland Hardwoods, Inc. and who has been certified as a ``Member'' within the meaning of ยง325.2(1) of the Regulations. Dated: May 2, 1994. W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10893 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DR&hyph;P
