FR940304-2-00198 FR940304-2-00114 For details of the NII initiative, see The National Information Infrastructure: Agenda for Action, 58 FR 49025 (September 21, 1993). This document is available on Internet, in ASCII format through both FTP and Gopher. The FTP file name is ``niiagenda.asc.'' Address: ``ftp.ntia.doc.gov.'' Login as ``anonymous''. Use your e-mail address or guest as the password. Change directory to ``pub.'' The Gopher address is ``gopher.nist.gov.'' Login as ``gopher.'' Choose the menu item ``DOC Documents.'' Choose ``ntiaagenda.asc.'' The TIIAP will provide matching grants to state and local governments, non-profit health care providers, school districts, libraries, universities, public safety services, and other non-profit entities. Grants will be awarded after a competitive merit review process and will be used to fund projects to connect institutions to existing networks and systems, enhance communications networks and systems that are currently operational, establish new network capabilities, permit users to interconnect among different networks and systems, and bring more users on-line. Equally important, they will help leverage the resources and creativity of the private sector to devise new applications and uses of the NII. The success of these pilot projects will create an ongoing process that will generate more innovative approaches each year. Funding Availability Congress appropriated $26 million for competitive information infrastructure grants in fiscal year 1994 for the planning and construction of telecommunications networks for the enhancement of equal opportunity and the provision of educational, cultural, health care, public information, library, public safety or other social services. NTIA expects that the level of competition will be extremely high. The overall level of funding will place obvious limits on the amount of funding available for individual grants, although NTIA anticipates receiving a wide range of grant proposals. Currently, there is pending legislation to authorize an infrastructure grant program for fiscal years 1995 and 1996 that would continue to advance the goals of the grant program described in this Notice for fiscal year 1994 funds. NTIA anticipates that the pending authorization legislation will, if enacted, prescribe standards fully consistent with the criteria set forth in this Notice (criteria that are set as a matter of NTIA's administrative discretion, consistent with NTIA's existing statutory authorities; see 47 U.S.C. 392 (1991)). Nevertheless, it must be emphasized that, until new authorizing legislation is enacted, NTIA cannot unequivocally state what specific criteria it will apply in evaluating grant applications for fiscal years 1995 and 1996. Accordingly, the criteria described below apply only to fiscal year 1994 project proposals. Matching Requirements Grant recipients under this program will be required to provide matching funds toward the total project cost. NTIA will provide up to fifty per cent (50%) of the total project cost, unless extraordinary circumstances warrant a grant of up to seventy-five per cent (75%). A project will not be considered grantable unless the applicant can document a capacity both to supply matching funds, and to sustain the project beyond the period of the award. Cash matching is highly desirable; however, NTIA will allow in-kind matching on a case-by-case basis. Federal funds may not be used as matching monies. Grant funds under this program will be released in direct proportion to local matching funds raised and/or documented. Type of Funding Instrument The funding instrument for awards under this program shall be a grant. Eligibility Criteria The fiscal year 1994 grant cycle of the TIIAP is divided into two separate categories. Category One supports the efforts of all eligible applicants (state and local governments, as well as non-profit entities) to develop their information infrastructures through demonstration projects. NTIA considers this to be the principal funding category. Category Two focuses on planning grants, and is further divided into two subcategories. The first subcategory supports planning efforts that project a statewide, multi-state, or national impact. The second subcategory supports the planning efforts with an intrastate or local impact. State and local governments, as well as multi-state and/or non-profit entities are eligible to apply in all categories. Award Period Successful applicants will have between six and eighteen months to complete their projects. The actual time will vary depending on the complexity of any particular project. During the award period, NTIA has a duty to monitor and evaluate the projects it funds through the TIIAP. Typically, monitoring will involve site visits by NTIA staff and designated evaluators, informal telephone contact, and evaluation of the grantees' written reports. NTIA also expects that grantees, working with NTIA, will evaluate the results of their projects, and formalize and disseminate information about the lessons learned therefrom. Further information on NTIA's duty to monitor funded projects, as well as NTIA's evaluation expectations, is contained in the grant application kit.
