FR940207-0-00027 FR940207-0-00017 Comments were offered that the changes in the proposed rule were burdensome, would have an adverse impact on operations, and would require a significant increase in administrative and oversight effort for no apparent effort. Another comment noted a tendency to formalize good management practices into rigid contractual requirements that can only have the long-run effect of limiting the ability of management and operating contractors to respond innovatively and creatively to changing conditions. Administration of clause requirements has been substantially reduced by the deletion of requirements from the proposed Environmental Protection clause in paragraphs, at proposed DEAR 970.5204&hyph;60(c) (1), (2) and (3). These involved the need for a contractor to research laws on an ongoing basis, identify any inconsistencies that would affect performance, and to include consideration of environmental laws in planning. d. Effects of Funding on Compliance A comment was received stating that the rule did not recognize the significant joint management relationship between DOE and its management and operating contractors, that funding for compliance is controlled by DOE, that pre-existing conditions preclude strict and immediate or near-term compliance in most DOE facilities, and they create ambiguity as to an established baseline for compliance. Another comment stated that it was not clear how the provisions of the avoidable cost rule, published in the Federal Register of June 19, 1991 (56 FR 28099), relate to the proposed rule; it did not appear that a management and operating contractor would have sole and exclusive control of the required compliance actions. Resolution of these comments is outside the scope of this rule. It is appropriate for a contract to provide for compliance with applicable laws for which DOE has some enforcement responsibility role. It is also the case that a management and operating contractor's obligation to perform under a contract is contingent upon funds being obligated under the contract. Problems related to insufficient funding to comply with the law are best resolved on a case-by-case basis. e. Paperwork Burden Several commenters perceived that an additional paperwork burden would be imposed by the proposed rule. The Department does not believe that this rulemaking imposes material additional paperwork burden. The primary basis for this conclusion is as follows: to the extent that any paperwork burden exists, such requirements are already contained in state and Federal environmental laws and their implementing regulations, and thus do not result from this rule. Since current management and operating contracts state that work under the contract must be performed in compliance with applicable laws, and since the effect of the rule is simply to clarify that the requirements of all applicable environmental laws and regulations are not waived for contractors (by virtue of the fact that work is being performed for the Government under contract), the rule contains no material ``new'' requirements and therefore, no additional paperwork is required. The Department believes that the public comments on additional paperwork burden may reflect a new awareness on the part of some contractors that DOE has undergone a shift in its emphasis on environmental protection. To the extent that the rulemaking does impose information collection or recordkeeping requirements, they have been provided for under Office of Management and Budget paperwork clearance package No. 1910&hyph;0300. f. Environmental Protection Several commenters expressed concern over the identification of laws, codes, ordinances, regulations, and directives by which DOE intends to monitor compliance. It was said that the proposed rulemaking appeared to shift the burden of identifying and complying with environmental laws and regulations from the contractor to the Government. If the Government failed to list a specific law or regulation, it could call into question whether or not the contractor is obligated to comply. In response to these comments the Environmental Protection clause at paragraph (a)(21) has been revised to state, ``errors in or omissions from the list of laws above, or failure to identify a requirement having the force and effect of law, shall not be construed as waiving a requirement for the contractor to comply with such law or requirement nor shall they form the basis for a defense by the contractor in an administrative, civil, or criminal proceeding.␣*␣*␣*'' Comments were offered that the Environmental Protection clause, now at paragraphs (a)(20) and (a)(21), is open-ended and permits DOE to unilaterally modify a contract by incorporating as-yet unpublished directives into the contract. Because of the special nature of environmental protection Directives, it is appropriate that DOE have the right to require compliance with them by its management and operating contractors. This provision is not unlike that in the Safety and Health (Government Owned or Leased Facility) clause (DEAR 970.5204&hyph;2) and the Security clause (DEAR 952.204&hyph;2). If there is a persuasive reason why a management and operating contractor should not comply with a requirement in a Directive, this can be a topic of discussion during the negotiation of a contract or at any time during the performance of the contract. IV. Procedural Requirements a. Regulatory Review b. Review Under the National Environmental Policy Act c. Review Under the Paperwork Reduction Act d. Review Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act
