FR940817-2-00082 FR940817-2-00043 D. Risk Characterization To assess the public health risk associated with the use of MMT in gasoline in the United States, the available qualitative and quantitative health effects information on Mn must be related to the available exposure information. From the standpoint of a qualitative hazard identification, the available evidence amply demonstrates that inhaled Mn is toxic to the nervous system, the respiratory system, and the male reproductive system. The toxicity of Mn by different routes of exposure has been demonstrated by numerous medical reports and epidemiological and experimental studies. However, available data do not allow quantitative estimation of the relative toxicological potency of different Mn compounds or permit quantitative route-to-route extrapolations for predicting the effects of Mn 3 O 4 . The focus of the above health assessment discussion has been on the RfC and the types of risks associated with chronic Mn exposures because, for the most part, acute effect levels appear to be considerably higher than the highest projected exposure levels. However, the issue of less-than-chronic exposures does arise with respect to the potential for developmental toxicity. It is widely recognized that the human CNS develops over a period of several years, prenatally and postnatally, and can be vulnerable to long-term or irreversible effects if damage occurs during certain ``critical stages'' of development. Recent evidence from ongoing longitudinal studies of children indicates that lead (Pb) exposure (measured as blood Pb level) around 2 years of age in particular is associated with reduced cognitive performance at 4 to 10 years of age. Such evidence raises the concern that exposure to another neurotoxic metal such as Mn during part of early development might also be capable of inducing permanent or irreversible damage to the developing CNS. Moreover, the ramifications of such damage might extend to other important functions, such as reproduction. Children may also be at higher risk in terms of exposure because of biomedical and metabolic differences at a young age (greater uptake and retention) and/or because of the longer duration of their exposure over a lifetime. Over time, small impairments in neurobehavioral function may accumulate. For this reason, the elderly, whose neurobehavioral function may already be compromised by normal aging processes and possibly by other disease states (e.g., parkinsonism or preclinical parkinsonism), also represent a special population of concern. The ability of the elderly or other subpopulations to compensate for such declines in neurobehavioral function may be overwhelmed eventually by additional, albeit possibly quite small, insults due to Mn. If so, the effect could be manifested as a more severe or earlier onset of declining function in senescence, with consequent implications for increased societal health-care costs. Special subpopulations at increased risk may be defined not only in terms of their biological susceptibility, as exemplified above by the young and the elderly, but also by their increased risk of exposure. In this respect, inner city residents and others who live near high traffic areas such as expressways (e.g., low-income and minority communities) would possibly have a disproportionate likelihood of higher Mn exposure levels due to their closer proximity to vehicular emissions. The nature of the neurobehavioral effects observed in occupational studies such as Roels et al. (1992) should be understood as effects that probably would not be treated by, or even be readily evident to, a clinical physician. Nonetheless, they are significant from a public health standpoint when considered in terms of population effects. This concept is illustrated by the well documented findings on low-level Pb neurotoxicity in children, where changes of as little as 1 or 2 points in IQ have been repeatedly demonstrated in several independent, prospective, epidemiological studies in recent years. Such changes could not be reliably demonstrated either in a clinical setting or in earlier cross-sectional epidemiological studies; yet they are now well established to be ``real'' and significant from a public health standpoint. With regard to the reductions in neurobehavioral function observed in various epidemiological studies of Mn-exposed workers, these studies independently converge on findings of impaired motor function (e.g., reductions in eye-hand coordination, slower hand or finger movements, and less control of fine movement). As recently expressed in a document prepared by the Subcommittee for Risk Assessment of the Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering and Technology ( Federal Register , 1993), an adverse effect can include ``both unwanted effects and any alteration from baseline that diminishes the ability to survive, reproduce or adapt to the environment.'' Thus, it can be argued that these effects in themselves warrant consideration as adverse health effects. They may also have ramifications for health and safety of an even more serious nature, if a person's ability to react quickly and accurately to a situation (e.g., traffic conditions) was impaired. Another aspect of the findings from available occupational studies concerns the temporal relationship between exposure and effect. As noted above, the geometric mean average period of Mn exposure of the workers in the Roels et al. (1992) study was only 4 years, with the longest period of Mn exposure for any one individual being less than 18 years. Also, the oldest worker in the Roels et al. (1992) study was less than 50 years old. This relatively limited period of exposure along with the absence of older subjects in the Roels study raises the question of whether sufficient time had elapsed for the full expression of the toxic effects of Mn. Some reports in the literature indicate that Mn toxicity may not be clinically evident until some years after exposure occurred or terminated (e.g., Cotzias et al., 1968; Rodier, 1955), and other reports point to a greater sensitivity of elderly persons, compared to middle-aged or young adults, for acute as well as chronic Mn toxicity (e.g., Kawamura et al., 1941). An uncertainty factor for extrapolation from a subchronic exposure to chronic exposure was included in deriving the RfC estimates shown in Figure 1. However, a ``half-factor'' of 3 was used for this area of uncertainty. If the average period of Mn exposure (geometric mean: 4 years) in the Roels et al. (1992) study is compared to an assumed lifetime of 70 years, one could argue that a factor of 70/4=17.5, or at least 10, would be a more appropriate adjustment for subchronic to chronic exposures. Given the limited available data, this area of uncertainty is difficult to express in a quantitative manner, but in general practice, EPA has used an uncertainty factor of 3 for other chemicals with comparable databases. Nevertheless, this area of concern suggests that the Mn RfC estimates derived here with an uncertainty factor of 3 for subchronic to chronic exposure probably do not tend to err in the direction of being too conservative. Another qualitative concern that should be recognized in considering the potential health effects of Mn is the possibility of certain types of effects that are suggested by clinical and other evidence but are difficult to measure quantitatively or demonstrate with currently available methods. Specifically, much of the clinical literature on manganism refers to a psychiatric component of the illness, which often involves striking emotional or mood changes that tend to appear before changes in motor function are evident. Such effects are inherently difficult to measure in a quantitative manner. However, the possibility of such effects at lower levels of exposure than those at which motor control is affected should not be discounted out of hand. Some reports in the literature (e.g., Gottschalk et al., 1991) suggest that aggressive behavior may be associated with Mn exposure (as reflected in the concentration of Mn in hair of prison inmates). Such reports require substantiation by further studies, and the validity and relevance of hair Mn levels to environmental Mn exposure remains to be established, but the suggestion that an association might exist between hair Mn and behavior cannot be totally dismissed.
