FR941220-2-00040 FR941220-2-00028 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;35087; File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;94&hyph;21] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment No. 1 to Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Stock Exchange, Incorporated Relating to the Rules for the Listing and Trading of Stock Index and Currency Warrants December 12, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on November 3, 1994, the Chicago Stock Exchange, Incorporated (``CHX'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organizations Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange proposes to (1) amend Article XXVIII, Rule 8 to revise the listing criteria for stock index (``stock index'' or ``index'') warrants and currency warrants (``currency warrants''), 1 (2) add a new Part V to the Rules of the Exchange to provide rules for the trading of index warrants, and (3) amend Article X, Rule 3 of the Exchange's rules to specify the customer margin requirements for the purchase or short sale of index warrants. On Dec. 5, 1994, the CHX amended certain surveillance related matters addressed in the filing. See footnote 3, infra. 1 Currency warrants, as used in this filing, may refer to warrants on individual currencies (or cross currencies) or to warrants on a specific currency index group (``currency index warrants''). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of, and basis for, the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in section (A), (B) and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change Purpose The Exchange proposes to: (1) amend its listing guidelines for stock index and currency warrants, (2) establish various new rules for the trading of stock index and currency warrants, and (3) establish special customer margin requirements for positions in stock index and currency warrants. Description of the Proposed Rules CHX seeks to amend Article XXVIII, Rule 8 of the Exchange's rules to provide a higher standard for warrant issuers than currently exists. Specifically, future warrant issuers would be expected to have a minimum tangible net worth in excess of $150,000,000. Moreover, the aggregate original issue price of all of a particular issuer's warrant offerings (combined with offerings by its affiliates) that are listed on a national securities exchange or on NASDAQ would not be permitted to exceed 25% of the issuer's net worth. The proposed amendment will require that each warrant issue will be automatically exercised on either the delisting date (if the issue is not listed upon another organized securities market) or upon expiration. Article XXVIII, Rule 8 also will be amended to provide that, for stock index warrants where 25 percent or more of the value of the underlying index is represented by securities that are traded primarily in the U.S., the opening prices of the U.S. traded securities in the index will be used to determine the settlement value of the underlying index. Article X, Rule 3 is being amended to apply the customer margin requirements used for broad based index and currency options to index warrants and currency warrants, respectively. Thus, purchases of stock index and currency warrants will require payment in full, and short sales of stock index warrants will require initial margin of: (i) 100 percent of the current value of the warrant plus (ii) 15 percent of the current value of the underlying broad stock index less the amount by which the warrant is out of the money up to a maximum of five percent of the index value. Short sales of currency warrants similarly will follow the margin requirements applicable to listed currency options. The Exchange proposes that the index and currency warrant margin requirements be permitted offset treatment for spread, straddle and covered positions. 2 2 The staff of the Commission has indicated to the Exchange that it must request and obtain appropriate interpretive or no-action relief from the Commission in order to permit its index and currency warrant margin requirements to allow offset treatment for spread, straddle and covered positions.
