FR940412-1-00034 FR940412-1-00008 Based on this perceived public interest, this NPRM proposes to continue to use these vessel-size rate multipliers for the proposed rates for all three districts. However, the average base rate derived above must be adjusted for such multiplication, since the average base rate is an unweighted charge. This NPRM proposes to adjust the base rate to reflect a ship weighting factor of 1.0 by dividing the average base rate by the average ship weighting factor derived from pilot billings. For 1990 the average weighted ship sailing, for designated and undesignated waters was as follows: Weighted Ship Sailing Factor, C.Y. 1990 1␣ 1District 1 1District 2 1District 3 Designated waters 1.269 1.279 1.330 Undesignated waters 1.268 1.303 1.309 This NPRM proposes to adjust the hourly charge for pilot services by dividing the average total pilotage charge by the average vessel weighting factor for the preceding year. For illustrative purposes only, this adjustment to the pilotage charge per hour is shown below. (In the example, the hourly rates are derived from the interim rate increase published in the Federal Register on June 5, 1992 (CGD 89&hyph;104) to calculate charges on an hourly basis.) For District 1, Area 1, ship factor 1.0 would equal the average cost per hour of $166, divided by the average ship weighting factor of 1.269, or $131. Ship factor 1.3 would be $131 times 1.3, or $170. For ease of calculation this NPRM proposes to continue to use hourly rates rounded to the nearest dollar. Example Adjustment of Average Pilotage Charge per Hour_To Ship Weighting Factor 1.0 1␣ 1Unadjusted average pilotage charge/hour 1Average ship weighting factor 1Ship factor 1.0_adjusted pilotage charge/hour District 1: Area I $166 1.269 $131 Area II 96 1.268 76 District 2: Area IV 83 1.303 64 Area V 150 1.279 117 District 3: Area VI 87 1.309 67 Area VII 179 1.330 135 Area VIII 90 1.309 69 Part A.6. Application of the Pilotage Charges to Vessel Trips The required pilotage charges per pilot hour are determined above. Most trips and sailings, however, are provided between relatively few points, in part due to pilot changeover, and in part due to ship movements involving mostly the larger trading ports. For simplicity and operational efficiency, this NPRM proposes to fix the pilotage charges for selected sailings and trips, based upon average transit time as reported in pilot source forms. This NPRM proposes that the average time for sailings served more than ten times per year in each direction would adequately define the necessary pilot time for these repeated sailings, exclusive of delay and demurrage. This NPRM proposes to multiply the average time for these repeated sailings by the adjusted pilotage charge for Ship Factor 1 to construct a base charge for these sailings. These base charges would be published in matrix form, by district. This NPRM proposes to base the pilotage charges for sailings to less-served points upon the actual time spent in pilotage (subject to minimum and incremental hourly charges, below), multiplied by the adjusted pilotage charge per hour. Charges listed in matrix form and computed time-based charges would be subject to the vessel-size multiplier, as in the current rate schedule. This NPRM also proposes, for less-served points, to continue a minimum six-hour pilotage charge, but with additional charges added in three hour increments. This NPRM's proposal to use three hour increments represents a reduction from the six hour increments in the current rate schedule, to more closely match the services performed. Part B: Financial Reporting Summary of Changes to Reporting Requirements As indicated in Part A, several changes are proposed to the accounting regulations and reporting requirements under the Great Lakes Pilotage Regulations. In order to facilitate ratemaking, this NPRM proposes to require more detailed financial reporting from each pilot association. This NPRM proposes that each pilot association report financial data in a standard format prescribed by the Director, and that financial statements of each association be signed by an officer of that association to verify accuracy. In addition, 46 CFR part 403 would be renumbered and reorganized to bring this part into conformance with current regulatory guidelines on the numbering and organization of regulations. This NPRM proposes that the general ledger account numbers in part 403 be expanded from four digits to five digits, and placed in Appendices A and B to part 403. This proposed change would allow greater flexibility in making future changes to the system of accounts. In addition, the definitions of profit and loss accounts currently found in 46 CFR 403.9 would be deleted because this section does not add any significant information to the uniform accounting system. This NPRM proposes that the straight line depreciation method would be consistently used by all pilotage associations. Using this method would evenly allocate the acquisition costs over the useful life of assets subject to depreciation. It would also minimize the annual fluctuation of operating expenses and their effect over the ratemaking calculations. This NPRM proposes that the recording of lease costs be guided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) publication FASB&hyph;13 and subsequent pronouncements on this subject by the FASB. This proposed change would differentiate capital leases from operating leases, updating the Great Lakes pilotage accounting standards in conformance with current accounting practices. Under the current regulations (46 CFR part 403), all pilot associations maintain the same general system of accounts. However, no two associations currently report financial information in the same format, leading to inconsistencies between associations. This NPRM proposes an adjustment to the system of accounts. This change would facilitate ratemaking calculations, and would put pilot associations on a comparable footing for ratemaking calculations. Corporations are required by law to pay certain expenses (e.g., Federal Insurance Contribution Act (FICA) and Workmen's Compensation). However, for unincorporated associations, these expenses are paid by the individual members, and are not shown on the association's financial statement. If these expenses are not considered in the ratemaking calculations for unincorporated associations, a lower level of compensation for those pilots would be shown, as compared to compensation for their counterparts in associations organized as corporations. This NPRM proposes that each unincorporated pilot association report this financial information, now separately reported, in notes to the association's financial statement. Only reported items would be considered in ratemaking calculations for all pilot associations. The Director would not impute such items. This change would put pilot associations with different organizations on a comparable footing for ratemaking calculations. This NPRM proposes to require that financial information which is currently reported on a quarterly basis be reported on a semiannual basis, and to update the address for the Director. This proposed change to the financial reporting requirements would ease the burden on pilot associations, without affecting the ratemaking process or oversight of the pilot associations.
