FR941110-0-00064 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Some commenters wanted HCFA to include ``any violation of the requirements that leads to, or is likely to lead to a failure of the resident to achieve the highest practicable physical and mental well-being'' in the definition of substandard quality of care. Response: We are not accepting this suggestion. We believe that any infringement of any requirement could be construed to compromise some ability of a resident to achieve his or her highest practicable well-being. The definition proposed by the commenter could encompass every deficiency under every regulatory requirement. Given the ramifications a determination of substandard quality of care has for a provider (loss of NATCEP, notification of licensing boards and physicians), we are limiting the definition of substandard quality of care to reflect the most egregious situations related to participation requirements under §§483.13 (``Resident behavior and facility practices''), 483.15 (``Quality of life''), and 483.25 (``Quality of care''). However, we are not minimizing deficiencies in other participation requirements. As discussed later under the response to public comments for §488.401, it is possible that a deficiency under any requirement can encompass any degree of seriousness. Deficiencies under the remaining requirements can be more appropriately addressed through specified remedies rather than through the loss of NATCEP which would be precipitated by a substandard quality of care determination. Comment: Several commenters thought that the scope and severity grid should not be a determining factor in defining substandard quality of care. Response: As we discuss later at §488.404, we are removing references to the scope and severity grid from the definition of substandard quality of care. We are retaining, however, concepts of seriousness and frequency which we believe are important to determining this type of deficient facility practices. Comment: Other commenters wished to include compliance history in the final definition of substandard quality of care. Response: We do not agree with this comment. Our first priority is to protect the health and safety of the residents. If violations are identified, the problem must be rectified, regardless of the facility's compliance history. Comment: Some commenters wanted us to explicitly state in the definition of substandard quality of care that deficiencies of immediate jeopardy are regarded as substandard quality of care. Response: We are not adopting this comment. Given the ramifications a finding of substandard quality of care has for a provider, we are limiting the definition of substandard quality of care to those requirements mentioned previously. The only immediate jeopardy deficiencies considered substandard quality of care are those determined under the participation requirements of §§483.13 (``Resident behavior and facility practices''), 483.15 (``Quality of life''), and 483.25 (``Quality of care''). Because we are removing references to the scope and severity scales from the definition of substandard quality of care we believe that it is necessary to amend the definition. We are now defining substandard quality of care as care furnished in a facility that has one or more deficiencies related to participation requirements under §§483.13 (``Resident behavior and facility practices''), 483.15 (``Quality of life''), or 483.25 (``Quality of care'') that constitutes immediate jeopardy, a pattern of widespread actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy, or widespread potential for more than minimal harm, but less than immediate jeopardy with no actual harm. Comment: Some commenters wanted compliance and correction to be defined as ``substantially meeting all applicable certification requirements.''
