FR940304-1-00116 FR940304-1-00014 Two product classes were considered for electric ovens: Standard ovens with or without catalytic linings and self-cleaning ovens. Oven types that were listed as classes in the September 1990 advance notice (forced convection for cooking, forced convection for cleaning, halogen lamp, and steam cooking with and without pressure) were considered as design options. The Department believes that no utility issues exist warranting additional classes beyond standard and self-cleaning ovens. As with electric ovens, two product classes were considered for gas ovens: Standard ovens and self-cleaning ovens. Oven types that were listed as classes in the September 1990 advance notice (radiant burner and convection) were considered as design options. In addition, the Department does not believe that significant utility issues exist in the ability of the appliance to operate during electric outages, which would require that classes be established into those with and without electrical cords. Designs which use electricity are evaluated on their economic advantages and disadvantages. As for microwave oven classes, both Whirlpool Corporation and Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers recommended that the Department limit its analysis to microwave ovens with and without browning elements, the classes which accounted for 96.8 percent of domestic shipments in 1989. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 9; Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No, 61A at 30). The Department rejected the proposals to limit the analysis to two product classes: conventional microwave ovens with and without browning elements. The Department combined these ovens into one class. Since the test procedure does not measure the energy use of the browning element, there is no need to separate these two kinds of ovens into classes; therefore, only one class of microwave ovens was analyzed. Design options . There were numerous comments on the design options for ranges/ovens and microwave ovens. Natural Resources Defense Council recommended that DOE study (for ranges/ovens) reduction in thermal mass, catalytic burners, reflective surfaces, the biradiant concept, and improved magnetrons for microwave ovens. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 27&hyph;28). Aloha Systems, Inc. said that induction cooking is the most efficient method. (Aloha Systems, Inc., No. 2 at 1,2). American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy proposed that DOE evaluate the infrared jet gas burner for conventional ovens, and for microwave ovens, advanced transformer winding and core materials, and the high-efficiency electronic controller (which turns power on and off). (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 4). The Rocky Mountain Institute proposed that DOE study improved controls that allow the resistance element to ``coast'' the food to completion. A reference to European tests was given, stating that this design requires a thermostat and temperature control knob and saves 20 percent or more of the energy. (Rocky Mountain Institute, No. 15 at 5). The Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. suggested that thermostatically controlled gas burners be replaced by various-sized (Btu/h input and dimensions) and manually controlled surface burners to accommodate different-size cookware. (Oklahoma Natural Gas Co., No. 57 at 6). The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers provided comments on each design option for ranges/ovens and microwave ovens. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 30&hyph;62). Whirlpool Corporation supported the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers' comments on ranges/ovens and microwave ovens. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 16, 19).
