FR940323-0-00047 FR940323-0-00020 National service laws. The term national service laws means the Act and the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq. ). Objective. The term objective means a desired accomplishment of a program. Out-of-school youth. The term out-of-school youth means an individual who_ (1) Has not attained the age of 27; (2) Has not completed college or its equivalent; and (3) Is not enrolled in an elementary or secondary school or institution of higher education. Participant. (1) The term participant means an individual enrolled in a program that receives assistance under the Act. (2) A participant may not be considered to be an employee of the program in which the participant is enrolled. Partnership. The term partnership means two or more entities that have entered into a written agreement specifying the partnership's goals and activities as well as the responsibilities, goals, and activities of each partner. Partnership program. The term partnership program means a program through which an adult volunteer, a public or private nonprofit organization, an institution of higher education, or a business assists a local educational agency. Program. The term program, unless the context otherwise requires, and except when used as part of the term academic program, means a program described in section 111(a) (other than a program referred to in paragraph (3)(B) of that section), 117A(a), 119(b)(1), or 122(a) of the Act, or in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 152(b) of the Act, or an activity that could be funded under sections 198, 198C, or 198D of the Act. Program sponsor. The term program sponsor means an entity responsible for recruiting, selecting, and training participants, providing them benefits and support services, engaging them in regular group activities, and placing them in projects. Project. The term project means an activity, or a set of activities, carried out through a program that receives assistance under the Act, that results in a specific identifiable service or improvement that otherwise would not be done with existing funds, and that does not duplicate the routine services or functions of the employer to whom participants are assigned. Project sponsor. The term project sponsor means an organization, or other entity, that has been selected to provide a placement for a participant. Qualified individual with a disability. The term qualified individual with a disability has the meaning given the term in section 101(8) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12111(8)). Qualified organization. The term qualified organization means a public or private nonprofit organization, other than a grantmaking entity, that_ (1) Has experience in working with school-age youth; and (2) Was in existence at least one year before the date on which the organization submitted an application for a service-learning program. School-age youth. The term school-age youth means_ (1) Individuals between the ages of 5 and 17, inclusive; and (2) Children with disabilities, as defined in section 602(a)(1) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)), who receive services under part B of that Act. Secondary school. The term secondary school has the same meaning given the term in section 1471(21) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(21)). Service-learning. The term service-learning means a method under which students or participants learn and develop through active participation in thoughtfully organized service that_ (1) Is conducted in and meets the needs of a community; (2) Is coordinated with an elementary school, secondary school, institution of higher education, or community service program, and with the community; (3) Helps foster civic responsibility; (4) Is integrated into and enhances the academic curriculum of the students or the educational components of the community service program in which the participants are enrolled; and (5) Includes structured time for the students and participants to reflect on the service experience. Service-learning coordinator. The term service-learning coordinator means an individual trained in service-learning who identifies community partners for LEAs; assists in designing and implementing local partnerships service-learning programs; provides technical assistance and information to, and facilitates the training of, teachers; and provides other services for an LEA. State. The term State means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The term also includes Palau, until the Compact of Free Association is ratified. State Commission. The term State Commission means a State Commission on National and Community Service maintained by a State pursuant to section 178 of the Act. Except when used in section 178, the term includes an alternative administrative entity for a State approved by the Corporation under that section to act in lieu of a State Commission. State educational agency (SEA). The term State educational agency has the same meaning given that term in section 1471(23) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(23)). Student. The term student means an individual who is enrolled in an elementary or secondary school or institution of higher education on a full-time or part-time basis. Subdivision of a State. The term subdivision of a State means an governmental unit within a State other than a unit with Statewide responsibilities. U.S. Territory. The term U.S. Territory means the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau, until the Compact of Free Association with Palau is ratified.
