FR941006-2-00195 FR941006-2-00113 iv. For technical assistance projects, applicants should explain how the quality, timeliness, and impact of the assistance provided will be determined, and should develop a mechanism for feedback from both the users and providers of the technical assistance. v. Evaluation plans involving human subjects should include a discussion of the procedures for obtaining respondents' informed consent, ensuring the respondents' privacy and freedom from risk or harm, and the protection of others who are not the subjects of evaluation but would be affected by it. Other than the provision of confidentiality to respondents, human subjects protection issues ordinarily are not applicable to participants evaluating an education program. vi. The evaluation plan in a package grant application should address the issues listed above for the particular types of projects included in the package, assessing the strengths and weaknesses of the individual components as well as the benefits and limitations of the projects as a package. 5. Project Management A detailed management plan including the starting and completion date for each task; the time commitments to the project of key staff and their responsibilities regarding each project task; and the procedures that will be used to ensure that all tasks are performed on time, within budget, and at the highest level of quality. In preparing the project time line, Gantt Chart, or schedule, applicants should make certain that all project activities, including publication or reproduction of project products and their initial dissemination will occur within the proposed project period. The management plan must also provide for the submission of Quarterly Progress and Financial Reports within 30 days after the close of each calendar quarter (i.e., no later than January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30). Package grant applications must include a management plan for each project included in the package with the same project title and alphabetic identifier describing the project in the program narrative, as well as a plan embracing the package as a whole. 6. Products A description of the products to be developed by the project (e.g., training curricula and materials, videotapes, articles, manuals, or handbooks), including when they will be submitted to the Institute. The application must explain how and to whom the products will be disseminated; describe how they will benefit the State courts including how they can be used by judges and court personnel; identify development, production, and dissemination costs covered by the project budget; and present the basis on which products and services developed or provided under the grant will be offered to the courts community and the public at large (i.e. whether products will be distributed at no cost to recipients, or if costs are involved, the reason for charging recipients and the estimated price of the product). Ordinarily, applicants should schedule all product preparation and distribution activities within the project period. Applicants also must submit a one-page abstract summarizing products resulting from a project for inclusion on the Institute's electronic bulletin board, and a diskette of the abstract in ASCII.
