FR940920-2-00109 FR940920-2-00054 e. Acting in an official capacity as a representative of a foreign government; f. Acting in an official capacity as a representative of a State or local government (except when specific NRC licensing or regulatory matters are discussed). C. Applicability and Exemptions 1. This policy applies solely to NRC staff-sponsored and conducted meetings and not to meetings conducted by outside entities that NRC staff members might attend and participate in. It does not apply to the Commission or offices that report directly to the Commission. Similarly, it does not apply to meetings between the NRC staff and representatives of State governments, including Agreement State representatives, relating to NRC Agreement State activities or to State regulatory actions or to other matters of general interest to the State or to the Commission, that is, matters other than specific NRC licensing or regulatory actions involving specific licensees. Also, the policy is not intended to apply to or supersede any existing law, rule, or regulation that addresses public attendance at a specific type of meeting. For example, 10 CFR Part 7 specifically addresses public attendance at advisory committee meetings; and 10 CFR Part 9, Subpart C, addresses public attendance at Commission meetings. The policy also does not negate existing Memoranda of Understanding, procedural agreements, or other formal agreements or requirements regarding the accessibility of the public to observe or participate in meetings between NRC and its licensees or any other entities. In addition, the policy does not apply to meetings involving enforcement matters under 10 CFR Part 2, Appendix C nor to settlement conferences. 2. In general, meetings between the NRC staff and outside persons will be classified as public meetings unless the NRC staff determines that the subject matter to be discussed_ a. Is specifically authorized by an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy (classified information) or specifically exempted from public disclosure by statute; b. Contains trade secrets and commercial or financial information (proprietary information); c. Contains safeguards information; d. Is of a personal nature where such disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; e. Is related to a planned, ongoing, or completed investigation and/or contains information compiled for law enforcement purposes; f. Could result in the inappropriate disclosure and dissemination of preliminary, unverified information; g. Is a general information exchange having no direct, substantive connection to a specific NRC regulatory decision or action; h. Indicates that the administrative burden associated with public attendance at the meeting could result in interfering with the NRC staff's execution of its safety and regulatory responsibilities, such as when the meeting is an integral part of the execution of the NRC inspection program. It is important to note that whether or not a meeting should be open for public attendance is dependent primarily on the subject matter to be discussed, not who outside nor who within the NRC staff is participating (e.g., staff level versus senior management). Also note that meetings between staff and licensees or trade groups to discuss technical issues or licensee performance would normally be open because they may lead to a specific regulatory decision or action. However, should a meeting involving a general information exchange be closed and should discussions during such a meeting approach issues that might lead to a specific regulatory decision or action, the NRC staff may advise the meeting attendees that such matters cannot be discussed in a closed meeting and propose discussing the issues in a future open meeting. D. Notice to the Public 1. Normally, meeting announcement information is to be provided by the staff to the agency's meeting announcement coordinator at least ten days in advance of the date of the meeting so that adequate notice can be made to the public. Public notice will be provided through the Weekly Compilation of Press Releases and posting in the NRC headquarter's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street (Lower Level) NW., Washington, DC. The public may obtain a schedule of agency staff meetings on a toll-free telephone recording at 800&hyph;952&hyph;9674 and on a toll-free electronic bulletin board at 800&hyph;952&hyph;9676. 2. Meetings which are scheduled for the next 60 calendar days will be announced to the public. Meeting announcements will include the date, time, and location of the meeting, as well as its purpose, the agency and outside organizations in attendance, and the name and telephone number of the agency contact for the meeting. Information about canceled, rescheduled, and open meetings scheduled on short notice will be updated daily or as needed by its posting at the agency Public Document Room, on the telephone recording, and on the electronic bulletin board. Dated at Rockville, MD, this 14th day of September 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle, Acting Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23205 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;P
