FR940119-0-00005 FR940119-0-00002 In section 911 of Public Law 102&hyph;237, which was signed December 13, 1991, Congress resolved this issue by providing that for an IHE claim, ``the household shall be given notice permitting it to elect another means of repayment [other than allotment reduction] and given 10 days to make such an election before the State agency commences action to reduce the household's monthly allotment.'' The Department understands by this language that no action to reduce the household's monthly allotment may be taken by the State agency until the eleventh day following the household's receipt of notice of the IHE claim. Typically households first receive notice about IHE claims through the mail in demand letters. Consequently, there is no practical way to determine exactly when households receive such notices and, in turn, the eleventh day afterwards. There is also the problem of allowing for return mail time. This rule provides that within 20 days of the date of the demand letter, households must notify State agencies of their choice of repayment method or be deemed to have elected allotment reduction. This timeframe should allow for the newly required 10-day decision timeframe and adequate mail time, five days for delivery to households and five days for household return mail to State agencies. As discussed below, the provision is restated to deal with IHE and IPV claims separately and to clarify that the timeframe for the IHE claim repayment decision relates both to initial demand letters and to demand letters following fair hearings which sustain IHE claims. Finally, to take account of demand letters which may be handed to the household, the language makes clear that the 20-day period begins on the date the demand letter is mailed or otherwise delivered to the household. Several commenters objected to the statement in the preamble to the proposed rule to the effect that the claim itself was the adverse action, not the collection action. (This statement was made in connection with exempting the initiation of allotment reductions from the adverse notice requirements when households have been provided notice about appeal rights on the underlying claim. That proposal is discussed later in this preamble.) The Department would like to clarify this matter. Current rules require that households be provided specific information about their rights to appeal recipient claims. Once this information is provided, if a fair hearing is requested and a determination to sustain the claim is made, the household's remaining decision is how it will pay the claim. Making that decision should take relatively little time. To clarify how this policy applies to IHE claims, the final rule provides that in cases of IHE claims, if a fair hearing sustains the claim, the household must notify the State agency of its election of repayment method within 20 days of receipt of the notice of the hearing decision or be deemed to have elected allotment reduction. With respect to IPV claims, the final rule provides that households must elect a method of repayment on the date of receipt of the demand letter required by 7 CFR 273.16(e)(9), 7 CFR 273.16(f)(3) and (g)(3) of current rules (or if the date of receipt is not a business day, on the next business day) or be deemed to have elected allotment reduction. The final rule requires that for an IPV claim, the first claim demand letter following an action which establishes the claim, inform the household about this timeframe for election of a method of repayment and the consequence of failing to meet it. This is intended to clarify that the timeframe for electing a repayment option begins with the demand for repayment. The final rule also provides that each State agency must, for IPV claims, determine a deadline for the return of completed election forms in order to determine if the election is timely. The Department does not expect State agencies to set such deadlines case by case. State agencies should establish uniform timeframes for responses to demands for repayment of IPV claims, if necessary allowing for situations such as mail time to and from remote areas. The final rule states that the deadline cannot exceed 10 days from the date that the demand letter is mailed or otherwise delivered to liable households. The time period is set at a maximum of 10 days because the law requires a ``same day'' decision from households and a relatively short response time is appropriate to that statutory requirement. In addition to these changes, to accommodate the different requirements for IHE and IPV claims relating to repayment decisions, the final rule treats IHE and IPV claims in separate sections. Furthermore, since recoupment is a method of collection which is used only for participating households, when appropriate, the final rule refers to ``participating households.'' In 7 CFR 273.18(d)(4), which contains the policies on repayment decision timeframes, the heading is changed to ``Further collection actions'' since that more accurately describes the material in the paragraph. Also, because IHE and IPV claims are treated in separate subparagraphs, the first sentence of paragraph (4)(i) of the proposed rule has been deleted to eliminate potential confusion. This deletion also eliminates the redundant phrase ``do not respond timely or fail to respond.'' The Department was concerned that a significant number of commenters believed that in reducing the time for electing repayment for IHE claims the proposed rule would also have abridged the right to appeal the claim. Consequently, in addition to treating IHE and IPV claims separately, the final rule sets forth requirements for the content of the initial demand letter for IHE claims separately from the content of a demand letter for IHE claims which are sustained by fair hearings. An initial IHE demand letter needs to inform the household that it has an option of timely electing a repayment method or requesting a fair hearing. A demand letter provided after a hearing decision which sustains the claim would not offer the hearing option. Similarly, the first demand letter for an IPV claim can only be issued following an administrative disqualification hearing or other action which establishes an IPV claim. The rule adds a phrase to clarify this point. In response to other comments, the final rule makes several other changes with respect to the required content of the demand letter for IHE and IPV claims. One commenter recommended that the proposed list of repayment methods in 7 CFR 273.18(d)(3)(iii) be expanded to include repayment in coupons. However, a full list of repayment methods is already contained in 7 CFR 273.18(g). Paragraph (d)(3)(i) of that section already requires that the demand letter inform the household of these methods of repayment. Consequently, in addition to being incomplete, the proposed list in paragraph (d)(3)(iii) is redundant, and so the final rule deletes it.
