FR940825-2-00110 FR940825-2-00073 VI Compliance Program: Bayer A.G. Bayer A.G. shall maintain an antitrust compliance program, which shall include: (A) distributing within 60 days from the entry of this Final Judgment, a copy of the Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement to all officers, directors, and employees of Bayer A.G.'s household insecticide unit having signing authority on behalf of Bayer A.G.; (B) distributing in a timely manner a copy of the Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement to any person who succeeds to a position described in Paragraph VI (A); (C) briefing those persons designated in Paragraph VI (A) and (B) on the meaning and requirements of this Final Judgment and the antitrust laws, including potential antitrust concerns raised by patent licensing agreements; (D) obtaining from each person designated in Paragraph VI (A) and (B) an annual written certification that he or she: (1) has read, understands and agrees to abide by this Final Judgment; (2) has been advised and understands that noncompliance with this Final Judgment may result in his or her conviction for criminal contempt of court and/or fine; and (3) is not aware of any violation of this Final Judgment; and (E) maintaining for inspection by plaintiff a record of recipients to whom this Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement have been distributed and from whom the certification required by Paragraph VI (D) has been obtained. VII Certifications (A) Within 75 days after the entry of this Final Judgment, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. each shall certify to plaintiff whether it has made the distribution of this Final Judgment in accordance with Paragraphs V(A) and VI(A), respectively. (B) For ten years after the entry of this Final Judgment, on or before its anniversary date, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. shall each certify annually to plaintiff whether it has complied with the provisions of Paragraphs V and VI, respectively. VIII Plaintiff's Access For the sole purpose of determining or securing compliance with this Final Judgment, and subject to any legally recognized privilege, authorized representatives of the U.S. Department of Justice, upon written request of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Davison shall on reasonable notice be permitted; (A) access during regular business hours of S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. to inspect and copy all records and documents relating to any matters contained in this Final Judgment; (B) to interview S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. officers, directors, and employees, who may have counsel present, concerning such matters; and (C) to obtain written reports from S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. relating to any of the matters contained in the Final Judgment. Information provided to the Department of Justice pursuant to this provision or pursuant to Paragraph IV (B) or (D) of the Final Judgment must be kept confidential to the full extent permitted by law. IX Jurisdiction Retained Jurisdiction is retained by this Court for the purpose of enabling any of the parties to this Final Judgment to apply to this Court at any time for further orders and directions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out or construe this Final Judgment, to modify or terminate any of its provisions, to enforce compliance, and to punish violations of its provisions. X Expiration of Final Judgment This Final Judgment shall expire 10 years from the date of its entry. Paragraph IV(D) of this Final Judgment, however, shall expire six years from the date of its entry. XI Public Interest Determination Entry of this Final Judgment is in the public interest. Dated: United States District Judge.
