FR940419-0-00016 FR940419-0-00005 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Customs Service 19 CFR Part 4 RIN 1515&hyph;AB42 [T.D. 94&hyph;41] Extension of Time Limit in Which To File Vessel Repair Documents AGENCY: Customs Service, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This document amends the Customs Regulations to extend the time limit allowed to vessel operators to file documentation submitted in connection with vessel repair entries, including applications for relief from the assessment of duties under the vessel repair statute. It also amends the regulations to require that any shipyard cost estimates available be submitted at the time that a vessel repair entry is made. These changes will expedite the decision process in determining duty liability. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 19, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bruce Friedman, Office of Trade Operations, 202&hyph;343&hyph;0024 (operational matters), or Larry L. Burton, 202&hyph;482&hyph;6940 (legal matters). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On January 13, 1993, a document was published in the Federal Register (58 FR 4114) soliciting comments regarding a Customs proposal to amend the Customs Regulations regarding the time limit available for the submission of documentation in support of required vessel repair entries. Section 1466 of title 19 of the United States Code provides that a duty of 50 per cent ad valorem shall be assessed upon the value of repairs accomplished outside of the United States on certain American-flag vessels. The statute itself and numerous judicial and administrative interpretations provide exceptions to the assessment of duty under specific circumstances. The statutory mandate is implemented under section 4.14 of the Customs Regulations (19 CFR 4.14), which provides the necessary working guidelines for Customs as well as vessel operators. Among the matters set forth in ยง4.14 are the procedures for making entry and for seeking administrative refund or remission of assessed duty. It is required that American-flag vessels submit a vessel repair entry to Customs within 5 days of arrival from a foreign port following any shipyard work. Depending upon whether actual shipyard invoices are available at the time an entry is submitted, the regulations provide that such entry may be denominated either a complete or incomplete submission. The regulations provide, absent the grant of an extension, that in the case of entries submitted as incomplete accounts, a full and complete account of foreign shipyard costs incurred must be submitted to Customs within 60 days from the date of vessel arrival in the United States (19 CFR 4.14(b)(2)(ii)). It has long been heard from vessel operators that the matter of final charges is frequently the subject of negotiation between themselves and foreign shipyards. It was claimed that this process often makes it impossible to meet the regulatory submission deadline without the necessity of seeking an extension from Customs. Customs had been reluctant to extend the filing period, recognizing that extending the period for the gathering of all evidence has the inevitable effect of delaying the eventual collection of the revenue. Customs has come to believe, however, that such a delay already existed owing to the large number of operators seeking extensions, and that a savings could be realized by not having to process numerous requests for extension. With publication of the January 13, 1993, notice, Customs proposed extending the filing period from the 60-day limit to a period of 90 days. At the same time, Customs took the opportunity to propose an additional amendment to the vessel repair regulations. In the case of vessel repair entries submitted as incomplete accounts, Customs requires that the best estimate of foreign repair costs be provided pending receipt of actual final invoices. Such statements of cost are used to calculate the amount of the bond or duties that must be deposited with Customs prior to departure of vessels from port. It has been noted that on some occasions, final invoice amounts vary greatly from initially estimated costs, and that the revenue has been inadequately protected by small deposits or bonds. It is also known that in many cases, written estimates from foreign shipyards have been provided to vessel operators prior to the commencement of repair operations. Customs merely proposed to require that when a written estimate has been provided to a vessel operator, documentary evidence of that estimated cost must be filed at the time of submission of an incomplete vessel repair entry.
