FR940819-2-00102 FR940819-2-00066 In the United States District Court for the District of the District of Columbia. United States of America, Plaintiff, v. Microsoft Corporation, Defendant. Civil Action No. 94&hyph;1564 (SS). Competitive Impact Statement. Received: July 27, 1994, Clerk, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia. Competitive Impact Statement Pursuant to Section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. ยง16(b)&hyph;(h), the United States submits this Competitive Impact Statement relating to the proposed Final Judgment submitted for entry with the consent of defendant Microsoft Corporation in this civil antitrust proceeding. Nature and Purpose of the Proceeding On July 15, 1994, the United States filed a civil antitrust Complaint to prevent and restrain Microsoft Corporation (``Microsoft'') from using exclusionary and anticompetitive contracts to market its personal computer operating system software, in violation of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 1, 2. As alleged in the Complaint, Microsoft has used these contracts to restrain trade and to monopolize the market for operating systems for personal computers using the x86 class of microprocessors, which comprise most of the world's personal computers. As used herein, ``PC'' refers to personal computers that use this class of microprocessor. The Complaint alleges that Microsoft has used its monopoly power to induce PC manufacturers to enter into anticompetitive, long-term licenses under which they must pay Microsoft not only when they sell PCs containing Microsoft's operating systems, but also when they sell PCs containing non-Microsoft operating systems. These anticompetitive, long-term licenses have helped Microsoft to maintain its monopoly. By inhibiting competing operating systems' access to PC manufacturers, Microsoft's exclusionary licenses slow innovation, raise prices, and deprive consumers of an effective choice among competing PC operating systems. The Complaint also alleges that in connection with pre-release testing of a new Microsoft operating system code-named ``Chicago,'' Microsoft sought to impose unreasonably restrictive and anticompetitive non-disclosure agreements on a number of leading developers of applications software products. These non-disclosure agreements would have unreasonably restricted the ability of software developers to work with competing operating systems or to develop competitive products or technologies. The Complaint seeks to prevent Microsoft from continuing or renewing any of the anticompetitive practices alleged to violate the Sherman Act, and thus to provide fair opportunities for other firms to compete in the market for PC operating systems. The United States and Microsoft have agreed that the proposed Final Judgment may be entered after compliance with the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act. 1 Entry of the Final Judgment will terminate this civil action, except that the Court will retain jurisdiction for further proceedings that may be required to interpret, enforce, or modify the Judgment, or to punish violations of any of its provisions. 1 The proposed Final Judgment that was filed with the Complaint on July 15, 1994 contained several omissions and inconsistencies in the numbering of paragraphs and subparagraphs. With the Defendant's consent, a corrected version of the Final Judgment is being filed with this Competitive Impact Statement. See Attachment. Paragraph and sub-paragraph numbers in this Competitive Impact Statement refer to the numbers used in the corrected version of the Final Judgment. Description of the Practices Involved in the Alleged Violations If this case were to proceed to trial, the United State would prove the following: Microsoft develops, licenses, sells, and supports several types of software products for personal computers, including operating systems and applications. An operating system is software that controls the basic operations of the personal computer. Applications software, such as word processing programs and spread sheets, runs ``on top of'' an operating system to enable the computer to perform a broad range of useful functions. Operating systems are designed to work with specific microprocessors, the integrated circuits that function as the ``brain'' of the computer. Most of the personal computers in the world today use the x86 class of microprocessors, originally designed by Intel, and now including microprocessors manufactured by other companies that use a substantially similar architecture and instruction set. Original equipment manufacturers (``OEMs'') that sell PCs and customers who buy such machines cannot use operating systems written for other microprocessors.
