FR941212-0-00135 FR941212-0-00019 (2) Claims not over $2,500 generated by AAFES activities will be transmitted to the Army-Air Force Exchange Service, OSC&hyph;FA&hyph;CLAIMS, P.O. Box 650405, Dallas, TX 76265&hyph;0405. (3) Claims over $100 generated by other nonappropriated fund activities will be transmitted to The Army Central Insurance Fund, ATTN: CFSC&hyph;RM&hyph;I, Room 1240, 2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22331&hyph;0508. When transmitting household goods or hold baggage shipment claims for payment, forward the entire claims file so ACIF can pursue carrier recovery. Use the ``NF'' claims database transaction code. (4) Claims not over $100 generated by other nonappropriated fund activities will be transmitted to that nonappropriated fund activity responsible for payment from its funds. (See AR 215&hyph;1, paragraph 13&hyph;24a.) (c) Reimbursement to foreign countries. Reimbursement to a foreign country of the United States pro rata share of a claim paid under an international agreement will be made from nonappropriated funds. (d) Evidence of payment. When a claim settled under this section is transmitted to a disbursing office for payment, the approving or settlement authority will request the appropriate disbursing office to return evidence of the date and amount of payment. Claims Involving Persons Other Than NAF Employees §536.208 Claims arising from activities of nonappropriated fund contractors. These claims should be disposed of in a manner similar to that set forth in DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraphs 8&hyph;42, 8&hyph;43, and 8&hyph;47. Post exchange concessionaires are independent contractors and are required to obtain workmen's compensation coverage under local law for their employees and public liability insurance governing their operations. If a dispute arises as to whether such insurance is available or applicable, the claim should be forwarded to Headquarters, AAFES, ATTN: General Counsel, P.O. Box 660202, Dallas, TX 75266&hyph;0202, prior to processing under the preceding subparts. §536.209 Non-NAFI RIMP claims. The RIMP is administered by the U.S. Army Community and Family Support Center under the provisions of AR 215&hyph;1. Non-NAFI RIMP claims are not cognizable under any other provision of this regulation. However, except as otherwise provided in this section, Non-NAFI RIMP claims are subject to the same requirements that apply to other tort claims. USARCS carefully monitors all such claims to ensure proper investigation and resolution. §536.210 Claims cognizable. (a) Non-NAFI RIMP claims can arise from the activities of_ (1) Members of recreational NAFIs or authorized users of NAF recreational property, while using such property, except real property, in the manner and for the purposes authorized by DA regulations and the charter, constitution, and bylaws of the particular NAF activity. This category of persons generally has been limited to members and users of recreational facilities such as flying clubs organized as NAFIs and craft shops. This category does not include customers of exchanges, snack bars, motion picture theaters, or similar facilities. Whether a claim based on an act or omission of a member or authorized user of other types of NAF activities, such as officers' messes, would be cognizable under this paragraph depends on the facts and circumstances involved, including the degree of participation by the member or authorized user in the activities of the fund. Claims arising from the use of NAF property, as defined in this paragraph, are not cognizable under the FTCA or MCA, since the use of such recreational property is by individuals not considered to be employees of the Army or NAFI acting within the scope of their office or employment. (2) Family child care (FCC) providers, authorized members of the provider's household, and approved substitute providers while care under the FCC program is being provided in the manner prescribed in AR 608&hyph;10, except as excluded below. Such claims are generally limited to injuries to or death of children receiving care under the FCC program which are caused by the negligence of such individuals. Claims arising from the transportation of such children in motor vehicles and claims involving loss or damage of property are not cognizable. (b) Although Non-NAFI RIMP claims do not involve employees of the United States, a claim under this section that is listed in §536.51 of this part is not payable. For example, a soldier injured on a post golf course when hit by a golf cart operated by an authorized user is barred by the incident-to-service exclusion from recovering under this section. (c) A claims approval or settlement authority will ask the Commander, USARCS for an advisory opinion prior to settling any Non-NAFI RIMP claim where the person whose conduct generated liability does not clearly fall within the above listed categories. Such authorities may also ask, through the Commander, USARCS, for an advisory opinion from the U.S. Army Community and Family Support Center prior to settling any claim arising under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, where it is not clear that the injured or deceased child was receiving care within the scope of the FCC program. (d) The total payments for all claims (including derivative claims) arising as a result of injury to or death of any one person are limited to $500,000 for each incident. Continuous or repeated exposure to substantially the same or similar general harmful activity or conditions is treated as one incident for purposes of determining the limit of liability. §536.211 Procedures. (a) Reporting. All Non-NAFI RIMP claims (regardless of the amount claimed) and incidents that could give rise to Non-NAFI RIMP claims will be reported to USARCS and the ACIF immediately. (b) Investigation. Field claims offices are responsible for the investigation of Non-NAFI RIMP claims. Such investigations will be closely coordinated with program managers responsible for the activity generating the claim. Close coordination with USARCS is required, and USARCS will maintain mirror files of the investigation of all actual and potential claims. (c) Payment. Non-NAFI RIMP claims will be transmitted to The Army Central Insurance Fund, ATTN: CFSC&hyph;RMB&hyph;I, Room 1240, 2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22331&hyph;0508 for payment. (d) Commercial insurance. The provisions of §536.203(e) (1) through (3) are also applicable to claims arising under this section, except that in claims involving FCC providers, a claims investigation will be conducted regardless of the presence of commercial insurance. §536.212 Delegation of authority. (a) Settlement authority. TJAG, TAJAG, and the Commander, USARCS, or designees, are authorized to settle or deny Non-NAFI RIMP claims regardless of the amount claimed. (b) Approval authority. (1) The SJA and, subject to limitations imposed by him or her, the chief of the command claims service of the commands listed below are delegated authority to approve, in full or in part, Non-NAFI RIMP claims presented in the amount of $25,000 or less, and to approve such claims regardless of the amount claimed provided an agreed settlement of $25,000 or less is accepted in full satisfaction of the claim, but only when the total value of all settlements, claims, and potential claims arising out of a single incident does not exceed $25,000. (i) USAREUR.
