FR941007-1-00137 FR941007-1-00009 ยง345.28 Assigned ratings. (a) Ratings in general. Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the FDIC shall assign to a bank a rating of ``outstanding,'' ``satisfactory,'' ``needs to improve,'' or ``substantial noncompliance'' based on the bank's performance under the lending, investment and service tests, the community development test, the small bank assessment standards, or an approved strategic plan, as applicable. (b) Lending, investment, and service tests. The FDIC shall assign a rating for a bank assessed under the lending, investment, and service tests in accordance with the procedures provided in Appendix A of this part and the following principles: (1) A bank's rating on the lending test shall be weighed so as to count for at least 50 percent of its assigned rating; (2) A bank that receives an ``outstanding'' rating on the lending test shall receive an assigned rating of at least ``satisfactory''; (3) A bank that receives an ``outstanding'' rating on the lending test and an ``outstanding'' rating on either the service test or the investment test shall receive an assigned rating of ``outstanding''; (4) A bank that receives an ``outstanding'' rating on both the service test and the investment test and a rating of at least ``high satisfactory'' on the lending test shall receive an assigned rating of ``outstanding''; and (5) No bank may receive an assigned rating of ``satisfactory'' unless it receives a rating of at least ``low satisfactory'' on the lending test. (c) Effect of evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices. Evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices shall adversely affect the FDIC's evaluation of a bank's performance. In determining the effect on the bank's assigned rating, the FDIC shall consider the nature and extent of the evidence, the policies and procedures that the bank has in place to prevent discriminatory or other illegal credit practices, any corrective action that the bank has taken or has committed to take, particularly voluntary corrective action resulting from self-assessment, and other relevant information, such as the bank's past fair lending performance. (d) Effect of successive ``needs to improve'' ratings. A bank that would otherwise receive an assigned rating of ``needs to improve'' shall receive an assigned rating of ``substantial noncompliance'' if the bank received no better than a ``needs to improve'' rating on each of its two previous examinations. ยง345.29 Effect of ratings on applications. (a) CRA performance. Among other factors, the FDIC shall take into account a bank's record of performance under the CRA in considering applications for approval of: (1) The establishment of a branch or other facility with the ability to accept deposits; (2) The relocation of a bank's main office, a branch office or other facility with the ability to accept deposits; (3) The merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets, or assumption of liabilities; and (4) Deposit insurance for an operating non-insured financial institution. (b) New banks. A newly chartered bank shall submit a description of its proposed CRA performance when an application for deposit insurance is made. In considering the application, the FDIC shall take into account the bank's proposed CRA performance. (c) Interested parties. In considering CRA performance in an application described in paragraph (a) of this section, the FDIC shall take into account any views expressed by interested parties which are submitted in accordance with the FDIC's procedures and rules of practice set forth in Part 303 of this chapter.
