FR940314-1-00014 FR940314-1-00004 PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89. ยง39.13 [Amended] 2. Section 39.13 is amended by adding the following new airworthiness directive: Fokker: Docket 93&hyph;NM&hyph;76&hyph;AD. Applicability: Model F&hyph;27 Mark 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, and 800 series airplanes (does not include Model F&hyph;27 MK 050 series airplanes), certificated in any category. Compliance: Required as indicated, unless accomplished previously. Note 1: This AD references Fokker Document SE&hyph;291, ``F&hyph;27 Corrosion Control Program,'' including all revisions through October 1, 1993, (hereafter referred to as ``the Document''), for basic tasks, definitions of corrosion levels, compliance times, and reporting requirements. In addition, this AD specifies inspection and reporting requirements beyond those included in the Document. Where there are differences between the AD and the Document, the AD prevails. Note 2: As used throughout this AD, the term ``the FAA'' is defined differently for different operators, as follows: For those operators complying with paragraph (a) of this AD, ``the FAA'' is defined as ``the Manager of the Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate.'' For those operators operating under Federal Aviation Regulation (FAR) part 121 or 129, and complying with paragraph (b) of this AD, ``the FAA'' is defined as ``the cognizant Principal Maintenance Inspector (PMI).'' For those operators operating under FAR part 91 or 125, and complying with paragraph (b) of this AD, ``the FAA'' is defined as ``the cognizant Maintenance Inspector at the appropriate FAA Flight Standards office.'' Note 3: The FAA recommends that priority for implementing the corrosion prevention and control program, specified in this AD, be given to older aircraft and areas requiring a significant upgrade of previous maintenance procedures to meet the program requirements. To preclude degradation of the structural capabilities of the airplane due to the problems associated with corrosion, accomplish the following: (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this AD, complete each of the basic tasks specified in section 2.4 of the Document in accordance with the procedures of the Document, and the schedule specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this AD. Note 4: A ``basic task,'' as defined in section 2.4 of the Document, includes inspections; procedures for a corrective action, including repairs, under identified circumstances; application of sealants or corrosion inhibitors; and other follow-on actions. Note 5: Airplane ``areas'' are those items listed in columnar form in the ``ACTION'' statement of each task, as listed in the Document. Note 6: Basic tasks completed in accordance with the Document before the effective date of this AD may be credited for compliance with the initial basic task requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this AD. Note 7: Where non-destructive inspection (NDI) methods are employed, in accordance with section 2.4 of the Document, the standards and procedures used must be acceptable to the Administrator in accordance with FAR section 43.13. (1) Complete the initial basic task of each aircraft zone specified in section 2.4 of the Document as follows: (i) For airplane areas that have not yet exceeded the ``Initial Inspection Time (IIT)'' for a basic task as of one year after the effective date of this AD: Initial compliance must occur no later than the IIT, or no later than one Repeat Inspection Time (RIT) interval measured from a date one year after the effective date of this AD, whichever occurs later. (ii) For airplane areas that have exceeded the IIT for a particular basic task as of one year after the effective date of this AD: Initial compliance must occur within one RIT interval for that task, or within 6 years, measured from a date one year after the effective date of this AD, whichever occurs first. (iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this AD, accomplish the initial basic task, for each area that exceeds the IIT for that area, at a minimum rate of one such area every two years, beginning one year after the effective date of this AD. Note 8: This paragraph does not require inspection of any area that has not exceeded the IIT for that area. Note 9: This minimum rate requirement may cause an undue hardship on some small operators. In those circumstances, requests for adjustments to the implementation rate will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis under the provisions of paragraph (h) of this AD. (2) Repeat each basic task at a time interval not to exceed the RIT interval specified in the Document for that task. (b) As an alternative to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this AD: Prior to one year after the effective date of this AD, revise the FAA-approved maintenance/inspection program to include the corrosion control program specified in the Document; or to include an equivalent program that is approved by the FAA. In all cases, the initial basic task for each airplane area must be completed in accordance with the compliance schedule specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this AD. (1) Any operator complying with paragraph (b) of this AD may use an alternative recordkeeping method to that otherwise required by FAR section 91.417 or section 121.380 for the actions required by this AD, provided it is approved by the FAA and is included in a revision to the FAA-approved maintenance/inspection program. (2) Subsequent to the accomplishment of the initial basic task, extensions of RIT intervals specified in the Document must be approved by the FAA. (c) To accommodate unanticipated scheduling requirements, it is acceptable for an RIT interval to be increased by up to 10%, but not to exceed 6 months. The FAA must be informed, in writing, of any such extension within 30 days after such adjustment of the schedule. (d)(1) If, as a result of any inspection conducted in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (b) of this AD, Level 3 corrosion is determined to exist in any airplane area, accomplish either paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) within 7 days after such determination: (i) Submit a report of that determination to the FAA and complete the basic task in the affected aircraft zones on all Model F&hyph;27 series airplanes in the operator's fleet; or (ii) Submit to the FAA for approval one of the following: (A) A proposed schedule for performing the basic tasks in the affected aircraft zones on the remaining Model F&hyph;27 series airplanes in the operator's fleet, which is adequate to ensure that any other Level 3 corrosion is detected in a timely manner, along with substantiating data for that schedule; or (B) Data substantiating that the Level 3 corrosion found is an isolated occurrence. Note: 10: Notwithstanding the provisions of section 2.1 of the Document, which would permit corrosion that otherwise meets the definition of Level 3 corrosion (i.e., which is determined to be a potentially urgent airworthiness concern requiring expeditious action) to be treated as Level 1 if the operator finds that it ``can be attributed to an event not typical of the operator's usage of other airplanes in the same fleet,'' this paragraph requires that data substantiating any such finding be submitted to the FAA (ref. Note 2 of this AD) for approval.
