FR940831-2-00103 FR940831-2-00077 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Office of the Secretary Advisory Council on Employee Welfare and Pension Benefit Plans; Extension of Announcement of Vacancies to October 18, 1994 Request for Nominations The announcement of vacancies to the ERISA Advisory Council is being extended through October 18, 1994. Earlier candidates whose nominations have been acknowledged need not reapply. Section 512 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) 88 Stat. 895, 29 U.S.C. 1142, provides for the establishment of an ``Advisory Council on Employee Welfare and Pension Benefit Plans'' (The Council) which is to consist of 15 members to be appointed by the Secretary of Labor (the Secretary) as follows: Three representatives of employee organizations (at least one of whom shall be representative of an organization whose members are participants in a multiemployer plan); three representatives of employers (at least one of whom shall be representative of employers maintaining or contributing to multiemployer plans); one representative each from the fields of insurance, corporate trust, actuarial counseling, investment counseling, investment management, and accounting; and three representatives from the general public (one of whom shall be a person representing those receiving benefits from a pension plan). Not more than eight members of the Council shall be members of the same political party. Members shall be persons qualified to appraise the programs instituted under ERISA. Appointments are for terms of three years. The prescribed duties of the Council are to advise the Secretary with respect to the carrying out of his functions under ERISA, and to submit to the Secretary, or his designee, recommendations with respect thereto. The Council will meet at least four times each year, and recommendations of the Council to the Secretary will be included in the Secretary's annual report to the Congress on ERISA. The terms of five members of the council expire on Monday, November 14, 1994. The groups or fields represented are as follows: employee organizations (multiemployer plans), actuarial counseling, investment counseling field, employers, and the general public (pensioners). Accordingly, notice is hereby given that any person or organization desiring to recommend one or more individuals for appointment to the ERISA Advisory Council on Employee Welfare and Pension Benefit Plans to represent any of the groups or fields specified in the preceding paragraph, may submit recommendations to, Attention: William E. Morrow, Executive Secretary, ERISA Advisory Council, Frances Perkins Building, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Suite N&hyph;5677, Washington, DC 20210. Recommendations must be delivered or mailed on or before October 18, 1994. Recommendations may be in the form of a letter, resolution or petition, signed by the person making the recommendation or, in the case of a recommendation by an organization, by an authorized representative of the organization. Each recommendation should identify the candidate by name, occupation or position, telephone number and address. It should also include a brief description of the candidate's qualifications, the group or field which he or she would represent for the purposes of Section 512 of ERISA, the candidates' political party affiliation, and whether the candidate is available and would accept. Signed at Washington, DC this 25th day of August, 1994. Olena Berg, Assistant Secretary of Labor for Pension and Welfare Benefit Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21413 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;29&hyph;M
