FR940202-2-00007 FR940202-2-00001 Financial Security Measures Forest Service Manual Chapter 2430, Commercial Timber Sales 2431.33_Discounting. The line officer with the authority to make the timber sale may approve the use of discounting procedures set forth in FSH 2409.18, section 54.4 for an individual timber sale to: 1. Support a need for immediate harvesting, such as an economic incentive for early removal of fire-damaged, insect-damaged, or wind-thrown timber; 2. Support the accomplishment of land management objectives; 3. Provide for optimal utilization of salvage timber. Document the need and rationale for discounting in the environmental assessment or other environmental documentation prepared for the sale. The use of discounting on an area-wide basis is permissible upon the Regional Forester's request and the Chief's approval when remaining volume under contract in an area exceeds 3 times the Allowable Sale Quantity (ASQ) or exceeds 3 or more years of sold volume whichever is greater. In making this determination, consider total unprocessed volume inventories held by area purchasers. Base the request to provide a discounting incentive on the need for increasing or providing an even flow of timber receipts to the Government. * * * * * 2431.43_Bid Guarantee. Require a bid guarantee of 10 percent of the advertised value for National Forest System timber sales. * * * * * 2432.54_Bid Repudiation. Consider a timber sale contract to be repudiated when a timber sale is not consummated because the high bidder fails to make the downpayment, provide a performance bond, and/or execute the contract. 2432.54a_Notice to Purchaser. The Contracting Officer shall notify the bidder of the repudiation and breach of contract by certified mail. The date of the receipt of notice shall be the date of the repudiation. Also, include notice that the bidder has breached the contract and: 1. Is subject to exclusion from bidding on the resale pursuant to 36 CFR 223.86(a)(1). 2. May be required to make downpayment equal to 20 percent of the total advertised value, plus 40 percent of the total bid premium on future Forest Service contracts pursuant to 36 CFR 223.49(e). 2432.54b_Assessment of Damages. Assess damages for a repudiated sale in the following manner and sequence: 1. Offer the sale to the second high bidder at the rates bid by the high bidder. If the second high bidder declines the contract, offer it in turn to remaining bidders in the order of their bids. If any bidder accepts the contract offer at the high bid rate, assess no damages. 2. If there is no second high bidder, more than one second high bidder (tied), or all bidders decline the contract offer, attempt to readvertise the repudiated sale within six months of repudiation at appropriate appraised rates. a. Determine damages based on the difference between the total resale bid value and the total value of the repudiated contract. Add certain additional costs (such as interest and the cost of resale) as indicated in the applicable provision of the sample contract prepared for the sale. b. If there are no bids on the readvertised sale, base damages on the difference between the readvertised appraised value and the total bid value of the repudiated contract. Add certain additional costs (such as interest and the cost of resale) as indicated by the applicable provision of the sample contract prepared for the sale. 3. If the sale is not excepted to be readvertised within 6 months, base damages on the difference between the appraised value of the repudiated contract as of date of repudiation and the total bid value of the repudiated contract. Add certain additional costs (such as interest and the cost of resale) as indicated by the applicable provision of the sample contract prepared for the repudiated sale. * * * * * Forest Service Manual Chapter 2450, Timber Sale Contract Administration FSM 2456.14_Penal Sum of the Performance Bond. The penal sum of the performance bond shall be at least 10 percent of the total bid value rounded up to the next $100 when the bid value is $10,000 or less and the next $1,000 when the bid value exceeds $10,000. The bond may be higher than the minimum amount of bond if needed to cover work required of the purchaser after the logging season is completed. Forest Service Handbook FSH 2409.18, Timber Sale Preparation Handbook_Chapter 50, Final Package Preparation, Review, Appraisal and Offering 54.4_Discount of Payment Rates for Early Harvest. Use the procedures of this section for individual sales or on an area-wide basis where discounting has been approved (FSM 2431.33). Use the following guidelines in establishing discounted rates:
