FR940826-0-00124 FR940826-0-00020 B. Suggested Opening Bid 19. In the Second Report and Order, we stated that in multiple round auctions the Commission will generally specify minimum bid increments to speed the progress of the auction. 49 The bid increment is the amount or percentage by which the bid must be raised above the previous round's high bid in order to be accepted as a valid bid in the current round. We retained the discretion to use a ``suggested'' minimum bid increment rather than a required bid increment. 50 49 Second Report and Order at ¶124. 50 Under a suggested minimum bid increment rule, the auction would close if no bids or only one bid was submitted that was above the minimum bid increment. Id. at n. 102. 20. In the recent nationwide narrowband auctions, it became apparent that the Commission may need further tools to avoid unnecessarily long auctions. In order to expedite the auction process further, we also reserve the discretion to establish a suggested opening bid on each license in addition to the minimum bid increment. 51 Where we adopt a suggested opening bid, initial bids will have to be above the minimum bid increment but may be below the suggested opening bid. Generally, we will establish suggested opening bids in the range of $.02&hyph;$.20 per pop per MHz for each license. This suggested opening bid will provide bidders with an incentive to start bidding at a substantial portion of the license value, thus ensuring a rapid conclusion of the auction. 51 See ex parte submission of Paul Milgrom, May 19, 1994. C. Commission Discretion During Auctions 21. In the Second Report and Order, and discussed supra, we chose our primary auction methodology, but noted that no one auction design is optimal for all auctionable services. We stated that we would adopt auction rules for specific services in subsequent Report and Orders, based on criteria established in the Second Report and Order. We further stated that when we announced individual auctions for specific services, we would specify more detailed procedures for those auctions in a Public Notice, but that those procedures also would be governed by criteria set forth in the Second Report and Order . 52 Our rules also afforded flexibility with respect to some auction procedures, such as those governing the duration of bidding rounds, minimum bid amounts, and stopping rules, and we stated that we might make decisions regarding such matters during the course of an auction. 53 52 Id. at ¶68. 53 Id. at ¶¶123, 126, 132. 22. Petition. The National Association of Business and Educational Radio, Inc. (``NABER'') asserts that the auction rules do not comply with the public interest and the Administrative Procedure Act 54 because they allow the Commission to circumvent the normal notice and comment procedure, and that the rules prevent providers of service from devising a business plan and auction strategy in advance. 55 NABER states that the Commission should eliminate its discretion to change the auction rules or procedures during a particular auction, that bidders need to know the rules which will apply for a particular service auction, and that interested parties should have the opportunity to provide meaningful comment before the final auction rules for particular services and frequencies are set. 56 NABER asserts that should the Commission change bidding methods in mid-stream without prior public comment, the Commission would violate the notice and comment rulemaking requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, by its failure to keep a record and analyze and consider all relevant matter regarding those new rules. 57 54 See Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. §§551 et seq. 55 NABER Petition at 2. 56 Id. at 8. 57 Id. at 9; see 5 U.S.C. §553. 23. Discussion. We believe that the process we have used to adopt auction designs and implementation procedures and the rules themselves fully comply with the Administrative Procedure Act. In the NPRM in this docket, we provided notice of the auction designs we were considering and requested comment on issues of auction design and procedure. We received voluminous public comment on these issues. In the Second Report and Order, we carefully considered all comments and suggestions concerning a wide variety of proposed auction designs, including the comments and proposals of numerous experts in auction theory. We have established a broad framework for the conduct of license auctions, specifying a menu of auction designs and procedures from which we will choose for individual auctions. We have identified our preferred options, and have discussed the circumstances in which we believe the various options will be most appropriate in order to serve our statutory goals, and which are therefore most likely to be chosen. After the Second Report and Order was issued, we made, in addition, more specific choices of auction designs for particular services in Orders dealing with those services. 58 We have also established application, payment, and penalty procedures for individual services. 59 The procedures, we believe, afforded members of the public all of the procedural rights to which they are entitled under the Administrative Procedure Act. 58 See Third Report and Order at ¶¶16&hyph;40, Fourth Report and Order at ¶11&hyph;18, and Fifth Report and Order at ¶¶27&hyph;57. 59 See Third Report and Order at ¶¶41&hyph;60, Fourth Report and Order at ¶¶19&hyph;29, and Fifth Report and Order at ¶¶58&hyph;92.
