FR941216-2-00028 FR941216-2-00018 COMMITTEE FOR PURCHASE FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE BLIND OR SEVERELY DISABLED Procurement List Addition AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Addition to the Procurement List. SUMMARY: This action adds to the Procurement List a filter element to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 17, 1995. ADDRESSES: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, Suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman (703) 603&hyph;7740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On August 5, 1994, the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled published notice (59 FR 40010) of proposed addition to the Procurement List. Comments were received from the current contractor for the filter element, indicating that addition of the element to the Procurement List would have a sizeable negative impact on the contractor. The contractor also indicated that it had been impacted in the past two years by losing the opportunity to bid on three other filter elements, one of which had been added to the Procurement List and the others set aside for other Government procurement preference programs. In assessing the severity of impact of a Procurement List addition on a contractor, the Committee generally begins by comparing the expected value of the contract with the current contractor's total sales. The Committee also takes into account other recent additions to the Procurement List where the affected contractor was the current contractor. In this case, the percentage of sales which the contractor would lose, along with the loss suffered in one recent addition to the Procurement List, does not reach the level which the Committee considers to be severe adverse impact on the contractor. Because no contractor is guaranteed to receive a contract under the competitive bidding system, the Committee does not normally consider loss of the opportunity to bid on subsequent contracts to constitute severe adverse impact. In this case, the commenting contractor was not the current contractor for the other filter element added to the Procurement List which the contractor mentioned in its comments. Consequently, the Committee does not believe that loss of opportunity to bid on the filter element now being added to the Procurement List adds to the severity of impact which the contractor will experience.
