FR941012-2-00178 FR941012-2-00116 Develop an ongoing process for evaluating technical assistance and training provided through Title IV. To complement training planning efforts and the assessment of technical assistance needs, OJJDP will expand efforts to evaluate technical assistance and training funded through Title IV. Grantees who deliver these services will be required to provide OJJDP with names and addresses of all individuals who request and received services through Title IV. This information will be used by OJJDP to distribute evaluation surveys designed to assess the quality and effectiveness of services delivered. Fiscal Year 1995 Programs The following are brief summaries of each of the proposed competitive and continuation programs for Fiscal Year 1995. The estimated amounts, sites for implementation, and other descriptive information presented here are subject to change based on the public comment process, grantee performance, application quality, fund availability, and other factors. OJJDP has a limited amount of funds for competitive programs in FY 1995. Competitive programs are therefore being proposed with funding levels subject to change based upon public comment. Competitive programs may be added to the plan based on the review and comment process. Fiscal Year 1995 Programs Competitive Programs National Missing Children's Resource Center and Clearinghouse, $3,050,000 This three year cooperative agreement will fund the operation of a national resource center and clearinghouse as mandated in Section 404(b) (42 U.S.C. 5773). The clearinghouse is responsible for establishing and operating a 24 hour toll-free telephone line by which individuals may report information regarding the location of any missing child, or other child 13 years of age or younger, whose whereabouts are unknown to such child's legal custodian, and request information pertaining to procedures necessary to reunite the child and legal custodian. In addition, the clearinghouse will be responsible for providing a wide range of assistance to State and local governments, public and private non-profit agencies, and individuals. Specific assistance includes coordinating public and private programs which locate, recover, or reunite missing children with their legal guardians, provide training and technical assistance, disseminate information about innovative and model missing childrens' programs, and facilitate the lawful use of school records to identify and locate missing children. Title IV Training and Technical Assistance $750,000 OJJDP, through its Missing Children's Program, is committed to support the agencies and organizations that deliver services related to the prevention of missing and exploited children cases, the location of missing children, the recovery of those children, and the successful reunification of missing children to their legal guardian(s). Through funding of relevant research and program demonstration projects, OJJDP produces information and work products of use to agencies, organizations, victims, and families. OJJDP seeks to disseminate such information and work products through the delivery of training and technical assistance to law enforcement, judges, prosecutors, schools, human service agencies, medical service providers, non-profit organizations, and any other appropriate entity that provides services to missing and exploited children and their families. To coordinate the delivery of information, work products, training, and technical assistance, OJJDP will issue a Request for Proposals (RFP) for the development and management of an efficient and effective technical assistance and training program for Title IV funded activities. The RFP will include services related to the design, development and delivery of all new Title IV training and technical assistance based on work products and other results generated by the experience of other Title IV grantees. The successful contractor will be responsible for incorporating existing Title IV funded training into new programs where appropriate. OJJDP believes that this approach will standardize the training being delivered through Title IV, more efficiently make use of Title IV funding, and strengthen quality control for the delivery of training and technical assistance. Effective Community-Based Approaches for Dealing With Missing and Exploited Children $250,000
