FR940513-0-00026 FR940513-0-00004 (4) It is otherwise in the best interest of the United States, including the situation where an installment payment agreement or offset is in effect. §1408.13 Contracting for collection services. The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, may contract for collection services in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718 and 4 CFR 102.6 to recover debts. §1408.14 Reporting of credit information. The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, may disclose to a consumer reporting agency information that an individual is responsible for a debt owed to the United States. Information will be disclosed to reporting agencies in accordance with the terms and conditions of agreements entered into between the Corporation and the reporting agencies. The terms and conditions of such agreements shall specify that all of the rights and protection afforded to the debtor under 31 U.S.C. 3711(f) have been fulfilled. The Corporation shall notify each consumer reporting agency, to which a claim was disclosed, when the debt has been satisfied. §1408.15 Credit report. In order to aid the Corporation in making appropriate determinations regarding the collection and compromise of claims; the collection of charges for interest, administrative costs, and penalties; the use of administrative offset; the use of other collection methods; and the likelihood of collecting the claim, the Corporation may institute, consistent with the provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681, et seq.), a credit investigation of the debtor immediately following a determination that the claim exists. Subpart B_Administrative Offset §1408.20 Applicability. (a) The provisions of this subpart shall apply to the collection of debts by administrative [or salary] offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, 5 U.S.C. 5514, or other statutory or common law. (b) Offset shall not be used to collect a debt more than 10 years after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to the Government's right to collect the debt were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the official or officials of the Government who were charged with the responsibility of discovering and collecting such debt. (c) Offset shall not be used with respect to: (1) Debts owed by other agencies of the United States or by any State or local government; (2) Debts arising under or payments made under the Social Security Act, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or tariff laws of the United States; or (3) Any case in which collection by offset of the type of debt involved is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute. (d) Unless otherwise provided by contract or law, debts or payments which are not subject to offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 or 5 U.S.C. 5514 may be collected by offset if such collection is authorized under common law or other applicable statutory authority. §1408.21 Collection by offset. (a) Collection of a debt by administrative [or salary] offset shall be accomplished in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, 4 CFR 102.3, and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K. It is not necessary for the debt to be reduced to judgment or to be undisputed for offset to be used. (b) The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, may determine that it is feasible to collect a debt to the United States by offset against funds payable to the debtor. (c) The feasibility of collecting a debt by offset will be determined on a case-by-case basis. This determination shall be made by considering all relevant factors, including the following: (1) The degree to which the offset can be accomplished in accordance with law. This determination should take into consideration relevant statutory, regulatory, and contractual requirements; (2) The degree to which the Corporation is certain that its determination of the existence and amount of the debt is correct; (3) The practicality of collecting the debt by offset. The cost, in time and money, of collecting the debt by offset and the amount of money which can reasonably be expected to be recovered through offset will be relevant to this determination; and (4) Whether the use of offset will substantially interfere with or defeat the purpose of a program authorizing payments against which the offset is contemplated. For example, under a grant program in which payments are made in advance of the grantee's performance, the imposition of offset against such a payment may be inappropriate. (d) The collection of a debt by offset may not be feasible when there are circumstances which would indicate that the likelihood of collection by offset is less than probable. (e) The offset will be effected 31 days after the debtor receives a Notice of Intent to Collect by Administrative Offset (or Notice of Intent to Collect by Salary Offset if the offset is a salary offset), or upon the expiration of a stay of offset, unless the Corporation determines under §1408.24 that immediate action is necessary.
