FR941007-1-00167 FR941007-1-00009 (f) Small savings association file . (1) A small savings association shall include in its public file the savings association's loan-to-deposit ratio computed at the end of the most recent calendar year. A savings association may include additional data on its loan-to-deposit ratio at its option. (2) A small savings association that elects to be evaluated under the lending, investment and service tests (as described in §§563e.22 through 563e.24 of this part) shall include in its public file the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section. (g) Strategic plan . Each savings association that has been approved to be assessed under a strategic plan as described in §563e.27 of this part shall include in its public file a copy of that plan. Information submitted to the OTS on a confidential basis in conjunction with the plan does not have to be included in the public file. (h) Less than satisfactory rating . Each savings association that received a less than satisfactory rating during its most recent examination shall include in its public file a description of its current efforts to improve its performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community. This description shall be updated quarterly. (i) Location of public file. Each savings association shall maintain its public file as follows: (1) The home office shall have a copy of the complete public file; (2) At least one branch in each service area shall have a copy of the savings association's HMDA Disclosure Statements and all materials in the public file relating to the service area in which the branch is located; and (3) If a member of the public requests to review a savings association's public file at a branch that does not have a copy, the savings association shall make a complete copy of the file for that service area available for review at the branch within 5 business days at no cost. (j) Copies. Each savings association shall provide copies of the information in its public file to members of the public upon request. A savings association may charge a reasonable fee not to exceed the cost of reproduction and mailing (if applicable). §563e.44 Public notice by savings associations. (a) CRA notice for savings associations. Each savings association shall provide in the public lobby of its home office and each of its branches the public notice set forth in Appendix B of this part. Bracketed material shall be used only by savings associations having more than one service area. (b) Additional notice for affiliate savings associations. The last two sentences shall be included only if the savings association is an affiliate of a holding company. §563e.45 Publication of planned examination schedule. The OTS shall publish at least 30 days in advance of the beginning of each calendar quarter a list of the savings associations that are scheduled for CRA examinations in that quarter. Subpart D_Transition Rules §563e.51 Transition rules. (a) Effective date . Sections of this part 563e become effective over a period of time in accordance with the schedule set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. The provisions of part 563e become fully effective on July 1, 1996.
