FR940928-0-00077 FR940928-0-00021 The Commission has no reason to believe that the amendments will have a substantial impact on a significant number of small entities. In light of this, the Commission concludes that the preparation of a final regulatory flexibility analysis is not necessary. Accordingly, the Commission certifies, under Section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 88 that the amendments announced today will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. 88 5 U.S.C. 605(b). IV. Paperwork Reduction Act The Rule contains reporting and recordkeeping requirements that constitute ``recordkeeping'' requirements as defined by 5 CFR 1320.7(c), the regulation that implements the Paperwork Reduction Act (``PRA''). 89 The NPR stated that the proposed amendments would expand the Rule's existing recordkeeping and reporting requirements to include manufacturers of products not previously covered. The NPR noted, however, that manufacturers would not have to maintain records beyond what they must already do in the ordinary course of business to comply with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of DOE's minimum efficiency standards program. In addition, although the affected companies would have to report annually to the Commission the energy usage of the covered products they manufacture or import, the Commission estimated that no more than 50 companies would be affected, and that it would take each company fewer than 10 hours to comply. Because the resulting increase in burden hours would be de minimis, the NPR stated that the Commission would not request that the Office of Management and Budget (``OMB'') adjust the existing clearance for the Rule under the Paperwork Reduction Act. To substantiate the accuracy of the Commission's reporting burden estimate, however, the NPR requested comment on the extent of the reporting burden associated with these amendments. 89 44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;3520. The only comment in response to this request was from CEC. CEC stated that manufacturers currently provide details of all models they sell to CEC, and that CEC is prepared to act as third-party certifier to the Commission at no charge to manufacturers. CEC therefore contended that manufacturers would not have to incur additional time or cost in reporting to the Commission. 90 90 CEC, EE&hyph;2, 4, 6, 7. The comments also indicate that the number of companies affected by the amendments is far fewer that the 50 the Commission initially estimated would be affected. See Part III, above. Since the NPR was published, the Commission initiated a proceeding to determine the manner and form of labeling plumbing products to disclose their water usage. 91 In the section of the Federal Register notice in that proceeding discussing the applicability of the Paperwork Reduction Act to the proposed amendments, the Commission stated that the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Rule and the proposed amendments were being submitted to OMB and referred to a Notice of Application to OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act that accompanied the notice. 91 58 FR 26715 (May 5, 1993). In the referenced Notice of Application, the Commission requested OMB clearance for the plumbing products amendments and for the amendments proposed in the NPR in the instant proceeding as well. This clearance request was published in the Federal Register for comment. 92 This notice stated that the Commission estimated in the NPR that no more than 50 companies would be affected. Further, whatever amendments the Commission adopted would increase the information collection burden by no more than 500 hours. Adding this figure to the estimated additional burden resulting from the plumbing products amendments, the Commission estimated that the total increase in the information collection burden of the Appliance Labeling Rule would be 1,000 hours. 92 58 FR 26786 (May 5, 1993). Neither the Commission nor OMB received comments on the application. On July 1, 1993, OMB approved the request and assigned control number 3084&hyph;0068 to the information requirements. List of Subjects in 16 CFR Part 305 Advertising, Energy conservation, Household appliances, Labeling, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 16 CFR is amended as follows:
