FR940627-0-00128 FR940627-0-00019 The baseline gasoline group is restricted to formulations that are derived from conventional petroleum sources. Thus, gasolines derived from synthetic crude oils are excluded from the baseline category. Synthetic crude oils can be prepared from coal, shale and tar sands, heavy oil deposits, and other non-conventional petroleum sources. Compared to petroleum, these synthetic crude oils must be extensively upgraded before they can be refined into useful products. Because of the nature of their sources, these synthetic products are likely to contain a variety of unknown contaminants with unknown health effects. With little specific data currently available on their composition, EPA believes that separate non-baseline classifications are most appropriate for grouping these products. Gasoline formulations derived from a particular synthetic crude oil source (e.g., coal) will be permitted to group together. The representative of each such group will be the first such product to seek registration. b. Diesel. Diesel formulations are defined as those containing more than 50 percent diesel by volume. The sulfur content for all diesel formulations in the diesel fuel family is limited to 0.05 percent by weight, based on current EPA limits (55 FR 34120). The diesel fuel family includes both diesel # 1 and diesel # 2 formulations. As originally proposed, the diesel baseline category includes diesel formulations containing no elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and/or sulfur. Baseline diesel formulations must also possess, at the time of manufacture, all the physical and chemical properties of a diesel fuel as specified in the latest version of ASTM standard D 975. Oxygen content of baseline diesel formulations must be less than 1.0 percent by weight. The baseline diesel category includes all diesel fuels that meet the above criteria. The diesel baseline definition is consistent with existing information in EPA's F/FA registration data base, which indicates that most commercial diesel fuels, including their bulk additives, consist of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and/or sulfur. While some currently registered diesel fuels contain additives with additional elements, the objectives of the testing program are inconsistent with broadening the diesel baseline definition to include other elements with potentially different health effects from those of basic diesel formulations. A broader baseline definition would mean that the atypical diesel F/FAs would not be separately examined. Limiting baseline diesel F/FAs to those containing no elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and/or sulfur ensures the conduct of separate health effects evaluations for the emissions of diesel formulations containing atypical elements. Similar to baseline gasoline, the baseline diesel category excludes fuels derived from synthetic crude oil sources. Thus, such formulations are included in the non-baseline category of the diesel family. The non-baseline diesel category also includes diesel formulations with 1.0 percent or more oxygen by weight. Examples of non-baseline diesel formulations are alcohol blends and biodiesel formulations. c. Methanol. F/FAs in the methanol fuel family are defined as those containing at least 50 percent methanol by volume. The baseline methanol category is comprised of methanol and methanol-gasoline F/FAs that: (1) Contain at least 50 percent methanol by volume, (2) contain no more than 4 percent by volume of substances other than methanol and gasoline, and (3) contain no elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, and/or chlorine. The sulfur content of baseline methanol formulations is limited to 0.004 percent by weight. Chlorine (as chloride) is limited to no more than 0.0001 percent by weight. Chlorine is allowed in methanol baseline formulations because it is a common contaminant remaining from methanol production. The baseline methanol category includes all methanol fuels meeting the above criteria and is divided into two groups: M100 group and M85 group. The M100 group includes methanol-gasoline formulations containing at least 96 percent methanol by volume, while the M85 group consists of methanol formulations containing 50&hyph;95 percent methanol by volume. F/FAs within the baseline M100 group are required to contain odorants and bitterants. These formulations should have a distinctive and noxious taste, for purposes of preventing purposeful or inadvertent human consumption. The elemental composition of the odorant and bitterant is limited to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, and chlorine. Baseline methanol formulations in the M85 group must comply with the elemental composition specified above for all baseline methanol F/FAs, but need not have added odorants and bitterants. The non-baseline methanol category is comprised of methanol formulations (i.e., containing at least 50 percent methanol by volume) that meet the baseline limits on elemental composition, but contain more than 4 percent by volume of substances other than methanol and gasoline. a Atypical methanol F/FAs contain elements in addition to those allowed in the baseline methanol category or exceed the specified limits for sulfur or chlorine.
