FR940603-0-00035 FR940603-0-00017 Section 1220.54␣NARA Evaluation Process Selection Process Several agencies suggested changes in the selection criteria used by NARA. Suggested alternatives included conducting an evaluation only upon request; setting an evaluation cycle; and identifying agencies that have significantly changed patterns of use of Federal records centers. Attendees at the records officer meeting and the majority of written comments agreed with the criteria proposed in the notice of proposed rulemaking. This section has not been changed in the final rule. Two agencies questioned the meaning of ``perceived need'' and ``compliance monitoring cycle.'' Perceived need means NARA's knowledge of agency operations as they apply to the records management program. This includes retirement patterns of records to FRCs, the transfer of permanent records to NARA, and scheduling activities by the agency. The compliance monitoring cycle, to be developed by NARA, is a method of tracking the cyclical review of agencies. Method of Notification Two agencies suggested that the NARA letter of notification should specify the scope of the evaluation to enable agencies to make adequate preparations. Another agency stated that the agency head or his/her designee will determine who will carry out responsibilities stipulated in the regulations. Another agency suggested that the regulations regarding agency response exceeds NARA's authority to direct the internal operation of the agency concerning the individuals to be notified of the evaluation. NARA agrees and made appropriate changes. Provision of Information Prior to an Evaluation Two agencies noted that NARA has all approved agency schedules; two agencies found the requirement to provide all issuances relating to records management to be onerous; one agency objected to providing a list of agency information systems not currently covered by schedules; one agency noted that contractors will have serious reservations about making records with proprietary and trade information available to NARA; and one agency objected to the tone of this section. Becoming familiar with an agency's records management program, including the program's internal requirements, is an important preliminary step for NARA prior to beginning an evaluation. However, NARA agrees that most relevant information is available in a limited number of agency issuances and NARA does have copies of all approved agency schedules. Section 1220.54(b)(4) has been changed to reflect this. The maintenance of a list of agency information systems is required by OMB Circular A&hyph;130, section 9a(5), so providing this information to NARA should not impose an additional burden. NARA will use this list to determine which systems have not been scheduled. 36 CFR 1222.48(e) states that ``All data created for Government use and delivered to, or falling under, the legal control of, the Government are Federal records and shall be managed in accordance with records management legislation *␣*␣*'' Records created by contractors for the agency are Federal records and as such are included in NARA's evaluation authority. NARA staff are trained to handle agency records containing sensitive information appropriately. Section 1220.56␣Evaluation Report Report Distribution The distribution requirements of the final report generated comments and discussion. Some agency representatives think that distribution should be limited to individuals and offices affected by findings and recommendations, while others thought the reports should be widely distributed. One agency suggested that the final report should be sent to the Agency Records Officer with a copy to the agency head. While NARA thinks that a wide distribution of the report within an agency will help to highlight the importance of proper records management, it is appropriate that the agency determine the internal distribution of a report. The final report is issued under the signature of the Archivist of the United States and should be transmitted to his or her equivalent at the agency. Additionally, sending the report to the agency head will ensure that he or she is aware of the evaluation and this action may heighten awareness of the agency records management program at the highest level of agency management.
