FR940725-0-00068 FR940725-0-00008 1. Hearing a. Should mediation be refused or otherwise fail to resolve the issues on the provision of early intervention services or a free, appropriate public education to a disabled infant, toddler, preschool child or child or the identification, evaluation, or educational placement of such an individual, the parent or either the school principal, on behalf of the Section 6 School System, or the military medical treatment facility commander, on behalf of the Military Department having jurisdiction over the infant or toddler, may request and shall receive a hearing before a hearing officer to resolve the matter. The parents of an infant, toddler, preschool child or child and the Section 6 School System or Military Department concerned shall be the only parties to a hearing conducted under this appendix. b. The party seeking the hearing shall submit a written request, in the form of a petition, setting forth the facts, issues, and proposed relief, to the Director, DOHA. The petitioner shall deliver a copy of the petition to the opposing party (that is, the parent or the school principal, on behalf of the Section 6 School System, or the military medical treatment facility commander, on behalf of the Military Department), either in person or by first-class mail, postage prepaid. Delivery is complete upon mailing. When the Section 6 School System or Military Department petitions for a hearing, it shall inform the other parties of the deadline for filing an answer under paragraph D.1.c. of this appendix, and shall provide the other parties with a copy of this part. c. An opposing party shall submit an answer to the petition to the Director, DOHA, with a copy to the petitioner, within 15 calendar days of receipt of the petition. The answer shall be as full and complete as possible, addressing the issues, facts, and proposed relief. The submission of the answer is complete upon mailing. d. Within 10 calendar days after receiving the petition, the Director, DOHA, shall assign a hearing officer, who then shall have jurisdiction over the resulting proceedings. The Director, DOHA, shall forward all pleadings to the hearing officer. e. The questions for adjudication shall be based on the petition and the answer, provided that a party may amend a pleading if the amendment is filed with the hearing officer and is received by the other parties at least 5 calendar days before the hearing. f. The Director, DOHA, shall arrange for the time and place of the hearing, and shall provide administrative support. Such arrangements shall be reasonably convenient to the parties. g. The purpose of a hearing is to establish the relevant facts necessary for the hearing officer to reach a fair and impartial determination of the case. Oral and documentary evidence that is relevant and material may be received. The technical rules of evidence shall be relaxed to permit the development of a full evidentiary record, with the Federal Rules of Evidence (28 U.S.C.) serving as a guide. h. The hearing officer shall be the presiding officer, with judicial powers to manage the proceeding and conduct the hearing. Those powers shall include the authority to order an independent evaluation of the child at the expense of the Section 6 School System or Military Department concerned and to call and question witnesses. i. Those normally authorized to attend a hearing shall be the parents of the individual with disabilities, the counsel and personal representative of the parents, the counsel and professional employees of the Section 6 School System or Military Department concerned, the hearing officer, and a person qualified to transcribe or record the proceedings. The hearing officer may permit other persons to attend the hearing, consistent with the privacy interests of the parents and the individual with disabilities, provided the parents have the right to an open hearing upon waiving in writing their privacy rights and those of the individual with disabilities. j. A verbatim transcription of the hearing shall be made in written or electronic form and shall become a permanent part of the record. A copy of the written transcript or electronic record of the hearing shall be made available to a parent upon request and without cost. The hearing officer may allow corrections to the written transcript or electronic recording for the purpose of conforming it to actual testimony after adequate notice of such changes is given to all parties. k. The hearing officer's decision of the case shall be based on the record, which shall include the petition, the answer, the written transcript or the electronic recording of the hearing, exhibits admitted into evidence, pleadings or correspondence properly filed and served on all parties, and such other matters as the hearing officer may include in the record, provided that such matter is made available to all parties before the record is closed under paragraph D.1.m. of this appendix. l. The hearing officer shall make a full and complete record of a case presented for adjudication. m. The hearing officer shall decide when the record in a case is closed.
