FR940713-2-00181 FR940713-2-00099 Indirect Costs EDA encourages applicants to waive indirect costs for this program. No more than 20 percent of the Federal grant and nonfederal share may be allocated for indirect costs. Application Forms and Kit This program uses Standard Form (SF) 424 (4/92), Application for Federal Assistance; SF&hyph;424A (4/92), Budget Information_Non-Construction Programs; and SF&hyph;424B (4/92), Assurances_Non-Construction Programs. In addition to the forms listed above, the following forms are required: CD&hyph;511, Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying; CD&hyph;512, Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying; CD&hyph;346 (8/88), Applicant for Funding Assistance; SF&hyph;LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities; and SF&hyph;LLL&hyph;A, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities Continuation Sheet. Applicants must provide an original and two (2) copies of the applications and supporting documentation. Project Funding Priorities Innovative proposals with a variety of economic development foci are welcome. However, applicants should note that EDA will not award University Center Technical Assistance program funds to provide general business assistance (e.g., preparing business plans) in areas served by Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs), Minority Business Development Centers (MDBCs), or Trade Adjustment Assistance Centers (TAACs). Most successful proposals funded in the recent past have emphasized providing technical assistance to public sector and nonprofit organizations related to economic development planning and projects or helping private sector firms use technology to solve manufacturing or processing problems. Evaluation Criteria For existing University Centers, EDA will primarily consider past performance in determining whether to continue the award and the amount of funding to be offered. In judging a proposal for new University Center funding, EDA will consider whether it: 1. Addresses the economic development needs of the service area; 2. Complements the activities of other organizations in the proposed service area that are engaged in economic development; 3. Has the commitment of the highest management levels of the sponsoring institution; 4. Provides evidence of adequate nonfederal financial support, either from the sponsoring institution or other sources; 5. Outlines activities consistent with the expertise of the proposed University Center staff and the academic programs and other available resources within the sponsoring institution; 6. Complements and supports the local, regional or state economic development strategies in the service area; 7. Presents a reasonable budget, including both the Federal and nonfederal shares; 8. Documents past experience of the sponsoring institutions in operating technical assistance programs; and 9. Adds to the geographic distribution of University Centers across the country. Evaluation criteria are not assigned weights, as all factors are equally important and contribute to the overall quality of the proposals. All proposals must include a work program organized under the following categories: (1) Providing technical assistance; (2) conducting applied research; and (3) disseminating results of the University Center activities. For this program, technical assistance is defined as an activity carried out by the University Center in response to a direct request from a client outside the sponsoring educational institution. Applied research is defined as an economic development activity undertaken by the University Center at its own initiative. All proposals must include quantitative and qualitative evaluation criteria for each activity listed under the three categories of the work program. These criteria, when accepted by EDA, will be the primary guide used in judging the performance of the University Center. All proposals must include a program budget that, at a minimum, indicates the Federal and nonfederal funds allocated to each of the three work program categories. At least 70 percent of the direct costs of the project budget must be allocated to the first category of the work program, providing technical assistance to clients outside the sponsoring institutions. Selection Procedures The EDA regional offices (or the Technical Assistance and Research Division in Washington for National University Centers), reviews the proposals and makes recommendations for funding to the Assistant Secretary for Economic Development, who makes the final decisions based on the relative merits of the applications. Other Requirements Refer to the Notice published on March 30, 1994, in the Federal Register (59 FR 14996) for information on EDA's general policies. 1. Federal Policies and Procedures. Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all Federal laws and Federal and DoC policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. 2. Past Performance. Unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not be considered for funding.
