FR940317-2-00052 FR940317-2-00037 Appendix ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Failure to recruit so as to attract an adequate pool of minority/female applicants or hires for at least 66% of all vacancies during the license term being reviewed (Evidence of this violation will include (1) inadequate record-keeping and/or (2) inadequate self-assessment throughout the license term) $12,500 base forfeiture (accompanied by reporting conditions) s 1 Upward Adjustment Criteria 0 s I. Egregious Misconduct A. Failure to recruit so as to attract an adequate pool of minority/female applicants or hires for at least 33% of all vacancies reported for the license term being reviewed. Efforts are evaluated both for the station's staff overall and for upper four job categories $6,250 upward adjustment. (EEO programs achieving only this level of compliance will warrant a short-term renewal, irrespective of whether other upward adjustments for ``egregiousness'' factors are present, if the percentage of vacancies for which the licensee failed to recruit, or the percentage of pools containing minorities, falls below 33% and other factors_e.g., use and productivity of recruiting sources, use and productivity of minority-specific sources; evidence of self-assessment_are absent or particularly inadequate) B. Large number of hiring opportunities that did not translate into an adequate pool of minority/female applicants or employees hired. l_``Large number'' means hiring opportunities equal to at least the average number of employees on the full-time staff, with a minimum of 25 hiring opportunities $6,250 upward adjustment (Base plus 50%) _``Substantial number'' means hiring opportunities equal to three times the number of full-time staff, with a minimum of 25 hiring opportunities Additional upward adjustment of 50-90% of base. C. Large pool of minorities/women in the relevant labor force did not translate into an adequate pool of applicants minority/women or employees hired Analysis will focus on (1) the overall percentage of minorities in the relevant labor force and (2) the presence of a single minority group constituting a significant percentage of that labor force. _If a licensee has a relevant labor pool of at least 20 percent minorities or a single minority group constitutes at least 10 percent of the labor force $6,250 to $11,250 upward adjustment (base plus 50-90%) s 1 Short term renewals: Short term renewals will be assessed if (A), (B) or (C) are applied in any combination of two or more upward adjustments. In addition, short term renewals also will be warranted where the specific criteria set forth in (A) above are present. The presence of the mitigating factors described in Section II below are grounds for not issuing short term renewals. 0 s lD. Prior EEO violations that resulted in previous sanction or remedy _If reporting conditions were previously imposed, the licensee receives reporting conditions and the base forfeiture plus a 90% upward adjustment in addition to any other upward adjustments warranted by these guidelines (including short-term renewal) ␣ _If reporting conditions plus a forfeiture were previously imposed, the licensee receives reporting conditions, the base forfeiture plus a 90% upward adjustment, any other upward adjustments warranted by these guidelines, and a short-term renewal. ␣ _If previous sanction and remedies included a short-term renewal, the renewal will be designated for hearing and possible forfeiture of $250,000. E. EEO violations with respect to both minorities and women $11,250 upward adjustment and a short-term renewal. s 1 Downward Adjustment Criteria 0 s II. Actual Hiring Experience lA. Minority hiring represents 50% of the minority profile of the relevant labor force for both overall employment and upper four employment or $6,250 downward adjustment. B. Minority hiring represents 100% of the minority profile of the relevant labor force for both overall employment and upper four employment $6,250 downward adjustment and presumptive removal of short-term renewal. Evidence indicating the substantial absence of an EEO program will rebut the presumption of removal. III. Employment Profile lC. Minority employment represents 50% of the minority profile of the relevant labor force for both overall employment and upper four employment or $6,250 downward adjustment. D. Minority employment represents 100% of the minority profile of the relevant labor force for both overall employment and upper four employment $6,250 downward adjustment and presumptive non-issuance of short-term renewal. Evidence indicating the complete absence of an EEO program will rebut the presumption of removal. III(C) and III(D) apply if the employment profile meets the guidelines in 4 of 5 years for a television renewal and 6 of 7 years for a radio renewal. Where less than a full term exists, the employment profile must meet the guidelines for a majority of the years reported IV. Employment Profile and Hiring Experience If II(B) and III(D) apply, a short-term renewal would not be imposed. V. Few Hiring Opportunities A. 5 or fewer hiring opportunities across the entire license term $6,250 downward adjustment. B. 10 or fewer hiring opportunities across the entire license term if the average full-time staff during the entire term exceeds 50 employees $6,250 downward adjustment (Either (A) or (B) will apply, but not both) VI. Low Percentage of Minorities in Relevant Population Minorities constitute less than 6% of the relevant labor force $6,250 downward adjustment and possible non-issuance of short-term renewal depending upon staff balancing of factors (number and productivity of sources contacted, number and productivity of minority-specific sources, extent to which licensee demonstrated severe shortfall in recruitment). VII. Inability to Pay (if raised and demonstrated by the licensee) Varies. VIII. Stand-alone station in markets 200 and above as reflected in the annual Abitron population rankings $6,250 downward adjustment.
