FR940706-2-00057 FR940706-2-00037 C. ``Rugby'' means Rugby Group, Inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries, divisions, groups and affiliates controlled by Rugby, and its respective directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives, and their respective successors and assigns. D. ``Respondents'' means Dow and MMD. E. ``Commission'' means the Federal Trade Commission. F. ``Acquisition'' means the acquisition by Respondents of certain Rugby stock that is the subject of a stock purchase agreement dated October 4, 1993. G. ``Rugby intangible dicyclomine assets'' means those assets relating to the manufacture and sale of dicyclomine tablets and capsules acquired in the Acquisition that are not part of Rugby's physical facilities or other tangible assets, including but not limited to all formulations, patents, trade secrets, technology, know-how, specifications, designs, drawings, processes, quality control data, research materials, technical information, management information systems, software, the Drug Master file, and all information relating to United States Food and Drug Administration (``FDA'') approvals. H. ``Potential New Entrant'' means the person(s) for whom MMD shall contract manufacture, and to whom MMD shall sell, dicyclomine tablets and capsules and license the Rugby intangible dicyclomine assets. The Potential New Entrant must be a generic or a branded pharmaceutical manufacturer with manufacturing facilities approved by the FDA for the manufacture of generic or branded pharmaceutical products in the United States. I. ``Dicyclomine tablets and capsules'' means pharmaceutically acceptable finished tablets and capsules consisting of either 10mg or 20mg of dicyclomine hydrochloride U.S.P. manufactured under an approved New Drug Application (``NDA'') or an approved Abbreviated New Drug Application (``ANDA'') for sale in the United States and that have received at least an AB rating by the FDA. J. ``Contract manufacture'' means the manufacture of an unlimited volume of dicyclomine tablets and capsules by MMD for sale to a Potential New Entrant in finished packaged form suitable for commercial sale in the United States. K. ``Finished packaged form'' means packaged in all forms required by the Potential new Entrant so as to optimize sales and distribution of the product, including but not limited to inscribing the name and identification codes of the Potential New Entrant on the packaging of dicyclomine capsules or tablets, and packaging the dicyclomine tablets and capsules in units required by the Potential New Entrant, as permitted by Rugby's existing ANDA. L. ``Formulation'' means any and all information, including both patent and trade secret information, technical assistance and advice, relating to the manufacture of dicyclomine tablets and capsules that meet United States Food and Drug Administration approved specifications therefor. II It is further ordered that: A. Within twelve (12) months from the date this Order becomes final, MMD shall enter into an agreement (hereinafter ``Agreement''), in good faith: 1. To license to the Potential New Entrant in perpetuity a non-exclusive right to the Rugby intangible dicyclomine assets at no minimum price; and 2. To contract manufacture and deliver in a timely manner the volume of dicyclomine tablets and capsules requested by the Potential New Entrant, at a price not to exceed 48% of the Average Wholesale Price of Rugby's dicyclomine tablets and capsules in effect as of July 2, 1993. MMD shall enter into such Agreement to license and contract manufacture only with a Potential New Entrant that receives the prior approval of the Commission, and only in a manner that receives the prior approval of the Commission and that is consistent with the purposes of this Order. The purposes of this Order are: (a) to provide the means for establishing an ongoing, viable enterprise to replace the competition in the dicyclomine tablet and capsule market alleged in the Commission's Complaint to have been eliminated by the Acquisition; and (b) to remedy the lessening of competition alleged in the Commission's Complaint to have resulted from the Acquisition.
