FR940110-1-00092 FR940110-1-00006 (d) The Bank's AHP implementation plan adopted pursuant to this section shall be made available by the Bank to the public upon request. (e) The Board will approve or disapprove proposed amendments to a Bank's approved AHP implementation plan submitted by the Bank within 60 calendar days of receipt. Subpart C_Authorized and Required Uses of AHP Subsidized Advances or Direct Subsidies ยง960.3 Authorized uses of AHP subsidized advances or direct subsidies. (a) General. Applicants may use subsidized advances or direct subsidies received from a Bank pursuant to this part only for the uses set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and subject to the long-term requirements set forth in ยง960.5. (b) Owner-occupied housing units. Applicants may use subsidized advances or direct subsidies received from a Bank pursuant to this part to finance the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of owner-occupied housing units by or for low- or moderate-income households. (c) Rental housing units. Applicants may use subsidized advances or direct subsidies received from a Bank pursuant to this part to finance the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of rental housing units, at least 20 percent of the units of which will be occupied by and affordable for very low-income households. ยง960.4 Specific use requirements for AHP subsidized advances or direct subsidies. (a) Examples of specific authorized and unauthorized uses. (1) Authorized uses of subsidized advances or direct subsidies include, but are not limited to, the following costs related to the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing: (i) Real property purchase and improvement costs; (ii) Construction or rehabilitation costs, including labor and materials, and contractor profit and overhead allowances; (iii) Costs integral to the purchase or development of housing including, but not limited to, project-related: Architectural, inspection and engineering fees; local building permit and planning fees; accounting costs; survey costs; appraisal fees; title insurance and other insurance costs; performance bond and other bond fees; recording fees; credit report fees; property taxes; residential relocation costs where such costs are part of a relocation plan; legal fees; syndication fees; costs of translating resident documents to another language; loan commitment, loan origination and other loan financing fees for administrative costs other than costs of administering the AHP award; developer's fees; and marketing costs; (iv) Prepayment fees imposed by the Bank on an applicant for a subsidized advance that is prepaid in connection with the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing, if the applicant requires the borrower to pay such fee; (v) Capitalization of reserve fund(s) necessary for the successful operation of rental housing projects, including replacement reserves, rent-up reserves, operating deficit reserves, and sinking fund reserves used for the transfer of the project to nonprofit ownership when associated with a low income housing tax credit transaction (26 U.S.C. 42); (vi) Cancellation fees imposed by the Bank on an applicant for a subsidized advance commitment that is canceled and converted to and disbursed as a direct subsidy in connection with the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing, if the applicant requires the borrower to pay such fee; (vii) Refinancing of an existing loan in conjunction with the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing, provided the subsidized advance or direct subsidy and the proceeds of the refinancing are used only to retire existing debt and to benefit low- or moderate-income households and, in the case of refinancing in order to rehabilitate a project, there is a minimum of $2,500 per unit spent on such rehabilitation; and (viii) Tenant services, tenant counseling and homeowner counseling costs that are a condition imposed by a lender to obtain financing from such lender and which are necessary for the successful operation of the project. (2) Uses of subsidized advances or direct subsidies that are not authorized include, but are not limited to, AHP administrative costs of the applicant or the Bank. (b) Use of funds requirements. (1)(i) The total amount of a direct subsidy provided by the Bank to an applicant under this section must be passed on by the applicant to the recipient. (ii) An applicant receiving a subsidized advance from a Bank shall extend credit to the borrower at a rate of interest equal to the rate of interest charged on the subsidized advance plus an interest rate spread approved by the Bank. (2) If an applicant receives a subsidized advance or direct subsidy from a Bank or prepayment of a loan originally made under the AHP, any interest or other income earned by the applicant on such funds, not including any approved fee or interest rate spread charged to the borrower, must be forwarded to the Bank to be used for additional AHP projects, except for interest or other income earned by the applicant within 30 calendar days of receiving the subsidized advance or direct subsidy or of receiving prepayment of a loan originally made under the AHP. (3) A direct subsidy received by an applicant from a Bank that is provided by such applicant to a sponsor may be lent by the sponsor in connection with an AHP rental housing project involving low-income housing tax credits, provided the subsidy is lent by the sponsor for a term of not less than 30 years, with all principal and interest payments deferred until the end of such term. If such a loan is repaid before the end of the 30-year term, the entire amount of the direct subsidy must be repaid to the Bank. (4) If an applicant receives a subsidized advance or direct subsidy from a Bank, and in turn provides both a loan and a grant to a borrower and charges an origination fee for providing the loan, then any fee charged by the applicant for providing the grant may not be paid with the AHP subsidized advance or direct subsidy.
