FR940804-0-00128 FR940804-0-00024 (a) Communications with current employees; organizational representation. A communication with a current employee of an organization that qualifies as a represented party or represented person shall be considered to be a communication with the organization for purposes of this part only if the employee is a controlling individual. A ``controlling individual'' is a current high level employee who is known by the government to be participating as a decision maker in the determination of the organization's legal position in the proceeding or investigation of the subject matter. (b) Communications with former employees; organizational representation. A communication with a former employee of an organization that is represented by counsel shall not be considered to be a communication with the organization for purposes of this part. (c) Communications with former or current employees; individual representation. A communication with a former or current employee of an organization who is individually represented by counsel may occur only to the extent otherwise permitted by this part. However, a claim by an attorney that he or she represents all or a large number of individual current and/or former employees of an organization does not suffice to establish that those employees are represented persons or represented parties under this part. In such circumstances, prior to engaging in communications that would be prohibited under this part as a result of the individual representation, the attorney for the government shall communicate with the individual current or former employee to determine if in fact that employee is represented by counsel concerning the subject matter of the investigation or proceeding. (d) Communications with separately represented controlling individuals. When this part would preclude discussions with a controlling individual as defined in §77.10(a) and the controlling individual has retained separate counsel on the relevant subject matter, an attorney for the government may communicate with such individual in the following circumstances: (1) If the controlling individual's separate counsel consents; (2) If the communication falls within one of the exceptions set forth in §§77.6 or 77.9; or (3) In the case in which the individual does not qualify as a represented party, if the individual initiates the communication and states that he or she is communicating exclusively in his or her personal capacity and not on behalf of the represented organizational party, and manifests that his or her waiver of counsel for the communication is voluntary, knowing and informed, and, if willing to do so, signs a written statement to this effect. (e) Initiation of communication with unrepresented controlling individuals. Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, an attorney for the government may communicate with a controlling individual who is not individually represented as to the subject matter of the communication when the controlling individual initiates the communication and states that he or she is communicating exclusively in his or her personal capacity and not on behalf of the represented organizational party, and manifests that his or her waiver of counsel for the communication is voluntary, knowing, and informed, and, if willing to do so, signs a written statement to this effect. (f) Multiple representation. Nothing in this section is intended or shall be construed to affect the requirements of Rule 44(c) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, or to permit the multiple representation of an organization and any of its employees, or the multiple representation of more than one such employee, if such representation is prohibited by any applicable law or rule of attorney ethics. §77.11 Enforcement of this part. (a) Exclusive enforcement by Attorney General. The Attorney General shall have exclusive authority over this part and any violations of it, except as provided in §77.12. Allegations of violations of this part shall be reviewed exclusively by the Office of Professional Responsibility of the Department of Justice and shall be addressed when appropriate as matters of attorney discipline by the Department. The Office of Professional Responsibility shall review any complaint alleging a violation of this part made by a state or federal judge, bar disciplinary board, official, or ethics committee, or by any other person or entity. The findings of the Attorney General or her designee as to an attorney's compliance or non-compliance with this part shall be final and conclusive except insofar as the attorney for the government is afforded a right of review by other provisions of law. (b) No private remedies. This part is not intended to and does not create substantive rights on behalf of criminal or civil defendants, targets or subjects of investigations, witnesses, counsel for represented parties or represented persons, or any other person other than an attorney for the government, and shall not be a basis for dismissing criminal or civil charges or proceedings against represented parties or for excluding relevant evidence in any proceeding in any court of the United States. §77.12 Relationship to state and local regulation. Communications with represented parties and represented persons pursuant to this part are intended to constitute communications that are ``authorized by law'' within the meaning of Rule 4.2 of the American Bar Association Model Rules of Professional Conduct, DR 7&hyph;104(A)(1) of the ABA Code of Professional Responsibility, and analogous state and local federal court rules. In addition, this part is intended to preempt and supersede the application of state laws and rules and local federal court rules to the extent that they relate to contacts by attorneys for the government, and those acting at their direction or under their supervision, with represented parties or represented persons in criminal or civil law enforcement investigations or proceedings; it is designed to preempt the entire field of rules concerning such contacts. When the Attorney General finds a willful violation of any of the rules in this part, however, sanctions for the conduct that constituted a willful violation of this part may be applied, if warranted, by the appropriate state disciplinary authority. Dated: July 30, 1994. Janet Reno, Attorney General. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19077 Filed 8&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;P
