FR940406-0-00159 FR940406-0-00011 (3) The following exceptions to the test procedures in subpart C of this part are applicable to Selective Enforcement Audit testing: (i) The manufacturer may measure the temperature of the test fuel at other than the approximate mid-volume of the fuel tank, as specified in §86.131&hyph;90(a), and may drain the test fuel from other than the lowest point of the fuel tank as specified in §86.131&hyph;90(b), provided an equivalent method is used. Equivalency documentation shall be maintained by the manufacturer and shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. (ii) In performing exhaust sample analysis under §86.140&hyph;94, the manufacturer shall exercise care to prevent moisture from condensing in the sample collection bags. (iii) The manufacturer need not comply with §86.142&hyph;90 since the records required therein are provided under other provisions of this subpart G. (iv) In addition to the requirements of subpart C of this part, the manufacturer shall prepare gasoline-fueled vehicles as follows prior to exhaust emission testing: (A) The manufacturer shall inspect the fuel system to ensure the absence of any leaks of liquid or vapor to the atmosphere by applying a pressure of 14.5 # 0.5 inches of water (3.6 # 0.1 Kpa) to the fuel system allowing the pressure to stabilize and isolating the fuel system from the pressure source. Following isolation of the fuel system, pressure must not drop more than 2.0 inches of water (0.5 Kpa) in five minutes. If required, the manufacturer shall perform corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and report this action in accordance with §86.609&hyph;98(d). (B) When performing this pressure check, the manufacturer shall exercise care to neither purge nor load the evaporative or refueling emission control system. (C) The manufacturer shall not modify the test vehicle's evaporative or refueling emission control system by component addition, deletion, or substitution, except if approved in advance by the Administrator, to comply with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. (4) The exceptions to the test procedures in subpart O of this part applicable to Selective Enforcement Audit testing are listed in paragraphs (a)(4) (i) and (ii) of this section. (i) The manufacturer need not comply with §86.1442, since the records required therein are provided under provisions of this subpart G. (ii) In addition to the requirements of subpart O of this part, the manufacturer must prepare vehicles as in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii) (A) through (C) of this section prior to exhaust emission testing. (A) The manufacturer must inspect the fuel system to insure the absence of any leaks of liquid or vapor to the atmosphere by applying a pressure of 14.5 # 0.5 inches of water (3.6 # 0.1 Kpa) to the fuel system, allowing the pressure to stabilize, and isolating the fuel system from the pressure source. Pressure must not drop more than 2.0 inches of water (0.5 Kpa) in five minutes. If required, the manufacturer performs corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and must report this action in accordance with §86.609&hyph;98(d). (B) When performing this pressure check, the manufacturer must exercise care to neither purge nor load the evaporative or refueling emission control system. (C) The manufacturer may not modify the test vehicle's evaporative or refueling emission control system by component addition, deletion, or substitution. (b)(1) The manufacturer shall not adjust, repair, prepare, or modify the vehicles selected for testing and shall not perform any emission tests on vehicles selected for testing pursuant to the test order unless this adjustment repair, preparation, modification, and/or tests are documented in the manufacturer's vehicle assembly and inspection procedures and are actually performed or unless these adjustments and/or tests are required or permitted under this subpart or are approved in advance by the Administrator. (2) For 1981 and later model years the Administrator may adjust or cause to be adjusted any engine or vehicle parameter which the Administrator has determined to be subject to adjustment for new vehicle compliance testing (e.g., for certification or Selective Enforcement Audit testing) in accordance with §86.081&hyph;22(c)(1), to any setting within the physically adjustable range of that parameter, as determined by the Administrator in accordance with §86.081&hyph;22(e)(3)(ii), prior to the performance of any tests. However, if the idle speed parameter is one which the Administrator has determined to be subject to adjustment, the Administrator shall not adjust it to a setting which causes a lower engine idle speed than will be possible within the physically adjustable range of the idle speed parameter on the vehicle when it has accumulated 4,000 miles, all other parameters being adjusted identically for the purpose of comparison. The Administrator, in making or specifying such adjustments, will consider the effect of the deviation from the manufacturer's recommended setting on emissions performance characteristics as well as the likelihood that similar settings will occur on in-use light-duty vehicles or light-duty trucks. In determining likelihood, the Administrator will consider factors such as, but not limited to, the effect of the adjustment on vehicle performance characteristics and surveillance information from similar in-use vehicles. (c) Prior to performing emission testing pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section on an SEA test vehicle, the manufacturer may accumulate on each vehicle a number of miles equal to the greater of 4,000 miles, or the number of miles the manufacturer accumulated during certification on the emission-data vehicle corresponding to the configuration specified in the test order. (1) Mileage accumulation must be performed in any manner using good engineering judgment to obtain emission results representative of normal production vehicles. This mileage accumulation must be consistent with the new vehicle break-in instructions contained in the applicable vehicle owner's manual, if any. (2) The manufacturer shall accumulate mileage at a minimum rate of 300 miles per vehicle during each 24-hour period, unless otherwise provided by the Administrator. (i) The first 24-hour period for mileage accumulation shall begin as soon as authorized vehicle checks, inspections and preparations are completed on each vehicle. (ii) The minimum mileage accumulation rate does not apply on weekends or holidays. (iii) If the manufacturer's mileage accumulation target is less than the minimum rate specified (300 miles per day), then the minimum daily accumulation rate shall be equal to the manufacturer's mileage accumulation target. (3) Mileage accumulation shall be completed on a sufficient number of test vehicles during consecutive 24-hour periods to assure that the number of vehicles tested per day fulfills the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section. (d) The manufacturer shall not perform any maintenance on test vehicles after selection for testing nor shall the Administrator allow deletion of any test vehicle from the test sequence, unless requested by the manufacturer and approved by the Administrator before any test vehicle maintenance of deletion.
