FR940203-0-00069 FR940203-0-00017 Comment: Certain impacts, while insignificant individually, are significant when considered cumulatively (40 CFR 1508.27(b)(7)). Another commenter suggested that cumulative impacts include chronic stress, changes in migration and/or foraging patterns, impact on particular age/size classes among others. Response: NMFS did not review the proposed action as a 1-year authorization; it reviewed it as a 5-year authorization period, and therefore evaluated the cumulative impacts of the proposed activity over 5 years. As stated in the EA, the cumulative impact on marine mammals from ship shock tests over the 5-year authorization period of the regulations will be negligible. Also, ship shock testing (in combination with other military explosives detonation projects) would not have a significant impact, either singly or cumulatively, on the marine environment of the SCB over the 5-year authorization period. The infrequency of the large-charge tests and the minimal impact of the small charges are two additional reasons for this determination. Comment: The EA fails to adequately address the degree to which the Navy's action will adversely affect ten endangered/threatened species and their respective habitats (40 CFR 1508.27(b)(9)). Response: NMFS does not concur. While ship shock testing may result in the non-lethal injury or harassment of endangered marine mammals, this level of incidental take will not result in the mortality of listed marine mammals or result in jeopardizing the continued existence of these species. (Refer to the Biological Opinion for additional information). The estimated numbers of incidental takes are given and assessed in the EA. Although sperm whales, because of their abundance and deep-diving behavior, may be subject to a ``high incidental take,'' ( i.e., six non-lethal injuries and 20 harassment takes if they are in the area on each and every test) there will not be a ``high incidental killing'' of sperm whales as the commenter states. With a California population size of 857 and a North Pacific population size of 930,000, these takes are considered ``small'' and will not be a significant impact on the stock. Moreover, the OSTR has not been designated ``critical habitat'' for any listed species. Individual injured animals would be expected to recover. There is less information available on sea turtles in the SCB than marine mammals, as discussed in the EA. Due to the less effective ability of aerial overflights to detect some species of sea turtles, the Navy admits that some sea turtles may be injured or possibly killed during explosives detonation. However, based upon mortalities observed in other tests in an area of presumably higher sea turtle abundance than the SCB, and because recent research (cited in the EA) indicates that sea turtles are less susceptible to injury from explosives than marine mammals, few sea turtles are likely to be killed or seriously injured. Although post-test monitoring efforts may not be totally effective in determining impacts to sea turtles, the monitoring program will try to determine whether sea turtles are in fact incidentally killed and, if so, whether practical modifications are available to improve detection and/or to reduce impacts. Also, because of the great depth of the water at the test location, several species, such as coastal inhabiting, bottom-feeding and coral-feeding species, would be expected to be uncommon or rarely seen in the area. (Contrary to one commenter's observation, even though sea turtle species are listed as endangered or threatened, some species are sufficiently abundant in certain areas and times to be considered more than ``rare,'' ( e.g., offshore nesting beaches along the west coasts of Mexico and Costa Rica)). For additional information, refer to the Biological Opinion mentioned previously. Comment: The proposed regulations violate the ESA and the MMPA (40 CFR 1508.27(b)(10)). The commenter states that the Navy violated the ESA by its failure to request a ``biological opinion'' detailing how the proposed detonation will affect endangered and threatened species and NMFS violated the MMPA by not using ``the best scientific evidence available.'' Response: These issues were addressed previously under ``Endangered Species Act Concerns'' and ``Scientific Evidence.'' Comment: Several commenters stated that NMFS did not give the proposal and the EA adequate circulation, or opportunity for public participation. Several commenters wanted additional hearings along the coast of California. One commenter believed that the West Coast hearing made a mockery of public involvement because it was ``80 miles from the affected area.'' This same commenter and another commenter stated that ``NEPA and the MMPA require public participation and hearings.'' One commenter also noted that ``the marine scientific community should have provided a greater role in assessing the impacts of the proposed action.'' Another listed the names of several scientists, who were unaware of the public hearings or that the Navy proposed to begin ship shock trials in February 1994. Response: NMFS disagrees with statements that the proposal was not given adequate circulation. The application of the Navy for a small incidental take was made available on June 7, 1993 (58 FR 31944), with a 30-day public comment period. In addition, NOAA issued a press release at that time, which generated several newspaper articles and hundreds of responses. The proposed rule was published in the Federal Register and both the rule and the EA were distributed to government, environmental and commercial fishing organizations and to those submitting significant comments during the June 1993 comment period. In addition, as required by section 101(a)(5) of the MMPA, public notice of the proposed activity and corresponding public meetings were placed in several southern California newspapers. A press release noting the proposed rule and the meeting times and locations was also issued. NMFS believes that it has complied with both the spirit and the letter of NEPA, NOAA Directives implementing NEPA, and the MMPA in regard to public participation.
