FR941006-2-00146 FR941006-2-00103 Federal Transit Administration Environmental Impact Statement for the Northeast Corridor Project in Dallas, TX AGENCY: Federal Transit Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). SUMMARY: The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) in cooperation with Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) intends to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The EIS will be prepared following completion of a Major Investment Study (MIS) of transportation improvements in the Northeast Corridor of the Dallas metropolitan area. The MIS will conclude with the selection of a Locally Preferred Alternative (LPA) for implementation in the corridor. The EIS will assess the potential impacts of the LPA, No Build and TSM alternatives. DART is working cooperatively with the North Central Texas Council of Governments (NCTCOG), the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT), the US Department of Transportation (US DOT-FTA and FHWA), and the Cities of Dallas, Garland, and Rowlett to identify an affordable and cost-effective alternative for improving mobility in the corridor. The sequence of events for the planning and development for this project include the following major milestones: Scoping Process _early opportunity for public input to the study scope Major Investment Study (MIS) _evaluation of proposed improvement alternatives, early consideration of environmental factors, concluding with the selection of a Locally Preferred Alternative (LPA) LPA Refinement and Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) _detailed definition of the LPA's physical features, assessment of potential impacts, development of mitigation measures, preparation and circulation of the Draft EIS, public hearings and completion of a Final EIS. Scoping will be accomplished through correspondence with interested persons, organizations, and federal, state, and local agencies and through public meetings. See the information below for further details. DATES: Comment Due Date: Written comments on the scope of the EIS and impacts to be considered should be sent to DART by November 2, 1994. See ADDRESSES below. Scoping Meetings: Public Scoping Meeting will be held on Monday October 3, 1994 and Wednesday October 5, 1994 starting at 7:00 p.m. in Garland and Dallas. See ADDRESSES below. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be sent to Jack Wierzenski, Project Manager, Dallas Area Rapid Transit, 1401 Pacific Avenue; Dallas, Texas 75266&hyph;7232. The Scoping meetings will be held at the following locations: 1. October 3, 1994 Garland Center for the Performing Arts, 5th and Austin, Garland, Texas 2. October 5, 1994 Lake Highlands High School (Student Center), 9449 Church Road, Dallas, Texas. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Peggy Crist, FTA Region VI; (817) 860&hyph;9663.
