FR940317-1-00150 FR940317-1-00013 (b) Automated claims data base. The automated claims data base will be used for all claims opened in fiscal year 1988 or later, and earlier year claims if they involve expenditures of funds in fiscal year 1988 or later, as follows: (1) Tort and Special Claims Management data base (all offices); (2) Personnel Claims Management data base (all offices except COE claims offices). (3) Affirmative Claims Management data base (all offices except COE claims offices). (c) Investigative files. A claims office will maintain separate investigative files on potentially compensable events (PCE) for every incident which it (or a unit claims officer) has investigated, or has received a copy of a report of incident or report of investigation from a unit claims officer or any other source. Similar files will be maintained for incidents investigated by a claims office or other Army official that might give rise to an affirmative claim in favor of the Army. The investigative file will be merged into a claims file when a claim is filed or asserted. Investigative files not otherwise merged into a claims file will be retained until transferred to another Army claims office or until the time for filing a claim has expired. §536.233 Arrangement of claims files. Instructions on the arrangement of claims files are found in §536.196 and in DA Pam 27&hyph;162. Every file for a claim against the United States must ultimately contain the following: (a) For files processed under the automated claims data management system, a printout (i.e., ``paper screen'') of the automated data pertaining to that claim. (b) If the claim has been paid in whole or in part, a copy of the settlement agreement, if any, and the certified copy of the paid voucher (comeback copy from the finance and disbursing office). (c) The action or recommendation. (d) The claim (initial and any amendment). (e) The report of claims officer, with exhibits. §536.234 Disposition of claims files. (a) The Commander, USARCS, is the proper authority for post settlement review of claims against the United States. Claims having the following file numbers under AR 25&hyph;400&hyph;2 will be forwarded to USARCS (subject to the provisions of b and c below) for disposition under that regulation: 27&hyph;20a, 27&hyph;20g, 27&hyph;20h, 27&hyph;20i, 27&hyph;20j, or 27&hyph;20q. Claims having other 27&hyph;20 file numbers will be disposed locally according to the instructions in AR 25&hyph;400&hyph;2. (b) Files of completed tort claims will not be forwarded to the Commander, USARCS prior to the expiration of any appeal period or the 6-month period for filing suit, as applicable. The file of a tort claim in which an award that is final is not accepted by the claimant, within a reasonable time, will also be forwarded. (c) For personnel claims involving recovery action, claims files will be assembled and processed for local recovery action or forwarded for centralized recovery action in accordance with DA Pam 27&hyph;162, chapter 3, and §§536.195 and 536.196. After completion of final recovery action by field claims offices or command claims services such files will be forwarded to USARCS for retirement. (d) Files will be administratively closed as abandoned or withdrawn and forwarded to the Commander, USARCS, as provided herein. (1) Personnel claims. Claims under subpart K will be administratively closed as abandoned in the following situations: (i) The claimant affirmatively withdraws or abandons the claim prior to adjudication. Such files will contain evidence of the claimant's intention to do so, such as a letter from the claimant or a memorandum of a telephone conversation with the claimant. (ii) The claimant cannot be located to be paid or, if the claim is not fully substantiated, to have his or her intentions with regard to the claim ascertained (but, see paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section). (iii) For other reasons, final action on the claim cannot be taken. (iv) When a claimant has neither affirmatively abandoned nor fully substantiated a claim cognizable under subpart K, he or she should be directed by certified mail to provide the required substantiation within a specified period, usually 30 days. If correspondence is returned as undeliverable, and the claimant is an active duty service member, a current military address can usually be obtained from the Commander, U.S. Army Enlisted Records and Evaluation Center, Army Worldwide Locator Service, ATTN: PCRE&hyph;RF, Fort Benjamin Harrison, IN 46249&hyph;5301. If the claimant fails to respond, to the extent that the claim is substantiated and meritorious it should be paid; otherwise, it should be disapproved. (2) Tort claims. Each file will contain evidence of claimant's intention to withdraw or abandon the claim, such as a letter or a memorandum for record of a telephone conversation with claimant.
