FR940513-1-00052 FR940513-1-00012 Example 3. In 1995, a Senator in the State Q legislature announces her intention to introduce legislation to require health insurers to cover a particular medical procedure in all policies sold in the state. Taxpayer Y, a calendar year taxpayer, has different policies for two groups of employees, one of which covers the procedure and one of which does not. After the bill is introduced, Y's legislative affairs staff asks Y's human resources staff to track claims for the procedure that are allowed, in order to estimate the additional cost of requiring the coverage under both policies. In 1996, Y's legislative affairs staff prepares a study estimating Y's increased costs based on the results of tracking, in 1995, the claims made. Also in 1996, Y writes to members of the state legislature and explains that it opposes the proposed change in insurance coverage based on the study. The letter is a lobbying communication (because it refers to and reflects a view on specific legislation). Both the activity of tracking the claims and the activity of estimating Y's additional costs under the proposed legislation relate to the lobbying communication because they are used to support that communication. It is presumed, under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, that Y engaged in 1996 in the activity of estimating the additional costs it would incur under the proposal solely to make or support the lobbying communication, because the activity commenced in the same taxable year as the lobbying communication. Based on these facts, Y cannot rebut the presumption as it relates to this activity. Further, because Y did not regularly track these claims before 1995, it is presumed, under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, that Y engaged in 1995 in the activity of tracking these claims solely to make or support the lobbying communication. Based on these facts, because Y tracked these claims to support the lobbying communication, Y cannot rebut the presumption. Example 4. After several years of developmental work under various contracts, in 1997, Taxpayer A, a calendar year aerospace company, contracts with the Department of Defense (DOD) to produce a prototype of a new generation military aircraft. A is aware that DOD will be able to fund the contract only if Congress appropriates an amount for that purpose in the upcoming appropriations process. In 1998, A conducts simulation tests of the aircraft and revises the specifications of the aircraft's expected performance capabilities, as required under the contract. A submits the results of the tests and the revised specifications to DOD. In 1999, Congress considers legislation to appropriate funds for the contract. In that connection, A summarizes the results of the simulation tests and of the aircraft's expected performance capabilities, and submits the summary to interested members of Congress with a cover letter that encourages them to support appropriations of funds for the contract. The letter is a lobbying communication (because it refers to specific legislation (i.e., appropriations) and requests passage). The described activities in 1998 and 1999 relate to that lobbying communication and, therefore, are presumed, under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, to be for the sole purpose of making or supporting that communication. Based on these facts, A cannot rebut the presumption as it relates to the summary prepared specifically for that communication. However, because A conducted the tests and revised the specifications to comply with its production contract with DOD, A can rebut the presumption as it relates to those activities. Example 5. C, president of Taxpayer W, travels to the state capital to attend a two-day conference on new manufacturing processes. C plans to spend a third day in the capital meeting with state legislators to explain why W opposes a pending bill unrelated to the subject of the conference. C's staff prepares a briefing book on the pending bill for C's use in meetings with the state legislators. Because the meetings with the legislators will be lobbying communications (because C will refer to and reflect a view on specific legislation), C's travel and the preparation of the briefing book are presumed to be solely for the purpose of making or supporting the lobbying communications. Based on these facts, W cannot rebut the presumption as it relates to the preparation of the briefing book, but can partially rebut the presumption as it relates to C's travel by demonstrating that the travel was engaged in both for lobbying and non-lobbying purposes. As a result, under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, W must reasonably allocate C's travel between attending the conference and meeting with the state legislators. Example 6. In 1995, Taxpayer F comments on proposed EPA regulations and successfully contests their validity on constitutional grounds in litigation. In 1997, Senator N introduces environmental legislation, which F believes to be unconstitutional on the same grounds as the previously proposed and defeated regulations. F sends some of the documents it prepared in 1995 to Senator N's staff with a cover letter indicating that F opposes the environmental legislation. The letter to Senator N refers to and reflects a view on specific legislation and thus is a lobbying communication. F engaged in the activity of preparing the documents, however, for a non- lobbying purpose prior to the first taxable year preceding the taxable year in which the lobbying communication was made. Therefore, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, it is presumed that the document preparation was engaged in solely for a non- lobbying purpose. Based on these facts, the Commissioner cannot rebut that presumption. Example 7. On February 1, 1995, a bill is introduced in Congress that would affect Company E, a calendar year taxpayer. Employees in E's legislative affairs department, as is customary, prepare a brief summary of the bill and periodically confirm the procedural status of the bill through conversations with employees and members of Congress. On March 31, 1995, the head of E's legislative affairs department meets with E's President to request that B, a chemist, temporarily help the legislative affairs department analyze the bill. The President agrees, and suggests that B also be assigned to draft a position letter in opposition to the bill. Employees of the legislative affairs department continue to confirm periodically the procedural status of the bill. On October 31, 1995, B's position letter in opposition to the bill is delivered to members of Congress. B's letter is a lobbying communication because it refers to and reflects a view on specific legislation. Under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the assignment of B to assist the legislative affairs department in analyzing the bill and in drafting a position letter in opposition to the bill evidences a purpose to influence legislation. Based on these facts, neither the activity of periodically confirming the procedural status of the bill nor the activity of preparing the routine, brief summary of the bill before March 31 constitutes influencing legislation. With respect to periodically confirming the procedural status of the bill on or after March 31, it is presumed, under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, that E engaged in the activity solely to make or support the lobbying communication because the activity commenced in the same taxable year as the lobbying communication. These facts indicate that after March 31, E determined the procedural status of the bill for the purpose of supporting the lobbying communication by B and, accordingly, E cannot rebut the presumption as it relates to this activity.
