FR940112-2-00040 FR940112-2-00032 Agreement for Delegation of Authority of the Regulations for Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality (40 CFR 52.21) Between U.S. EPA and MC The undersigned, on behalf of the Maricopa County (MC) and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA), hereby agree to the delegation of authority for the administrative, technical and enforcement elements of the source review provisions of 40 CFR 52.21, Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD), as they may be amended and in accordance with the permit review requirements in 40 CFR part 124 subparts A and C, from U.S. EPA to MC, subject to the terms and conditions below. This delegation is executed pursuant to 40 CFR 52.21(u), Delegation of Authority. I. General Delegation Conditions A. Authority is delegated for all sources under the jurisdiction of MC that are subject to review for PSD. This includes all source categories listed in 40 CFR 52.21 for each pollutant regulated by the Clean Air Act. B. This delegation may be amended at any time by the formal written agreement of both MC and U.S. EPA, including amendments to add, change, or remove conditions or terms of this Agreement. C. If the Regional Administrator determines that the County is not implementing or enforcing the PSD program in accordance with the terms and conditions of this delegation, the requirements of 40 CFR 52.21, 40 CFR 124, or the Clean Air Act, this delegation, after consultation with MC, may be revoked in whole or in part. Any such revocation shall be effective as of the date specified in a Notice of Revocation to the County. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude U.S. EPA from exercising its enforcement authority, as provided in paragraph V.B. below. D. The permit appeal provisions of 40 CFR 124.19 shall apply to all appeals to the Administrator on permits issued by MC under this delegation. For purposes of implementing the federal permit appeal provisions under this delegation, if there is a public comment requesting a change in a draft preliminary determination or draft permit conditions, the final permit issued by MC is required to contain statements which indicate that for Federal PSD purposes and in accordance with 40 CFR 124.15 and 124.19, (1) the effective date of the permit is 30 days after the final decision to issue, modify, revoke and reissue the permit; and (2) if an appeal is made to the Administrator, the effective date of the permit is suspended until such time as the appeal is resolved. MC shall inform U.S. EPA (Region IX) in accordance with conditions of this delegation when there is public comment requesting a change in the preliminary determination or in a draft permit condition. Failure by MC to comply with the terms of this paragraph shall render the subject permit invalid for Federal PSD purposes. E. By this agreement, MC assumes authority for enforcement and permit modification/amendment for EPA issued NSR/PSD permits. F. This delegation of authority becomes effective upon the date that both parties have signed the Agreement. II. Communications Between U.S. EPA and MC MC and U.S. EPA will use the following communication procedures: A. MC shall report to U.S. EPA on a quarterly basis the compliance status of the sources that have received a PSD permit from either MC or U.S. EPA. The Aerometric Information Retrieval System (AIRS) will be used for this purpose. Compliance determinations will be made with respect to the conditions established in the PSD permits. B. MC shall forward to U.S. EPA, at the beginning of the public comment period for each PSD permit, a summary of (1) the findings related to each PSD application, (2) the justification for MC's preliminary determination, and (3) a copy of the draft permit. Should there be any comments or concerns about the pending PSD permit, U.S. EPA shall communicate these comments and concerns to MC as soon as possible prior to the close of the public comment period. C. MC shall forward to EPA Region IX (attn: A&hyph;5&hyph;1) copies of the final action on the PSD permit applications at the time of issuance, as well as copies of substantive public comments. MC must address any public comments not incorporated into the permit, and shall provide a summary of the responses.
