FR940617-0-00199 FR940617-0-00026 (A) Maintain a wall temperature of 191 ○C # 11 ○C as measured at every separately controlled heated component (that is, filters, heated line sections), using permanent thermocouples located at each of the separate components. (B) Have a wall temperature of 191 ○C # 11 ○C over its entire length. The temperature of the system shall be demonstrated by profiling the thermal characteristics of the system where possible at initial installation and after any major maintenance performed on the system. The profiling shall be accomplished using the insertion thermocouple probing technique. The system temperature will be monitored continuously during testing at the locations and temperature described in §86.1310&hyph;90(b)(3)(v). (C) Maintain a gas temperature of 191 ○C # 11 ○C immediately before the heated filter and HFID. These gas temperatures will be determined by a temperature sensor located immediately upstream of each component. (vi) The continuous hydrocarbon sampling probe shall: (A) Be defined as the first 25 cm to 76 cm of the continuous hydrocarbon sampling system. (B) Have a 0.48 cm minimum inside diameter. (C) Be installed in the primary dilution tunnel at a point where the dilution air and exhaust are well mixed (that is, approximately 10 tunnel diameters downstream of the point where the exhaust enters the dilution tunnel). (D) Be sufficiently distant (radially) from other probes and the tunnel wall so as to be free from the influence of any wakes or eddies. (E) Increase the gas stream temperature to 191 ○C # 11 ○C at the exit of the probe. The ability of the probe to accomplish this shall be demonstrated using the insertion thermocouple technique at initial installation and after any major maintenance. Compliance with the temperature specification shall be demonstrated by continuously recording during each test the temperature of either the gas stream or the wall of the sample probe at its terminus. (vii) The response time of the continuous measurement system shall be no greater than: (A) 1.5 seconds from an instantaneous step change at the port entrance to the analyzer to within 90 percent of the step change. (B) 20 seconds from an instantaneous step change at the entrance to the sample probe or overflow span gas port to within 90 percent of the step change. Analysis system response time shall be coordinated with CVS flow fluctuations and sampling time/test cycle offsets if necessary. (C) For the purpose of verification of response times, the step change shall be at least 60 percent of full-scale chart deflection. (3) Primary dilution tunnel. (i) The primary dilution tunnel shall be: (A) Small enough in diameter to cause turbulent flow (Reynolds Number greater than 4000) and of sufficient length to cause complete mixing of the exhaust and dilution air; (B) At least 46 cm in diameter; (engines below 110 kW may use a dilution tunnel that is 20 cm in diameter or larger) (C) Constructed of electrically conductive material which does not react with the exhaust components; and (D) Electrically grounded. (ii) The temperature of the diluted exhaust stream inside of the primary dilution tunnel shall be sufficient to prevent water condensation. (iii) The engine exhaust shall be directed downstream at the point where it is introduced into the primary dilution tunnel. (4) Continuously integrated NO X , CO, and CO 2 measurement systems. (i) The sample probe shall: (A) Be in the same plane as the continuous HC probe, but shall be sufficiently distant (radially) from other probes and the tunnel wall so as to be free from the influences of any wakes or eddies. (B) Heated and insulated over the entire length, to prevent water condensation, to a minimum temperature of 55 ○C. Sample gas temperature immediately before the first filter in the system shall be at least 55 ○C. (ii) The continuous NO X , CO, or CO 2 sampling and analysis system shall conform to the specifications of part 86, subpart D of this chapter with the following exceptions and revisions: (A) The system components required to be heated by part 86, subpart D of this chapter need only be heated to prevent water condensation, the minimum component temperature shall be 55 ○C. (B) The system response shall be no greater than 20 seconds. Analysis system response time shall be coordinated with CVS flow fluctuations and sampling time/test cycle offsets, if necessary. (C) Alternative NO X measurement techniques outlined in §86.346&hyph;79 of this chapter are not permitted for NO X measurement in this subpart. (D) All analytical gases must conform to the specifications of §89.312&hyph;96. (E) Any range on a linear analyzer below 155 ppm must have and use a calibration curve conforming to §89.310&hyph;96. (iii) The chart deflections or voltage output of analyzers with non-linear calibration curves shall be converted to concentration values by the calibration curve(s) specified in §89.323&hyph;96 before flow correction (if used) and subsequent integration takes place. §89.420&hyph;96 Background sample.
