FR940607-0-00019 FR940607-0-00007 (C) Limited availability. Unless disputed by the Internal Revenue Service, limited availability of a specially qualified representative is established by demonstrating that a specially qualified representative for the proceeding is not available at the $75 per hour rate (as adjusted for an increase in the cost of living). Initially, this showing may be made by submission of an affidavit signed by the taxpayer or by the taxpayer's counsel, that in a case similar to the taxpayer's, a specially qualified representative that practices within a reasonable distance from the taxpayer's principal residence or principal office would normally charge a client similar to the taxpayer at a rate in excess of this amount. If the Internal Revenue Service challenges this initial showing, the taxpayer may submit additional evidence to establish the limited availability of a specially qualified representative at the rate specified above. (D) Example. The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following example: Example. Taxpayer A is represented by B, a CPA and attorney with an LL.M. Degree in Taxation with Highest Honors and who regularly handles cases dealing with TEFRA partnership issues. B represents A in an administrative proceeding involving TEFRA partnership issues and subject to the provisions of this section. Assuming the taxpayer qualifies for an award of reasonable administrative costs by meeting the requirements of section 7430, the amount of the award attributable to the fees of B may not exceed the $75 per hour limitation (as adjusted for the cost of living), absent a special factor. Under these facts alone, B is not a specially qualified representative since even extraordinary knowledge of the tax laws does not constitute distinctive knowledge or a unique and specialized skill constituting a special factor. (c) Certain costs excluded_ (1) Costs not incurred in an administrative proceeding. Costs that are not reasonable administrative costs for purposes of section 7430 include any costs incurred in connection with a proceeding that is not an administrative proceeding within the meaning of ยง301.7430&hyph;3. (2) Costs incurred in an administrative proceeding but not reasonable_ (i) In general. Costs incurred in an administrative proceeding that are incurred on or after the administrative proceeding date, and that are otherwise described in paragraph (b) of this section, are not recoverable unless they are reasonable in both nature and amount. For example, costs normally included in the hourly rate of the representative by the custom and usage of the representative's profession, when billed separately, are not recoverable separate and apart from the representative's hourly rate. Such costs typically include costs such as secretarial and overhead expenses. In contrast, costs which are normally billed separately may be reasonable administrative costs that may be recoverable in addition to the representative's hourly rate. Therefore, necessary costs incurred for travel; expedited mail delivery; messenger service; expenses while on travel; long distance telephone calls; and necessary copying fees imposed by the Internal Revenue Service, any court, bank or other third party, when normally billed separately from the representative's hourly rate, may be reasonable administrative costs. (ii) Special Rule for Expert Witness' Fees on Issue of Prevailing Market Rates. Under paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(C) of this section, the taxpayer may initially establish a limited availability of specially qualified representatives for the proceeding by submission of an affidavit signed by the taxpayer or by the taxpayer's representative. The Internal Revenue Service may endeavor to rebut the affidavit submitted on this issue by demonstrating either that a specially qualified representative was not necessary to represent the taxpayer in the proceeding, that the taxpayer's representative is not a specially qualified representative or that the prevailing rate for specially qualified representatives does not exceed $75 per hour (as adjusted for an increase in the cost of living). Unless the Internal Revenue Service endeavors to demonstrate that the prevailing rate for specially qualified representatives does not exceed $75 per hour (as adjusted for an increase in the cost of living), fees for expert witnesses used to establish prevailing market rates are not included in the term reasonable administrative costs.
