FR940603-0-00117 FR940603-0-00028 (A) Unit 26(A) consists of that portion of Unit 26 lying west of the Itkillik River drainage and west of the east bank of the Colville River between the mouth of the Itkillik River and the Arctic Ocean; (B) Unit 26(B) consists of that portion of Unit 26 east of Unit 26(A), west of the west bank of the Canning River and west of the west bank of the Marsh Fork of the Canning River; (C) Unit 26(C) consists of the remainder of Unit 26; (ii) In the following areas, the taking of wildlife for subsistence uses is prohibited or restricted on public land: (A) The Unit 26(A) Controlled Use Area, which consists of Unit 26(A), is closed to the use of aircraft in any manner for moose hunting, including transportation of moose hunters or parts of moose from Aug. 1_Aug. 31 and from Jan. 1_Mar. 31. No hunter may take or transport a moose, or part of a moose in Unit 26(A) after having been transported by aircraft into the unit. However, this does not apply to transportation of moose hunters or moose parts by regularly scheduled flights to and between villages by carriers that normally provide scheduled service to this area, nor does it apply to transportation by aircraft to or between publicly owned airports; (B) The Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area, which consists of those portions of Units 20, 24, 25, and 26 extending five miles from each side of the Dalton Highway from the Yukon River to milepost 300 of the Dalton Highway, is closed to the use of motorized vehicles, except aircraft and boats, and to licensed highway vehicles, snowmobiles, and firearms except as follows: The use of snowmobiles is authorized only for the subsistence taking of wildlife by residents living within the Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area. The use of licensed highway vehicles is limited only to designated roads within the Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area. The use of firearms within the Corridor is authorized only for the residents of Alatna, Allakaket, Anaktuvuk Pass, Bettles, Evansville, Stevens Village, and residents living within the Corridor; (C) The Northwest Alaska Brown Bear Management Area, which consists of those portions of Unit 23, except the Baldwin Peninsula north of the Arctic Circle, Unit 24 west of the Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area, and Unit 26(A), is open to brown bear hunting by State registration permit in lieu of a resident tag. No resident tag is required for taking brown bears in the Northwest Alaska Brown Bear Management Area, provided that the hunter has obtained a State registration permit prior to hunting. Aircraft may not be used in the Northwest Alaska Brown Bear Management Area in any manner for brown bear hunting under the authority of a brown bear State registration permit, including transportation of hunters, bears or parts of bears. However, this does not apply to transportation of bear hunters or bear parts by regularly scheduled flights to and between communities by carriers that normally provide scheduled service to this area, nor does it apply to transportation of aircraft to or between publicly owned airports. (iii) Unit-specific regulations; (A) Motor-driven boats and snowmachines may be used to take caribou; however, shooting from a snowmachine in motion is prohibited.
