FR941107-2-00174 FR941107-2-00093 3. Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act authorizes the Commission, by order upon application, to conditionally or unconditionally grant an exemption from any provision, rule or regulation of the 1940 Act to the extent that the exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. 4. Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act, in relevant part, prohibit a registered unit investment trust, its depositor or principal underwriter, from selling periodic payment plan certificates unless the proceeds of all payments, other than sales loads, are deposited with a qualified bank and held under arrangements which prohibit any payment to the depositor or principal underwriter except a reasonable fee, as the Commission may prescribe, for performing bookkeeping and other administrative duties normally performed by the bank itself. 5. Applicants represent that the 1.25% mortality and expense risk charge is reasonable in relation to the risks assumed by Travelers under the Contracts and is within the range of industry practice for comparable annuity contracts. This representation is based upon Traveler's analysis of publicly available information about similar industry products, taking into consideration such factors as guaranteed minimum death benefits, minimum initial and subsequent purchase payments, other contract charges, the manner in which charges are imposed, market sector, investment options, and availability of the contract for use in qualified and non-qualified plans. Travelers represents that it will maintain at its principal office, available to the Commission, memoranda setting forth in detail the variable annuity products analyzed in the course of, and the methodology used in, and the results of, its comparative review. 6. Applicants acknowledge that, if a profit is realized from the mortality and expense risk charge, all or a portion of such profit may be available to pay distribution expenses not reimbursed by the CDSC. Travelers has concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed distribution financing arrangements will benefit the Separate Accounts and investors in the Contracts. The basis for that conclusion is set forth in a memorandum which will be maintained by Travelers at its principal office and will be available to the Commission. 7. Travelers also represents that the Separate Accounts will invest only in underlying mutual funds which have undertaken, in the event they should adopt a plan under Rule 12b&hyph;1 to finance distribution expenses, to have a board of directors or trustees, a majority of whom are not ``interested persons'' of the such fund within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the 1940 Act, formulate and approve any such plan. Conclusion For the reasons set forth above, Applicants submit that the exemptions requested are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27448 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
