FR940126-2-00036 FR940126-2-00020 (9) Establish an equitable system to accomplish the reallocation of unclaimed or unused funds. (10) Ensure that funds are properly accounted for, and that funds due are collected. (11) Provide consultation and technical assistance to local jurisdictions as necessary to monitor program compliance. (12) Submit end-of-program report on jurisdictions' use of funds to FEMA. (13) Conduct a compliance review of food and shelter expenditures made under this program for specified LROs. The National Board, FEMA, the independent accounting firm selected by the National Board, or the Inspector General's office may also conduct an audit of these funds. (14) Monitor LRO compliance with OMB Circular A&hyph;133. (c) State Set-Aside (SSA). (1) The SSA process has been adopted to allow greater flexibility in selection of jurisdictions and is intended to target pockets of homelessness or poverty in non-qualifying jurisdictions (refer to Supplementary Information, above, on qualifying criteria), areas experiencing drastic economic changes such as plant closings, areas with high levels of unemployment or poverty which do not meet the minimum 500 unemployed, or jurisdictions that have documented measures of need which are not adequately reflected in unemployment and poverty data. (2) The distribution of funds to SSA Committees will be based on a ratio calculated as follows: the State's average number of unemployed in non-funded jurisdictions divided by the average number of unemployed in non-funded jurisdictions nationwide equals the State's percentage of the total amount available for SSA awards. (3) An SSA Committee in each State will recommend high-need jurisdictions and award amounts to the National Board. Priority consideration is to be given to jurisdictions otherwise not meeting criteria for funding, although funded jurisdictions are not exempt from receiving additional funding. SSA Committees should also consider the special circumstances of jurisdictions that qualified in previous funding phases but are not eligible in the current phase. The State Committees may wish to provide these jurisdictions with an allocation so that the abrupt change in funding status is not disruptive to local providers. SSA Committees are encouraged to consider current and significant State or local data in their deliberations. Although the National Board staff provides national data to the SSA Committees, it does not mandate any particular formula. These committees are free to act independently in choosing eligible jurisdictions. (4) In each State, the State United Way (or United Way in the capital city) will be notified of the award amount available to the SSA Committee. In a State where there are affiliates of the voluntary organizations represented on the National Board, they must be invited to serve on the State Committee. If no single State affiliate exists, an appropriate representative should be invited. The Governor or his/her representative will replace the FEMA member. State Committees are encouraged to expand participation by inviting or notifying other private non-profit organizations on the State level. The National Board encourages the inclusion of Native American representation on the State Committee. (5) Members of the SSA Committee shall elect a person to chair the committee.
