FR940803-1-00082 FR940803-1-00015 Some predation of Arkansas River shiners by largemouth bass ( Micropterus salmoides ), green sunfish ( Lepomis cyanellus ), channel catfish ( Ictalurus punctatus ), and other species undoubtedly occurs, but the extent is unknown. Plains fishes have evolved under adverse conditions of widely fluctuating, often intermittent flows, high summer temperatures, high rates of evaporation, and high concentrations of dissolved solids. These conditions are not favored by most large predaceous fish and tend to preclude existence of significant populations of these species. However, alteration of historic flow regimes and construction of reservoirs have created favorable conditions for some predatory species such as white bass ( Morone chrysops ) and striped bass ( M. saxatilis ). State and Federal fish and wildlife management agencies, through efforts to develop sport fisheries in these reservoirs, have facilitated the expansion of some predatory species. The impact of predation is likely to be localized and insignificant, particularly where habitat conditions upstream of mainstem reservoirs are not favorable to the long-term establishment of large populations of predatory fish. D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. The State of Kansas lists the Arkansas River shiner as a State endangered species. The Kansas Department of Wildlife and Parks has designated portions of the mainstem Cimarron, Arkansas, South Fork Ninnescah, and Ninnescah rivers as critical habitat for the shiner (Vernon Tabor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Kansas State Office, pers. comm., 1993). A permit is also required for public actions that have the potential to destroy listed individuals or their critical habitat. Subject activities include any publicly funded or State or federally assisted action, or any action requiring a permit from any other State or Federal agency. Violation of the permit constitutes an unlawful taking, a Class A misdemeanor, and is punishable by a maximum fine of $2,500 and confinement for a period not to exceed one year (V. Tabor, pers. comm., 1993). Kansas does not permit the commercial harvest of bait fish from rivers and streams within the State. The State of New Mexico lists the Arkansas River shiner as a State endangered species. This listing prohibits the taking of the Arkansas River shiner without a valid scientific collecting permit but does not provide habitat protection. The State of Oklahoma lists the Arkansas River shiner as a State threatened species, but, as in New Mexico, this listing does not provide habitat protection. The States of Arkansas and Texas provide no special protection for the species or its habitat. While Kansas, New Mexico, and Oklahoma protect the Arkansas River shiner from take and/or possession, only Kansas addresses the problem of habitat destruction or modification. None of the States provide significant protection from the potential introduction of competitive species. Listing under the Act would provide additional protection and encourage active management through ``Available Conservation Measures'' discussed below. E. Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence. The overall trend in the status of this species is characterized by dramatic declines in numbers and distribution. The apparent isolation of self-sustaining populations of Arkansas River shiners to one river system renders the remaining populations extremely vulnerable to any natural or manmade factors that might further reduce population size. The occurrence of a single, catastrophic event, such as the introduction of competitive species, or a prolonged period of low or no flow, would significantly increase the likelihood of extinction. The introduction and establishment of the Red River shiner, a species endemic to the Red River Drainage, into the Cimarron River in Oklahoma and Kansas has had a detrimental effect on the Arkansas River shiner (Cross et al. 1983, Felley and Cothran 1981). The Red River shiner was first recorded from the Cimarron River in 1976 (Marshall 1978). The Red River shiner has since colonized the Cimarron River and frequently may be a dominant component of the fish community (Cross et al. 1983, Felley and Cothran 1981). The morphological characteristics, population size, and ecological preferences exhibited by the Red River shiner suggest that competition for food and other essential life requisites occurs with Arkansas River shiners (Cross et al. 1983, Felley and Cothran 1981). The unintentional release of Red River shiners, or other potential competitors, into the Canadian River by anglers or the commercial bait industry is a potentially serious threat and could lead to decimation or extirpation of the remaining natural Arkansas River shiner populations.
