FR940711-0-00076 FR940711-0-00022 ยง384.6 Relationships. (a) In the performance of assigned functions and responsibilities, the USD(A&T) shall: (1) Take precedence in the Department of Defense on acquisition matters after the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense. On all other matters, the USD(A&T) shall take precedence after the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the Military Departments. (2) Exercise authority, direction, and control over: (i) The Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology (PDUSD(A&T)). (ii) The Director of Defense Research and Engineering (DDR&E). (iii) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Economic Security (ASD(ES)). (iv) The Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Atomic Energy (ATSD(AE)). (v) The Director, Advanced Research Projects Agency, through the DDR&E. (vi) The Director, Defense Logistics Agency. (vii) The Director, Defense Nuclear Agency, through the ATSD(AE). (viii) The Director, Ballistic Missile Defense Organization. (ix) The Director, On-Site Inspection Agency, through the ATSD(AE), to be exercised consistent with DoD Directive TS&hyph;5134.2. 5 5 Classified document. Not releasable. (x) The Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization. (xi) The Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, through the ASD(ES). (xii) The President, Defense Acquisition University. (xiii) The Commandant, Defense Systems Management College. (xiv) Such other organizations as may be established by the USD(A&T) within resources provided by the Secretary of Defense. (3) Use existing facilities and services of the Department of Defense and other Federal Agencies, whenever practicable, to avoid duplication and to achieve an appropriate balance among modernization, readiness, sustainability, efficiency, and economy. (b) The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the heads of other DoD Components shall consult the USD(A&T) before assigning an officer or employee to serve as a Program Executive Officer or a Program Manager, or reassigning an officer or employee so serving, for any program subject to review by the DAB. (c) The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the heads of other DoD Components shall consult the USD(A&T) on program objectives memoranda and budget estimate submissions that reflect a significant change to any program subject to review by the DAB, before their submission to the OSD. (d) The USD(A&T) shall work directly with the Service Acquisition Executives. (e) Other OSD officials and heads of the DoD Components shall coordinate with the USD(A&T) on all matters related to authorities, responsibilities, and functions assigned in this part. ยง384.7 Authorities. (a) The USD(A&T) is hereby granted the authority to direct the Secretaries of the Military Departments and heads of all other DoD Components on all matters of acquisition. (b) The USD(A&T) shall decide upon the appropriate implementing actions to be taken as a result of DAB reviews, to include the establishment of specific exit criteria that must be satisfactorily demonstrated before an effort or program can progress to the next Milestone decision point. The USD(A&T)'s decisions shall be reflected in an Acquisition Decision Memorandum issued by the USD(A&T) for implementation by the heads of the DoD Components. (c) The C, DoD, shall coordinate with the USD(A&T) prior to approving the transfer or reprogramming of funds into or from a program within the purview of the USD(A&T). (d) The USD(A&T) may direct the C, DoD, to withhold the release of funds to an acquisition program when the USD(A&T) determines that such direction is necessary to ensure that the program meets the criteria established by DoD Directives for exiting the Milestone and all additional exit criteria for the program established by the Secretary of Defense, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, or the USD(A&T). The USD(A&T) may not delegate the authority granted by this subsection to anyone other than the PDUSD(A&T). (e) The USD(A&T) shall: (1) Issue DoD Instructions, DoD Publications, and one-time directive-type memoranda, consistent with DoD 5025.1&hyph;M, 6 that implement acquisition policies and procedures for the functions assigned to the USD(A&T). Instructions to the Military Departments shall be issued through the Secretaries of the Military Departments. Instructions to Unified Combatant Commands shall be communicated through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs to Staff. 6 See footnote 1 to ยง384.4(a)(1). (2) Obtain reports, information, advice, and assistance, consistent with DoD Directive 8910.1, 7 as necessary, in carrying out assigned functions. 7 See footnote 1 to ยง384.4(a)(1). (3) Communicate directly with the heads of the DoD Components. Communications to Commanders of the Unified Combatant Commands shall be transmitted through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. (4) Establish arrangements for DoD participation in nondefense governmental programs for which the USD(A&T) is assigned primary DoD cognizance.
