FR941212-0-00033 FR941212-0-00014 Similarly, the Commission incurs additional costs by carefully reviewing each tariff commodity description to make tariffs clearer and more accessible to the shipping public. This review goes beyond what is required by the statutory tariff filing provisions. The current practice of extensively reviewing commodity descriptions represents an additional cost and confers an independent public benefit. At this time, it is not possible to quantify the amount of Commission costs in reviewing tariff and ET filings that are attributable to the provision of an independent public benefit. Therefore, it appears that the approach urged by the commenters_that is, the even division of these costs between filers and the public at large_is the most equitable way of resolving the issue. Consequently, the Commission is reducing the proposed tariff and ET filing fees by 50 percent. Commenters have argued that the imposition of any tariff filing fee is an undue burden on the ocean transportation industry. They point out that the proposed filing fees would be a significant additional cost to what they have already spent to convert their tariffs to the ATFI system. Commenters also submit that the tariff filing fee could prompt carriers to file tariff information in a more generic manner, and could have a chilling effect on the filing of independent actions. Based on the Commission's own assessment and the broad industry position that tariff and ET filing fees impose an undue burden on the industry, the Commission will seek an OMB exception for imposing these fees. Under OMB Circular A&hyph;25, an agency may request that OMB grant the agency an exception from OMB's general policy of assessing fees, permitting the agency to forego assessing fees if conditions exist to justify an exception. In addition to those discussed above, respondents comment on a number of other issues concerning tariff and ET filing fees. These are addressed below. JCG, PRMSA, and the Japan Conferences raise questions about the Commission's methodology in calculating the proposed fees. JCG and the Japan Conferences question the Commission's methodology as being less than thorough, and argue that the Commission was unclear in describing its time allocation methodology. 10 10 JCG contends that it is premature to propose user fees based on services provided under a system, i.e., ATFI, that is still being developed and the costs now being incurred are probably not an accurate measure of what should be allocated. As explained in the NPR, the Commission employed the best available data to calculate the proposed filing fees, employing inhouse surveys to determine the time and cost involved in providing particular services. Extensive time and motion studies are not necessarily required. See Central & Southern, 777 F.2d at 736&hyph;37. OMB Circular A&hyph;25 provides that the ``full cost [of a service] shall be determined or estimated from the best available records of the agency, and new cost accounting systems need not be established solely for this purpose [setting fees].'' Section 6d(1)(e). The Commission need only provide ``some reasonable basis for its conclusions.'' Engine Manufacturers, 20 F. 3d at 1177. The methodology employed by the Commission satisfies this standard. 11 11 See also National Association of Broadcasters v. Federal Communications Commission, 554 F.2d 1118, 1130 (D.C. Cir. 1976), nothing that ``[t]he ability to recoup both direct and indirect costs to the Government does allow for some range and latitute in effecting a reasonable attribution of costs.'' In addition to providing an extensive explanation of the Commission's methodology to calculate its proposed fees, the NPR also indicated that a detailed summary of the data used to arrive at the proposed fees was available to the public from the Commission. To our knowledge, only one commenter availed itself of this opportunity. In response to the comment that it is premature to implement a user fee for ATFI, the Commission explained in the NPR that OMB directed the Commission to pursue establishing a tariff filing fee in 1994. Further, the Commission employed the best available data to calculate the proposed fees. Moreover, the Commission intends to periodically update tariff filing fees, adjusting for changes in costs as warranted. The Japan Conferences question the Commission's calculations of indirect costs assignable to fee-related services. They further question why the Commission included the proportional costs of several FMC bureaus and offices 12 that are only peripherally involved with tariff filing, suggesting that such expenses be reduced by at least 50 percent. 13 12 Office of the Commissioners, General Counsel, Bureau of Administration, and Bureau of Trade Monitoring and Analysis. 13 The Japan Conferences urge that the proportional cost of the Office of the Secretary be entirely deducted from the indirect cost calculation. As explained in the NPR, the FMC generally adopted the ICC's methodology for determining indirect costs because the ICC's fee schedule and methodologies have been reviewed by the courts and generally deemed acceptable. 14 See Central & Southern, 777 F.2d at 722. Although we developed an indirect cost methodology based on the ICC's experience, we nevertheless deducted a number of expenses to calculate the FMC's indirect costs. For example, the ICC employs an indirect cost item for operations overhead, which apportions senior executive time across fee-generating activities. Because we were able to account for senior executive time in each service item, a separate overhead item would be redundant. Accordingly, this ICC component was not included in the FMC's calculations. Additionally, in calculating our indirect costs, we deducted certain expenses that have no nexus with any fee activity from the office general and administrative component of the indirect cost calculation ( e.g., buying Census data). 14 The Japan Conference also point out that the Commission's indirect costs, calculated at 99.5 percent of direct costs, is more than 50 percent higher than the ICC's indirect costs reviewed in Central & Southern, supra 777 F.2d at 726&hyph;27. However, the Japan Conferences fail to take into account that the ICC's indirect costs cited in Central & Southern were calculated almost ten years ago, and that the ICC's current indirect cost factor is 100.8 percent, slightly higher than that of the FMC.
