FR940216-0-00257 FR940216-0-00010 (D) Proper adjustments have been made to the data or in the calculations, as applicable; (E) The requirements and intentions of the rulemaking have been met in determining the baseline fuel parameters; and (F) The baseline fuel parameter values determined for each facility represent that facility's 1990 gasoline to the fullest extent possible. (ii) A refiner or importer which is permitted to utilize the parameter values specified in §80.91(c)(5), and does so, shall submit a statement signed by the chief executive officer of the company, or designee, indicating that insufficient data exist for a baseline determination by the types of data allowed for that entity, as specified in §80.91. (4) The auditor-related requirements are: (i) Name, address, telephone number and date of hire of each auditor hired for baseline verification, whether or not the auditor was retained through the baseline approval process. (ii) Identification of the auditor responsible for the verification. A copy of this auditor's qualification statement, per §80.92, must be included if the auditor has not been approved by EPA, per §80.92; (iii) Indication of the primary analyst(s) involved in each refinery's baseline verification; and (iv) The signed auditor verification statement, per §80.92. (5) The following baseline information for each refinery, refiner or importer, as applicable, shall be provided: (i) Individual baseline fuel parameter values, on an oxygenated and non-oxygenated basis, and on a summer and winter basis, per §80.91; (ii) Individual baseline exhaust emissions shall be shown separately, on a summer, winter and annual average basis (per §80.90) as follows: (A) Simple model exhaust benzene emissions; (B) Complex model exhaust benzene emissions; (C) Complex model exhaust toxics emissions, for Phase I; (D) Complex model exhaust NO X emissions, for Phase I, using oxygenated individual baseline fuel parameters; (E) Complex model exhaust NO X emissions, for Phase I, using non-oxygenated individual baseline fuel parameters; (F) Complex model exhaust toxics emissions, for Phase II; (G) Complex model exhaust NO X emissions, for Phase II, using oxygenated individual baseline fuel parameters; and (H) Complex model exhaust NO X emissions, for Phase II, using non-oxygenated individual baseline fuel parameters; (iii) Individual 1990 baseline gasoline volumes, per §80.91, shall be shown separately on a summer, winter and annual average basis; and (iv) Blendstock-to-gasoline ratios for each calendar year 1990 through to 1993, per §80.102. (6) Confidentiality claim. (i) Upon approval of an individual baseline, EPA will publish the individual standards for each refinery, blender or importer in the Federal Register . Such information shall include baseline emissions as specified in §80.90 and 125% of the individual baseline values for sulfur, olefins and T90. (ii) Information in the baseline submission which the submitter desires be considered confidential business information (per 40 CFR part 2, subpart B) must be clearly identified. Information specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall not be considered confidential. (7) Information related to baseline determination as specified in §80.91 and paragraph (c) of this section. (c) Additional baseline submission requirements when Method 1-, 2- and/or 3-type data is utilized. All requirements of this paragraph shall be reported separately for each facility, unless the facilities are closely integrated, per §80.91. (1) General. The following information shall be provided: (i) The number of months in 1990 during which the facility was operating; (ii) 1990 summer gasoline production volume, per §80.91, total and by grade, for all gasoline produced but not exported; (iii) 1990 winter gasoline production volume, per §80.91, total and by grade, for all gasoline produced, excluding gasoline exported; and (iv) Whether this facility is actually two facilities which are closely integrated, per §80.91. (2) Baseline values. The following shall be included for each fuel parameter for which a baseline value is required, per §80.91: (i) Narrative of the development of the baseline value of the fuel parameter, including discussion of the sampling and calculation methodologies, technical judgment used, effects of petition results on calculated values, and any additional information which may assist EPA in its review of the baseline; (ii) Identification of the data-type(s), per §80.91, used in the determination of a given fuel parameter; (iii) Identification of test method. If not per §80.46, include a narrative, explain differences and describing adequacy, per §80.91;
