FR940728-2-00151 FR940728-2-00107 Discourage involvement of at-risk youth in gangs; and Encourage at-risk youths' participation in service and community activity Program Strategy: Applicants may submit funding requests for project periods up to but not exceeding three years. OJJDP encourages new programs to apply as well as those which have proven track records of implementing programs and a desire to expand their programs in accordance with these guidelines. All applicants must address the following elements in their application. 1. The Nature of the Partnership with Local Educational Agencies Both local education agencies (LEA) and public/private non-profit organizations may apply. When public/private non-profit agencies are the primary applicant, their programs must involve collaboration with the LEA. Likewise an LEA must collaborate with a relevant public/private non-profit agency. Because two goals of this program are to improve academic performance and reduce the dropout rate, applications must contain written assurance from the LEA that it will agree to provide academic records in accordance with its own regulations for use in carrying out a funded program and that it will cooperate to the fullest extent possible with a national program evaluator. Another example of the form this collaboration would take would include the designation of a school employee to be a school coordinator. Suggested responsibilities might include assisting with the selection of mentees, advising on the academic needs of the mentee, coordinating meetings, providing academic records when needed, and notifying mentors of the inability of mentees to meet. 2. Target Population Programs are to be targeted to at-risk youth. These are youth at risk of educational failure, dropping out of school, or involvement in delinquent activities. Priority will be given to programs involving at-risk youth in high crime areas, programs which have 60% or more of their youth eligible to receive Chapter I funds under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, and programs which have a considerable number of youth who drop out of school each year. 3. Program Goals and Design These must be clearly stated. The applicant must show how the proposed program will meet the goals and objectives defined earlier. The role of the mentor, the mentoring site, and specific implementation steps should be provided. These include organizational commitment, mentor recruitment, mentor orientation, mentor screening and training, youth selection and orientation, matching, monitoring, mentor support, and evaluation. Criteria for mentor termination should be specified. Each funding partner and program participant's responsibilities should be spelled out up front: local educational agency, non-profit public/private agency, business, etc., mentors, mentees and mentees' parents. At a minimum, programs must specify that each individual mentor one child for a period of at least a year. It is also recommended that mentor-mentee contact not be less than four hours a month, preferably scheduled weekly. 4. Recruitment, Selection and Screening of Mentors Only programs using adult mentors qualify. An adult is defined as being 21 years or older. Efforts to enlist mentors who are responsible adults such as law enforcement officers, persons with local businesses, and persons with community-based organizations should be made. All prospective employees and volunteers who would have contact with youth must be screened. Each program is required to have a written screening policy that would be implemented with great care and applied consistently to all mentors. At a minimum, this policy shall require the names of two to three character references (at least one work reference) and the applicant's consent to check his/her name through criminal and child abuse records. A written form for reference checks should be used and kept on file. Background searches should include investigations as may appear appropriate under the circumstances and as required by applicable statute or regulation. For example, programs involving young mentees and contacts/activities that do not occur at the school or work site or as part of a larger group should require criminal history checks on all matched volunteers from local, state or national law enforcement authorities, where legally permissible. In general, no background information obtained from screening is an automatic bar to participate unless otherwise provided by statute or regulation. A candidate may be disqualified in order to reasonably protect youth from physical, psychological and/or sexual abuse. A mentor applicant's failure to provide information requested would result in automatic disqualification of the applicant. 5. Youth Selection and Orientation Criteria should be developed for youth selection based on the program's goals. Parents should be included in an orientation session and written permission for the child's participation obtained.
