FR941103-2-00059 FR941103-2-00031 Western disagrees with the comment which suggests that surplus sales and purchase pricing should be identical, without consideration of the nature of the constraint condition at Glen Canyon. The methods developed by Western for assessment of conditions with and without interim release constraints at Glen Canyon currently predict (a) that higher, but acceptable, average purchase prices will result in the near future from deliveries under several long-term purchase agreements and (b) lower average surplus sale prices will occur due to significant ``forced sales'' during offpeak and shoulder onpeak hours. However, should additional operation experience suggest modification to this base assumption, Western will consider future improvements in the methods used. b. Comment: Western applied the hourly modeling of net purchased power expense to only 3 years. The other years between and beyond the 3 years modeled were estimated based on a regression analysis of the 3 years' results . . . regression analysis using three data points to interpolate and extrapolate results may be unreliable and is certainly less than ideal. (The commentor) recommends that the hourly model be used to calculate annual net expense at least through the year 2002, when the recovery of the hydrosystem and increases in firm load . . . have stabilized. Response: Western disagrees with the suggestion that additional years of hourly modeling in its current form would significantly improve the reliability of forecasted net purchase power expenses. The methodology developed by Western to forecast the net purchase power expense considers several significant variables such as hourly firm load and available hourly hydrogeneration in determination of hourly deficits or surpluses. The method then considers seasonal variation in purchase and surplus sales pricing structures in estimation of the net purchase power expense. Given the simplifying assumptions made in the methods, Western recognizes a significant correlation between deficit (or surplus) hydrogeneration and the associated net purchase power expense. In balancing the limited time required to complete the analysis and the precision required for the net expense estimate, Western determined that modeling all hours within each month for 3 years (i.e., 36 months) would be adequate and that hourly modeling for additional years would not significantly improve the reliability of the forecasted net purchase power expense. Western continues to support the general application of these methods to express the causal relationship between deficit (or surplus) hydrogeneration and annual net purchase power expenses. However, Western acknowledges that some future modifications may be beneficial, such as (1) additional refinements of the model, (2) validation of key assumptions, and (3) application of refined methods and assumptions to additional future periods (i.e., months, years) to increase the sample size. Such changes will be considered in future net purchase power expense forecasts. c. Comment: A large customer organization says that it has been unable to understand or replicate Western's results.
