FR940118-0-00038 FR940118-0-00011 Note: This appendix will not be codified in the Code of Federal Regulations. Appendix_Analysis of Comments and Responses The following is an analysis of the comments and changes in the regulations since the publication of the NPRM on October 26, 1993 (58 FR 57704). Substantive issues are discussed under the section of the regulations to which they pertain. Minor changes_and suggested changes that the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under applicable statutes_are not generally addressed. How long is a project period? (ยง644.6) Comment: One commenter suggested that the Secretary change the regulations so that a competition for Educational Opportunity Center (EOC) grants would be held once every two years. The commenter noted that such a schedule would be more efficient than a 4-year schedule and would be more fair because applicants who were not funded could reapply more quickly. Discussion: The length of EOC project periods is prescribed in the Higher Education Act. Section 644.6 of these regulations merely reflects the statutory requirement. Changes: None. What selection criteria does the Secretary use? (ยง644.21) Comment: Several commenters recommended that ยง644.21(c)(5) be changed to require the Secretary to consider an applicant's plan to coordinate its EOC project with other projects that serve disadvantaged students. The commenters maintained that allotting points based on such a plan would encourage coordination among projects. Some commenters offered specific langauge suggesting that the Secretary evaluate an applicant's plan of operation based in part on ``the plan, including the project's organization structure, its coordination with other programs for disadvantaged students sponsored by the sponsoring entity, and the time committed to the project by administrative and other staff, to ensure the proper and efficient administration of the project.'' Discussion: The Secretary agrees that an applicant's plan to coordinate activities with other projects should be considered in the selection criteria and that such consideration will encourage coordination. However, the Secretary recognizes that in some cases an EOC project may be the only project for disadvantaged students administered by a particular institution or agency. Therefore, the Secretary has adopted much of the suggested language but has included the modifier ``where appropriate'' to ensure that applicants who administer only an EOC project will not be disadvantaged by their inability to coordinate with other projects. Changes: Section 644.21(c)(5) has been changed to read: ``The management plan to ensure the proper and efficient administration of the project including, but not limited to, the project's organizational structure, the time committed to the project by the project director and other personnel, and, where appropriate, its coordination with other projects for disadvantaged students.'' How does the Secretary evaluate prior experience? (ยง644.22)
