FR940414-2-00157 FR940414-2-00084 3. Has been admitted, manipulated, manufactured, exhibited, or destroyed in the activated area of a zone: a. Without proper Customs permit; or b. Not in accordance with the description of the activity in the Customs permit. B. Defaults Not Involving Merchandise. Default not involving merchandise means any instance of failure, other than one involving merchandise or late payment of the annual fee, to comply with the laws or regulations governing foreign trade zones. A default involving one zone lot or unique identifier may not be combined with a default under another lot or unique identifier. C. Defaults Involving Merchandise; Petitions. Claims arising from defaults involving merchandise should be processed in accordance with the following: 1. If the breach resulted from clerical error or mistake (a non-negligent inadvertent error), the claim should be cancelled without payment. 2. If the breach resulted from negligence but no threat to the revenue occurred (e.g., the merchandise was not manipulated in accordance with the permit to manipulate) the claim should be cancelled upon payment of an amount between one and 15 percent of the value of the merchandise involved in the breach, but not less than $100 nor more than $10,000. If the merchandise involved in the breach is restricted merchandise, that shall be considered an aggravating factor which shall result in mitigation on the higher end of the range. If the merchandise involved in the breach is domestic status merchandise, that shall be considered a mitigating factor which shall result in mitigation on the lower end of the range. 3. If the breach resulted from negligence and a potential loss of revenue resulted (e.g., merchandise cannot be located in the zone, merchandise is removed from the zone without a permit), the claim shall be cancelled upon payment of an amount between one and three times the loss of revenue (loss of revenue to include duties, fees and taxes). If the merchandise involved in the breach is restricted merchandise, the claim shall be cancelled upon payment of an amount between three and five times the loss revenue but in no case less than 10 percent of the value of such merchandise. 4. If the breach is intentional (e.g., the foreign trade zone operator conspires to remove merchandise from the warehouse zone without proper entry being made), there will be no relief granted from liquidated damages. 5. Aggravating factors. a. Principal's failure or refusal to cooperate with Customs. b. Large number of violations compared to number of transactions handled. c. Experience of principal. d. Principal's carelessness or willful disregard toward its responsibilities.
