FR940602-1-00113 FR940602-1-00014 2. Small Entity Impacts of Revised Requirements for ``Data in Lieu of'' a Trial Burn The universe of facilities potentially affected by the revised requirements for ``data in lieu of'' a trial burn include interim-status BIFs that would have used the ``data in lieu of'' exemption, but because of the revised requirements of the proposed rule, would now not be allowed to do so. As mentioned above, 14 of the 159 interim status BIFs are owned by companies that are potentially ``small entities.'' As mentioned in the cost analysis section, the revised requirements for ``data in lieu of'' a trial burn have a potential direct incremental cost of $0 to $500,000 per affected facility, or an annualized cost of $0 to $47,000 per facility (over ten years at 7% discount rate, assuming costs occur in year one). The high end of the cost range would be caused by trial burn costs that are imposed due to tightening of the ``data in lieu of'' requirement. Because total sales for ``small entity'' BIFs range from $1.3 million to $87.3 million for the individual facilities and $19.1 million to $513 million for the parent companies, 7 the costs of the ``data in lieu of'' requirement are less than 5% of total sales for any one facility and therefore not likely to significantly impact small entities. 7 Ibid. Furthermore, the ``data in lieu of'' requirement is not a new requirement, but simply a codification of current policy. Currently, this requirement can only be applied at facilities with multiple units. Such facilities are not likely to be small entities; therefore a tightening of the ``data in lieu of'' requirement would not affect small entities. Thus EPA does not expect the revised requirements for ``data in lieu of'' a trial burn to impact small entities. 3. Small Entity Impacts of Requirements Following a Trial Burn Failure The universe of facilities potentially affected by the requirements following a trial burn failure include interim-status BIFs that fail their trial burn for one or more condition. As mentioned above, 14 of the 159 interim status BIFs are owned by companies that are potentially ``small entities.'' As explained in the cost analysis section, EPA does not expect there to be any major incremental costs to those facilities that fail a trial burn and, therefore, does not expect the proposed rule requirements to have any significant impacts on small entities. D. Enhancing the Intergovernmental Partnership Executive Order 12875 on enhancing the intergovernmental partnership charges federal agencies to establish meaningful consultation and collaboration with State and local governments on matters that affect them. In most cases, State governments are the level of government that regulates hazardous waste. In developing this proposed rule, therefore, EPA has consulted with State officials. EPA had five states (representing various parts of the country, e.g., east, south, center, and west) participate in the workgroup process for this proposed rule. These states reviewed and provided feedback on the draft proposal over a period of eight months. In addition, these states participated in monthly workgroup meetings via conference call. Their participation and immediate feedback in the workgroup process added considerable value to the draft proposal. EPA contacted additional states in an effort to receive their specific feedback on general permitting and public involvement techniques. Additionally, EPA solicited state input during a session of the 3rd Annual RCRA Public Involvement National Conference, in which 16 state representatives participated. The state participants provided numerous helpful suggestions and ideas. In addition, the Agency utilized existing State groups, such as the Association of State and Territorial Solid Waste Management Officials (ASTSWMO), to solicit input on the proposed rule at various stages in the development process. Also, State personnel at the Commissioner level provided input to EPA at bi-monthly meetings of the EPA-State Task Force on Hazardous Waste Management. Through early involvement in both vehicles, state representatives made valuable contributions to the regulatory development process. E. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements in this proposed rule have been submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq . An Information Collection Request (ICR) document has been prepared by EPA (ICR No. 1688.01) and a copy may be obtained from Sandy Farmer, Information Policy Branch (2136); U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; 401 M St., SW.; Washington, DC 20460, or by calling (202) 260&hyph;2740. This collection of information is estimated to have a public reporting burden varying from 203.45 to 1,230.50 hours per response, with an average of 716.98 hours per response, and to require 34.10 hours per recordkeeper over the three year period covered by the ICR. This includes time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden to Chief, Information Policy Branch (2136); U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; 401 M St., SW.; Washington, DC 20460; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.'' The final rule will respond to any OMB or public comments on the information collection requirements contained in this proposal. List of Subjects 40 CFR Part 124 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Hazardous Waste, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 40 CFR Part 270 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Hazardous Waste, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Permit application requirements, Permit modification procedures, Waste treatment and disposal. Dated: May 20, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
