FR941020-2-00081 FR941020-2-00045 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3826; FR&hyph;3797&hyph;N&hyph;01] Privacy Act of 1974; Computer Matching Program AGENCY: Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). ACTION: Notice of a Computer Matching Program_HUD and Department of Justice (DOJ). SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended by the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100&hyph;503), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Guidelines on the Conduct of Matching Programs (54 FR 25818 (June 19, 1989)), and OMB Bulletin 89&hyph;22, ``Instructions on Reporting Computer Matching Programs to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Congress and the Public,'' the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is issuing a public notice of its intent to conduct a computer matching program with the Department of Justice (DOJ) to utilize a computer information system of HUD, the Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), with DOJ's debtor files. The CAIVRS data base now includes delinquent debt information from the Departments of Agriculture, Education and Veterans Affairs and the Small Business Administration. This match will allow prescreening of applicants for debts owed or loans guaranteed by the Federal Government to ascertain if the applicant is delinquent in paying a debt owed to or insured by the Federal Government. Before granting a loan, a lending agency and/or an authorized lending institution will be able to interrogate the CAIVRS debtor file which contains the Social Security Numbers (SSNs) of HUD's delinquent debtors and defaulters and debtor files of the DOJ and verify that the loan applicant is not in default on a Federal judgment or delinquent on direct or guaranteed loans of participating Federal programs. Authorized users place a telephone call to the system. The system provides a recorded message followed by a series of instructions, one of which is a requirement for the SSN of the loan applicant. The system then reports audibly whether the SSN is related to delinquent or defaulted Federal obligations for HUD or other agency direct or guaranteed loans. As a result of the information produced by this match, the authorized users may not deny, terminate, or make a final decision of any loan assistance to an applicant or take other adverse action against such applicant, until an officer or employee of such agency has independently verified such information. DATES: Effective Date: Computer matching is expected to begin 40 days after publication of this notice unless comments are received which will result in a contrary determination, or 40 days from the date a computer matching agreement is signed, whichever is later.
