FR940713-2-00115 FR940713-2-00064 In the same rulemaking, the Tribunal determined that it did not have the jurisdiction to decide controversies within the two subfunds that were administered by an independent administrator. The Tribunal reasoned that, according to the wording of section 1006(a), its authority over the distribution of royalties extended only to ``interested copyright parties'' and that nonfeatured performers, whether musicians or vocalists, were not defined under the Audio Home Recording Act as ``interested copyright parties.'' 58 FR 53822, 53824 (Oct. 18, 1993). Therefore, the Tribunal concluded that its role in handling the moneys for the two nonfeatured performer subfunds was simply a ministerial task of distributing the royalties to the independent administrator when a distribution was ready to be made. Id. B. Background_1994 After the Tribunal's abolition, the Copyright Office began to receive claims for 1993 DART royalties during January-February, 1994. One claimant, Eugene Curry, filed a claim for the Nonfeatured Musicians Subfund. Subsequently, the Office was informed that Edward Peters had been appointed the independent administrator for both the Nonfeatured Musicians Subfund and the Nonfeatured Vocalists Subfund. The Copyright Office sent a letter to Mr. Curry and Mr. Peters asking three questions: (a) who were the interested copyright parties that participated in the selection of the independent administrator?; (b) is there any controversy between Mr. Curry and Mr. Peters about the distribution of Nonfeatured Musicians Subfund?; and (c) if there is a controversy, how would Mr. Curry and Mr. Peters recommend the resolution of the controversy? Letter, dated May 4, 1994. Mr. Curry responded that there was a controversy between him and Mr. Peters on the distribution of the subfund. Mr. Peters responded that he was selected by RIAA and AFM 6 ; that, according to the Copyright Code and Tribunal precedent, the Copyright Office has no authority to resolve disputes in the nonfeatured subfunds; that, because the Copyright Office has no authority, Mr. Curry should not have filed a claim with the Copyright Office nor should the Office have processed his claim; that Mr. Curry will be treated properly by Mr. Peters; and the fact of his non-union membership will have no relevance whatever in the ultimate distribution of the subfund. 6 RIAA, as a representative of copyright owners in sound recordings, is entitled to participate in the selection of the independent administrator. Other claimants to the Copyright Owners Subfund of the Sound Recordings Fund are also entitled to participate. Separately, the Copyright Office received a joint comment from Mr. Peters, AFM, AFTRA, and the RIAA arguing in greater detail that the Audio Home Recording Act and the Tribunal's decision in 1993 support the conclusion that the independent administrator is to receive the allocated royalties for the two nonfeatured performers subfunds directly, and is not subject to the authority of the Copyright Office or the CARP panel in resolving disputes in those subfunds.
