FR940603-0-00136 FR940603-0-00029 The associational sponsor itself may also be included in the field of membership_e.g., ``ABC Association''_and will be shown in the last clause of the field of membership. II.B.2_Subsequent Changes to Association's Bylaws If the association's membership or geographical definitions in its charter and bylaws are changed subsequent to the effective state dated in the field of membership, the credit union must submit the revised charter or bylaws for NCUA's consideration prior to serving members of the association added as a result of the change. This type of field of membership amendment will require following select group amendment procedures discussed in Chapter 2. II.B.3_Widely Dispersed Associational Charters NCUA policy is to charter associational federal credit unions at the lowest organizational level which is economically feasible. NCUA will grant associational charters with widely dispersed memberships only where clearly demonstrated to be in the best interests of the association's members and the credit union community, and only after scrutinizing the adequacy of the applicant's common bond and the economic advisability of a more compact field of membership. NCUA, in its discretion, may require that the proposed field of membership be narrowed before granting a new charter. Amendment to include a larger portion of the association's members may be allowed at a later time, if appropriate. Also, as with any widely dispersed group, overlap issues are likely to arise, either at the time of or subsequent to chartering. NCUA will consider the effect that granting a charter with such a group in its field of membership would have on any number of existing credit unions. In addition, an associational credit union with a widely dispersed membership may expect overlaps, particularly at the local level, to be granted to other credit unions in the future. In recognition of these unique circumstances, NCUA follows a separate internal procedure for associational charter applications for associations with proposed fields of membership of 500 or more persons which cross NCUA regional boundaries. NCUA's Director of Examination and Insurance and all NCUA regional directors with any of the association's members located in their region must vote on the charter application. A majority vote is required for approvals. Tie votes are referred directly to the NCUA Board for decision. II.B.4_Limits of Associational Common Bond Except for retiree clubs and low-income groups (discussed below), associations formed primarily to obtain a federal credit union charter do not have a sufficient associational common bond. Similarly, associations based on a client-customer relationship_for example, an insurance company and its customers or a buyer's club and its members_do not have a sufficient associational common bond. The common bond extends only to the association's members. The employees of a member of a local chamber of commerce, for example, do not have a sufficiently close tie to the association to be included. A proposal to include these persons among those to be served by the federal credit union may be considered as a multiple-group charter application. In such cases, letters of support and request for service must be provided from each separate entity. II.B.5_Sample Associational Fields of Membership Some examples of associational group definitions are: •Regular members of Locals 10 and 13, IBEW, Miami, Florida, who qualify for membership in accordance with their charter and bylaws in effect on May 20, 1994.'' •``Members of the Hoosier Farm Bureau who live or work in Grant, Logan, or Lee Counties of Indiana, who qualify for membership in accordance with its charter and bylaws in effect on March 7, 1994.'' •``Members of the First Baptist Church in Topeka, Kansas.'' •``Members of the Shalom Congregation in Chevy Chase, Maryland.'' •``Regular members of the Corporate Executives Association, located in Westchester, New York, who live or work in Westchester, Rockland, and Suffolk Counties in New York, who qualify for membership in accordance with its charter and bylaws in effect on December 1, 1994.'' •``Members of the Northern Michigan Electric Co-op located in Marquette, Michigan.'' •``Members of the ABC Association living or working in New York, New York, who qualify for membership in accordance with its charter and bylaws in effect on January 21, 1994.'' Some examples of insufficiently defined associational group definitions are: •``Members of military service clubs in the State of New Mexico.'' (No single associational tie; specific clubs and locations must be named; may be considered as multiple group.) •``Veterans of U.S. military service.'' (Group is too broadly defined; no formal association of all members of the group.) Some examples of unacceptable associational common bonds are: •``Members of ABC Buyers Club.'' (An interest in purchasing does not meet associational standards.) •``Customers of ABC Insurance Company.'' (Policyholders or customer/client relationships do not meet associational standards.) II.C_Community Common Bonds II.C.1_General Congress requires that a credit union charter based on a tie to a specific geographic location be limited to ``a well-defined neighborhood, community, or rural district.'' NCUA policy is to limit the community to a single, geographically well-defined area where residents interact. NCUA recognizes three types of affinity on which a community common bond can be based_persons who live in, persons who worship in, and persons who work in the community. Businesses and other legal entities within the community boundaries may also qualify for membership. Given the diversity of community characteristics throughout the country and NCUA's goal of making credit union service available to all eligible groups who wish to have it, NCUA has established the following common bond requirements for community charters: •The geographic area's boundaries must be clearly defined; and •The charter applicant must establish that the area is recognized as a distinct ``neighborhood, community, or rural district.''
