FR941219-1-00033 FR941219-1-00015 Each of the proposed performance requirements and test procedures are modeled after provisions in NGV2 or are similar to those requirements. The agency tentatively concludes that modeling the Federal standard after NGV2 would be the best way to regulate how a CNG container reacts to such conditions as corrosive substances, temperature extremes, external damage, and rupture. In some instances, the agency departed from NGV2's performance requirements and test criteria to be consistent with 49 U.S.C. 30111 (formerly section 103 of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. §1392). That statute commands the agency to issue ``motor vehicle safety standards'' that are practicable, meet the need for motor vehicle safety, and are stated in objective terms. One example of such a departure can be found in the environmental cycling performance requirement for internal corrosion. Instead of stating that there shall be no ``evidence of distortion, deterioration, or failure,'' the proposal states that the container ``shall not leak or be distorted.'' Another example can be found in the gunfire test conditions. Instead of stating that ``(t)he distance from firing location to test container is not to exceed 46 meters,'' the proposal states that ``(t)he distance from firing location to test container is 46 meters.'' The most significant differences between the proposal and NGV2 are discussed below. B. Environmental Cycling Test Section 1&hyph;18(d)(2) of NGV2 includes an environmental cycling test to prevent the unreasonable corrosion of a CNG container's internal surface. In addition, this test evaluates the effect that high humidity as well as high and low temperatures have on the CNG containers. 3 3 The Charpy impact test also evaluates low temperature performance for metal containers and liners because some metals are susceptible to brittle fracture at low temperatures. In the ANPRM and NPRM, NHTSA noted that the level of impurities in CNG (i.e., gas quality) could influence the fuel container's integrity. Specifically, certain compounds in CNG could lead to stress corrosion cracking, corrosion, fatigue or other internal harm to the container's integrity. Such harm could cause the CNG containers to fail. The agency initially decided not to propose a performance test to address a CNG container's ability to withstand corrosion, since the agency was not aware of any readily available performance test that would address the failure modes at issue. Nevertheless, in the NPRM, NHTSA requested comments about the need for a requirement addressing corrosion and, if so, what tests and performance levels are most appropriate. In particular, the agency requested comment about the practicability of using the NGV2's environmental cycling test. In the NPRM, the agency specifically asked whether, instead of adopting the first sentence of the test verbatim, the agency should say ``One representative container free of any protective coating shall be cycle tested as follows, and shall not leak *␣*␣*'' Commenters on the NPRM stated that there are two principal ways to regulate containers to prevent unreasonable internal corrosion: (1) Regulating the gas quality or (2) regulating container performance. NGVC, Pressed Steel Tank Co., EDO, the National Fire Protection Association, the American Automobile Manufacturers Association (AAMA), Tecogen, and Ontario recommended that the agency adopt gas quality requirements for CNG such as those set forth in a Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE's) Recommended Practice SAE J1616, ``Fuel Composition for Natural Gas Vehicles,'' February 1994. That recommended practice addresses internal corrosion by limiting the amount of water and other impurities in CNG. After reviewing the comments and other available information. NHTSA has decided to propose a corrosion resistance requirement for CNG containers. The agency notes that under 49 U.S.C. 30101 et seq. (formerly the Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 1381 et seq. ), NHTSA is authorized to regulate the manufacture of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment. However, it has no authority to regulate fuel quality since fuel is not considered to be motor vehicle equipment. Therefore, NHTSA cannot issue standards regulating the quality of CNG. Nevertheless, the agency encourages the industry to improve gas quality for CNG vehicles through voluntary standards such as SA J1616. NHTSA has decided to propose a performance requirement to ensure that a CNG container resists corrosion. Such a requirement would prevent catastrophic failures of CNG containers due to internal corrosion. This is particularly important since the agency only has statutory authority to issue safety standards that regulate the condition and performance of vehicles prior to their first consumer purchase. The agency does not have any authority to require periodic inspection of containers for corrosion. NHTSA is proposing to adopt an environmental cycling performance requirement and test procedure patterned after the ones in NGV2. The proposed performance requirement is set forth in S7.5, and the proposed test conditions and procedures, in S8.5. NGV2 states that a ``container free of any protective coating shall be cycle tested, without showing evidence of distortion, deterioration or failure *␣*␣*'' The agency believes that while the term ``without distortion'' appears to be objective, the terms ``without deterioration or failure'' are too ambiguous and broad to permit their incorporation in a Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard. Therefore, the agency has decided not to include the terms ``deterioration'' and ``failure'' in its proposal. Instead, the agency is proposing that its pass/fail criteria for the environmental cycling test depart from NGV2 and state that, when cycle tested, the CNG container ``shall not leak or permanently change in external configuration or dimensions.'' NHTSA has added the prohibition against leakage, since the absence of leakage can be objectively determined. Further, the prohibition is consistent with the environmental cycling test's safety goal and with the pressure cycling test and hydrostatic burst test that the agency adopted when it issued Standard No. 304.
