FR940630-2-00050 FR940630-2-00039 An FCC Form 159 and a 159&hyph;C have been attached to this Public Notice for you to complete and remit with your payment. You may make additional copies of the forms as required. In addition to the instructions for Form 159 (which are on the reverse side of the Form), the following information applies specifically to common carrier regulatees: Block (12)_``FCC Call Sign/Other ID'' •Interexchange, local exchange and competitive access providers should enter their NECA company identification number. •Cellular, public mobile 6 and public fixed radio licensees should enter their call sign. 6 Public mobile radio licensees with more than 99 locations that have been given multiple call signs for the same license should list only one call sign on Form 159 and provide a separate listing of all other related call signs. •Providers of international bearer circuits should leave this block blank. Block (14)_``Payment Type Codes'' Carriers CDIN: Use this code when making full payment for an interexchange carrier regulatory fee ($0.06 per presubscribed access line). CDI1: Use this code when making your first installment payment for an interexchange carrier regulatory fee. CDI2: To be used ONLY for the second installment payment for an interexchange carrier regulatory fee. CDXN: Use this code when making full payment for a local exchange carrier regulatory fee ($0.06 per access line). CDX1: Use this code when making your first installment payment for a local exchange carrier regulatory fee. CDX2: To be used ONLY for the second installment payment for a local exchange carrier regulatory fee. CDPN: Use this code when making payment for a competitive access provider regulatory fee ($0.06 per subscriber). International Bearer Circuits CICN: Use this code when making a regulatory fee payment for a 64 KB or equivalent international bearer circuit ($2.20 per active 64 KB circuit or equivalent). Public Mobile Licensees CDCN: Use this code when making a regulatory fee payment for a cellular radio license ($0.06 per subscriber). CDMN: Use this code when making a regulatory fee payment for a public mobile radio license ($0.06 per subscriber). Public Fixed Radio Licensees CCDN: Use this code when making a regulatory fee payment for a domestic public fixed radio license ($55 per call sign). CFRN: Use this code when making a regulatory fee payment for an international public fixed radio license ($110 per call sign). Block (15)_``Quantity'' Carriers •Interexchange carriers should enter the number of presubscribed access lines. •Local exchange carriers should enter the number of access lines. •Competitive access providers should enter the number of subscribers. International Bearer Circuits •Entities paying for international bearer circuits should enter the number of 64 KB or equivalent circuits. Public Mobile Licensees •Cellular radio licensees should enter the number of subscribers for a particular call sign. •Public mobile radio licensees should enter the total number of subscribers. Public Fixed Radio Licensees •All public fixed radio licensees should enter ``1''.
