FR940527-1-00042 FR940527-1-00014 The other edits involved data that appeared unusual and had to be verified by the intermediary. Only 74 providers had data elements that were unresolved as of March 14, 1994. Most of the unresolved data elements fall outside established edit parameters and require verification by the intermediary. None of the unresolved data elements failed critical edits (that is, edits indicating serious data errors that affect the wage index computation). The wage file used to construct the proposed wage index includes data obtained in late January 1994 from the HCRIS database and subsequent changes we received from intermediaries through March 14, 1994. We have instructed the intermediaries to complete their verification of questionable data elements and to transmit any changes to the wage data, via HCRIS, no later than June 15, 1994. We expect that all outstanding data elements will be resolved by that date and that we will be able to reflect the corrected data in the final rule. In the past, the hospital wage index data file was not available to the public until mid-May. However, to allow hospitals more time to evaluate the wage data used to construct the proposed hospital wage index, on March 16, 1994, we made available to the public a diskette containing the raw hospital wage data that were used to construct the proposed FY 1995 wage index. We advised State and national hospital groups of the availability of the data. We also instructed all fiscal intermediaries to inform the prospective payment hospitals they service that we would not be sending out hospital-specific wage data as we had for the proposed FY 1994 wage index, but that we would make the FY 1991 data available on a diskette. The fiscal intermediaries were instructed to advise hospitals of the availability of the data either through their representative hospital organizations or directly from HCFA using order forms provided to them. Additional details on the cost and ordering of this file will be found below in section VIII. B. of this proposed rule, Requests for Data from the Public. In addition, we note that Table 3c in the Addendum to this proposed rule contains each hospital's inflated average hourly wage used to construct the wage index values. By backing out the applicable inflation factors (set forth below in section III.B.3.), a hospital can determine its uninflated average hourly wage as reflected in the proposed wage index. This table will also be included in the final rule. If a hospital believes, based on its review of the data contained in Table 3c, that its average hourly wage is inconsistent with the data submitted on Worksheet S&hyph;3, the hospital should contact its intermediary. 2. Requests for Wage Data Corrections As noted above we will use cost report data from FY 1991 (that is, cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1990 and before October 1, 1991) for the update to the wage index. As such, we believe hospitals have had ample time to ensure the accuracy of their FY 1991 wage data. Moreover, the ultimate responsibility for accurately completing the cost report rests with the hospital, which must attest to the accuracy of the data at the time the cost report is filed. However, if a hospital believes that its FY 1991 wage data have been incorrectly reported, the hospital must submit corrections along with complete supporting documentation to its intermediary in time to allow for review, verification and transmission of the data before the development of the final wage index. To allow sufficient time to process any changes, a hospital must submit requests for corrections to its fiscal intermediary by May 15, 1994. The request should include all documentation necessary to support the requested change. To be reflected in the final wage index, any wage data corrections must be reviewed by the intermediary and transmitted to HCFA via HCRIS on or before June 15, 1994.
