FR941025-0-00047 FR941025-0-00018 FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY 44 CFR Parts 59, 60, 64, 65, 70, and 75 RIN 3067&hyph;AC17 National Flood Insurance Program; Insurance Coverage and Rates, Criteria for Land Management, Use, Identification, and Mapping of Flood Control Restoration Zones AGENCY: Federal Insurance Administration, FEMA. ACTION: Interim final rule. SUMMARY: This interim final rule establishes a new flood insurance rate zone for areas designated as flood control restoration zones on National Flood Insurance Program maps. It also establishes minimum floodplain management requirements and provides regulatory guidance for implementing statutory requirements, including procedures to identify and map areas as flood control restoration zones. The intent of the interim final rule is to permit communities to regulate development through minimum floodplain management requirements and to use flood insurance rates appropriate to the temporary nature of flood hazards during the period when a flood protection system no longer provides 100-year flood protection until it is restored. DATES: This interim final rule is effective October 25, 1994. We invite your comments on this interim final rule. Comments must be submitted in writing on or before December 9, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please submit any comments to the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of the General Counsel, Federal Emergency Management Agency, 500 C Street SW., Washington, DC 20472 (facsimile) 202&hyph;646&hyph;4536. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William R. Locke, Division Director, Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment Division, Mitigation Directorate, Federal Emergency Management Agency, 500 C Street SW., Washington, DC 20472, (202) 646&hyph;2717. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On April 1, 1994, FEMA published for comment in the Federal Register , 59 FR 15351, a proposed rule. The proposed rule contained provisions that would establish a new flood insurance rate zone, Zone AR, for areas designated as flood control restoration zones on National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) maps. It would also establish minimum floodplain management requirements and would provide regulatory guidance for implementing statutory requirements of ยง928 of Public Law 102&hyph;550, 42 USC 4014(f), including procedures to identify and map areas as flood control restoration zones. Public Law 102&hyph;550 also requires FEMA to promulgate regulations no later than October 28, 1994. Following publication of the proposed rule in the Federal Register , copies were mailed to approximately 60 individuals and organizations that had previously expressed an interest in the issues that the rule addresses. In addition, copies of the proposed rule were sent to communities in the Los Angeles and Sacramento areas of California that had applied for designation as having flood control restoration zones and were sent to the Congressional delegations representing those areas. During the 45-day public comment period provided for the proposed rule, FEMA received a total of twelve letters. All but one of the letters contained multiple comments about different issues addressed in the proposed rule. Two letters were submitted by members of the U. S. House of Representatives who represent areas of Sacramento and Los Angeles, California. One of the letters, submitted by three sponsors of the legislation, was received after the close of the formal comment period, but the issues raised are addressed in the supplementary language to these final regulations. Other letters were submitted by representatives of seven local government agencies, legal representatives of two local property owners associations, and one private citizen. In addition, comments received from the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers immediately after the close of the formal comment period have been considered as well. With one exception, the letters received were from those who support the concept of the flood control restoration zone. One letter urged FEMA to include a requirement in the regulations that prohibits the restoration from causing an increase in flood hazards elsewhere. All letters were submitted from the Los Angeles and Sacramento, California areas, including three Congressional representatives of those areas.
