FR940328-1-00022 FR940328-1-00008 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Notice of a Finding on a Petition To List a Hawaiian Spider, Doryonychus raptor AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of a finding on a petition. SUMMARY: the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 90-day petition finding on a pending petition to add an endemic Hawaiian spider, Doryonychus raptor, to the List of Endangered and Threatened wildlife. Substantial information has not been presented to indicate that the requested action may be warranted. DATES: The finding announced in this document was made on June 8, 1992. Comments and materials related to this petition finding may be submitted to the Field Supervisor at the address below. ADDRESSES: Information, comments, or questions concerning the status of the petitioned species should be submitted to Robert P. Smith, Field Supervisor, Pacific Islands Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 300 Ala Moana Boulevard, room 6307, P.O. Box 50167, Honolulu, Hawaii 96850. The petition, finding, supporting data, and comments are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert P. Smith at the above address (808/541&hyph;2749). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) (Act), requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information indicating that the petitioned action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of the receipt of the petition, and the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . If the Service finds that a petition presents substantial information indicating that a requested action may be warranted, then the Service initiates a status review on that species. The Service has received and made a 90-day finding on the following petition. On September 25, 1991, Dr. Rosemary G. Gillespie, Research Fellow of the Hawaiian Evolutionary Biology Program, University of Maryland at College Park, submitted a petition to list an endemic Hawaiian spider, Doryonychus raptor Simon, as an endangered species. The petition was received by the Service on September 27, 1991. After review of the petition and supporting documentation, the Fish and Wildlife Service finds that the petition does not present sufficient information to substantiate that the requested action may be warranted. Doryonychus raptor was initially discovered by R.C.L. Perkins in the 1890's, but had not been observed subsequently in the wild until the petitioner, Dr. Gillespie, reported the existence of D. raptor within the Hono O Na Pali Natural Area Reserve in 1990. Dr. Gillespie believes that this species is restricted to areas of low elevation, directly beneath high waterfalls emanating from the Alakai plateau on the island of Kauai. In addition to its limited range, D. raptor may be threatened by predation by alien species of spiders and ants. Since the rediscovery of the species, the petitioner has been actively collecting baseline data on the current distribution and abundance of D. raptor. However, because the historic distribution and abundance of the species is not known, there is no good comparative evidence that would support a determination that the species is in decline over all or a significant portion of its range at this point in time. In addition, the encroachment of alien plant species into the spider's habitat is not entirely a threat, as the spider is reported to be present in alien Psidium (guava) forests. Author This document was prepared by Sharon R. Kobayashi, Pacific Islands Office (see ADDRESSES section). Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and Transportation. Dated: March 21, 1994. Mollie H. Beattie, Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7227 Filed 3&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
