FR940805-0-00061 FR940805-0-00021 (a) The regulations in this Part 388. (b) The regulations in 34 CFR Part 385. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 770 and 771a) ยง388.6 What definitions apply? The definitions in 34 CFR Part 385 apply to this program. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 771(a)(g)(3)) Subpart B_[Reserved] Subpart C_How Does the Secretary Make an Award? ยง388.20 What selection criteria does the Secretary use? The Secretary uses the following criteria to evaluate an application: (a) Evidence of need. (20 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the need for the in-service training has been adequately justified. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The need for the in-service training project has been adequately justified and relates to the mission of the State-Federal rehabilitation service program and can be expected to improve the competence of all State vocational rehabilitation personnel in providing vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities that will result in employment outcomes or otherwise contribute to more effective management of the State unit program; (ii) The State unit in-service training plan responds to needs identified in the training needs assessment and the proposed training relates to the unit's State plan, particularly the requirements in section 101(a)(7) of the Act for each designated State unit to develop a comprehensive system of personnel development; and (iii) The State has conducted a needs assessment of the in-service training needs for all of the State unit employees. (b) Nature and scope of training program. (20 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that demonstrates the adequacy and scope of the proposed training program content. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The objectives to be achieved by the project will address the needs as determined by the assessment; (ii) The scope and nature of the training activities will accomplish the project objectives; (iii) The training conducted can be measured and evaluated as to how it accomplished the project objectives; and (iv) The program primarily includes an integrated sequence of_ (A) Workshops, seminars, distance education, and other special courses for new counselors and other classes of State unit personnel concerned with State unit procedures and policies; (B) Concentrated training activities focusing on improving State unit staff skills in working with specific groups of individuals with disabilities; and (C) Directed individualized or group staff development activities designed to enable selected staff to acquire special skills. (c) Plan of operation. (25 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the quality of the plan of operation for the project. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) A clear description of how the project will achieve each objective; (ii) The way the applicant plans to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective; (iii) An effective plan of management that ensures proper and efficient administration of the project; (iv) A clear description of how the applicant will provide equal access and treatment for State agency personnel who are members of groups that have been traditionally underrepresented, such as individuals with disabilities, the elderly, women, and members of racial or ethnic minority groups; and (v) For FY 1994, a clear description of how the applicant will provide training regarding the 1992 amendments to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. (d) Quality of key personnel. (10 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the quality of key personnel proposed for the project. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The qualifications of the project director;
