FR940516-1-00115 FR940516-1-00006 General comments regarding the applicability and suitability of the proposed oven exposure procedure are requested. Specific comments are also requested regarding variation in the procedure, such as: The use of an oven atmosphere other than air; if flow through the catalyst is recommended; and the composition and flow rate of the gas or gaseous mixture that is used. Regardless of which method is used to age the catalyst, some means must be used to determine the effects of the aging process. With respect to the intended purpose of this process, the most straightforward evaluation would involve the determination of the extent to which the performance characteristics of the test catalyst had been adversely affected. Of particular significance would be the adverse effect on the catalyst's conversion capabilities with respect to the oxidation of HC and CO and/or the reduction of NO X . The use of a procedure which uses a synthetic exhaust gas mixture for evaluating the effects of thermal stressing is being proposed for several reasons. One of the main reasons is the relative simplicity of such a procedure. For example, it would not involve the questions regarding the in-use representativeness of test parameters, such as the temperature of the mixture and the duration of the test, that arise when a synthetic exhaust gas mixture is used for actually thermally stressing a catalyst. For evaluation purposes, any fixed temperature which allowed the conversion reactions of interest to occur could be specified. The specification of a particular exposure time would not be required since the conversion efficiency existing as a result of the previous thermal stressing would be involved rather than a time-related change in efficiency. Furthermore, a procedure which used synthetic exhaust gas would be simpler than a procedure that used actual exhaust gas. Using synthetic exhaust gas mixtures alleviates the need for detailed information not readily available at this time. Another reason for proposing the use of synthetic exhaust gas mixtures is the standardization that results; all catalysts would be aged under the specific conditions that are proposed in subpart E of the proposed regulations. The composition of the synthetic exhaust gas mixture that is specified in this subpart is comparable to compositions of synthetic exhaust gas mixtures currently used by catalyst manufacturers for testing related to the kinds of engines covered by the proposal. Comments are solicited concerning these specifications, particularly with regard to the chemical composition and temperature of the synthetic exhaust mixture and its flow rate as it enters the test catalyst. A fixed catalyst efficiency loss limit of 20 percent for HC, CO, and NO X is proposed in this notice on the basis of on-highway experience and the absence of information at this time regarding the conversion efficiencies that will be used with small engines. To illustrate this loss limit, a catalyst with initial HC conversion efficiency of 50 percent would be required to maintain at least a conversion efficiency of 40 percent after thermal aging. Comments are requested regarding the use of a different fixed deterioration limit. Comments are also requested regarding the relative advantages and disadvantages of one fixed limit versus several limits that are proportional to initial conversion efficiency. V. Test Procedure Requirements EPA received a technical review of an early draft of the test procedure from the Small Engine Committee of the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) in September 1993. EPA requests comment on several points mentioned in SAE's comments. EPA is proposing that during each mode of the emission test cycle, engine manufacturers collect and analyze exhaust constituents and measure engine parameters during a period of time referred to as the ``sampling period.'' EPA is proposing that the sampling period be a minimum of four minutes long. The SAE recommended test procedure J1088 recommends the sampling period be ``*␣*␣* at least two minutes. Longer averaging times may be required to ascertain the true time averaged emissions if data variability over time is significant.'' Based on EPA's experience with several small (two to four kW) engines, a two-minute averaging time for idle modes is not sufficient to make accurate fuel flow measurements. EPA requests comment on the appropriateness of a four minute averaging time, including any available test data to substantiate an averaging time less than four minutes. EPA is proposing that for the final calculation of the brake-specific emission rate (gr/kWh), any power measured during the idle mode not be included in the calculation for the reported brake-specific emission rate. EPA believes the idle mode is, by definition, that engine operating mode during which no useful work is performed. Any power measured during this mode is a result of the frictional losses resulting from the dynamometer. EPA is concerned that an engine manufacturer using an inappropriately large dynamometer with a large frictional loss would not provide an accurate measurement of the engine idle mode. EPA believes it is inappropriate to include power generated by the engine to overcome the windage losses of the dynamometer in the calculation of emissions during the idle mode. EPA requests comment on the appropriateness of including power measured by the dynamometer in the calculation of the final brake-specific emission rate.
