FR940127-2-00069 FR940127-2-00058 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Employment and Training Administration Operating Instructions for Implementing the Amendments to the Trade Adjustment Assistance for Workers Program in Title V of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Implementation Act AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice of General Administration Letter No. 7&hyph;94. SUMMARY: This notice and publication of General Administration Letter (GAL) No. 7&hyph;94 inform the States and cooperating State agencies of the amendments to the Trade Act of 1974 in Title V of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Implementation Act (Pub. L. 103&hyph;182). These amendments affect the program of trade adjustment assistance for workers and the administration of the program by the States pursuant to State agreements with the Secretary of Labor. The amendments must be implemented as of the respective dates set out in Title V and contained in the GAL published with this notice The Title V amendments supersede the statute in effect prior to these amendments and affect the regulations at 20 CFR part 617 and 29 CFR part 90 currently in effect, to the extent that such prior law and regulations are inconsistent with the amendments. Pending the issuance of final regulations implementing the provisions of the Title V amendments, the GAL published with this notice expresses the Department of Labor's position on procedures for implementation of the amendments and their respective meanings, and constitutes operating instructions to the States. The Title V amendments also require States to make available certain assistance and services authorized under Title III of the Job Training Partnership Act to workers whom the Governor preliminarily finds to be adversely affected by NAFTA. The GAL informs the States of this requirement, and of the potential for secondary workers in firms supplying component parts to primary producers affected by NAFTA to receive assistance under the Title III program. Additional information concerning the use of Title III funds to assist these workers and other individuals adversely affected by NAFTA will be forthcoming. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For TAA Program information, contact: Marvin M. Fooks, Director, Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance; Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;5555. For JTPA Title III information, contact: Doug Holl, Office of Worker Retraining and Adjustment Programs; Telephone (202) 219&hyph;5306. These are not toll free numbers. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On December 8, 1993, the President signed the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act. The GAL relates primarily to those provisions of Title V of the Act affecting the TAA Program. Most of the provisions of Title V are in the form of amendments to Chapter 2 of Title II of the Trade Act of 1974. Some of the provisions of Title V are not in the form of amendments to the Trade Act, however, they nonetheless must be given effect in implementing the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program.
