FR940124-2-00030 FR940124-2-00025 [Finance Docket No. 32435] The Bay Line Railroad, L.L.C._Acquisition and Operation Exemption_Rail Lines of Atlanta & St. Andrews Bay Railroad Company The Bay Line Railroad, L.L.C. (Bay Line), 1 a noncarrier, has filed a notice of exemption to acquire from the Atlanta & St. Andrews Bay Railroad Company (ASAB), approximately 88 miles of main line trackage running from Panama City, FL, to Dothan, AL, together with substantially all of the other railroad operating assets of ASAB. 2 The proposed transaction is expected to be consummated promptly upon the effectiveness of this exemption which will result in Bay Line's becoming a carrier. 1 Bay Line is 100% owned and controlled by Rail Partners, L.P. (Partners), a Delaware limited partnership, and Panama City Beach Office Park, Ltd. (Office Park), a Florida limited partnership. Neither Partners nor Office Park is a carrier, and Office Park does not currently control a carrier. However, Partners is jointly owned and controlled by Green Bay Packaging, Inc. (GBP), Rail Management and Consulting Corporation (RMCC), and K. Earl Durden (Durden) (collectively, Owners), and with them jointly owns and controls several class III rail carriers, none of which would connect with Bay Line. Office Park is jointly owned and controlled by Partners and RMCC. 2 Bay Line indicates that the acquisition also includes the Graceville Branch, a light-density branch line of ASAB running from a junction with the main line at Campbellton, FL, to Graceville, FL. This transaction is related to a notice of exemption filed concurrently in Finance Docket No. 32436, Rail Management and Consulting Corporation, Green Bay Packaging, Inc., K. Earl Durden, and Rail Partners, L.P._Continuance in Control Exemption_the Bay Line Railroad, L.L.C., in which Owners, all noncarriers, seek to continue in control of Bay Line, upon Bay Line's becoming a carrier. 3 3 Also contemporaneous with this filing, the A&G Railroad, L.L.C. (A&G), another newly formed Alabama limited liability company, also owned by Partners and Office Park, is filing a notice of exemption in Finance Docket No. 32437, The A&G Railroad, L.L.C._Acquisition and Operation Exemption_Rail Lines of Abbeville & Grimes Railway Company, to acquire from Abbeville & Grimes Railway Company (Abbeville) and to operate approximately 27 rail miles in Alabama, between Abbeville and Grimes, together with incidental trackage rights over 7 miles of CSX Transportation, Inc. (CSXT) lines between Grimes and Dothan, AL, and substantially all of the other railroad operating assets of Abbeville. Bay Line states that because, as a carrier, it will connect with A&G by means of incidental trackage rights over CSXT, between Grimes and Dothan, the ownership of A&G will be placed in an independent voting trust prior to closing to prevent Durden, RMCC, GBP, Partners, and Office Park from retaining direct control over A&G once A&G becomes a carrier. Bay Line indicates that after the closing, a separate petition for exemption, or other pleading, will be filed with the Commission, seeking appropriate authority or exemption for Owners to dissolve the voting trust and acquire direct control over A&G. Any comments must be filed with the Commission and served on Donald G. Avery, Slover & Loftus, 1224 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20036. 4 4 By identical letters filed January 6 through January 12, 1994, various individuals and the Dixie Federation (Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employees), concerned with labor protection for ASAB employees, expressed opposition to the acquisition. None of the letter-protests includes a certificate showing simultaneous service upon all parties to the proceeding (see 49 CFR 1104.12). Any interested person will have the opportunity to file a petition to revoke under 49 U.S.C. 10505(d) requesting either complete revocation of the exemption of the transaction or partial revocation to impose conditions (such as those to protect labor). Revocation petitions must comply with the rules with respect to revocation of exemptions at 49 CFR 1121.4(i). This notice is filed under 49 CFR 1150.31. If the notice contains false or misleading information, the exemption is void ab initio. Petitions to revoke the exemption under 49 U.S.C. 10505(d) may be filed at any time. The filing of a petition to revoke will not automatically stay the transaction. Decided: January 18, 1994. By the Commission, David M. Konschnik, Director, Office of Proceedings. Sidney L. Strickland, Jr., Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1552 Filed 1&hyph;21&hyph;94; 10:00 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
