FR940406-1-00005 FR940406-1-00001 While Congress has specifically defined the term ``homeless individual'' for the WIC Program, section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 does not contain a definition for the terms ``migrant'' or ``migrancy.'' However, section 17 uses the terms ``migrant'' (e.g. section 17(f)(1)(c)(iv)) and ``migrant farmworker'' (e.g. section 17(d)(4)(B)). The Department has interpreted Congress' references to migrants in section 17 to mean only migrant farmworkers and the latter term is currently defined at CFR 246.2. However, before assuming that its migrant farmworker definition was sufficient to apply to all Congressional references to the term migrant, the Department examined the definition of migrant(s) as used by other public and private organizations and agencies concerned with migrants and migrant services. In each case, some reference was made to the agricultural or seasonal nature of migrancy and movement of individuals for agricultural employment purposes. Based on this comparative analysis, the Department considered its current definition of migrant farmworker adequate to accommodate all of Congress' references and uses of the term migrancy as set forth in section 204 of the Child Nutrition Amendments of 1992. WIC Priority System The current WIC nutritional risk priority system was designed to ensure that persons at greatest health and nutritional risk are served first with available program funds. The priority system therefore follows a logical order of progression to determine priority for service. Applicants with documented nutritionally related medical conditions are served first, followed by those at nutritional risk due to inadequate dietary patterns. Finally, and as a State agency option, previously certified participants whose nutritional status might regress without continued provision of supplemental foods are certified in Priority VII. Under this proposal, State agencies would be required to include in Priority VII pregnant, breastfeeding or postpartum women, infants, and children who are certified at nutritional risk solely because of their homelessness or migrancy. State agencies may also continue to use Priority VII to identify certified participants who might regress in nutritional status without continued provision of supplemental foods. The placement in Priority VII of individuals certified solely due to homelessness or migrancy should not be viewed as diminished concern for these individuals. Rather, such a placement reflects the Department's obligation to serve persons with the greatest medical and/or nutritional needs first. Priority VII will only be used to classify those individuals who are homeless or migrants and have no other documented medical or nutritional risk. These are individuals who previously would not have otherwise qualified for WIC Program benefits due to lack of nutritional risk. Given the facts revealed in the aforementioned studies, there is a high likelihood that homeless and migrant individuals are already being served by the WIC Program by virtue of their nutritional risk(s). Proposed Priority VII will serve as a safety net for homeless or migrant individuals who are not otherwise eligible due to a lack of documented nutritional or medical risk conditions. However, like any other eligible applicant, a homeless or migrant individual may be placed in a higher priority if her/his nutritional/health assessment by a competent professional warrants a higher placement in the priority system. For example, a homeless or migrant individual whose nutritional risk assessment reveals the presence of anemia would be placed in a higher priority category than a homeless or migrant person with no other documented nutritional risk condition who would be placed in Priority VII. This is in keeping with the aforementioned system of prioritizing WIC service based on documented nutritionally or medically related conditions. Priority VII is the logical placement for homeless and migrant individuals with no documented nutritional risks who qualify for the program due solely to homelessness or migrancy. The Department does not intend for Priority VII to be used by States as an administrative shortcut in certifying homeless and migrant individuals. The Department expects that homeless and migrant applicants will receive all the normal and necessary health assessments that are routinely performed to determine the presence of a medical or nutritional risk which would determine their proper priority placement, and assist in identifying other health and social services to which such individuals may be referred. The Department recognizes that this proposed regulation might require some States to modify their current reporting systems to accommodate the revised Priority VII. As such, the Department intends to provide an implementation period adequate to incorporate the necessary system modifications.
