FR940916-1-00153 FR940916-1-00016 (2) A 20-psi brake pipe reduction shall be made. (3) An inspection shall be made to determine that the brakes on the rear car apply and release as indicated by the position of brake shoes or brake indicator. (4) As an alternative to the application-and-release brake test on the rear car (specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section), it shall be determined that the brake pipe pressure of the train is being reduced as indicated by a rear-car gauge or end-of-train device and then that the brake pipe pressure of the train is being restored as indicated by a rear-car gauge or end-of-train device. When a device is used to comply with any test requirement in this section, the phrase ``brake pipe pressure of the train is being reduced'' means a pressure reduction of at least 5 psi, and the phrase ``brake pipe pressure of the train is being restored'' means a pressure increase of at least 5 psi. (5) The train shall not proceed until communication of brake pipe pressure changes at the rear of the train is verified. (b) Class 2 tests of new brake system technology shall be conducted in accordance with the Class 2 test procedures developed for that technology in accordance with the procedures described in subpart J of this part. §232.415 Running test for conventional passenger trains. (a) A running test of train air brakes on a conventional passenger train shall be made as soon as the speed of the train permits (by use of an automatic brake if operating in automatic brake operation) when any of the following events occurs: (1) When motive power is changed; (2) When an engine crew or train crew is changed; (3) When an angle cock is closed, except in the process of cutting off one or more cars from the rear end of train. (b) A running test shall be made by applying the train air brakes with sufficient force to ascertain whether or not the brakes are operating properly. Power must not be shut off unless required. If the air brakes do not properly operate, the train must be stopped, the cause of failure ascertained and corrected, and the running test repeated. (c) When motive power or engine crew is changed, a running test on each locomotive equipped with dynamic brakes shall be made to determine the condition of the dynamic brake, as soon as the operating speed of the train permits. §232.417 Conventional passenger car single car or single passenger train set test. (a) A Conventional Passenger Car Single Car Test, as defined in §232.5, shall be conducted on each passenger car with conventional air brakes as required in subpart G of this part. (b) If a railroad operates a passenger train set, the railroad may develop and implement an equivalent Single Passenger Train Set Test in lieu of the Single Car Test. The test shall be submitted to FRA upon request. §232.419 Conventional passenger train brake system test conducted using yard air. (a) After January 1, 1996, all equipment used to produce yard air shall be equipped with an air dryer capable of producing a 30-degree F dew point depression at a flow rate of 100 cfm. (b) When a train air brake system is tested from a yard test plant, an engineer's brake valve or an equivalent suitable test device must be used to provide any increase or reduction of the brake pipe air pressure at the same, or slower, rate as with an engineer's brake valve and the yard test plant must be connected to the end of the train or cut of cars which will be nearest to the hauling road locomotive. (c) When a yard test plant is used, the train air brake system must be charged and tested as prescribed by §232.407, and when practicable should be kept charged until road motive power is coupled to train, after which, an automatic brake application and release test of air brakes on the rear car shall be made. (1) If the cars are disconnected from a supply of compressed air for more than four hours, before these cars may be added to a train they shall be retested in accordance with §232.407. (2) Yard test plant air pressure shall be 100 psi. (d) Yard test devices and gauges shall be calibrated annually. Gauges shall be accurate to within # 3 psi. (e) Railroads shall ensure that yard air test devices and yard air equipment are accurate and function as intended. §232.421 Class 1 train brake system test for repetitive conventional passenger and commuter trains. (a) Class 1 train brake system tests for repetitive conventional passenger and commuter trains shall be performed only by qualified train brake system inspectors meeting the requirements of §232.207 and §232.209. (b) The tasks stated in §232.407(a) (1) through (11) regarding conventional passenger trains shall be performed as part of the Class 1 train brake system test on the pneumatic brake systems of repetitive conventional passenger and commuter trains. (c) Wheels shall have no cracks greater than 1/2 inch long in the center area of the tread surface and no crack within 1/2 inch of the edge of the tread or flange. (d) The following tasks shall be performed as part of the Class 1 brake system test of MU equipment with P-wire brake control: (1) A brake pipe leakage test is not required. (2) The engineer shall release and reapply the brakes and ensure that brake-release and brake-application lights illuminate. (3) A qualified inspector shall inspect the train to determine that brakes apply on each car and shoes or pads are tight against the tread or disc. (4) Short-stroke brake actuators (tread brake units/disc brake cylinders) shall have adequate brake shoe/disc pad clearance with brakes released, and when brakes are applied, shall respond as intended for the application of the tread/disc against the braking surface. Brake indicators which are clearly visible by a positioned inspector may be used to determine the brake status. (5) The brake shoes shall be aligned with the wheels. (6) The brake system shall be properly secured. (7) The brake equipment shall not drag or hang. (8) When the release signal is received, the engineer shall place the controller handle in ``Coast.'' Each brake shall be inspected for proper release.
