FR940324-2-00066 FR940324-2-00042 Part III_Special Requirements, Review/Award Criteria and Contacts for Additional Information Letter of Intent: Organizations planning to submit an application for a services demonstration project and/or the coordinating center are encouraged to submit a letter of intent at least 30 days prior to the receipt date. Such notification is used by the CMHS for purposes of review and program planning. This letter is voluntary and does not obligate the person/organization to submit an application. In addition, the letter should be no longer than one page and should succinctly indicate: _the number and title of the RFA _the name of the potential applicant organization, city and state _the name and affiliation of the proposed project director, i.e., the individual who will be assigned to coordinate the development and implementation of the project _the overall scope of the proposed project, including a brief description of the likely goals and objectives Letters of intent should be addressed to: Director, Office of Evaluation, Extramural Policy, and Review, Center for Mental Health Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, room 18C&hyph;07, Rockville, Maryland 20857, ATTN: RFA/Letter of Intent. FAX: 301/443&hyph;7912. Coordination with Other Federal/Non-Federal Programs: Applicants seeking support under this announcement are encouraged to coordinate with other programs. Program coordination helps to better serve the multiple needs of the patient/client population, to maximize the impact of available resources, and to eliminate duplication of services. Applicants should identify the coordinating organizations by name and address and describe the process used/to be used for coordinating efforts. Letters of commitment specifying the kind(s) and level of support from organizations (both Federal and non-Federal) which have agreed to work with the applicant must be included in the application appendices. Examples of Federal programs with which applicants may find coordination productive are included in the complete application kit. Public Health System Reporting Requirements: The services demonstration projects are subject to the Public Health Service Requirements. Under these requirements, the community-based nongovernmental applicant must prepare and submit a Public Health System Impact Statement (PHSIS). The PHSIS is intended to provide information to State and local health officials to keep them apprised of proposed health services applications submitted by community-based nongovernmental organizations within their jurisdictions. Community-based nongovernmental applicants are required to submit the following information to the head of the appropriate State and local health agencies, including the State HIV/AIDS directors and the State mental health directors, no later than the application receipt date of May 26, 1994. a. A copy of the face page of the application (Standard Form 424). b. A summary of the project (PHSIS), not to exceed one page, which provides: (1) A description of the population to be served. (2) A summary of the services to be provided. (3) A description of the coordination planned with the appropriate State or local health agencies. State and local governments and Indian Tribal Authority applicants are not subject to the Public Health Service Reporting Requirements.
