FR940810-2-00075 FR940810-2-00048 I. Preservation Manager will be Appointed in Each Office Processing Preservation Cases II. Title II Processing will More Closely Approximate Title VI Processing _Greater stress is being placed on tenant notification and input. _PCNAs will be conducted after submission of Notice of Intent on projects that have submitted a 9608B. _Owner may choose to appraise the project and have the appraisal reviewed prior to submission of POA. III. Changes to Both Title II and Title VI Processing Tenant Notification _CFS/TRACS must be accessed for information upon receipt of NOI. _Increased emphasis is being placed on tenant notification and input. _Revised and additional letters to tenants are being provided. PCNAs, Repairs, and Reserve for Replacement Accounts _PCNAs will be done in a prescribed format and will include a summary of the PCNA analysis. _Required Repair requirements are amended: (i) Operational and functional items may be repaired, but not replaced. (ii) Inconsistent items must be corrected. (iii) Definitions of terms used in the PCNA notice are provided. _There is a revised method for computing the initial deposit to the reserve for replacement account. (i) The initial deposit will provide for items whose anticipated useful life will expire within 5 years and for major items in years 6 through 10. (ii) A 100 percent replacement cost estimate is made for items whose useful life is anticipated to expire within 5 years. _There is a revised method for determining the adequacy of the existing replacement reserve account. (i) The determination will be made by Asset Management staff and the Director of Multifamily Housing. (ii) Owners are required to do on-going assessments of the reserve for replacement account. _An Owner may begin making repairs once HUD's PCNA is received. Prior to making repairs, the Owner must: (i) Inform HUD of its intent to start. (ii) Request a pre-construction conference. (iii) Provide a written plan for completing repairs. _When repairs are completed before submission of the POA application: (i) No inspection and modifications will be made to the PCNA until the POA application is received by HUD. (ii) The provisions of Davis-Bacon may or may not be applicable to the completed repairs depending on compliance with the written plan. _Existing project replacement reserve funds may be used to replace items scheduled to be replaced or repaired in the PCNA work write-up. They must be completed before submission of the POA application. _Inspection fee requirements have been revised. Section 241(f) Loan Processing _An owner may propose improvements to the property that exceed the scope of repairs in the PCNA work write-up. (i) Types of items that may or may not be included are listed. (ii) Valuation technical staff will develop a list of acceptable amenities for each market area. (iii) HUD technical staff will evaluate proposed improvements and estimated costs. _Contingency Reserve. (i) A 10 percent contingency will be established for all repairs and improvements in nonprofit transfer projects. (ii) A contingency reserve will be established for substantial rehabilitation projects. _Owners are required to submit an Estimate of Progress Schedule. IV. Changes Made to Title VI Processing Only _Clarification of negotiation option before third appraisal. _The definition of multifamily rental housing under extension preservation value has been expanded to include some types of elderly housing. _The concept of Project Specific Rents (PSR) is introduced and is distinguished from Prevailing Market Rents (PMR). (i) PMR reflects prevailing market amenities. (ii) PSR reflects the subject project characteristics and is the rent non-subsidized tenants would be willing to pay. (iii) PSR is the cap on Total Tenant Payment that the owner requests to use at the project if it is lower than FMR. (iv) PSR must be updated each year if it is to be used. (v) PSR is the maximum Section 8 Contract rents to be used at POA approval in Title II projects. _Federal Cost Limit is being frozen at the amount determined on Form HUD&hyph;9607 at the appraisal stage. _Field Offices will submit all Form HUD&hyph;9607s to Preservation Division.
