FR940406-0-00160 FR940406-0-00011 (e) The manufacturer will be allowed 24 hours to ship test vehicles from the assembly plant or storage facility to the test facility if the test facility is not located at the plant or storage facility or in close proximity to the plant or storage facility: Except, that the Administrator may approve more time based upon a request by the manufacturer accompanied by a satisfactory justification. (f) If a vehicle cannot complete the mileage accumulation or emission tests because of vehicle malfunction, the manufacturer may request the Administrator to authorize the repair of that vehicle or its deletion from the test sequence. (g) Whenever the manufacturer conducts testing pursuant to a test order issued under this subpart, the manufacturer shall notify the Administrator within one working day of receipt of the test order, which test facility will be used to comply with the test order and the number of available test cells at that facility. If no test cells are available at the desired facility, the manufacturer must provide alternate testing capability satisfactory to the Administrator. (1) The manufacturer shall perform a combination of tests pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section so that a minimum of four tests are performed per 24 hour period, including voided tests, for each available test cell. (2) The Administrator may approve a longer period based upon a request by a manufacturer accompanied by satisfactory justification. (h) The manufacturer shall perform test vehicle selection, preparation, mileage accumulation, shipping, and testing in such a manner as to assure that the audit is performed in an expeditious manner. (i) The manufacturer may retest any test vehicle after a fail decision has been reached in accordance with §86.610&hyph;98(d) based on the first test on each vehicle; except that the Administrator may approve retests at other times during the audit based upon a request by the manufacturer accompanied by a satisfactory justification. The manufacturer may test each vehicle a total of three times. The manufacturer shall test each vehicle the same number of times. The manufacturer may accumulate additional mileage on test vehicles before conducting retests, subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. 5. A new §86.609&hyph;98 is added to subpart G to read as follows: §86.609&hyph;98 Calculation and reporting of test results. (a) Initial test results are calculated following the test procedures specified in §86.608&hyph;98(a). Round the initial test results to the number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard expressed to one additional significant figure. Rounding is done in accordance with ASTM E 29&hyph;67, (reapproved 1980) (as referenced in §86.094&hyph;28 (a)(4)(i)(B)( 2 )( ii ). (b) Final test results for each test vehicle are calculated by summing the initial test results derived in paragraph (a) of this section for each test vehicle, dividing by the number of times that specific test has been conducted on the vehicle, and rounding to the same number of decimal places contained in the applicable standard expressed to one additional significant figure. Rounding is done in accordance with ASTM E 29&hyph;67, (reapproved 1980) (as referenced in §86.094&hyph;28 (a)(4)(i)(B)( 2 )( ii ). (c) Final deteriorated test results. (1) For each test vehicle. The final deteriorated test results for each light-duty vehicle tested for exhaust emissions and/or refueling emissions according to subpart B or subpart C of this part are calculated by multiplying or adding the final test results by the appropriate deterioration factor derived from the certification process for the engine or evaporative/refueling family and model year to which the selected configuration belongs and rounding to the same number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard. Rounding is done in accordance with ASTM E 29&hyph;67, (reapproved 1980) (as referenced in §86.094&hyph;28(a)(4)(i)(B)( 2 )( ii ). For the purpose of this paragraph, if a multiplicative deterioration factor as computed during the certification process is less than one, that deterioration factor shall be one. If an additive deterioration factor as computed during the certification process is less than zero, that deterioration factor will be zero. (2) Exceptions. There are no deterioration factors for light-duty vehicle emissions obtained during testing in accordance with subpart O of this part or with §86.146&hyph;96. Accordingly, for the CST and the fuel dispensing spitback test the term ``final deteriorated test results'' means the final test results derived in paragraph (b) of this section for each test vehicle, rounded to the same number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard. Rounding is done in accordance with ASTM E 29&hyph;67, (reapproved 1980) (as referenced in §86.094&hyph;28 (a)(4)(i)(B)( 2 )( ii ). (d) Within five working days after completion of testing of all vehicles pursuant to a test order, the manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a report which includes the following information:
