FR940825-1-00140 FR940825-1-00009 (f) A determination by the EPA Regional Administrator concerning the boundaries of a Reservation or Tribal jurisdiction over other off-reservation areas shall apply to all future Clean Air Act applications from that Tribe or Tribal consortia and no further notice of governmental entities as provided in paragraph (b) of this section shall be provided, unless the application presents different jurisdictional issues or significant new factual or legal information relevant to jurisdiction is presented to the EPA Regional Administrator. (g) If the EPA Regional Administrator determines that a Tribe meets the requirements of §49.6, the Indian Tribe is eligible to be treated in the same manner as a State for those Clean Air Act provisions identified in §49.3. The eligibility will extend to all areas within the exterior boundaries of the Tribe's reservation, as determined by the EPA Regional Administrator, and any other areas the EPA Regional Administrator has determined to be within the Tribe's jurisdiction. (h) A Tribal application containing a Clean Air Act program submittal will be reviewed by EPA in the same procedural and substantive manner as EPA would review a similar State submittal. (i) The EPA Regional Administrator shall return an incomplete or disapproved application for eligibility or program approval to the Tribe with a summary of the deficiencies. §49.10 EPA review of State Clean Air Act programs. A State Clean Air Act program submittal shall not be disapproved because of failure to address air resources within the exterior boundaries of an Indian Reservation or other areas within the jurisdiction of an Indian Tribe. PART 50_NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS 8. The authority citation for part 50 is revised to read as follows: Authority: Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401, et seq. 9. Section 50.1 is amended by adding paragraph (i) to read as follows: §50.1 Definitions. * * * * * (i) Indian country is as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1151. 10. Section 50.2 is amended by revising paragraphs (c) and (d) to read as follows: §50.2 Scope. * * * * * (c) The promulgation of national primary and secondary ambient air quality standards shall not be considered in any manner to allow significant deterioration of existing air quality in any portion of any State or Indian country. (d) The proposal, promulgation, or revision of national primary and secondary ambient air quality standards shall not prohibit any State or Indian Tribe from establishing ambient air quality standards for that State or Indian Tribe or any portion thereof which are more stringent than the national standards. PART 81_DESIGNATION OF AREAS FOR AIR QUALITY PLANNING PURPOSES 11. The authority citation for part 81 is revised to read as follows: Authority: Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401, et seq. 12. Section 81.1 is amended by revising paragraph (a) and adding new paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) as follows: §81.1 Definitions. * * * * * (a) Act means the Clean Air Act as amended (42 U.S.C. 7401, et seq. ). * * * * * (c) Federal Indian Reservation, Indian Reservation or Reservation means all land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-of-way running through the reservation. (d) Indian Tribe or Tribe means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village, which is Federally recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. (e) State means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa and includes the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. Subpart C_Section 107 Attainment Status Designations 13. The authority citation for subpart C, part 81 is revised to read as follows: Authority: Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401, et seq. §81.300 [Amended] 14. Section 81.300(a) is amended by revising the words ``Both the State and EPA can initiate changes to these designations, but any State'' to read ``A State, an Indian Tribe determined eligible for such functions under 40 CFR part 49, and EPA can initiate changes to these designations, but any State or Tribal redesignation must be submitted to EPA for concurrence.'' [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20811 Filed 8&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
