FR940919-2-00149 FR940919-2-00059 13. In summary, the applicant represents that the proposed transactions satisfy the criteria of section 408(a) of the Act for the following reasons: (a) Each Arrangement is authorized in writing by AT&T as named fiduciary or manager of the relevant Fund; (b) No AT&T Trust may invest, in the aggregate, more than twenty percent of its total assets in Arrangements which are the subject of the proposed exemption; (c) AT&T will receive written reports with respect to the condition of assets and payment of fees under the Arrangements, and will maintain accessible records to enable determinations of whether the terms of the proposed exemption are satisfied; (d) The fees paid to an asset manager under any Arrangement will constitute no more than reasonable compensation; (e) The timing and formula for determining fees under the Arrangements will be established and approved by AT&T prior to a Fund's entering into an Arrangement, and will be based on pre-specified percentages of Net Proceeds after the Fund has recovered its invested capital plus a minimum pre-specified rate of return; (f) The terms of any Performance Fee will be at least as favorable to the Fund as those obtainable in arm's-length transactions with unrelated parties; and (g) AT&T may remove an asset manager under an Arrangement at any time. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ronald Willett of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8881. (This is not a toll-free number.) Union Electric Savings Investment Plan (the Plan), Located in St. Louis, Missouri [Application No. D&hyph;9782] Proposed Exemption The Department is considering granting an exemption under the authority of section 408(a) of the Act and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 CFR Part 2570, Subpart B (55 FR 32836, 32847, August 10, 1990). If the exemption is granted, the restrictions of sections 406(a), 406(b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1)(A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to (1) the proposed extension of credit to the Plan by Boatmen's Trust Company (BTC), a party in interest with respect to the Plan, in the form of a payment (the Advance) with respect to group annuity contract CG01285B3A (the GIC) issued by Executive Life Insurance Company (ELIC); and (2) the Plan's potential repayment of the Advance (the Repayments), provided: (a) all terms of such transactions are no less favorable to the Plan than those which the Plan could obtain in arm's-length transactions with an unrelated party; (b) no interest and/or expenses are paid by the Plan; (c) the Advance is made with respect to amounts invested by the Plan in the GIC; (d) the Repayments are restricted to the amounts, if any, paid to the Plan after August 2, 1994, by ELIC or other responsible third parties with respect to the GIC (the GIC Proceeds); (e) the Repayments do not exceed the total amount of the Advance; and (f) the Repayments are waived to the extent the Advance exceeds the GIC Proceeds. Summary of Facts and Representations 1. The Plan is a profit sharing plan which had 6,938 participants as of March 31, 1994. The approximate aggregate fair market value of the Plan's assets as of that date was $313 million. BTC is the trustee of the Plan. 2. On February 12, 1988, $763,683.21 of the Plan's assets were invested in the GIC, yielding 8.5% compound interest with a March 1, 1993 maturity date. As of March 31, 1991, the book value of the GIC totalled $987,902.02. 3. On April 11, 1991, a California court appointed the Insurance Commissioner of the State of California as conservator of ELIC. Pursuant to this action, payouts on ELIC's GICs were suspended. 8 Subsequently, the California Insurance Commissioner approved a Rehabilitation Plan for ELIC (the Rehab Plan), which involved, among other things, Aurora National Life Assurance Company (Aurora) assuming most of the insurance policy and GIC obligations of ELIC, in some cases at discounted values. 9 The Rehab Plan also involved liquidation of certain assets of ELIC, including real estate and so-called ``junk bonds'', to fund various aspects of the Rehab Plan. For holders of ELIC GICs, the terms of the Rehab Plan included an election either to: 8 In this proposed exemption, the Department expresses no opinion as to whether the acquisition and holding of the GIC violated any provisions of Part 4 of Title I of the Act. 9 The Department notes that the exemption proposed herein is not intended to affect any cause of action by any participant of the Plan or the Department with respect to the GIC. (a) Opt into the Rehab Plan, and receive a replacement GIC from Aurora at a discounted value; or (b) Opt out of the Rehab Plan, in return for a discounted account value (DAV) payable partly in cash now and partly in the form of future contingent cash payments from certain ELIC liquidating trusts. 4. In its capacity as trustee of the Plan, BTC ultimately selected the opt out option for the Plan. Under the terms of the Rehab Plan and the opt out election, a substantial portion of the DAV ($569,100.82) has already been received from ELIC in cash. The balance of the DAV ($260,801.20) represents the California Insurance Commissioner's estimate of the future contingent payments to be received by the Plan from the ELIC liquidating trust. It is expected that the remaining asset liquidations will take several years. The precise timing and amount of future payments is subject to uncertainty. 5. BTC is willing to make the proposed Advance in order to protect plan participants from any loss with respect to their initial principal investment in the GIC. The proposed amount of the Advance, $194,582.39, represents the difference between the Plan's initial investment in the GIC ($763,683.21) and the cash payments which have been received to date from ELIC pursuant to the Rehab Plan ($569,100.82). Without the Advance, the applicant represents that it is possible that the Plan might be unable to meet in timely fashion its obligations to pay benefits and make distributions and to accommodate participant-directed investment reallocations. BTC proposes the Advance as an alternative to being forced to ``freeze'' that portion of the Plan invested in the GIC. Moreover, BTC represents that the Advance will protect the Plan participants and their beneficiaries from the risk of loss and possible reduction of benefits attendant to the investment in the GIC. 6. The applicant represents that the Advance will be made in a single payment of $194,582.39. As a result of the transaction, participants will receive at least the original principal amount invested in the GIC. The proposed Advance will be made to the Plan on an interest-free, unsecured basis. The Plan will incur no expenses in connection with the proposed Advance. The proposed Advance may be repaid only out of the GIC Proceeds. If the amounts so received are less than the amount of the Advance, BTC will bear the loss, having no recourse against any other of the Plan's assets. In the event that the GIC Proceeds exceed the amount necessary to repay the Advance, the excess will be distributed to the Plan for the benefit of participants and their beneficiaries. BTC represents that it will maintain records of the proposed Advance for a period of seven years, and such records will be open for inspection at all times by the Department or any Plan participant.
