FR940223-0-00018 FR940223-0-00012 16 CFR Part 412 Trade Regulation Rule: Discriminatory Practices in Men's and Boys' Tailored Clothing Industry AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Final rule; Notice of repeal of rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Trade Commission announces the rescission of the rule concerning the need for a written plan to guide a seller's promotional allowances in the men's and boys' tailored clothing industry (hereinafter the ``Tailored Clothing Rule'' or the ``Rule''). The Commission has reviewed the provisions of the Rule, and has concluded that due to inconsistencies with and duplication by later-adopted statements of policy of general application, the Tailored Clothing Rule is no longer in the public interest and should be repealed. This notice contains a Statement of Basis and Purpose for the repeal of the Rule, and incorporates a regulatory analysis. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Requests for copies of the Statement of Basis and Purpose should be sent to the Public Reference Branch, Federal Trade Commission, 6th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Neil W. Averitt, Esq., Office of Policy & Evaluation, Bureau of Competition, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, DC 20580. Telephone: (202) 326&hyph;2885. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Statement of Basis and Purpose Background The Tailored Clothing Rule, promulgated in 1967, was intended to clarify the way in which the Robinson-Patman Act, 15 U.S.C. 13, applies to that industry. Section 2(d) and (e) of the Act require that promotional allowances and services be made available to competing sellers on proportionately equal terms. The Rule established a presumption that allowances in the tailored clothing industry that were not provided in accordance with a written plan were not available on proportionately equal terms. The year after the Rule was promulgated, the Supreme Court decided the case of FTC v. Fred Meyer, Inc., 390 U.S. 341 (1968). In that option the Court suggested that the Commission might wish to expand on earlier guidance and issue detailed guidelines to promotional allowances under sections 2(d) and (e). The Commission accepted this invitation the following year by publishing the so-called ``Fred Meyer Guides.'' See 16 CFR part 240. These set out general standards for promotional allowances, applicable to all industries. The Fred Meyer Guides suggest that sellers ``would be well advised'' to put complex plans in writing, but they do not penalize the failure to have a written plan. The Fred Meyer Guides have been revised as needed to keep them current, most recently in 1990. With the Fred Meyer Guides in place, the Commission was concerned that the earlier, industry-specific Rule was unnecessary, and that its different substantive provisions could be a source of potential confusion. In July of 1993 the Commission therefore requested public comment on a proposal to repeal the Tailored Clothing Rule. No comments were received in response to this request. The Rulemaking Record The rulemaking record in this proceeding consists of the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Request for Comment dated July 2, 1993 (58 FR 35907), and a memorandum from the Office of the Secretary reporting that no comments were received in response to that request. In addition, the Commission takes notice of published court and agency decisions, and of the existence and provisions of the Fred Meyer Guides.
