FR941004-1-00008 FR941004-1-00001 The incorporation of the Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2, method for determining RT NDT into the PTS rule would have no impact on the environment because this change will result in values of RT PTS which are consistent with those currently used in plant operation. The restructuring of the PTS rule is the type of action described in categorical exclusion 10 CFR 51.22(c)(2). Therefore, an environmental assessment is not necessary for this change. Thermal Annealing Rule (10 CFR 50.66) The proposed thermal annealing rule (10 CFR 50.66) would permit and provide requirements for the thermal annealing of a reactor vessel to restore fracture properties of the reactor vessel material which have been degraded by neutron irradiation. This rule does not affect all plants but provides an alternative for assuring compliance with the requirements in 10 CFR 50.61 and Appendix G of 10 CFR Part 50, and would only apply when a licensee elects to use it. The application of thermal annealing to a reactor vessel would improve the condition of the reactor vessel material. In addition, this rule would establish requirements to avoid damaging the reactor system and to protect against accidents during the annealing operation, with attendant environmental consequences. This rule is one of several regulatory requirements that will function to ensure reactor vessel integrity. In that sense, this rule would have a positive impact on the environment by reducing the potential for vessel failure. For these reasons, the Commission has determined that there would be no significant impact and, therefore, an environmental statement is not required. Appendix G of 10 CFR Part 50 Concerning the amendments proposed to Appendix G of 10 CFR Part 50, the prohibition of core criticality before completion of the required pressure and leak tests will serve to reduce the potential for vessel failure, and thereby decrease the environmental impact of plant operation. The restructuring of Sections IV and V of Appendix G is clarifying or corrective in nature, and hence is the type of action described in categorical exclusion 10 CFR 51.22(c)(2). Therefore, an environmental assessment is not necessary for this change. The changing of the reference from Appendix G of Section III of the ASME Code to Appendix G of Section XI of the ASME Code has no impact on the environment since the requirements in the Appendices are identical. Therefore, there is no adverse impact on the environment from this change. The referencing of the thermal annealing rule results in no adverse impact on the environment since Appendix G currently permits the use of thermal annealing to reduce fracture toughness loss of the RPV materials due to irradiation embrittlement. The deletion of the ``design to permit annealing'' requirement has no adverse impact on the environment. This assessment is based on the fact that annealing is a voluntary activity. Appendix H of 10 CFR Part 50 Concerning the amendments proposed to Appendix H of 10 CFR Part 50, the requirement that all irradiation surveillance tests be made (i.e., no reduction in testing is permitted) would have a positive impact on the environment in helping to assure the integrity of the reactor pressure vessel. The restructuring of Section II.C is the type of action described in categorical exclusion 10 CFR 51.22(c)(2). Therefore, an environmental assessment is not necessary for this change. The clarification of the applicable version of ASTM Standard E 185 will result in no adverse impact to the environment since there will be no change to current surveillance programs. Changes to future surveillance programs will make the programs more effective in assessing irradiation embrittlement effects to the RPV materials, thereby helping to assure the integrity of the reactor pressure vessel. Paperwork Reduction Act Statement This proposed rule amends information collection requirements that are subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). This rule has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review and approval of the paperwork requirements. The public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 6,000 hours per respondent, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden to the Information and Records Management Branch (T&hyph;6 F33), U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, D.C. 20555; and to the Desk Officer, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, NEOB&hyph;3019, (3150&hyph;0011), Office of Management and Budget, Washington, D.C. 20503. Regulatory Analysis The NRC staff has prepared a regulatory analysis for the proposed amendments to 10 CFR 50.61, 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix G and 10 CFR Part 50 Appendix H, which describes the factors and alternatives considered by the Commission in deciding to propose these amendments. A copy of the regulatory analysis is available for inspection and copying for a fee at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC 20555. Single copies of the analysis may be obtained from Alfred Taboada, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone, (301) 415&hyph;6014. Single copies of the regulatory analysis prepared for 10 CFR 50.66 may be obtained from Alfred Taboada, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone, (301) 415&hyph;6014. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification As required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Commission certifies that, if adopted, the proposed amendments would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rules which would be affected by the proposed amendments: (1) Preclude brittle fracture of embrittled vessels during PTS events, (2) provide the general fracture toughness requirements for RPVs, including ductile fracture toughness requirements and pressure-temperature limits, (3) provide the requirements for surveillance programs to monitor irradiation embrittlement of RPV beltline materials, and (4) provide for a method for restoring the fracture toughness of RPV beltline materials used in nuclear facilities licensed under the provision of 10 CFR 50.21(b) and 10 CFR 50.22. The companies that own these facilities do not fall within the scope of the definition of ``small entities'' as set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act or the Small Business Size Standards in regulations issued by the Small Business Administration at 13 CFR Part 121. Backfit Analysis PTS Rule (10 CFR 50.61) The proposed revision to Section 50.61 would require licensees to calculate RT PTS using the same methodology specified in Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2 for determining RT NDT . This proposal is logically a requisite part of the 1991 revisions to ยง50.61, which addressed a unified method for calculating radiation enbrittlement of the reactor beltline materials. However, the Commission inadvertently failed to make the conforming change to ยง50.61. Therefore, the Commission believes that the backfit statement for the 1991 amendments, which determined that the backfits were necessary to ensure that the facility provides adequate protection to the public health and safety, are applicable to this conforming change to ยง50.61. The restructuring of the PTS rule does not impose any backfits as defined in 10 CFR 50.109(a)(1), since there is no change in requirements due to this restructuring. The inclusion of thermal annealing does not impose any backfits as defined in 10 CFR 50.109(a)(1), for the reasons set forth below in ``Thermal Annealing Rule (10 CFR 50.66).''
