FR941019-2-00074 FR941019-2-00048 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration on Aging Request for Nomination for Members on Public Advisory Committee AGENCY: The Administration on Aging, HHS. ACTION: Notice of Nominations. SUMMARY: The Administration on Aging (AoA) is requesting nominations for members to serve on a proposed Administration on Aging National Nutrition Advisory Council. DATES: Nominations must be received by October 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: All nominations for membership must be addressed to Jean L. Lloyd, Nutrition Officer (address below). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jean L. Lloyd, Nutrition Officer, Administration on Aging, Office of State and Community Programs, 330 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20201, 202&hyph;619&hyph;0011. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Administration on Aging National Nutrition Advisory Council The Administration on Aging is requesting nominations for members to serve on the proposed Administration on Aging National Nutrition Advisory Council. The function of the Council is as follows: 1. To develop recommendations for guidelines on the efficiency and quality in furnishing nutrition services provided under Title III, Part C of the Older Americans Act; 2. To assist and advise the Assistant Secretary for Aging in the areas of nutrition and aging, nutrition and health, malnutrition, nutrition and home and community-based care, hunger, food security/insecurity, food, community nutrition services, community nutrition services delivery, prevention and intervention strategies, special needs of minority elderly, Older Americans Act nutrition services, nutrition policy and other matters in these areas which affect older individuals; 3. To assist and advise the Assistant Secretary for Aging regarding the Older Americans Act; 4. To provide a public forum for discussion of concerns regarding nutrition and the elderly; 5. To provide a structure for communication and cooperation between the Assistant Secretary for Aging and organizations with an interest in nutrition and aging. The Administration on Aging is currently seeking the authority to establish the proposed Administration on Aging National Nutrition Advisory Council. Nominations are being sought prior to the establishment of the Administration on Aging National Nutrition Advisory Council in order to expedite the process of selecting members. Criteria for Members Persons nominated for membership on the proposed Administration on Aging National Nutrition Advisory Council shall have knowledge, expertise and experience in one or more of the following areas: Nutrition, nutrition and aging, malnutrition, nutrition and home and community-based care, hunger, food security/insecurity, food community nutrition services, community nutrition services delivery, prevention and intervention strategies, special needs of minority elderly, Older Americans Act nutrition services nutrition policy and other matters in these areas which affect older individuals. Nomination Procedures Any interested person may nominate a qualified person for membership. A nomination form is available from the Jean L. Lloyd. The Administration on Aging has a special interest in assuring that older persons, older women, minority groups, and the physically disabled are adequately represented on the advisory committee and therefore extends particular encouragement to nominations for qualified older persons, older women, members of minority groups and those with physical disabilities. This notice is issued under the Federal Advisory Committees Act (5 U.S.C. Appendix 2) and 21 CFR part 14 relating to advisory committees. Dated: October 13, 1994. Fernando M. Torres-Gil, Assistant Secretary for Aging. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25822 Filed 10&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4150&hyph;04&hyph;M
