FR940513-0-00110 FR940513-0-00029 41. Apart from Congress' directive, we think that ensuring opportunities for women and minorities to participate in the IVDS is important for the telecommunications industry. These companies can play a vital role in serving inner city areas and other niche markets that may be overlooked by other companies, thus promoting our goal of universal access to telecommunications services. Not only will the industry become more diverse through the adoption of meaningful preferences, but we believe that a much wider customer base will obtain access to innovative technologies. Moreover, studies show that even when minority-owned firms do not locate within urban minority communities, they employ more minorities relative to other companies, thereby promoting our goals of equal employment opportunity and economic growth. 67 67 See e.g. , 47 CFR 21.307, 22.307 (equal employment opportunity rules for common carriers); Implementation of the Commission's Equal Employment Opportunity Rules (Notice of Inquiry), FCC 94&hyph;103 (released April 21, 1994) (``[O]ur EEO rules enhance access by minorities and women to increase employment opportunities which are the foundation for increasing opportunities for minorities and women in all facets of the communications industry, including participation in ownership. Thus the rules *␣*␣* promote the further development of the broader communications infrastructure.'') See also Banking on Black Enterprise at 3. 42. The general record in this proceeding 68 reflects a severe underrepresentation of minorities and women in telecommunications. Indeed, the Commission's Small Business Advisory Committee (SBAC) found only 11 minority firms engaged in the delivery of cellular, specialized mobile radio, radio paging, or messaging services. 69 Likewise, American Women in Radio and Television (AWRT) found that only 24 percent of small communications businesses are owned by women (when companies without paid employees are excluded, women own less than 15 percent of small communications firms). 70 Many commenters observe that the factors that preclude minorities and women from effective participation concern access to financing. With regard to women, they note that no existing FCC policy provides an incentive for women to enter the communications business, and that access to capital remains the biggest obstacle women business owners must face. Similarly, the SBAC states that minorities frequently do not or cannot use traditional sources of financing. Citing the U.S. Senate amicus brief in Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. FCC , 110 S. Ct. 2997 (1990), the SBAC asserts that ``spectrum for radio facilities was first allocated at a time when undisguised discrimination in education, employment opportunities, and access to capital excluded minorities from all but token participation.'' The SBAC concludes that minorities were impeded from successfully competing for licenses when they were first awarded and, due to systematic barriers to technical training and employment opportunities, this situation has continued over time. 68 For a list of all commenters in this proceeding, see Appendix A, Second Report and Order. Footnote 14, supra , lists those commenters that made IVDS-specific comments. 69 Report of the FCC Small Business Advisory Committee to the FCC Regarding Gen. Docket No. 90&hyph;314 (Sept. 15, 1993), reprinted at 8 FCC Rcd 7820, 7827 (1993). 70 See Comments of AWRT at 5. 43. Given this history of underrepresentation of minorities and women in telecommunications and the inability of these groups to access financing, we find that the best way we can accomplish these statutory mandates is to provide bidding credits exclusively to minority and women-owned businesses. The record demonstrates that women and minorities face barriers to entry not encountered by other firms, including other designated entities, and it is, therefore, appropriate and necessary that we provide them with a substantial bidding advantage. 71 In other contexts, Congress has recognized that the use of preferences in the licensing process can be necessary to remedy underrepresentation by minorities. For example, in 1982, Congress mandated the grant of a ``significant preference'' to minority applicants participating in lotteries for spectrum-based services. 47 U.S.C. 309(i)(3)(A). And, in 1988, Congress attached a provision to the FCC appropriations legislation that precluded the Commission from spending any appropriated funds to examine or change its minority broadcast preference policies. 72 Absent such measures targeted specifically to women and minorities, it would be virtually impossible to assure that these groups achieve any meaningful measure of opportunity for actual participation in the provision of the services in question. 73 71 See e.g., Comments of AWRT at 4&hyph;7; Call-Her at 5; Cook Inlet at 38&hyph;39. 72 Continuing Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1988, Public Law No. 100&hyph;102, 101 Stat. 1329&hyph;31. 73 In the Second Report and Order, we addressed the constitutionality of race and gender-based preferences and concluded that the proper standard of scrutiny to be employed in this context is the ``intermediate scrutiny'' standard used in the Metro case. Second Report and Order at ¶¶289&hyph;297; see 110 S.Ct at 2997. We further concluded that under such a standard, preferences for minority and women-owned businesses are constitutionally permissible. We recognize that Metro's standard of review applies to measures approved by Congress. 110 S. Ct. at 3008&hyph;09. As noted above, the bidding credits in question here were expressly approved and, indeed, are required to achieve the statutory goals. See 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(4)(D) (The Commission must ``consider the use of tax certificates, bidding preferences, and other procedures'' to ensure the participation of ``small businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by members of minority groups and women.''). Moreover, an argument might be made that IVDS licensees will be able to control the content of the transmissions carried on their facilities and that the service can therefore be analogized (at least) to mass communications media. See, e.g. , Johnson comment at 1&hyph;4, 8 (like other emerging subscription-based services, IVDS will, in practice, increasingly converage with broadcast and cable services). To the extent that this control exists or is later developed with regard to the IVDS, the preferences we adopt for minorities and women would be consistent with the important governmental interest identified in Metro: increasing minority ownership to encourage diversity in the provision of content. 44. We also agree with Call-Her that even comparatively large businesses owned by women and minorities face discriminatory lending practices and other discriminatory barriers to entry and, therefore, eligibility for bidding credits should not be limited to small firms. The IVDS auctions present a unique licensing opportunity for these historically disadvantaged groups to gain a foot-hold in the communications industry. 74 Our goal is to encourage businesses owned by minorities and women to provide viable, sustained competition to larger businesses. Therefore, we have accorded preferences to minority and women-owned firms regardless of their size. This approach is consistent with our auction rules and will further the statutory mandate to ensure participation by designated entities. 75 74 Because of the discrimination suffered by minorities and women as contractors and subcontractors in the telecommunications industry, see MBELDEF Study, this unique chance to enter the field as primary telecommunications providers, competing with, rather than dependent upon, other providers, is especially important. 75 See Banking on Black Enterprise at 13 (government assistance should accrue to more capable black entrepreneurs, who are most likely to contribute to the goal of economic development).
