FR941007-1-00096 FR941007-1-00009 (v) Substantial noncompliance. The OCC shall rate a bank's service performance as being in ``substantial noncompliance'' if, in general, the bank demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are inaccessible to significant portions of its service area(s), particularly low- and moderate-income geographies or low- and moderate-income individuals; (B) To the extent changes have been made, the bank's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has significantly adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) vary in a way that significantly inconveniences many portions of its service area(s), particularly low- or moderate-income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and (D) It provides few, if any, community development services. (4) Assigned rating. The OCC shall use the following procedures for assigning a rating: (i) Assign points corresponding to the bank's performance on each of the component tests as follows: ␣ 1Component test ratings 1Lending 1Service 1Investment Outstanding 12 points 6 points 6 points. High Satisfactory 9 points 4 points 4 points. Low Satisfactory 6 points 3 points 3 points. Needs to Improve 3 points 1 points 1 points. Substantial Noncompliance 0 points 0 points 0 points. (ii) Total the points for the three tests, and use that total to determine the composite rating according to the chart below. However, if the total exceeds twice the number of points attributable to the bank's lending test performance (as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this appendix), determine the composite rating using twice the number of points attributable to the bank's lending test performance. ␣Points 1Points 1Composite rating 18 or over Outstanding. 9 through 17 Satisfactory. 5 through 8 Needs to Improve. 0 through 4 Substantial Noncompliance. (c) Community development test for wholesale or limited purpose banks. The OCC shall assign each wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance one of the four ratings described below. (1) Outstanding. The OCC shall rate a wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance ``outstanding'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (i) A high level of qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (ii) Extensive use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services, to support community development initiatives; and (iii) Excellent responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs in its service area(s). (2) Satisfactory. The OCC shall rate a wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance ``satisfactory'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (i) An adequate level of qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services, particularly those that directly address credit needs;
