FR940228-1-00146 FR940228-1-00010 (iii) To meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, a third-party servicer that contracts with more than one participating institution may submit a single financial and compliance audit report that covers every aspect of the servicer's administration of the participation in the Title IV, HEA programs for each institution with which the servicer contracts. (iv) The audit required under paragraph (c)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section shall be conducted by an independent auditor in accordance with the general standards and the standards for financial and compliance audits in the U.S. General Accounting Office's (GAO's) Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions. (This publication is available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.) (2) (i) The institution shall have an audit performed at least once every year. (ii) The servicer shall have an audit performed at least once every year. (3) If the institution is participating in the Title IV, HEA programs for the first time, the institution shall have the audit performed at least once every year for the first five years of the institution's participation. (4) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2) of this section_ (i) The institution shall have an audit performed at least once every two years if_ (A) The institution receives less than $100,000 in total annual funding under the Title IV, HEA programs for the period covered by the audit; or (B) The institution had no deficiencies identified in its most recently submitted audit report and that report was submitted in a timely fashion; and (ii) The servicer shall have an audit performed at least once every two years if_ (A) The servicer administers less than $1,000,000 under the Title IV, HEA programs for the period covered by the audit; or (B) The servicer had no material exceptions identified in the servicer's most recently submitted audit report and that report was submitted in a timely fashion. (5) (i) The institution is not required to have an audit performed for any year in which the institution receives less than $25,000 in total annual funding under the Title IV, HEA programs. (ii) The servicer is not required to have an audit performed for any year in which the servicer administers less than $250,000 under the Title IV, HEA programs. (6) (i) The institution's first audit must cover the institution's activities for the entire period of time since the institution began to participate in the Title IV, HEA program for which the audit is performed. Each subsequent audit must cover the institution's activities for the entire period of time since the preceding audit. (ii) The servicer's first audit must cover the servicer's activities for its first full fiscal year beginning after the effective date of these regulations, and include any period from the effective date to the beginning of the first full fiscal year. Each subsequent audit that the servicer has performed must cover the servicer's activities for the entire period of time since the servicer's preceding audit. (7) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) (4) and (5) of this section, the Secretary may, as the Secretary deems necessary, request any institution or third-party servicer to have an audit performed on an annual basis. (8) The institution or servicer, as applicable, shall submit its audit report to the Department of Education's Inspector General in accordance with the deadlines established in audit guides developed by the Department of Education's Office of Inspector General. (9) The Secretary may require the institution or servicer to provide, upon request, to cognizant guaranty agencies and eligible lenders under the FFEL programs, State agencies, nationally recognized accrediting agencies, and State postsecondary review entities designated under subpart 1 of part H of Title IV of the HEA, the results of any audit conducted under this section. (d) Procedures for audits are contained in audit guides developed by, and available from, the Department of Education's Office of Inspector General. These audit guides do not impose any requirements beyond those imposed under applicable statutes and regulations and GAO's Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions. (e) (1) An institution, a foreign institution as defined 34 CFR 600.52, or a third-party servicer that has an audit conducted in accordance with this section shall_ (i) Give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review the audit; and (ii) Include in any arrangement with an individual or firm conducting an audit described in this section a requirement that the individual or firm shall give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review the audit. (2) A third-party servicer shall give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review an institution's audit. (3) An institution shall give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review a third-party servicer's audit. (f) The Secretary considers the audit requirement in paragraph (c) of this section to be satisfied by an audit conducted in accordance with_ (1) The Single Audit Act (Chapter 75 of title 31, United States Code); or
