FR940630-1-00011 FR940630-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Patent and Trademark Office 37 CFR Parts 1 and 10 [Docket No. 940547&hyph;4147] RIN 0651&hyph;AA72 Revision of Patent Cooperation Treaty Provisions AGENCY: Patent and Trademark Office, Commerce. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Patent and Trademark Office (Office) proposes to amend the rules of practice relating to applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) in accordance with revised regulations under the PCT. The proposed changes will result in a procedure whereby international applications improperly filed in the United States Receiving Office (RO/US) will, for a fee, be forwarded for processing by the International Bureau as Receiving Office. DATES: Written comments must be submitted on or before August 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Address written comments to the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, Washington, D.C. 20231, Attention: Charles Pearson, Crystal Park II, Room 919, or by Fax to (703) 308&hyph;6459. No oral hearing will be held. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Charles Pearson by telephone at (703) 308&hyph;6515 or by mail marked to his attention and addressed as above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: These proposed rule changes will improve filing and processing procedures for applicants in the filing of international applications. On September 20 to 29, 1993, representatives of the patent offices of the member countries, in a series of meetings held in Geneva, Switzerland, agreed upon several changes to the PCT regulations which are designed to make the PCT more user-friendly. One of the significant changes to the PCT regulations was the addition of a new section (PCT Rule 19.4) which provides for transmittal of an international application to the International Bureau, acting in its capacity as Receiving Office, in certain instances. Several other changes were agreed upon including modifications to certain existing regulations. Some of these adopted changes require corresponding changes in Title 37, CFR. Under the regulations currently in effect, an applicant is required, on filing the international application in the United States, to specify an applicant who is a resident or national of the United States. The practice under the revised PCT regulations permits an international application filed with the United States Receiving Office to be forwarded to the International Bureau for processing in its capacity as a receiving office if the international application has an applicant who is a resident or national of a PCT Contracting State or has no residence or nationality indicated, but does not have an applicant who is indicated as being a U.S. resident or national. The Receiving Office of the International Bureau will consider the international application to be received as of the date accorded by the United States Receiving Office. This practice will avoid the loss of a filing date in those instances where the United States Receiving Office is not competent to act, but where the international application is filed by an applicant who is a national or resident of a PCT Contracting State. Where questions arise regarding residence or nationality, e.g., where residence and nationality are not clearly set forth, the application will be forwarded to the International Bureau as Receiving Office. If all of the applicants are indicated to be residents and nationals of non-PCT Contracting States, PCT Rule 19.4 does not apply and the application is denied an international filing date.
