FR940802-2-00024 FR940802-2-00020 [Docket No. RP94&hyph;327&hyph;000] Florida Gas Transmission Co., Notice of Tariff Filing July 27, 1994. Take notice that on July 25, 1994, Florida Gas Transmission Company (FGT) tendered for filing to become part of its FERC Gas Tariff, Third Revised Volume No. 1, the following tariff sheets: First Revised Sheet No. 166 First Revised Sheet No. 177A Second Revised Sheet No. 178 In its restructuring orders, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission) has indicated that capacity release programs should be designed so as to promote the maximum use of such programs, thus making the maximum amount of unused/excess capacity available to potential shippers. FGT states that it is filing the above tariff sheets to reflect certain revisions to the permanent release provisions of its capacity relinquishment mechanism which are necessary in order to continue to promote the Commission's desire to allow the maximum amount of participation in the capacity relinquishment program while at the same time not degrading FGT's standing in the financial community. FGT notes that in recently issued orders, the Commission has stated that FGT must follow an ``industry standard'' of allowing a party to acquire transportation service upon the tendering of a three-month prepayment regardless of the term of the underlying service agreement. Specifically, pursuant to the Commission's ``Order Granting Clarification'' (``May 31 Order''), FGT states that any party apparently may now acquire relinquished capacity on a permanent basis on the FGT system by providing an escrow account in an amount equal to the charge for only three (3) months' service. Thereafter, the Relinquishing Shipper would not be liable for any further obligations. FGT believes that an unintended result of the May 31 Order is that a creditworthy shipper may now permanently relinquish capacity to an uncreditworthy shipper. Since the creditworthy Relinquishing Shipper would have no further liability, FGT states that its financial standing would be adversely affected because FGT could only look to the uncreditworthy Acquiring Shipper with potentially no assets for payment. In view of the potential consequences of the May 31 Order, FGT, by this filing, is responding to the Commission's prior express invitation for FGT to propose an alternative, reasonable means to assure payment. The instant tariff filing proposes a reasonable alternative method to assure payment to FGT with very limited tariff changes. The instant proposal would apply only to permanent relinquishments. Any person desiring to be heard or to protest said filing should file a motion to intervene or protest with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426, in accordance with Sections 385.214 and 385.211 of the Commission's Rules and Regulations. All such motions or protests should be filed on or before August 3, 1994. Protests will be considered by the Commission in determining the appropriate actions to be taken, but will not serve to make protestants parties to the proceedings. Any person wishing to become a party must file a motion to intervene. Copies of this filing are on file with the Commission and are available for public inspection. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18715 Filed 8&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
