FR940907-2-00135 FR940907-2-00092 In reaching a decision regarding whether to provide no-action assurances to rating agencies regarding NRSRO designation, the Division staff undertakes an informal examination of the agency's operations, its position in the marketplace, as well as considering other factors. If the Division staff determines that no-action assurances are appropriate, the staff prepares a letter stating that it will not recommend enforcement action to the Commission if the rating agency is considered to be an NRSRO for purposes of applying the relevant subdivisions of the net capital rule. In determining whether a rating agency possesses the characteristics of an NRSRO, the staff considers a number of criteria. The Division believes that the single most important criterion is that the rating agency is in fact nationally recognized by the predominant users of ratings in the United States as an issuer of credible and reliable ratings. Consistent with this standard of national recognition is a minimum level of operational capability and reliability of ratings. Therefore, the staff also assesses, among other factors: (a) the agency's organizational structure; (b) the agency's financial resources (to determine, among other things, whether it is able to operate independently of economic pressures); (c) the size and quality of the agency's staff (to determine if the entity is capable of thoroughly and competently evaluating an issuer's credit); (d) the agency's independence from the companies it rates and its reputation for integrity in the marketplace; (e) the agency's rating procedures (to determine whether it has systematic procedures designed to ensure credible and accurate ratings); and (f) the agency's establishment and compliance with internal procedures to prevent misuses of non-public information. 24 24 See No-Action Letter from Nelson S. Kibler, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation to John T. Anderson, Esq., Lord, Bissell & Brook (Mar. 24, 1982). In the letter providing no-action assurances to a rating agency, the Division advises the rating agency that the decision to confer NRSRO status has been based on representations made by or on behalf of the rating agency during the no-action process. The Division then directs the rating agency to bring to its attention any material change in the facts that served as the basis for granting the no-action letter. In this manner, the Division retains the ability to withdraw a no-action letter designating the particular rating agency as an NRSRO if the facts so warrant. Although it has the authority to revoke a no-action letter previously granted to a rating agency, the Commission would like to explore more effective vehicles for soliciting information from NRSROs. Material changes in an NRSRO's organizational structure or modifications of its rating practices, for example, could affect the NRSRO's standing in the credit market. Although the Commission notes that all of the existing rating agencies that have received no-action assurances are registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Commission receives only limited, informational filings from NRSROs. The Division staff currently is reviewing no-action requests from other rating agencies regarding NRSRO designation. Although no final determination has been made, the staff has not been able to provide no-action assurances to any of these agencies. Nonetheless, the staff intends to continue to evaluate these agencies pending the comment period for this release. B. Questions for Comment 1. Comment is invited on whether the Commission should continue to employ an NRSRO concept to distinguish various types of debt and other securities for purposes of its rules. 2. The Commission solicits comment on whether it should propose to adopt, in the net capital rule or another rule, a definition of the term ``NRSRO,'' for purposes of all of its rules. Commentators are invited to provide suggestions as to how the term NRSRO could be defined and as to what, if any, objective criteria should be considered in determining whether a rating agency is an NRSRO for purposes of the Commission's rules. 3. The Commission requests comment as to whether the current no-action letter process with respect to NRSROs is satisfactory, or if not, whether the Commission should establish alternate procedures for designating NRSROs. Commentators are requested to address whether the current practice needs to be formalized, and if so, how this should be accomplished. 4. The Commission also solicits comment on the practice of NRSROs charging issuers for ratings and, more specifically, whether it is appropriate for an NRSRO to charge an issuer based on the size of the transactions being rated. 5. Comment regarding the use of limited scope ratings that may not denote an assessment solely of the credit risk of an instrument also is requested. 6. Comment is invited on whether the Commission should take further steps regarding NRSROs in order to increase its regulatory oversight role, including seeking additional legislative authority, if necessary. Commentators are requested to consider whether NRSROs should be required to register with the Commission, or whether other types of regulatory oversight are appropriate and necessary to satisfy the purposes of the federal securities laws. By the Commission. Dated: August 31, 1994. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21923 Filed 9&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;P
