FR940325-2-00130 FR940325-2-00057 (F) Distribute a copy of this Final Judgment to each health care facility joining defendant as a member within 60 days of that health care facility joining defendant. (G) Maintain a record of recipients to whom this Final Judgment has been distributed and from whom the certifications were obtained, as required by Section V. VI Certification (A) Within 75 days after the entry of this Final Judgment, defendant shall certify to the plaintiff whether it has distributed this Final Judgment and the notification in accordance with section V above. (B) For each year of the term of this Final Judgment, defendant shall file with the plaintiff, on or before the anniversary date of entry of this Final Judgment, a statement as to the fact and manner of its compliance with the provisions of section V above. (C) If defendant's Antitrust Compliance Officer learns of any violation of section IV of this Final Judgment, the defendant shall immediately notify the plaintiff and forthwith take appropriate action to determinate or modify the activity so as to comply with this Final Judgment. VII Inspection (A) For the purpose of determining or securing compliance with this Final Judgment, and subject to any legally recognized privilege, duly authorized representatives of the Department of Justice shall, upon written request of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division, and on reasonable notice to defendant be permitted: (1) Access during that defendant's office hours to inspect and copy all records and documents in its possession or control relating to any matters contained in this Final Judgment; (2) to interview that defendant's officers, directors, employees and agents concerning such matters. The interviews shall be subject to the defendant's reasonable convenience and without restraint or interference from the defendant. Counsel for the defendant or counsel for the individual interviewed may be present at the interview. (B) Upon the written request of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division, defendant shall submit such written reports, under oath if requested, relating to any of the matters contained in this Final Judgment as may be requested. (C) No information or documents obtained by the means provided in this section VII shall be divulged by the plaintiff to any person other than a duly authorized representative of the Executive Branch of the United States, except in the course of legal proceedings to which the United States is a party, or for the purpose of securing compliance with this Final Judgment, or as otherwise required by law. VIII Term This Final Judgment shall expire five (5) years from the date of entry. IX Power to Modify Jurisdiction is retained by this Court to enable any of the parties to apply to this Court at any time for such further orders and directions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out or construe this Final Judgment, to modify or terminate any of its provisions, to enforce compliance, and to punish violations of its provisions. X Public Interest Entry of this Final Judgment is in the public interest. Dated: United States District Judge
