FR940705-2-00131 FR940705-2-00090 Section I-D. General Definitions The following terms, which are used throughout the NIH Guidelines, are defined as follows: Section I-D&hyph;1. An `institution' is any public or private entity (including Federal, state, and local government agencies). Section I-D&hyph;2. An `Institutional Biosafety Committee' is a committee that: (i) meets the requirements for membership specified in Section IV-B&hyph;2, and (ii) reviews, approves, and oversees projects in accordance with the responsibilities defined in Section IV-B&hyph;2. Section I-D&hyph;3. The `Office of Recombinant DNA Activities (ORDA)' is the office within the NIH that is responsible for: (i) Reviewing and coordinating all activities relating to the NIH Guidelines, and (ii) performing other duties as defined in Section IV-C&hyph;3. Section I-D&hyph;4. The `Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee' is the public advisory committee that advises the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Secretary, the DHHS Assistant Secretary for Health, and the NIH Director concerning recombinant DNA research. The RAC shall be constituted as specified in Section IV-C&hyph;2. Section I-D&hyph;5. The `NIH Director' is the Director of the National Institutes of Health, or any other officer or employee of NIH to whom authority has been delegated. Section I-D&hyph;6. `Deliberate release' is defined as a planned introduction of recombinant DNA-containing microorganisms, plants, or animals into the environment. B. Amendment to Section II, Containment, of the NIH Guidelines The amended version of Section II reads as follows: Section II. Containment Effective biological safety programs have been operative in a variety of laboratories for many years. Considerable information already exists about the design of physical containment facilities and selection of laboratory procedures applicable to organisms carrying recombinant DNA (see Section V-A). The existing programs rely upon mechanisms that can be divided into two categories: (i) A set of standard practices that are generally used in microbiological laboratories; and (ii) special procedures, equipment, and laboratory installations that provide physical barriers that are applied in varying degrees according to the estimated biohazard. Four biosafety levels are described in Appendix G. These biosafety levels consist of combinations of laboratory practices and techniques, safety equipment, and laboratory facilities appropriate for the operations performed and are based on the potential hazards imposed by the agents used and for the laboratory function and activity. Biosafety Level 4 provides the most stringent containment conditions, Biosafety Level 1 the least stringent. Experiments involving recombinant DNA lend themselves to a third containment mechanism, namely, the application of highly specific biological barriers. Natural barriers exist that limit either: (i) The infectivity of a vector or vehicle (plasmid or virus) for specific hosts, or (ii) its dissemination and survival in the environment. Vectors, which provide the means for recombinant DNA and/or host cell replication, can be genetically designed to decrease, by many orders of magnitude, the probability of dissemination of recombinant DNA outside the laboratory (see Appendix I). Since these three means of containment are complementary, different levels of containment can be established that apply various combinations of the physical and biological barriers along with a constant use of standard practices. Categories of containment are considered separately in order that such combinations can be conveniently expressed in the NIH Guidelines. Physical containment conditions within laboratories, described in Appendix G, may not always be appropriate for all organisms because of their physical size, the number of organisms needed for an experiment, or the particular growth requirements of the organism. Likewise, biological containment for microorganisms described in Appendix I may not be appropriate for all organisms, particularly higher eukaryotic organisms. However, significant information exists about the design of research facilities and experimental procedures that are applicable to organisms containing recombinant DNA that is either integrated into the genome or into microorganisms associated with the higher organism as a symbiont, pathogen, or other relationship. This information describes facilities for physical containment of organisms used in non-traditional laboratory settings and special practices for limiting or excluding the unwanted establishment, transfer of genetic information, and dissemination of organisms beyond the intended location, based on both physical and biological containment principles. Research conducted in accordance with these conditions effectively confines the organism. For research involving plants, four biosafety levels (BL1&hyph;P through BL4&hyph;P) are described in Appendix P. BL1&hyph;P is designed to provide a moderate level of containment for experiments for which there is convincing biological evidence that precludes the possibility of survival, transfer, or dissemination of recombinant DNA into the environment, or in which there is no recognizable and predictable risk to the environment in the event of accidental release. BL2&hyph;P is designed to provide a greater level of containment for experiments involving plants and certain associated organisms in which there is a recognized possibility of survival, transmission, or dissemination of recombinant DNA containing organisms, but the consequence of such an inadvertent release has a predictably minimal biological impact. BL3&hyph;P and BL4&hyph;P describe additional containment conditions for research with plants and certain pathogens and other organisms that require special containment because of their recognized potential for significant detrimental impact on managed or natural ecosystems. BL1&hyph;P relies upon accepted scientific practices for conducting research in most ordinary greenhouse or growth chamber facilities and incorporates accepted procedures for good pest control and cultural practices. BL1&hyph;P facilities and procedures provide a modified and protected environment for the propagation of plants and microorganisms associated with the plants and a degree of containment that adequately controls the potential for release of biologically viable plants, plant parts, and microorganisms associated with them. BL2&hyph;P and BL3&hyph;P rely upon accepted scientific practices for conducting research in greenhouses with organisms infecting or infesting plants in a manner that minimizes or prevents inadvertent contamination of plants within or surrounding the greenhouse. BL4&hyph;P describes facilities and practices known to provide containment of certain exotic plant pathogens.
