FR940203-0-00033 FR940203-0-00009 (i) A decline in sales or market share, a higher and growing inventory (whether maintained by domestic producers, importers, wholesalers, or retailers), and a downward trend in production, profits, wages, or employment (or increasing underemployment); (ii) The extent to which firms in the industry are unable to generate adequate capital to finance the modernization of their domestic plants and equipment, or are unable to maintain existing levels of expenditures for research and development; and (iii) The extent to which the U.S. market is the focal point for the diversion of exports of the article concerned by reason of restraints on exports of such article to, or on imports of such article into, third country markets; (f) Cause of injury. An enumeration and description of the causes believed to be resulting in the material injury, or threat thereof, described in paragraph (e) of this section; information relating to the effect of imports of the subject merchandise on prices in the United States for like or directly competitive articles; evidence of disruptive pricing practices, or other efforts to unfairly manage trade patterns; and a statement regarding the extent to which increased imports, either actual or relative to domestic production, of the imported article are believed to be such a cause, supported by pertinent data; (g) Relief sought and purpose thereof. A statement describing the import relief sought. §206.44 Time for reporting. The Commission will make its report to the President at the earliest practical time, but not later than 3 months after the date on which the petition is filed, the request or resolution is received, or the motion is adopted, as the case may be. §206.45 Public report. Upon making a report to the President of the results of an investigation to which this subpart E relates, the Commission will make such report public (with the exception of information which the Commission determines to be confidential) and cause a summary thereof to be published in the Federal Register . Subpart F_Monitoring; Advice as to Effect of Extension, Reduction, Modification, or Termination of Relief Action §206.51 Applicability of subpart. This subpart F applies specifically to investigations under section 204 of the Trade Act. For other applicable rules, see subpart A of this part and part 201 of this chapter. §206.52 Monitoring. (a) In general. As long as any import relief imposed by the President pursuant to section 203 of the Trade Act remains in effect, the Commission will monitor developments with respect to the domestic industry, including the progress and specific efforts made by workers and firms in the industry to make a positive adjustment to import competition. (b) Biannual reports. The Commission will submit a report on the results of the monitoring to the President and the Congress not later than (1) the 2nd anniversary of the day on which the action under section 203 of the Trade Act first took effect, and (2) the last day of each 2-year period occurring after such first report. In the course of preparing each such report, the Commission will hold a hearing at which interested persons will be given a reasonable opportunity to be present, to produce evidence, and to be heard. §206.53 Investigations to advise the President as to the probable economic effect of extension, reduction, modification, or termination of action. Upon the request of the President, the Commission will conduct an investigation for the purpose of gathering information in order that it might advise the President of its judgment as to the probable economic effect on the industry concerned of any extension, reduction, modification, or termination of the action taken under section 203 which is under consideration. §206.54 Investigations to evaluate the effectiveness of relief. (a) Investigation. After any action taken under section 203 has terminated, the Commission will conduct an investigation for the purpose of evaluating the effectiveness of the relief action in facilitating positive adjustment by the domestic industry to import competition, consistent with the reasons set out by the President in the report submitted to the Congress under section 203(b). (b) Hearing. In the course of such investigation, the Commission will hold a hearing at which interested persons will be given an opportunity to be present, to produce evidence, and to be heard. (c) Time for reporting. The Commission will submit its report to the President and to the Congress by no later than the 180th day after the day on which the action terminated.
