FR940204-1-00028 FR940204-1-00002 (B) The chief executive officer. (d) Responsibilities of associations. Each association shall provide in the engagement letter with its external auditor that the external auditor of the association shall, after notifying the association, respond to inquiries of the related bank pertaining to preparation of the combined financial data of the association and its related bank. ยง630.5 Prohibition against incomplete, inaccurate, or misleading disclosure. Neither the Funding Corporation, nor any institution supplying information to the Funding Corporation under this part, nor any employee, officer, director, or nominee for director of the Funding Corporation or of such institutions, shall make or cause to be made any disclosure to investors and the general public required by this part that is incomplete, inaccurate, or misleading. When any such institution or person makes or causes to be made disclosure under this part that, in the judgment of the FCA, is incomplete, inaccurate, or misleading, whether or not such disclosure is made in published statements required by this part, such institution or person shall promptly furnish to the Funding Corporation, and the Funding Corporation shall promptly publish, such additional or corrective disclosure as is necessary to provide full and fair disclosure to investors and the general public. Nothing in this section shall prevent the FCA from taking additional actions to enforce this section pursuant to its authority under title V, part C of the Act. ยง630.6 Farm Credit System audit committee and bank audit committees. (a) Farm Credit System audit committee. (1) The board of the Funding Corporation shall establish and maintain a System Audit Committee and adopt a written charter describing the committee's composition, authorities, and responsibilities. (2) The System Audit Committee shall consist of no fewer than three members. Members shall be independent of management of any disclosure entity and association and free from any relationship that, in the opinion of the board of directors of the Funding Corporation, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment as a committee member. Members shall be knowledgeable in public and corporate finance and financial reporting and disclosure. (3) The System Audit Committee shall report to the board of the Funding Corporation and shall be given adequate resources and authorities to discharge its responsibilities, including the ability to consult the Funding Corporation's legal counsel. (4) Responsibilities. At a minimum, the System Audit Committee shall: (i) Make recommendations to the board of the Funding Corporation regarding the selection of an independent auditor of the Systemwide combined financial statements; (ii) Oversee the Funding Corporation management's preparation of the report to investors; (iii) Review the impact of any significant accounting and auditing developments and approve accounting policy changes relating to preparation of the Systemwide combined financial statements; (iv) Review the System's annual and quarterly reports and other interim disclosures to investors prior to their release; and (v) Oversee the Funding Corporation's system of internal controls relating to preparation of the report, including controls relating to compliance with laws and regulations. (b) Farm Credit System bank audit committees. (1) Each System bank shall establish and maintain a bank audit committee that shall report to the board of the bank. (2) The bank audit committee shall consist of no fewer than three members. Members shall be independent of management and free from any relationship that, in the opinion of the board of directors of the bank, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment as a committee member. Members shall be knowledgeable in public and corporate finance, and financial reporting and disclosure.
