FR940817-2-00282 FR940817-2-00114 7. Periodically, a list of Participants will be published in the Federal Register . D. Effective Date and Duration of Participation _Participation in this Agreement is effective upon execution of the application form by both the Participant and the Administrator, or their designees, and remains in effect until terminated by the Administrator, the Attorney General, or the Director, on due notice by letter, telegram, or publication in the Federal Register , or until the Participant withdraws. E. Withdrawal from this Agreement _A Participant may withdraw from this Agreement, subject to fulfillment of obligations incurred under this Agreement prior to the date such withdrawal becomes effective, by giving 30 days written notice to the Administrator; Provided however , that a Participant having an operating agreement with the Secretary will not withdraw from this Agreement during the period the operating agreement is in effect. Withdrawal from this Agreement will not deprive a Participant of an antitrust defense otherwise available to it in accordance with Section 708. Withdrawal by a Participant subject to authorities referred to in C.6. above merely revives direct application of those authorities to the Participant at withdrawal. F. Standby Period _The ``standby period'' is the interval between the effective date of the Administrator's acceptance of an application and the date of activation of this Agreement as prescribed in VIII. below. The Administrator's acceptance of an application does not have or imply any constraint or other effect on the Participant's business operations during the standby period. G. Rules and Regulations _A Participant acknowledges and agrees to abide by all provisions of Section 708, and regulations related thereto which are promulgated by the Secretary, the Attorney General, the Chairman and the Director. Standards and procedures pertaining to voluntary agreements have been promulgated in 44 CFR Part 332. Note is taken that 46 CFR Part 340 establishes procedures for assigning the priority for use and the allocation of shipping services, containers and chassis. The Administrator will inform Participants of new and amended rules and regulations as they are issued. H. Modification/Amendment of this Agreement _The Attorney General may modify this Agreement, in writing, after consultation with the Chairman and the Administrator. The Administrator may modify this Agreement, in writing, with the concurrence or at the direction of the Director after consultation with the Attorney General and the Chairman. Modifications initiated by the Administrator will be submitted to the Director with the concurrence of the representative of SecDef. If modification of IX. below is proposed, the Administrator will also seek the concurrence of USTRANSCOM. USTRANSCOM or a Participant may propose amendments to this Agreement at any time. I. Administrative Expenses _Administrative and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by a Participant during the standby period shall be borne solely by the Participant. Such expenses may include, among other things, traveling to meetings, making reports of owned, chartered and leased intermodal ships and equipment as contemplated in VI.E. below and keeping records as contemplated in III.J. below. J. Record Keeping _1. MARAD and USTRANSCOM have primary responsibility for maintaining records in accordance with 44 CFR Part 332. 2. The Director of MARAD's Office of National Security Plans shall be the official custodian of records related to the carrying out of this Agreement. 3. In accordance with 44 CFR 332.3(d), a Participant shall maintain for five (5) years all minutes of meetings, transcripts, records, documents and other data, including any communications with other Participants or with any other member of the industry or their representatives, related to the carrying out of this Agreement. Each Participant agrees to make available to the Administrator, the Attorney General, the Director and the Chairman for inspection and copying at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice any item that the Participant is required hereby to maintain. Any record maintained by MARAD or USTRANSCOM under this subsection shall be available for public inspection and copying unless exempted on the grounds specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (1), (3) and (4) or identified as privileged and confidential information in accordance with Section 708(e). K. Requisition of Ships of Non-Participants _The Administrator may requisition ships of non-Participants to supplement capacity made available under this Agreement and to balance the economic burden of defense support among ocean carriers. L. Plan of Action _The Participants, under the leadership of the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, shall adopt one or more documents to implement this Agreement. Documents to implement this Agreement shall be styled ``Plan of Action. IV. Antitrust Defense A. Under the provisions of Section 708, each Participant in this Agreement shall have available as a defense to any civil or criminal action brought under the antitrust laws (or any similar law of any State) with respect to any action taken to develop or carry out this Agreement or a Plan of Action, that such act was taken in the course of developing or carrying out this Agreement or a Plan of Action and that the Participant complied with the provisions of Section 708 and any regulation thereunder, and acted in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or a Plan of Action. B. This defense shall not be available to the Participant for any action occurring after termination of this Agreement. Nor shall it be available upon the modification of this Agreement with respect to any subsequent action that is beyond the scope of the modified text of this Agreement, except that no such modification shall be accomplished in a way that will deprive the Participant of antitrust defense for the fulfillment of obligations incurred. C. The defense shall be available only if and to the extent that the person asserting it demonstrates that the action was within the scope of this Agreement or a Plan of Action. D. The person asserting the defense bears the burden of proof.
