FR940711-1-00030 FR940711-1-00003 (b) Would it be reasonable for the Commission to limit the future time period over which a customer's liability for stranded costs would be determined? That is, the present value of the customer's liability could be the discounted value of an annual amount for a limited time period. This total amount could be paid in a lump sum or over any mutually agreeable period. The limited time period over which the customer's liability is determined could be called the reasonable compensation period. If so: (1) Would the Commission apply the reasonable compensation period to assess the reasonableness of an exit fee in a revised power contract as well as a transmission surcharge? (2) How long should such a time period be, e.g., five years or ten years or some other period; and (3) When should such a period begin, e.g., if five years is a reasonable time over which a customer is liable for stranded costs, does the five-year period begin when the Commission adopts a final rule or when the utility files for stranded cost recovery in the future? (c) Should the length of a reasonable compensation period be based on what would constitute a reasonable notice period in power contracts or would some other concept be appropriate? (d) Establishing a reasonable compensation period effectively would also establish a future date beyond which existing power customers would no longer have any liability for stranded costs, either as an exit fee in revised power contracts or as a surcharge on transmission rates. Would this be appropriate? In responding, commenters should keep in mind that the concept of a reasonable time period for computing stranded cost liability is independent of the proposed three year recontracting period for which the Commission is also requesting separate comments. 15. Should the Commission require that a public utility demonstrate reasonable measures to mitigate stranded costs? What should such measures include? 16. How should the Commission determine the amount of stranded costs that the departing customer may be liable to pay? 17. What are reasonable notice periods for requirements contracts? 18. What types of payments, if any, do new municipal utilities make to prior service providers? Do these reimbursements allow for recovery of stranded generation costs? Is there variation among the States as to the legal ability of local entities to municipalize? Is there variation among the States as to the payments made by new municipal utilities to previous suppliers? 19. What mechanisms can States use to allow retail stranded cost recovery? Are these mechanisms adequate to deal with retail stranded costs?
