FR940912-1-00034 FR940912-1-00010 The second approach to achieving emission reductions involves emission suppression and treatment of wastewater streams to remove or destroy the organic compounds. Volatile organic compound emissions from SOCMI process unit wastewater can be effectively reduced on a nationwide basis with the following control approach: (1) Identify wastewater streams with significant VOC emission potential; (2) recycle or treat those wastewater streams to remove their potential for emissions; (3) prior to treatment or recycling, manage those waste streams in units that suppress emissions or are equipped with air emission controls; (4) recycle any treatment residuals or treat any residuals to destroy VOC; and (5) control air emissions generated by the treatment processes. The potential for VOC emissions from wastewater can be assessed based on the characteristics of the wastewater at its point of generation. A reference test method, EPA Method 25D (40 CFR Part 60, appendix A), provides a relative indicator of wastewater emission potential and is used as a tool to implement air emission standards for wastewater. This method, when applied to a wastewater stream, yields a volatile organic concentration for the stream. While not a true indicator of absolute emissions, the volatile organic content of a stream provides a relative indicator of the potential emissions of that stream as compared to other streams that are similarly managed. There are three primary treatment technologies that are generally applicable and effective in reducing the VOC content of SOCMI wastewater streams. These are steam stripping, air stripping, and biological treatment. There also are several other technologies or methods of treatment that are equally effective in their particular situations but are limited in their applicability within SOCMI. These other technologies include chemical oxidation, carbon and ion exchange adsorption, membrane separation, and liquid-liquid extraction. Steam stripping is the most universally applicable VOC removal technology for treating wastewater streams generated by SOCMI process units, and this treatment technology has been selected as the basis for standards for SOCMI wastewater. The VOC removal efficiency of steam strippers depends on the characteristics of both the steam stripper and the wastewater stream. Data collected by the EPA related to steam stripper performance for the treatment of wastewaters indicate that organic removal efficiencies of up to 99.9 percent have been demonstrated on wastewater streams at SOCMI plants. The EPA selected steam stripping as the BDT because it is the most universally applicable treatment technology for removing organic compounds from wastewater streams with the potential to emit VOC and achieves the highest VOC emission reduction among demonstrated VOC control technologies. The EPA is aware that many SOCMI facilities employ biological treatment units for wastewater treatment. However, not all of the compounds regulated under the proposed NSPS are significantly biodegradable, while most of the compounds can be treated more readily by steam stripping. In addition, the amount of emissions reduction achieved by biological treatment, even for biologically degradable compounds, will vary among SOCMI sources because of the ranges in operating and design parameters, such as the biological degradation rate, surface area of the unit, aeration rate, hydraulic residence time, and the active biomass concentration. When reviewing biological treatment as the potential BDT, the EPA determined that the variability in performance is significant across the industry. Although a well operated and maintained biological treatment system can achieve reductions as high as 99 percent, the variability in performance makes quantifying emission reductions for the purpose of setting a standard more difficult than for steam stripping. Emission reductions for biological treatment systems can only be determined on a site-specific basis. However, the EPA emphasizes that SOCMI sources using biological treatment, or any other treatment technologies, can comply with the rule by consistently achieving the required emission reduction (i.e., 95 percent when using biodegradation or 99 percent for other technologies).
