FR941202-2-00207 FR941202-2-00098 (d) All documentation that is transmitted to the laboratory by the sample transmitter shall be retained (e.g., memos, transmittal forms, etc.). 5.11.2.2␣Intralaboratory Distribution of Samples for Analysis (a) The laboratory shall utilize a proactive procedure to ensure that all samples and subsamples are analyzed within allowed maximum allowable holding times. (b) All distribution of samples and subsamples for preparation and analysis shall be documented as to task assignment and analysis date deadline. 5.11.3␣Legal or Evidentiary Custody Procedures The use of legal chain of custody (COC) protocols is strongly recommended and may be required by some state or federal programs. In addition to the records listed in 5.11.1.1 and 5.11.1.2, the following protocols shall be incorporated if legal COC is implemented by the organization. 5.11.3.1␣Basic Requirements The chain of custody records shall establish an intact, contiguous record of the physical possession, storage and disposal of sample containers, collected samples, sample aliquots, and sample extracts or digestates. For ease of discussion, the above-mentioned items shall be referred to as samples: (a) The COC records shall account for all time periods associated with the samples. (b) The COC records shall include signatures of all individuals who were involved with physically handling the samples. (c) In order to simplify record-keeping, the number of people who physically handle the sample should be minimized. (d) The COC records are not limited to a single form or document. However, organizations should attempt to limit the number of documents that would be required to establish COC. (e) Legal chain of custody shall begin at the point established by the federal or state oversight program. This may begin at the point that cleaned sample containers are provided by the laboratory or the time sample collection occurs. (f) The COC forms shall remain with the samples during transport or shipment. 5.11.3.2␣Required Information in Custody Records In addition to the information specified in 5.11.1.1 and 5.11.1.2, tracking records shall include, by direct entry or linkage to other records: (a) Time of day and calendar date of each transfer or handling procedure; (b) Signatures of all personnel who physically handle the sample(s); (c) All information necessary to produce unequivocal, accurate records that document the laboratory activities associated with sample receipt, preparation, analysis and reporting; and (d) Common carrier documents. 5.11.3.3␣Controlled Access to Samples Access to all legal samples and subsamples shall be controlled and documented.
