FR940817-2-00269 FR940817-2-00113 6. General Summary It is now generally accepted that some chemicals, including industrial agents, pesticides, therapeutic agents, drugs of abuse, food-related chemicals, and cosmetic ingredients, can have adverse effects on the structure and function of the nervous system. It has recently been proposed that exposure to neurotoxicants might also be associated with Parkinsonism and Alzheimer's disease. Several Federal agencies have initiated research programs in neurotoxicology, developed neurotoxicology testing guidelines, and used neurotoxic endpoints to regulate chemicals in the environment and workplace. The scientific basis for identifying and characterizing chemical-induced neurotoxicity has advanced rapidly during the last several years. The manifestation of neurotoxicity depends on the relationship between exposure (applied dose) and the dose at the site of toxic action (delivered or target dose) and response. Chemical-induced changes in the structure or function of the nervous system at the cellular or molecular level can be observed as alterations in sensory, motor, or cognitive function at the level of the whole organism. Several important features about the nervous system make it particularly vulnerable to chemical insult, including differential susceptibilities at different stages of maturation, the presence of blood brain and nerve barriers that may be the target of toxic action, high metabolic rate, and limited regenerative capability following damage. Methods devised to detect and quantify agent-induced changes in nervous system function in humans include clinical evaluations and neurotoxicity testing methods such as neurobehavioral, neurophysiological, neurochemical, imaging, and self-reporting procedures. Experimental approaches used in human neurotoxicology include epidemiological studies and, to a limited extent, human laboratory exposure studies. There are several important unresolved issues in human neurotoxicology, including the development of commonly accepted risk assessment criteria and animal-to-human extrapolation. It is generally assumed that if physical or chemical-induced neurotoxicity is observed in animal models, then neurotoxicity will be produced in humans. Considerable research has been performed to demonstrate the validity of many animal models in an experimental context and to show predictive validity. Methods in animal neurotoxicology are frequently used in a tier-testing framework with simpler, more cost-effective tests to screen or identify neurotoxic potential. In hazard identification, the presence of neurotoxicity at the first tier is used to make decisions about subsequent development of a chemical or about the need to conduct additional experiments to define the level at which neurotoxicity will be observed. A number of methods have been devised for studies in animal neurotoxicology, including neurobehavioral, neurophysiological, neurochemical, and neuroanatomical techniques. It is known that the neuroendocrine system may be affected adversely by neurotoxicants and that there are populations that are differentially vulnerable to neurotoxic agents. Considerable research is in progress to employ structure-activity relationships to predict neurotoxicity and newly developed in vitro procedures are being used to augment or complement currently existing in vivo approaches. Principles of risk assessment for neurotoxicity are evolving rapidly. At the present time, neurotoxicity risk assessment is generally limited to qualitative hazard identification. Neurotoxicological risk assessments have been generally based on a no observed adverse effect level and uncertainty factors. As with other noncancer endpoints, there is a need to consider more information about the shape of the dose-response curve and mechanisms of effect in quantitative neurotoxicology risk assessment. Research is needed to develop dose-response models that incorporate biologic information and mechanistic hypotheses into quantitative extrapolation of dose-response relationships across species and from high to low dose exposures.
