FR940325-1-00075 FR940325-1-00008 This section would include needed requirements that the agreements for exchange of use will be in harmony with management objectives, and will be compatible with existing livestock operations. The agreements would be required to address the fair sharing of maintenance and operation of range improvements and would be approved for the same term as any leased lands that are offered. Section 4130.4&hyph;3␣Crossing Permits This section would provide for terms and conditions for crossing permits, a form of temporary use authorization. The proposed amendments are consistent with the customary practices of BLM field offices. Section 4130.5␣Ownership and Identification of Livestock This section would be amended to make it clear that, before grazing livestock owned by persons other than the permittee or lessee, the permittee or lessee is required to have an approved use authorization and have submitted a copy of the documented agreement or contract that includes information required for the BLM's administration of permits and leases and management of rangeland resources. This generally does not create a new requirement. Many field offices are currently requiring the information to document the legality of the pasturing of livestock owned by persons other than the permittees. In addition to the proposals of the advance notice, this proposed rule would add an exemption from some of the requirements for ownership of livestock for sons and daughters of permittees or lessees in specified circumstances. This modification is necessary to allow the exemption of sons and daughters, who are grazing livestock on public lands under their parents' permit or lease in specified circumstances, from the authorized leasing or subleasing surcharge provided in §4130.7. Section 4130.6&hyph;1␣Mandatory Terms and Conditions This section would be amended through minor additions and deletions that clarify that use shall not exceed the livestock carrying capacity of the allotment, and by removing unnecessary references to previous sections. The section would be further amended to add a paragraph (c) that would require that standards and guidelines be reflected in the terms and conditions of permits and leases. Section 4130.6&hyph;2␣Other Terms and Conditions This section would be amended to provide for proper rangeland management and to remove unnecessary language. The proposed amendment would allow terms and conditions to provide for improvement of riparian area functions and for protecting other rangeland resources and values consistent with applicable land use plans. The amendments are consistent with the themes of protection, improvement, and restoration of the rangelands to increase overall productivity, and will enhance multiple-use management as required by the applicable laws cited above. The addition of paragraph (h), a provision affirmatively stating that BLM shall have administrative access across the permittee's or lessee's owned or leased private lands, is intended to address attempts made to prevent the BLM from performing functions such as range use supervision, compliance checks, and trespass abatement. Section 4130.6&hyph;3␣Modification The proposed rule would amend this section to clarify consultation requirements in the modification of terms and conditions of permits. The amendment would identify the opportunity to be provided the public for review and comment, or to give input, during the evaluation of monitoring results or other data that provide a basis for decisions regarding grazing use or management. Section 4130.7&hyph;1␣Payment of Fees
