FR940516-1-00034 FR940516-1-00001 (8) Adverse performance: Where presentation of adverse performance is required hereunder, adverse performance means any annual return of one hundred basis points less than the ninety day Treasury Bill rate on December 31 of the calendar year in which the performance occurred or any termination of a pool pursuant to a loss termination provision. To disclose adverse performance, the pool operator must indicate the year in which it occurred, the annual rate of return for that year, the commodity trading advisor or commodity pool operator responsible for the performance and the capacity of such person in respect of the pool being offered. (9) The performance of any pool or account in which the pool operator, trading manager, commodity trading advisor or any principal thereof, or any person providing services to the pool owns or controls fifty percent or more of the beneficial interest shall not be included in a disclosure document unless such performance is prominently labeled as proprietary and is set forth separately after all required disclosures. (10) Any past performance presentation, whether required or voluntarily provided, must be preceded by the following statement, prominently displayed: PAST PERFORMANCE IS NOT PREDICTIVE OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE. (b) Pools which have traded commodity interests for three years or more with no fewer than fifteen participants unaffiliated with the commodity pool operator and in which no more than ten percent of the assets were contributed by the commodity pool operator. The pool operator must disclose the performance of the pool offered, as set forth in §4.25(a)(1)(i) (C) through (H). (c) Other pools. (1)(i) The pool operator must disclose the performance of the pool offered, as set forth in §4.25(a)(1)(i) (C) through (H). (ii) If applicable, the pool operator must prominently display the following statement: THIS POOL HAS NOT COMMENCED TRADING AND DOES NOT HAVE ANY PERFORMANCE HISTORY. (2)␣(i) The pool operator must disclose the performance of each other pool operated and each other account traded by the pool operator or, if the pool has a trading manager, by the trading manager. (ii) If the pool operator, or if applicable, the trading manager, has less than a three-year history in trading pools with no fewer than fifteen participants unaffiliated with the pool operator and in which no more than ten percent of the assets were contributed by the commodity pool operator, the pool operator must also disclose the performance of each other pool operated and each other account traded, by each trading principal of the pool operator or the trading manager, if applicable. (iii) If neither the pool operator or trading manager, if applicable, nor any of its trading principals has operated any other pools or traded any other accounts during the prescribed period, the pool operator must prominently display the following statement: NEITHER THIS POOL OPERATOR (TRADING MANAGER, if applicable) NOR ANY OF ITS TRADING PRINCIPALS HAS PREVIOUSLY OPERATED ANY OTHER POOLS OR TRADED ANY OTHER ACCOUNTS; (3)(i) The pool operator must disclose the performance of any accounts (including pools) directed by any major commodity trading advisor and of any major investee pool. (ii) If a major commodity trading advisor or major investee pool has no prior performance history, the pool operator must prominently display the following statement(s), as applicable: (name of the major commodity trading advisor), A COMMODITY TRADING ADVISOR THAT HAS DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY OVER (percentage of the pool's aggregate initial margin and premiums for futures and commodity option contracts allocated to that trading advisor) PERCENT OF THE POOL'S DIRECT FUTURES AND COMMODITY OPTION TRADING HAS NOT PREVIOUSLY DIRECTED ANY ACCOUNTS; and (name of the major investee pool), AN INVESTEE POOL THAT IS ALLOCATED (percentage of the pool assets allocated to that investee pool) PERCENT OF THE POOL'S ASSETS HAS NOT COMMENCED TRADING. (iii) Unless this performance is otherwise required to be disclosed, the pool operator must indicate, as set forth in §4.25(a)(8), any adverse performance for any account (including pools) directed or operated by the pool operator, any trading principal of the pool operator or trading manager, any commodity trading advisor allocated at least ten percent of the pool's aggregate initial margin and premiums for futures and commodity option contracts and for any investee pool allocated at least ten percent of the pool's assets. In addition, if a major commodity trading advisor or major investee pool has no prior operating history, the pool operator must indicate any adverse performance for any account (including pools) directed or operated by any trading principal of that advisor or of the commodity pool operator of the investee pool. In lieu of giving an indication of adverse performance, the commodity pool operator may provide capsule performance disclosure as set forth in §4.25(a)(1). §4.26 Use, amendment and filing of disclosure document. (a)(1) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, all information contained in the disclosure document must be current as of the date of the document; provided, however, That performance information may be current as of a date not more than three months prior to the date of the document. (2) No commodity pool operator may use a disclosure document dated more than nine months prior to the date of its use. (b) The commodity pool operator must attach to the disclosure document the most current Account Statement and Annual Report for the pool required to be distributed in accordance with §4.22. (c)(1) If the commodity pool operator knows or should know that the disclosure document is materially inaccurate or incomplete in any respect, it must correct that defect and must distribute the correction to: (i) All existing pool participants within 21 calendar days of the date upon which the pool operator first knows or has reason to know of the defect; and
