FR940902-0-00132 FR940902-0-00010 (4) The provisions of the Act, regulations promulgated thereunder, grant, or other agreement under the Act believed to have been violated; (5) A statement disclosing whether proceedings involving the subject of the request have been commenced or concluded before any Federal, State, or local authority, and, if so, the date of such commencement or conclusion, the name and address of the authority, and the style of the case; and (6) A statement of the date the complaint was filed with the recipient, the date on which the recipient should have issued decision, and an attestation that no decision was issued. (d)(1) A request pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will be considered to have been filed when the Secretary receives from the complainant a written statement sufficiently precise to evaluate the complaint and the grievance procedure used by the recipient, the SDA, or the SSG. (2) When an imprecise request is received within the 15-day period prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary may extend the period for submission. ยง627.606 Grant Officer resolution. (a) When the Grant Officer is dissatisfied with the State's disposition of an audit, as specified in ยง627.481 of this part, or other resolution of violations (including those arising out of incident reports or compliance reviews), with the recipient's response to findings resulting from investigations pursuant to ยง627.503 of this part, or if the recipient fails to comply with the Secretary's decision pursuant to ยง627.605(b) of this part, the initial and final determination process shall be used to resolve the matter. (b) Initial determination. The Grant Officer shall make an initial determination on the findings for both those matters where there is agreement and those where there is disagreement with the recipient's resolution, including the allowability of questioned costs or activities. Such initial determination shall be based upon the requirements of the Act, regulations promulgated thereunder, grants, contracts, or other agreements under the Act. (c) Informal resolution. The Grant Officer shall not revoke a recipient's grant in whole or in part, nor institute corrective actions or sanctions, without first providing the recipient with an opportunity to present documentation or arguments to resolve informally those matters in controversy contained in the initial determination. The initial determination shall provide for an informal resolution period which shall be at least 60 days from issuance of the initial determination. If the matters are resolved informally, the Grant Officer shall issue a final determination pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section which notifies the parties in writing of the nature of the resolution and may close the file. (d) Grant Officer's final determination. (1) If the matter is not fully resolved informally, the Grant Officer shall provide each party with a written final determination by certified mail, return receipt requested. For audits of recipient-level entities and other recipients which receive JTPA funds directly from DOL, ordinarily the final determination will be issued not later than 180 days from the date that the OIG issues the final approved audit report to the Employment and Training Administration. For audits of subrecipients conducted by the OIG, ordinarily the final determination will be issued not later than 360 days from the date the OIG issues the final approved audit report to ETA. (2) A final determination under this paragraph (d) shall: (i) Indicate that efforts to informally resolve matters contained in the initial determination have been unsuccessful; (ii) List those matters upon which the parties continue to disagree; (iii) List any modifications to the factual findings and conclusions set forth in the initial determination; (iv) Establish a debt, if appropriate;
