FR940912-0-00035 FR940912-0-00006 As stated in the rule proposal, the FCA is required by section 514 of the 1992 Act to ensure that the disclosure of financial and conflict-of-interest information by System personnel provides investors and potential investors with information necessary to assist them in making investment decisions regarding FCS debt obligations or institutions. The FCA believes that information on compensation of System directors and senior officers presented in individual System institutions' disclosure to shareholders pursuant to part 620 of this chapter could provide useful information to investors in making investment decisions. Thus, to implement the requirement of section 514 of the 1992 Act, §630.20(i) requires that the report provide a statement informing investors of the availability of such information. The FCA adopts §630.20(i) of the final rule as proposed. 11. Section 630.20(l) and (m)_Financial Statements and Supplemental Information Proposed §630.30(l) requires that the System prepare the combined financial statements in accordance with GAAP and instructions and other requirements of the FCA. Proposed §630.20(m) further requires that the System provide supplemental information in addition to the audited financial statements and that the supplemental information be examined by a qualified public accountant for compliance with FCA regulations and guidelines and an opinion expressed thereon. The FCA received comments on proposed §630.20(l) from the AICPA and the FCC and comments on proposed §630.20(m) from the AICPA and Price Waterhouse. With respect to proposed §630.20(l), both the FCC and the AICPA suggested, for different reasons, that the phrase ``instructions and other requirements of the FCA'' be deleted from the proposed rule. The FCC was concerned that the proposed language indicates that regulatory accounting practices (RAP) may be utilized, causing investor confusion. On the other hand, the AICPA provided suggested language that would require both the basic financial statement and the supplemental information required by proposed §630.20(l) and (m) to be audited in accordance with GAAS. The AICPA asserted that the requirements of proposed §630.20(m) regarding supplemental information disclosure appear to comprise the ``instructions and other requirements of the FCA'' referred to in §630.20(l) and, further, that GAAS addresses auditors' reporting on information presented outside financial statements. Price Waterhouse, the external auditor of the System, also commented on proposed §630.20(m). Price Waterhouse asserted that the proposed language that ``supplemental information be examined by a qualified public accountant for compliance with FCA regulations and guidelines'' is too broad and would be interpreted as requiring the independent accountant to render a report on the System's compliance with all FCA regulations and guidelines. This would require significant work by the independent accountant. Price Waterhouse commented that the proposed regulatory language in §630.20(m) provides insufficient detail to enable the external auditor to determine the scope of additional work to be performed and the type of report to be issued by the auditor on the supplemental information. Proposed §630.20(l) was intended to preserve the FCA's ability to prescribe additional requirements for preparation and presentation of the Systemwide combined financial statements. However, after consideration of the comments received, the FCA adopts the AICPA's suggestion in the final rule to require that both the basic financial statements and the supplemental information required by §630.20(l) and (m) be examined in accordance with GAAS and an opinion expressed thereon by an independent accountant. This change will resolve the FCC concern regarding RAP financial statements and Price Waterhouse's concern regarding the scope of examination of supplemental information and reporting by the independent accountant. However, to preserve the flexibility to revise the format and content specified in Appendix A of the final rule, the FCA retains the requirement that supplemental information be prepared in accordance with any additional FCA guidance or instructions. 12. Section 630.20(o)_Cross-Reference Sheet Proposed §630.20(o) called for a cross-reference sheet giving the location of information required by these regulations, in the order required, and identified by item numbers and captions. The FCC did not object to the preparation of a cross-reference sheet, but suggested that the cross-reference sheet would only be useful to the FCA and should only be required as an exhibit to copies of the report filed with the FCA. The FCA believes the cross reference to the content of the report provides useful information to readers of the report. To make this indexing requirement more useful to investors, the FCA has revised §630.20(o) to inform readers of the location in the report of the information required under the major disclosure captions of this part.
