FR940428-2-00097 FR940428-2-00052 (2) The proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. The end-of-cycle MCPR&hyph;RPT System, which utilizes ASDs, has been designed to appropriate standards and specification to ensure that no new sequence of events or failure modes will occur such that a transient event will escalate into a new or different type of accident. The software used in the digital system of the ASDs is not subject to the verification and validation requirements discussed in the NRC memorandum dated July 1, 1991, from A. C. Thadoni [sic] [Thadani] (NRC) to S. A. Varga (NRC) and B. A. Bolger [sic] [Boger] (NRC), because this equipment is neither safety-related nor important to safety. There is no software used in the trip circuit of the end-of-cycle MCPR&hyph;RPT System, except for the ASDs. Additionally, the design of the modification will assure that the new equipment EM emissions will not cause inadvertent operation of existing plant equipment and that harmonic filters have been incorporated to minimize electrical noise on the 13kV input power buses. (3) The proposed change does not result in a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The incorporation of the end-of-cycle MCPR&hyph;RPT System, which utilizes ASDs, will not result in a reduction in the margin of safety. All safety margins will be maintained. The end-of-cycle MCPR&hyph;RPT System will aid in protecting the integrity of the fuel barrier by tripping the recirculation pumps early in the pressurization phase of the load rejection with no bypass event, the turbine trip with no bypass event, and the feedwater controller failure_maximum demand event. The early tripping of the recirculation pumps will introduce negative void reactivity thus reducing reactor power and maintaining safety margins. The end-of-cycle MCPR&hyph;RPT System will ensure CPR safety margins which protect fuel barrier integrity. General Electric has performed a qualitative assessment of transients that would be impacted as a result of replacing the M&hyph;G Sets with ASDs. General Electric concluded that the faster coastdown of the recirculation pumps during a Loss of Coolant Accident (LOCA) due to the removal of the M&hyph;G Set inertia may slightly increase the peak clad temperature during this event. This increase is expected to be less than 50 ○F. The small increase will not exceed the 2200 ○F peak cladding temperature regulatory limit. No design or safety limit will be exceeded. The replacement of the M&hyph;G Sets with the ASDs will not impact the recirculation flow controller failure_increase flow transient. The UFSAR analysis assumes a 25%/sec rate of increase. The ASD control system will include rate limiters that prevent a pump speed increase greater than 25%/sec in the event of a failure. Thus, the consequences of this transient remain bounded and safety margins will be maintained. The ASDs will also allow a ``soft start'' of the recirculation pumps with the recirculation discharge valves closed prior to pump start and a gradual increase in pump speed. This results in a gradual change in core flow. Thus, the response to a startup of an idle recirculation pump remains bounded by the transient analysis and safety margins will be maintained in the transient analyses. Changes to the fire protection equipment will still maintain the capability to shutdown the plant in the event of a fire. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: Government Publications Section, State Library of Pennsylvania, (Regional Depository) Education Building, Walnut Street and Commonwealth Avenue, Box 1601, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17105. Attorney for Licensee: J. W. Durham, Sr., Esquire, Sr. V.P. and General Counsel, Philadelphia Electric Company, 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101. NRC Project Director: Charles L. Miller. Philadelphia Electric Company, Public Service Electric and Gas Company, Delmarva Power and Light Company, and Atlantic City Electric Company, Dockets Nos. 50&hyph;277 and 50&hyph;278, Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station, Units Nos. 2 and 3, York County, Pennsylvania Date of Application for Amendments: March 28, 1994.
