FR941220-2-00047 FR941220-2-00032 [Release No. 34&hyph;35092; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;42] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Mailing of Interim Financial Statements to Shareholders December 12, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on December 1, 1994, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NYSE is proposing amendments to Para. 203.02 of its Listed Company Manual (the ``Manual'') regarding the mailing of interim financial statements to shareholders of listed companies. The rule, as amended, would state that corporations that distribute interim reports to shareholders should distribute such reports to both registered and beneficial shareholders. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose Currently, the Exchange requires listed companies to publish interim earnings statements as press reports, but does not require that such statements also be sent to shareholders. The practices of listed companies vary: Some companies mail these reports to all shareholders, some mail only to registered holders, and some companies do not mail interim reports at all. Various groups, including the American Society of Corporate Secretaries and the Securities Industry Association, have been reviewing this area in an attempt to achieve some uniformity among listed companies with respect to their dissemination of interim earnings reports to shareholders. In balancing the benefit of requiring that these reports be mailed to all shareholders, and the high cost of doing so, particularly as to ``street name'' holders, a compromise position developed. While companies would continue not to be required to mail interim reports to shareholders, if a company did conduct such a mailing, it was believed to be fair that such reports be mailed to both registered and beneficial holders. The compromise position is proposed as an amendment to Para. 203.02 of the Manual in the discussion of reporting and disclosure by listed companies.
