FR940124-1-00028 FR940124-1-00006 IV. Regulatory Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely effect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that this rule is a ``significant regulatory action.'' Nevertheless, after reviewing information regarding this action, OMB has waived review. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq ., USEPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. Alternatively, USEPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. The USEPA cannot reliably predict the impact of these restrictions because of the exemptions authorized for certain highway projects related to mass transit, public safety, and those that have beneficial air quality impacts. Careful review and evaluation of each project is necessary to determine whether or not a project is exempt. If USEPA takes final action on this proposal, the 2:1 emission offset requirement will apply to major new sources and major modifications to existing sources of VOC and NO x , in the Illinois ozone areas subject to the section 173 offset requirement. Major stationary sources of VOC and NO x with emissions are generally not small entities. Also, the 2:1 emission offset requirement does not prevent growth and modification but sets a higher offset standard than the current offset required. It is not expected that a large number of small entities will be affected by the emission offset requirement. In the past, when USEPA has made efforts to quantify the impact of the Act's rules on the construction and modification of sources, USEPA has been unable to do so due, in part, to the need to obtain information on future plans for business growth. This information is difficult to obtain, as businesses are understandably reluctant to make their plans public. The USEPA is also proposing to impose Federal highway funding assistance limitations statewide. This limitation could affect a number of government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000 since government entities often apply for and receive federal funding under Title 23, United States Code, for road improvement projects. Although a great many projects are exempted under section 179(b)(1)(B), a number of projects are expected to be affected if the USEPA takes final action. For the reasons stated above, USEPA cannot further analyze the economic impacts of this action on small entities. The statements in this package constitute USEPA's full regulatory Flexibility analysis. C. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements This rule does not contain any information collection requirements which require OMB approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq .). Should the highway sanctions become effective, the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) is required to determine which projects or grants should not be affected by the sanction and which, therefore, are exempt. This determination will be based on information readily available in existing documentation gathered for the purpose of evaluating the environmental, social, and economic impacts of different alternatives for transportation projects. These analyses are already required for the preparation of environmental assessments and impact statements under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Historically, exemption determinations by USDOT for sanctions have been based on such NEPA documentation and have not necessitated additional information gathering and analysis by the states. In addition, since under NEPA, final environmental documents must be approved by USDOT, in most cases the NEPA documentation will already be in USDOT's possession. Therefore, USEPA does not believe that the highway sanctions, when applied, will impose an additional information collection burden on the states. When the offset sanction applies, sources subject to it will not incur an additional information collection burden because sources are already required under section 173 offset requirements to obtain an emission offset from between 1 to 1 and 1.5 to 1 (depending on the classification of the nonattainment area in which they are located). Should the offset sanction apply, it would not impose an additional information collection burden because sources will not have to provide additional information in the application beyond that which they would already have to provide in the absence of the sanction. (For the information collection burden of new requirements of the amended Act for nonattainment new source review and prevention of significant deterioration, an information collection request is being prepared to support rulemaking changes to parts 51 and 52.)
