FR940602-1-00035 FR940602-1-00013 (m) The term public vessel means a vessel owned and operated by a government and not regularly employed in merchant service. (n) The term ramp means other flat surface devices for passage between levels and across openings not covered under the term ``dockboards''. (o) The term related employments means any employments performed as an incident to or in conjunction with longshoring operations, including, but not restricted to, securing cargo, rigging, and employment as a porter, clerk, checker, or watchman. (p) The term Secretary means the Secretary of Labor. (q) The term small trimming hatch means a small hatch or opening, pierced in the 'tween-deck or other intermediate deck of a vessel, and intended for the trimming of dry bulk cargoes. It does not refer to the large hatchways through which cargo is normally handled. (r) The term vessel includes every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water, including special purpose floating structures not primarily designed for or used as a means of transportation on water. (s) For the purposes of §§1918.21, 1918.23, 1918.35, 1918.37, and 1918.43(f)(2), the term ``barge'' means an unpowered, flatbottomed, shallow draft vessel including river barges, scows, carfloats, and lighters. For the purposes of these sections the term does not include ship shaped or deep draft barges. (t) For the purposes of §§1918.21 and 1918.23, the term ``river towboat'' means a shallow draft, low freeboard, self propelled vessel designed to tow river barges by pushing ahead. For purposes of these sections the term does not include other towing vessels. (u) For the purpose of §1918.11, the term ``vessel's cargo handling gear'' includes that gear which is a permanent part of the vessel's equipment and which is used for the handling of cargo other than bulk liquids. It does not include gear which is used only for handling or holding hoses, handling ship's stores or handling the gangway, or boom conveyor belt systems for the self-unloading of bulk cargo vessels. It does include all stationary or mobile cargo handling appliances, including shore-based power-operated ramps, used on shore or on board ship for suspending, raising, or lowering loads or moving them from one position to another while suspended or supported. (v) For the purpose of §1918.23(b), the term ``Mississippi River System'' includes the Mississippi River from the head of navigation to its mouth, and navigable tributaries including the Illinois Waterway, Missouri River, Ohio River, Tennessee River, Allegheny River, Cumberland River, Green River, Kanawha River, Monongahela River, and such others to which barge operations extend. Subpart B_Gear Certification §1918.11 Gear certification. (See also §1918.51). (a) The employer shall not use the vessel's cargo handling gear until it has been ascertained that the vessel has a current and valid cargo gear register and certificates which in form and content are in substantial accordance with the recommendations of the International Labor Office, as set forth in Appendix I of this part, and as provided by International Labor Organization Convention No. 152, and which indicates that the cargo gear has been tested, examined and heat treated by or under the supervision of persons or organizations defined as competent to make register entries and issue certificates pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. (b) Public vessels and vessels holding a valid Certificate of Inspection issued by the U.S. Coast Guard pursuant to 46 CFR part 91 are deemed to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. (c) With respect to U.S. vessels not holding a valid Certificate of Inspection issued by the U.S. Coast Guard, persons or organizations competent to make entries in the registers and issue the certificates required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be only those persons currently accredited by (OSHA) U.S. Department of Labor, as provided in part 1919 of this chapter. (d) With respect to vessels under foreign registry, persons or organizations competent to make entries in the registers and issue the certificates required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be: (1) Those acceptable as such to any foreign nation;
