FR940228-1-00061 FR940228-1-00009 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Transit Administration 49 CFR Part 659 [Docket No. 92&hyph;D] RIN 2132&hyph;AA39 Rail Fixed Guideway Systems; State Safety Oversight AGENCY: Federal Transit Administration, DOT. ACTION: Proposed rule; notice of hearing; extension of the comment period. SUMMARY: On December 9, 1993, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) for its Rail Fixed Guideway Systems State Safety Oversight program. FTA has decided to hold a public hearing in conjunction with an American Public Transit Association meeting which occurs after the close of the comment period announced in the NPRM. This document accordingly reopens the comment period and announces the public hearing. DATES: Comments on this proposed rule must be submitted by March 22, 1994. The public hearing will be held at 8 a.m. (EST) on March 8, 1994. For further information see the SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION section of this preamble. ADDRESSES: Comments on the NPRM should be sent, in duplicate, to Docket No. 92&hyph;D, Docket Clerk, room 9316, Office of the Chief Counsel, Federal Transit Administration, 400 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Those wishing the agency to acknowledge receipt of their comments should include a self-addressed stamped postcard with their comments. All comments will be available for review by the public at this address from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The public hearing will be held at 8:00 a.m. (EST) on March 8, 1994 at the J. W. Marriott Hotel, 1331 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004. For further information see the SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION section of this preamble. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For program issues: Franz Gimmler, Deputy Associate Administrator for Safety, or Roy Field, Transit Safety Specialist, both of the Office of Safety and Security, Federal Transit Administration, (202) 366&hyph;2896 (telephone) or (202) 366&hyph;3765 (fax). For legal issues: Nancy Zaczek or Daniel Duff, Office of the Chief Counsel, Federal Transit Administration, (202) 366&hyph;4011. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Introduction FTA published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) in the Federal Register on December 9, 1993, at 58 FR 64856, concerning the creation of a State oversight agency that would develop certain procedures for overseeing the safety of rail fixed guideway systems. FTA has determined that a public hearing would help in the development of the final rule. FTA accordingly will hold the hearing in conjunction with a conference sponsored by the American Public Transit Association (APTA), which will be attended by State and local transit representatives. The hearing will be held on March 8, 1994. Because of this action, FTA is extending the comment period. Information on the Public Hearing The hearing will be held on March 8, 1994, in the Grand Ballroom_Salon D at the J.W. Marriott Hotel, 1331 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20004. It will begin at 8 a.m. (EST). Those interested in providing comments on the NPRM may respond in writing to the docket or participate in the public hearings and are encouraged to do both. FTA has established the following procedures to facilitate the hearings. Those wishing to participate in the public hearings should contact either Mr. Franz Gimmler or Mr. Roy Field by telephone at (202) 366&hyph;2896, by fax at (202) 366&hyph;3765, or in writing at the address in the FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT section at least three business days before the hearing is to be held or register with the FTA on the day of the hearing. Those contacting FTA at least three business days before the hearing is scheduled may request a particular time to testify. FTA will try to accommodate those requests. For those who have not contacted FTA at least three business days in advance, a registration desk will be available at the hearing site on the day of the hearing. Individuals may register beginning one hour before the hearing is scheduled to start. The registration desk will remain open until the hearing begins, after which FTA staff will try to accommodate late registrants. Time permitting, individuals will testify in the order in which they have registered. Those who request to testify may be given ten minutes to make a statement or present other relevant documents which will be included in the docket. FTA encourages those individuals to submit a written statement which will also be included in the docket. Those individuals in need of an oral interpreter should inform Mr. Gimmler or Mr. Field of that need also at least three business days before the hearing is to be held. Unless requested three business days before the hearing, an oral interpreter will not be provided. A hearing officer will preside over the hearing. The hearing officer may make a statement to clarify issues or facilitate discussion during the hearing . Any statements the hearing officer makes during a hearing are not intended to be and should not be construed as a position of the FTA with respect to the NPRM or any future rulemaking. The hearing will be recorded by a court reporter. A transcript of the hearing will be included in the official rulemaking Docket 92&hyph;D and be available for inspection. Any individual interested in a copy of the transcript of a hearing may contact the court reporter directly. The hearing is designed to solicit public views and information on the NPRM. Therefore, the hearing will be conducted in an informal and nonadversarial manner. However, the hearing officer may ask questions in order to clarify statements made at the hearing. To facilitate comment and get a broad cross-section of views, the FTA may ask some of those who register in advance to participate on a panel during the hearing. Issued on: February 23, 1994. Gordon J. Linton, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4495 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;57&hyph;U
