FR941117-2-00053 FR941117-2-00040 •Participates in the development and evaluation of proposed legislation pertaining to clinical laboratory services, ambulance services, drugs and special payment delivery systems. •Identifies, studies, and makes recommendations for modifying Medicare policies and providers' health and safety standards to reflect changes in beneficiary health care needs, program objectives, and the health care delivery system. •Develops and maintains the fee schedule for clinical laboratory services. •Establishes payment policies for blood, blood products and hemophilia clotting factors. •Formulates payment methods for drugs provided by physicians (e.g., injectable drugs, vaccines, chemotherapy agents), and drugs used in connection with durable medical equipment. •Develops innovative payment policies and rate setting systems designed to promote efficiency and economy for clinical laboratory services, ambulance services, drugs and special payment delivery systems. •Maintains continuing liaison with provider groups, industry associations, patient organizations, medical associations, and other parties. •Provides interpretations of established policies and technical assistance to regional offices, State agencies, fiscal intermediaries, suppliers of services, congressional staff, and other departmental offices. •Coordinates with other components responsible for health and safety standards, program operations, and quality control, professional groups and standard setting organizations, and with other parties and individuals, as appropriate. •Reviews policies developed by other components for their impact on clinical laboratory services, ambulance services, drugs and special payment delivery systems. (3) Division of Physician Services (FKA43) •Develops and maintains fee schedules for physician services, radiology and certain diagnostic services. This includes establishment and revision of relative value units, geographic adjusters, and site of service differentials. •Formulates and evaluates national policies and health and safety standards for Medicare coverage and payment for physician services including the determination of policies related to the payment of provider-based physicians, teaching physicians, interns, and residents. •Develops, evaluates and reviews policies, regulations, rulings and guidelines pertaining to services excluded from Medicare coverage. •Develops, evaluates, and reviews national Medicare policies concerning reasonableness and necessity for services. •Develops, evaluates, and reviews national Medicare payment policies, including global payment rates for surgical services and separate payment for supplies. •Develops, evaluates and reviews national policies pertaining to the coverage of items and services furnished by physicians and services incident to the services of physicians. •Develops recommendations for annual physician fee schedule revisions (e.g., relative values and geographic adjusters), including preparation of Federal Register notices and reports and recommendations to the Congress. •Drafts program regulations, manuals, guidelines, and other general instructions related to the coverage and payment of physician services. •Administers the Medicare Volume Performance Standards (MVPS), including preparing Federal Register notices with respect to the MVPS and update and developing annual reports and recommendations to the Congress. •Participates in the development and evaluation of proposed legislation in the area of medical services coverage and payment and recommends alternatives that will improve current methods of payment and coverage, health and safety, and utilization effectiveness. •Participates in the formulation and use of medical codes under the HCFA Common Procedure Coding System and develops common medical coding standards and policy. •Coordinates with other HCFA bureaus, divisions, and offices, the Social Security Administration, and Departmental components in the development of coverage and payment policies for medical services. •Provides interpretations of established policies and technical assistance to the Social Security Administration, Departmental and HCFA components, regional offices, intermediaries, carriers and State agencies. •Coordinates with and reviews recommendations from the Physician Payment Review Commission.
