FR940208-2-00100 FR940208-2-00072 In the order extending the pilot program, the Commission requested that the Exchange submit another report which discusses all those elements described above. The Exchange submitted a report to the Commission on September 30, 1993, which contained an analysis of trading activity in the OHT facility since its inception. 17 The Commission expects the Exchange to submit to the Commission by March 15, 1994, an updated report concerning pilot activity through February 28, 1994. 18 In addition, the Exchange continues to submit trade and share volume of OHT activity to the Commission on an on-going, weekly basis. 17 See letter from Catherine R. Kinney, Executive Vice President, Equities/Audit, NYSE, to Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, dated September 30, 1993. 18 See supra note 16 for the information required to be provided in the updated reports. (2) Matched MOC Orders In its original order approving the matched MOC pilot program, and in the subsequent orders which have extended the pilot program through May 24, 1993 and January 31, 1994, the Commission voiced concern that, under the pilot procedures, matched MOC orders would be executed without the opportunity for order exposure or interaction with the trading crowd. Because these procedures were in contravention of traditional auction market procedures, the Commission was concerned that customer orders on the list order book or in the trading crowd could be by-passed. The Commission, however, initially approved these procedures for a pilot period, because these procedures could aid in attracting order flow being executed overseas back to the NYSE which has the advantage of Commission and Exchange oversight pursuant to the Act, trade reporting, and consolidated surveillance. The Commission has extended the pilot program primarily to give the Exchange the opportunity to contrast the use of matched MOC orders with certain program trading transactions effected in the Exchange's Crossing Session II. In the order extending the matched MOC pilot program through May 24, 1993, the Commission stated that it was extending the pilot program, not because its original concerns regarding the possible displacement of customer orders had been alleviated, but because the Commission found it reasonable to extend the pilot period in light of the NYSE's desire to contrast its use with that of the recently instituted after-hours trading system. 19 19 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30004, supra note 5. As previously noted, the Commission granted a limited exemption from Rule 10a&hyph;1 under the Act for a MOC order entered as part of a paired MOC order. See supra note 5 and note 6 in securities Exchange Act Release No. 29393 (July 1, 1991), 56 FR 30954. The effectiveness of this exemption was scheduled to terminate on January 31, 1994, concurrent with the expiration of the MOC pilot period. Pursuant to this order, the Commission is granting, until April 30, 1994, an extension of the relief from Rule 10a&hyph;1 regarding a MOC order to sell short that is entered by a member firm where (1) the member firm also has entered an MOC order to buy the same amount of stock, and (2) the MOC order is part of a program trading strategy by the member firm, and the orders are identified as such. As indicated in the order approving the MOC procedures for a one-year pilot period (see note 5, supra ), the Commission believes that matched MOC orders that are part of a program trading strategy do not raise the same concerns that are applicable to transactions in individual stocks, and that it is appropriate to exempt such transactions in individual stocks, and that it is appropriate to exempt such transaction from the operation of the short sale rule.
