FR940106-1-00043 FR940106-1-00008 The requirements and minimum standards for gas measurement on the lease, unit, unit participating area, or communitized area by an alternate method of measurement, or at a location off the lease, unit, unit participating area, or communitized area by either an authorized or an alternate method of measurement, are as follows: 1. Measurement on the Lease, Unit, Unit Participating Area, or Communitized Area A written application for approval of an alternate gas measurement method shall be submitted to the authorized officer and written approval obtained before any such alternate gas measurement method is installed or operated. Any operator requesting approval of any alternate gas sales measurement system shall submit performance data, actual field test results, or any other supporting data or evidence acceptable to the authorized officer, that will demonstrate that the proposed alternate gas sales measurement system will meet or exceed the objectives of the applicable minimum standards or will not adversely affect royalty income or production accountability. Violation: Major. Corrective Action: Submit application and obtain approval. Abatement Period: Prior to sales or removal. 2. Measurement at a Location Off the Lease, Unit, Unit Participating Area, or Communitized Area a. A written application for off-lease measurement shall be submitted to the authorized officer and written approval obtained before any such off-lease gas measurement facilities are installed or operated. The application for approval of off-lease measurement shall justify the location of the measurement facilities at the desired off-lease location before approval will be granted, but no additional approval as to the gas sales measurement method is required, provided measurement is to be accomplished by orifice meter pursuant to the requirements and minimum standards of this Order. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Submit application and obtain approval. Abatement Period: 20 days. b. If gas measurement is to be accomplished at a location off the lease, unit, unit participating area, or communitized area by any alternate measurement method (any method other than measurement by orifice meter), then the application, in addition to justifying the location of the measurement facilities, shall also demonstrate the acceptability of the alternate measurement method pursuant to Section III.F.1. of this Order. Violation: Major. Corrective Action: Submit application and obtain approval. Abatement Period: Prior to sales. IV. Variances From Minimum Standards An operator may request that the authorized officer approve a variance from any of the minimum standards prescribed in Article III. All such requests shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate authorized officer and shall provide information as to the circumstances warranting approval of the variance(s) requested and the proposed alternative means by which the related minimum standard(s) will be satisfied. The authorized officer, after considering all relevant factors, shall approve the requested variance(s) if it is determined that the proposed alternative(s) meets or exceeds the objectives of the applicable minimum standard(s), or does not adversely affect royalty income or production accountability. In addition, approval may be given orally by the authorized officer before the operator initiates actions which require a variance from minimum standards. The oral request, if granted, shall be followed by a written request not later than the fifth business day following oral approval, and written approval will then be appropriate. The authorized officer may also issue NTLs that establish modified standards and requirements for specific geographic areas of operations. After notice to the operator, the authorized officer may also require compliance with standards that exceed those contained in this Order whenever such additional requirements are necessary to achieve protection of royalty income or production accountability. The rationale for any such additional requirements shall be documented in writing to the operator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;149 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;84&hyph;P
