FR940524-1-00085 FR940524-1-00010 Subpart M_[Reserved] Subpart N_Special Use Respirators §84.250 Vinyl chloride respirators; description. Vinyl chloride respirators, including all completely assembled respirators which are designed for use as respiratory protection during entry into and escape from vinyl chloride atmospheres containing adequate oxygen to support life, are described according to their construction as follows: (a) Front-mounted or back-mounted gas masks; (b) Chin-style gas masks; (c) Chemical-cartridge respirators; (d) Powered air-purifying respirators; and (e) Other devices, including combination respirators. §84.251 Required components. (a) Each vinyl chloride respirator described in §84.250 shall, where its design requires, contain the following component parts: (1) Facepiece; (2) Canister with end-of-service-life indicator; (3) Cartridge with end-of-service-life indicator; (4) Harness; (5) Attached blower; and (6) Breathing tube. (b) The components of each vinyl chloride respirator shall meet the minimum construction requirements set forth in Subpart G of this part. §84.252 Gas masks; requirements and tests. (a) Except for the tests prescribed in §84.126, the minimum requirements and performance tests for gas masks, prescribed in Subpart I of this part, are applicable to vinyl chloride gas masks. (b) The following bench tests are applicable to canisters designed for use with gas masks for entry into and escape from vinyl chloride atmospheres containing adequate oxygen to support life: (1) Four canisters will be equilibrated at 25 # 5 ○C by passing 85 # 5 percent relative humidity air through them at 64 liters per minute for six hours. (2) The equilibrated canisters will be resealed, kept in an upright position at room temperature, and tested according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section within 18 hours. (3) The canisters equilibrated and stored as described in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section will be tested on an apparatus that allows the test atmosphere at 85 # 5 percent relative humidity and 25 # 5 ○C to enter the canister continuously at a concentration of 25 ppm vinyl chloride monomer at a total flow rate of 64 liters per minute. (4) The maximum allowable penetration after six hours of testing according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall not exceed 1 ppm vinyl chloride. (c) Where canisters are submitted for testing and approval with a service life of more than four hours, the period of time for testing for vinyl chloride penetration will be performed at 150% of the service life specified in the manufacturer's application. Example: If a manufacturer requests approval of a respirator for six hours use against exposure to vinyl chloride, the maximum allowable penetration after nine hours of testing shall not exceed 1 ppm vinyl chloride. §84.253 Chemical-cartridge respirators; requirements and tests. (a) Except for the tests prescribed in §§84.206 and 84.207, the minimum requirements and performance tests for chemical-cartridge respirators prescribed in Subpart L of this part are applicable to replaceable-cartridge and single-use vinyl chloride chemical-cartridge respirators. (b) The following bench tests are applicable to cartridges designed for use with chemical-cartridge respirators for entry into and escape from vinyl chloride atmospheres containing adequate oxygen to support life: (1) Where two cartridges are used in parallel on a chemical-cartridge respirator, the bench test requirements will apply to the combination rather than the individual cartridges. (2) Four cartridges or pairs of cartridges will be equilibrated at 25 # 5 ○C by passing 85 # 5 percent relative humidity air through them at 25 liters per minute for six hours. (3) The equilibrated cartridges will be resealed, kept in an upright position, at room temperature, and tested according to paragraphs (b) (4) and (b)(5) of this section for other than single-use respirators or according to paragraphs (b)(6) and (b)(7) of this section for single-use respirators within 18 hours.
