FR940610-1-00029 FR940610-1-00006 4. Improvement in Air Quality Due to Permanent and Enforceable Measures Under the 1977 Act, EPA approved the State of West Virginia SIP control strategy for the Parkersburg, West Virginia nonattainment area. EPA determined that the rules and the emission reductions achieved as a result of those rules were enforceable. Since enactment of the 1990 amendments, the State of West Virginia submitted corrections to its RACT regulations as identified above. EPA finds that these additional measures contribute to the permanence and enforceability of reductions in ambient ozone levels in the Parkersburg, West Virginia area. Between 1988 and 1990, because of permanent and enforceable state and federal provisions, emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) were reduced by 2.28 tons/day and emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) were reduced by 1.0 tons/day in Parkersburg. Most of the reductions came from mobile sources and gasoline marketing-related activities. The Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP), of gasoline marketed for use in the Parkersburg, West Virginia area decreased from 10.5 RVP to 9.5 RVP in 1990 and was reduced to 9.0 in 1992. In addition, due to automobile fleet turnover, there was an increase in the percent of automobile operated in the Parkersburg area meeting more stringent emission standards as required by the Federal Motor Vehicle Control Program (FMVCP). It must be noted here that since 1992 the federal RVP requirement of 9.0 has been the applicable standard in the Parkersburg, West Virginia area. The State of West Virginia maintenance plan requires the continuation of the federal RVP program. These reductions due to lower RVP and more stringent tailpipe standards resulting from the Federal Motor Vehicle Control Program were determined using the mobile emission inventory model MOBILE 5.0a and the relevant vehicle miles traveled data. Permanent and enforceable decreases in VOCs at stationary sources contributed a small amount to the total VOC reduction in the Parkersburg, West Virginia area. In association with its emission inventory, the State of West Virginia demonstrated that point source VOC emissions were not artificially low due to local economic downturn during the period in which the Parkersburg, West Virginia area's ambient air quality came into attainment. Reductions due to decreases in production levels or from other unenforceable scenarios such as voluntary reductions were not included in the determination of the emission reductions. EPA finds that the combination of measures contained in the SIP and federal measures have resulted in permanent and enforceable reductions in ozone precursors that have allowed the Parkersburg, West Virginia area to attain the NAAQS, and therefore, that the redesignation criterion of section 107(d)(3)(E)(iii) has been met.
