FR940830-2-00095 FR940830-2-00056 Antitrust Division United States v. California SunCare, Inc.; Proposed Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement Notice is hereby given pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 16(b) through (h), that a proposed Final Judgment, Stipulation and Competitive Impact Statement have been filed with the United States District Court for the Central District of California in United States of America v. California SunCare, Inc., Civil Action No. 94&hyph;5522. The Complaint in this case alleged that California SunCare, Inc. engaged in a combination and conspiracy in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. ยง1, to fix the resale prices of indoor tanning products sold by California SunCare to dealers throughout the United States. The proposed Final Judgment enjoins the defendant from entering into or maintaining, any agreement, understanding, combination or conspiracy with any of its dealers or potential dealers to fix the resale price of indoor tanning products. The proposed Final Judgment further enjoins the defendant for a period of five years from the date of entry of the final judgment from directly or indirectly announcing to the public or to any present or potential dealer of its indoor tanning products that defendant has or is adopting, promulgating, suggesting, announcing or establishing any resale pricing policy for indoor tanning products that provides that: (1) defendant will sell only to a dealer that prices at or above defendant's suggested resale price, and/or (2) defendant will terminate any dealer for pricing below defendant's suggested resale price. Finally, the defendant is also enjoined for a period of five years from the date of entry of the final judgment from (1) threatening any dealer with termination or terminating any dealer for pricing below the defendant's suggested resale price, and (2) discussing with any present or potential dealer any decision regarding termination of any other dealer for any reason directly or indirectly related to the latter dealer's pricing below defendant's suggested resale price. The defendant is also required to establish an antitrust compliance program. Public comment is invited within the statutory 60-day comment period. Such comments, and responses thereto, will be published in the Federal Register and filed with the Court. Comments should be directed to Marvin N. Price, Jr., Acting Chief, Midwest Field Office, Antitrust Division, Department of Justice, 209 South LaSalle Street, Suite 600, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (telephone: (312) 353&hyph;7530). Constance K. Robinson, Director of Operations.
