FR940720-0-00126 FR940720-0-00010 Issue 4: Reservoirs do not, as implied, store all spring runoff and summer inflows. Water is normally released during summer, not winter months. Diversion dams and canals have limited capacities to divert flows. They cannot ``completely divert all flows .␣.␣. into irrigation ditches'' under flood conditions. Response: The Service agrees with the statement that reservoirs do not store all spring runoff and summer inflow. While most water is released during the spring and summer, a fall and winter release does occur in the Middle Rio Grande Valley when conditions permit (Beal and Gold 1988, Borland and Gold 1989). Under flood conditions, the irrigation diversions do not have the capacity to divert all flows. Under non-flood flows they do have the capacity to divert all flows. United States Geological Survey (USGS) records substantiate the occurrence of no-flow periods downstream of the various irrigation diversion dams. Issue 5: The proposed regulation is unsupported by any hydrological study as to the statements that irrigation uses have depleted the water flow. Not a single source of information is cited for comments regarding hydrology of the river. Depletions of water in the system may be the result of the construction of wildlife watering impoundments by the Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management. Response: It can be readily documented by examining USGS flow gage records that river flows decrease when the irrigation season starts. In addition, the Service reviewed Bullard and Wells (1992), which provides information on the hydrology of the middle Rio Grande. This reduction in flow is most noticeable in mid-summer after the spring to early summer peak flow has passed. Wildlife impoundments are often very small (less than one acre in size) and are considered to be insignificant in the amount of water they deplete from the drainage. Issue 6: Economic considerations should be given more weight when communities may be affected. Response: Section 4(a)(1) of the Act identifies five factors that are considered in making a determination of whether a species should be listed as threatened or endangered. Section 4(b)(1)(A) of the Act requires that listing determinations be based solely on the best available scientific and commercial data, and prohibits the Service from considering economic factors (50 CFR 424.11(b)). However, because economics are considered in the designation of critical habitat, the Service will conduct an economic analysis in the process of evaluating proposed critical habitat for the Rio Grande silvery minnow. Issue 7: The Service needs to ensure public input before listing the Rio Grande silvery minnow. The Service is required to notify counties and other affected parties to solicit their input prior to listing a species under the Act. The Service failed to meet this obligation. Response: On February 19, 1991, about 80 pre-proposal letters of inquiry were mailed to various governmental agencies, knowledgeable individuals, and the New Mexico Congressional delegation. On March 20, 1992, the Service held a meeting in Albuquerque, New Mexico, with various interested governmental and private entities to explore existing or potential flexibility in water delivery schedules that might avoid dewatering of the Rio Grande within the range of the Rio Grande silvery minnow. The Service also published notices of the proposal in 5 local newspapers and mailed copies of the proposed rule to 148 different government agencies, private organizations, and interested individuals, including all counties having lands that border the area being proposed for critical habitat designation. Two public hearings were also held. The Service has fully met or surpassed the requirements of the Endangered Species Act for public notification. Issue 8: The Service held public hearings only to fulfill a legal obligation and will not pay attention to any public comment. The Service should have held public hearings in El Paso and Las Cruces. Response: The Service disagrees. All comments are carefully evaluated before the Service makes a determination on whether to proceed with a final rule. Numerous notifications of the proposed rule and extension of the comment period were distributed, and Service biologists traveled to several areas, including El Paso and Las Cruces, to present briefings on the proposed rule and accept comments. Issue 9: The Service should establish a coordinating committee composed of interests below Elephant Butte Reservoir whose task would be to develop a full-scale report on the existing data available on the Rio Grande silvery minnow and how the river could be managed for the benefit of all, including the Rio Grande silvery minnow. Response: After the species is listed the Service will consider, through the recovery planning process, establishing a coordinating committee to develop a report on the Rio Grande silvery minnow and how the river could be managed for the benefit of all, including the Rio Grande silvery minnow. Issue 10: During periods of dewatering of the river, the ditches provide habitat for the species. The Service should consider exploring with the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District, the counties, and other agencies the multiple use of riverside drains for the species and the preservation of bosque habitat. Response: The Service agrees that during periods of drought, which result in the dewatering of the mainstream Rio Grande, the various irrigation ditches and drains may provide a temporary place of refuge for the Rio Grande silvery minnow. However, these areas do not contain suitable habitat for long-term use by the species. Few Rio Grande silvery minnows are found in the ditches and drains. Those that are found are believed to represent Rio Grande silvery minnows that became entrapped due to the diversion of irrigation water from the mainstream. The Service intends to investigate, with all interests, the potential use of the riverside drains for recovery of the species.
