FR940707-2-00009 FR940707-2-00002 (c) Duplicate current services or replace or substitute support previously provided. (d) Pay costs of preparing the application package for funding under this program. (e) Pay costs incurred prior to the effective date of the grant made under this subpart. (f) Pay for building construction or the purchase of real estate or vehicles; improving and/or renovation of office space; or repair or maintenance of privately-owned property. (g) Fund political activities. (h) Pay for assistance to any private business enterprise which does not have at least 51 percent ownership by those who are either citizens of the United States or reside in the United States after being legally admitted for permanent residence. Secs. 4284.517&hyph;4284.526␣[Reserved] Sec. 4284.527␣Other Considerations (a) Civil rights compliance requirements. All grants made under this subpart are subject to the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, and national origin as outlined in subpart E of part 1901 of this title. In addition, the grants made under this subpart are subject to the requirements of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 which prohibits discrimination on the basis of handicap; the requirements of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age; and Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, Pub. L. 101&hyph;336, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability by private entities in places of public accommodations. (b) Environmental requirements. (1) General applicability. Unless specifically modified by this section, the requirements of subpart G of part 1940 of this title apply to this subpart. RDA will give particular emphasis to ensuring compliance with the environmental policies contained in §§1940.303 and 1940.304 of subpart G of part 1940 of this title. Although the purpose of the grant program established by this subpart is to improve business, industry, and employment in rural areas, this purpose is to be achieved, to the extent practicable, without adversely affecting important environmental resources of rural areas such as important farmland and forest lands, prime rangelands, wetland and floodplains. Prospective recipients of grants, therefore, must consider the potential environmental impacts of their applications at the earliest planning stages and develop plans and projects that minimize the potential to adversely impact on the environment. (2) Technical assistance. An application for a technical assistance project is generally excluded from the environmental review process by §1940.333 of subpart G of part 1940 of this title. However, as further specified in that section, the grantee of a technical assistance grant, in the process of providing technical assistance, must consider the potential environmental impacts of the recommendations provided to the recipient of the technical assistance. (3) Applications for grants to provide financial assistance to third-party recipients. As part of the preapplication, the applicant must provide a complete Form FmHA 1940&hyph;20, ``Request for Environmental Information,'' for each project specifically identified in its plan to provide financial assistance to third parties who will undertake eligible projects with such assistance. RDA will review the preapplication, supporting materials, and any required Forms FmHA 1940&hyph;20 and initiate a Class II assessment for the preapplication in accordance with §1940.318 of subpart G of part 1940 of this title. This assessment will focus on the potential cumulative impacts of the projects as well as any environmental concerns or problems that are associated with individual projects and that can be identified at this time from the information submitted. Because RDA's approval of this type of grant application does not constitute RDA's commitment to the use of grant funds for any identified third-party projects (see §4284.541 of this subpart), no public notification requirements for a Class II assessment will apply to the preapplication. After the grant is approved, each third-party project to be assisted under the grant will undergo the applicable environmental review and public notification requirements in subpart G of part 1940 of this title prior to RDA providing its consent to the grantee to assist the third-party project. If the preapplication reflects only one specific project which is specifically identified as the third-party recipient for financial assistance, RDA may perform the appropriate environmental assessment in accordance with the requirements of subpart G of part 1940 of this title and forego initiating a Class II assessment with no public notification. However, the applicant must be advised that if the recipient or project changes after the grant is approved, the project to be assisted under the grant will undergo the applicable environmental review and public notification requirements in subpart G of part 1940 of this title. (c) Governmentwide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement) and requirements for drug-free workplace. All projects must comply with the requirements set forth in part 3017 of this title and FmHA Instruction 1940&hyph;M (available in any State RDA/FmHA office). (d) Restrictions on lobbying. All grants must comply with the lobbying restrictions set forth in part 3018 of this title. (e) Excess capacity or transfer of employment. (1) If a proposed grant is for more than $1 million and will increase direct employment by more than 50 employees, the applicant will be requested to provide written support for an RDA determination that the proposal will not result in a project which is calculated to, or likely to, result in: (i) The transfer of any employment or business activity from one area to another (this limitation shall not prohibit assistance for the expansion of an existing business entity through the establishment of a new branch, affiliate, or subsidiary of such entity if the expansion will not result in an increase in the unemployment in the area of original location or in any other area where such entity conducts business operations unless there is reason to believe that such expansion is being established with the intention of closing down the operations of the existing business entity in the area of its original location or in any other area where it conducts such operations), or (ii) An increase in the production of goods, materials, or commodities or the availability of services or facilities in the area when there is not sufficient demand for such goods, materials, commodities, services, or facilities to employ the efficient capacity of existing competitive commercial or industrial enterprises, unless such financial or other assistance will not have an adverse effect upon existing competitive enterprises in the area. The applicant's written support will consist of a resolution from the applicant and Form FmHA 449&hyph;22, ``Certification of Non-Relocation and Market and Capacity Information Report,'' from each existing and future occupant of the site. The applicant may use Guide 2 of subpart G of part 1942 (available in any State RDA/FmHA office) as an example in preparing the resolution. Future occupants of the site must be certified by Department of Labor (DOL) as outlined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section for a period of 3 years after the initial certification by DOL. (2) RDA will check each document for completeness and accuracy and submit nine copies of each to the National Office for forwarding to DOL. (3) Grants shall not be made if the Secretary of Labor certifies within 30 days after the matter has been submitted by the Secretary of Agriculture that the provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section have not been met. Information for obtaining this certification will be submitted, in writing, by the applicant to RDA. The information will be submitted to DOL by the RDA National Office. Grant approval may be given and funds may be obligated, subject to the DOL certification being received, provided RDA has made its own separate determinations of (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section when applicable. (f) Management assistance. Grant recipients will be supervised, as necessary, to ensure that projects are completed in accordance with approved plans and specifications and that funds are expended for approved purposes. Grants made under this subpart will be administered under, and are subject to parts 3015, 3016, and 3017 of this title, as appropriate, and established RDA guidelines. (g) National Historic Preservation Act of 1966. All projects will be in compliance with the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 in accordance with subpart F of part 1901 of this title. (h) Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act. All projects must comply with the requirements set forth in part 21 of this title. (i) Floodplains and wetlands. All projects must comply with Executive Order 11988, ``Floodplain Management,'' and Executive Order 11990, ``Protection of Wetlands.''
