FR940412-2-00025 FR940412-2-00013 G. Immunizations_$18 H. Clinical Services By Type of Service/Care Provided 1Inpatient rate 1Items included Medical Care Services Internal Medicine, Cardiology, Dermathology, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Hematology, Nephrology, Neurology, Oncology, Pulmonary and Upper Respiratory Disease, Rheumatology, Physical Medicine, Clinical Immunology, HIV&hyph;III Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), Infectious Disease, Allergy, and Medical Care not elsewhere classified. Includes Family Practice Medical Care. Surgical Care Services General Surgery, Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, Neurosurgery, Ophthalmology, Oral Surgery, Otorhinolaryngology, Pediatric Surgery, Plastic Surgery, Proctology, Urology, Peripheral Vascular Surgery, Trauma Center, Head and Neck Surgery, and Surgical Care not elsewhere classified. Includes Family Practice Surgical Care. Obstetrical and Gynecological Care Includes Family Practice, Obstetrics and Gynecology. Pediatric Care Pediatrics, Nursery, Adolescent Pediatrics and Pediatric Care not elsewhere classified. Includes Family Practice Pediatric and Nursery Care. Orthopedic Care Orthopedics, Podiatry and Hand Surgery. Includes Family Practice Orthopedic Care. Psychiatric Care and Substance Abuse Rehabilitation Includes Family Practice Psychiatric Care. Medical Intensive Care/Coronary Care Self-Explanatory. Surgical Intensive Care Self-Explanatory. Neonatal Intensive Self-Explanatory. Organ and Bone Marrow Transplants Self-Explanatory. Same Day Surgery Self-Explanatory. Notes on Reimbursable Rates 1Daily percentages are applied to both inpatient and outpatient services provided when billing third party payers (such as insurance companies). Pursuant to the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1095, the inpatient daily percentages are 55 percent hospital, 5 percent physician, 40 percent ancillary. The outpatient daily percentages are 57 percent hospital, 10 percent physicians and 33 percent ancillary. 2DoD civilian employees located in overseas areas shall be rendered a bill when services are performed. Payment is due 60 days from the date of the bill. 3Charges for PRIMUS/NAVCARE and high cost medications/services requested by external providers (Physicians, Dentists, etc.) are only relevant to the Third Party Collection Program. Third party payers (such as insurance companies) shall be billed for high cost services in those instances in which non-active duty eligible beneficiaries have medical insurance and are seen by providers external to a Military Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) and obtain the prescribed service or medication from an MTF. Eligible beneficiaries are not personally liable for this cost and shall not be billed by the MTF. The standard cost of high cost medications includes the cost of the drugs and dispensing services. 4All quantities shown are tablets unless otherwise stated. The third party charge is only for the strengths and the dosage cited. Charges will vary if the strengths and dosage are changed. The method of computing standards costs to be charged for high cost medications is actual cost to the pharmacy, plus a 30 percent dispensing fee. Only medications listed in this schedule may be billed. If a different dose is issued for a medication that is listed, only bill if the cost is $100 or more. 5The attending physician is to complete the common procedure terminology code to indicate the appropriate procedure followed during cosmetic surgery. 6Cosmetic surgery rates will be charged for dependents of active duty members, retirees, and their dependents and survivors. The patient shall be charged the rate as specified in the FY 1994 reimbursable rates for an episode of care. The charges for elective cosmetic surgery are at the full reimbursement rate (designated as the Other rate_in Section I, ``Inpatient and Outpatient Rates'' and Section II, ``Per Outpatient Visit''). The patient will be responsible for both the cost of the implant(s) and prescribed rates. Note: The implants and procedures used for the augmentation mammoplasty are in compliance with Federal Drug Administration guidelines. 7Each regional lipectomy will carry a separate charge. Regions include head and neck, abdomen, flanks, and hips. 8These procedures are inclusive in the minor skin lesions. However, CHAMPUS separates them as noted here. All charges are for the entire treatment regardless of the number of visits required. Dated: April 7, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8728 Filed 4&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
