FR940727-0-00152 FR940727-0-00028 Subpart A_General Provisions §953.1 Applicability and scope. The policies and procedures described in this part apply only to grants to eligible Indian Tribes and Alaskan native villages under the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program for Indian Tribes and Alaskan native villages. Expiration of interim rule. This interim rule will expire on April 1, 1996. §953.2 Program objectives. The primary objective of the Indian CDBG (ICDBG) Program and of the community development program of each grantee covered under this Act is the development of viable Indian and Alaskan native communities, including decent housing, a suitable living environment, and economic opportunities, principally for persons of low- and moderate-income. The Federal assistance provided in this part is not to be used to reduce substantially the amount of local financial support for community development activities below the level of such support prior to the availability of this assistance. §953.3 Nature of program. The ICDBG Program is competitive in nature. Therefore, selection of eligible applicants for funds will reflect consideration of the relative adequacy of applications in addressing locally determined need. Applicants for funding must have the administrative capacity to undertake the community development activities proposed, including the systems of internal control necessary to administer these activities effectively without fraud, waste, or mismanagement. §953.4 Definitions. Act means Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq .) Chief executive officer means the elected official or legally designated official who has the prime responsibility for the conduct of the affairs of an Indian Tribe or Alaskan native village. Eligible Indian populations means the most accurate and uniform population data available from reliable sources for Indian Tribes and Alaskan native villages eligible under this part. Extent of overcrowded housing means the number of housing units with 1.01 or more persons per room, based on data compiled and published by the United States Bureau of the Census available from the latest census referable to the same point or period of time. Extent of poverty means the number of persons whose incomes are below the poverty level, based on data compiled and published by the United States Bureau of the Census referable to the same point or period in time and the latest reports from the Office of Management and Budget. Field offices means the HUD Offices of Native American Programs or other HUD field offices having responsibility for the Indian CDBG Program. HUD means the Department of Housing and Urban Development. ICDBG Program means the Indian Community Development Block Grant Program. Identified service area means: (1) A geographic location within the jurisdiction of a Tribe (but not the entire jurisdiction) designated in comprehensive plans, ordinances, or other local documents as a service area; (2) The Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) service area, including residents of areas outside the geographic jurisdiction of the Tribe; or (3) The entire area under the jurisdiction of a Tribe which has a population of members of under 10,000. Low- and moderate-income beneficiary means a family, household, or individual whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, with adjustments for smaller and larger households or families. However, the Secretary may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median for the area on the basis of the Secretary's findings that such variations are necessary because of unusually high or low household or family incomes. In reporting income levels to HUD, the applicant must include and identify the distributions of Tribal or village income to families, households, or individuals. Secretary means the Secretary of HUD. Tribal government, Tribal governing body or Tribal council means the federally recognized governing body of an Indian Tribe or Alaskan native village. Tribal resolution means the formal manner in which the Tribal government expresses its legislative will in accordance with its organic documents. In the absence of such organic documents, a written expression adopted pursuant to Tribal practices will be acceptable. URA means the Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended. §953.5 Eligible applicants. (a) Eligible applicants are any Indian Tribe, band, group, or nation, including Alaskan Indians, Aleuts, and Eskimos, and any Alaskan native village of the United States which is considered an eligible recipient under Title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450) or which had been an eligible recipient under the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972 (31 U.S.C. 1221). Eligible recipients under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act will be determined by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and eligible recipients under the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972 are those that have been determined eligible by the Department of the Treasury, Office of Revenue Sharing.
