FR940314-0-00054 FR940314-0-00012 •AADC packages must be banded, except when placed in full AADC trays. Separator cards are not allowed in overflow AADC trays or in mixed-AADC trays. •Mail remaining after preparing AADC packages must be placed in working trays in AADC sequence. ZIP+4 Presort and Barcoded Package-Based Mailings (DMM M813, M815, and M816) This rule will require that the residual portion of second- and third-class package-based mailings be prepared under one of the two options described below. Both options require presortation of residual pieces by AADC area. First-Class mailings may be prepared under either of these options, which together will replace the current AADC tray option, or under the existing ZIP Code sequencing and listing option or the physical separation option. SCF/AADC Preparation Option Under this option, the residual and qualifying portions of the mailing may be combined in SCF and AADC trays. Residual pieces must be sorted into AADC packages if 10 or more pieces destinate to an AADC area. All pieces that do not meet the 10-piece minimum are placed in working trays. In addition, mailers have the option of preparing residual mail into 3-digit packages prior to preparing required AADC packages. Three-digit residual packages must be labeled (green Label 3 or OEL or separator card label) and placed in SCF trays. AADC packages must be packaged and labeled (pink Label A or OEL) and placed in AADC trays and mixed-AADC trays, except that pieces in full AADC trays containing only residual mail need not be packaged and labeled. AADC trays must be prepared if enough pieces exist to fill a tray. Less-than-full AADC trays are permitted. Mixed-AADC trays must be prepared unless all residual mail is trayed to the AADC level. Mixed-AADC trays are limited to AADC packages of residual mail. Pieces remaining after preparing and traying AADC packages are working mail and must be placed in working trays in AADC sequence. In barcoded three-tier package-based mailings prepared under M816, residual mail is not permitted in the 5-digit tier. Separate AADC Sortation Under this option, the residual portion of the mailing is presented separately from the qualifying portion in AADC, mixed-AADC, and working trays. AADC packages must be prepared if 10 or more pieces destinate to an AADC area, except that pieces in full AADC trays need not be packaged. AADC trays must be prepared if enough pieces exist to fill a tray. Less-than-full AADC trays are permitted. Remaining AADC packages must be placed in mixed-AADC trays. AADC packages must be labeled with a pink Label A or OEL. All pieces that do not meet the 10-piece minimum per AADC are placed in separate working trays in AADC sequence. Labeling Changes The AADC tray label for two-tier package-based preparation under DMM M815 is revised to change the position of the term ``LTRS'' on the second line so that it is consistent with other tray labels. The AADC tray label for 3-tier package-based preparation under DMM M816 is revised to delete the term ``3D'' when SCF/AADC residual preparation is used. Since these trays will contain both 3-digit and AADC packages, the description ``3D'' is no longer appropriate. In addition, the labeling format for mixed-AADC and working trays is as follows: •ZIP+4 mixed-AADC trays: On Line 1 use ``MXD'' followed by the applicable origin SCF name, state, and ZIP Code from L002, Column A (facilities identified with three bullets), or Column B, except use L805 for second- and third-class mail entered by the mailer at a BMC/ASF. On Line 2 use class followed by ZIP+4 PRESORT PKGS. •ZIP+4 working trays: On Line 1 use ``MXD'' followed by the applicable origin SCF name, state, and ZIP Code from L002, Column A (facilities identified with three bullets), or Column B, except use L805 for second- and third-class mail entered by the mailer at a BMC/ASF. On Line 2 use class followed by ZIP+4 WORKING or ZIP+4 WKG. •Barcoded mixed-AADC trays: On Line 1 use ``MXD'' followed by the applicable origin SCF name, state, and ZIP Code from L002, Column A (facilities identified with three bullets), or Column B, except use L805 for second- and third-class mail entered by the mailer at a BMC/ASF. On Line 2 use class followed by LTRS BARCODED PKGS. •Barcoded working trays: On Line 1 use ``MXD'' followed by the applicable origin SCF name, state, and ZIP Code from L002, Column A (facilities identified with three bullets), or Column B, except use L805 for second- and third-class mail entered by the mailer at a BMC/ASF. On Line 2 use class followed by LTRS BARCODED WKG.
