FR941205-2-00137 FR941205-2-00073 b. Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations. An applicant will be considered to have performed inadequately if the applicant: (1) Has not substantially complied with the laws, regulations, and Executive Orders applicable to the CDBG Program, including applicable civil rights laws as may be evidenced by: an outstanding finding of civil rights noncompliance, unless the applicant demonstrates that it is operating in compliance with a HUD-approved compliance agreement designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance; an adjudication of a civil rights violation in a civil action brought against it by a private individual, unless the applicant demonstrates that it is operating in compliance with a court order designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance; a deferral of Federal funding based upon civil rights violations; a pending civil rights suit brought against it by the Department of Justice; or an unresolved charge of discrimination issued against it by the Secretary under section 810(g) of the Fair Housing Act, as implemented by 24 CFR 103.400; (2) Has not resolved or attempted to resolve findings made as a result of HUD monitoring; or (3) Has not resolved or attempted to resolve audit findings. An applicant will be ineligible for a grant where the inadequate performance in compliance with applicable laws and regulations evidences a lack of capacity to carry out the proposed project or program. An application also will not be accepted from a unit of general local government which has an outstanding audit finding or monetary obligation for any HUD program. Additionally, applications will not be accepted from any entity which proposes an activity in a unit of general local government that has an outstanding audit finding or monetary obligation for any HUD program. The Director of the Community Planning and Development Division of the HUD field office may provide waivers to this prohibition, but in no instance will a waiver be provided where funds are due HUD, unless a satisfactory arrangement for repayment of the debt has been made. c. Performance Assessment Reports. Under 24 CFR 570.507, Small Cities CDBG grantees are required to submit Performance Assessment Reports (PARs) annually on the date when the grant was originally executed. For an application for FY 1995 funds to be considered for funding, the applicant must be current in its submission of Performance Assessment Reports. Failure to submit a PAR is not a curable technical deficiency under Section V of this NOFA. 3. Four Factor Rating As noted in subsections 1 and 3 of this Section E, all applications are rated and scored against four factors. These four factors are: _Need based on absolute number of persons in poverty; _Need based on the percent of persons in poverty; _Program Impact; and _Outstanding performance in fair housing and equal opportunity. A maximum of 615 points is possible under this system with the maximum points for each factor being: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Need_absolute number of persons in poverty 75 points. Need_percent of persons in poverty 75 points. Program Impact 400 points. Outstanding performance_FHEO: Provision of fair housing choice 20 points. Fair Housing Programs 20 points. Minority contracting 15 points. Equal opportunity employment 10 points. n,s Total 615 points. Each of the four factors is outlined below. All points for each factor are rounded to the nearest whole number. Applicants should note that there is a distinct difference in the methods used to evaluate Program Impact for Single Purpose grants versus Program Impact for Comprehensive grants. These differences are more fully discussed below. a. Need_Absolute number of persons in poverty. HUD uses 1990 census data to determine the absolute number of persons in poverty residing within the applicant unit of general local government. Comprehensive and Single Purpose grant applicants are grouped and rated separately for this factor. Applicants which are county governments are rated separately from all other applicants. Applicants in each group are compared in terms of the number of persons whose incomes are below the poverty level. Individual scores are obtained by dividing each applicant's absolute number of persons in poverty by the greatest number of persons in poverty of any applicant and multiplying by 75.
