FR940902-2-00143 FR940902-2-00059 III. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with Sections 6(b)(5) and 11 of the Act. 9 The Commission believes that the rule change is consistent with the Section 6(b)(5) requirements that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, and, in general, protect investors and the public interest. The Commission also believes that the proposal is consistent with Section 11(b) of the Act and Rule 11b&hyph;1 thereunder, 10 which allow exchanges to promulgate rules relating to specialists in order to maintain fair and orderly markets. 9 15 U.S.C. ยง78f and 78k (1988). 10 17 CFR 240.11b&hyph;1 (1994). Both the Act and Exchange rules reflect the crucial role played by specialists in providing stability, liquidity, and continuity in the Exchange's market. Recognizing the importance of the specialist in the market, the Act, as well as Exchange rules, impose stringent obligations upon specialists. 11 Primary among these obligations is the requirement to maintain fair and orderly markets by engaging in, among other things, dealings for their own account to minimize the effects of temporary disparity between supply and demand. 12 11 See Rule 11b&hyph;1 under the Act, 17 CFR 240.11b&hyph;1 (1994); Amex Rule 170. 12 See Amex Rule 170(d). The Commission believes that the rule change permitting specialists in PDRs and investment trust securities listed pursuant to Section 118B to participate in the AHT facility by entering an order for the specialist's account only to eliminate order imbalances should assist specialists in their obligation to minimize temporary disparity between supply and demand. In addition, the Commission agrees with the Exchange that permitting specialists in PDRs and investment trust securities to participate in the AHT facility in order to ``clean-up'' order imbalances and effect closing price coupled orders would benefit investors by providing additional liquidity to the listed cash market for derivative securities based upon well known market indexes. The Commission also believes that the Amex's rule change strikes a reasonable balance between the Exchange's need to accommodate the needs of investors by increasing liquidity in the listed cash market for derivative securities based on market indexes, and the need to prevent the potential for manipulation or misuse of information. For example, although Amex specialists will know which limit order are eligible for execution in the AHT facility, they will not be able to use this information to their own advantage because Rule 1302(b) is being amended to eliminate the migration of limit orders for PDRs and investment trust securities from the specialist's limit order book to the AHT facility. In addition, the Commission believes that approval of the Amex rule change for a one year pilot period will provide the Commission and Exchange an opportunity to monitor the operation of the amendments to Rules 1300 and 1302. This one year period also will allow the Commission and the Exchange the opportunity to monitor specialist compliance with the amended rules to ensure that specialists are properly executing their responsibilities. Finally, in its rule filing, the Amex indicated that, during the one year pilot period, the Exchange would study the operation of the facility to determine if there are any additional issues that need to be addressed. In this regard, the Commission requests that the Exchange submit a report and analysis, by May 1, 1995, of the following information (broken down by month): (1) trading volume (trades and number of shares of PDRs and investment trust securities) in the after-hours session; (2) the number of trades, if any, of (a) single-sided orders, and (b) coupled buy and sell orders which specialists executed in the after-hours session; (3) the number of shares, if any, of (a) single-sided orders, and (b) coupled buy and sell orders which specialists executed in the after-hours session; and (4) the number, if any, of single-sided orders that remained unexecuted at the end of the after-hours session. In addition, the Commission expects the Amex, through use of its surveillance procedures, to monitor closely the trading of PDRs and investment trust securities in the AHT facility to ensure that trading in these issues is not subject to any patterns of manipulation or trading abuses or unusual trading activity. Finally, the Commission requests that the Amex keep the Commission apprised of any technical problems which may arise regarding the operation of the pilot program. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act 13 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;15) is hereby approved for a one year period until August 29, 1995. 13 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 14 14 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21750 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
