FR940810-1-00051 FR940810-1-00009 * * * * * 5. In §570.207, paragraph (b)(4) would be revised to read as follows: §570.207 Ineligible activities. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (4) Income payments. The general rule is that CDBG funds may not be used for income payments. For purposes of the CDBG program, income payments means a series of subsistence-type grant payments made to an individual or family for items such as food, clothing, housing (rent or mortgage), day care or utilities, but excludes one-time emergency payments made to the provider of such items or services on behalf of an individual or family. 6. Section 570.301 would be amended by revising the section heading and paragraph (c) to read as follows: §570.301 Presubmission and citizen participation requirements. * * * * * (c) Develop a statement of community development objectives and projected use of funds annually. The principal purpose of the statement is for the grantee to describe to HUD and its citizens how it plans to use CDBG funds. When completed and submitted to HUD, it is known as the final statement. The grantee must amend its final statement whenever it decides not to carry out an activity described in the final statement, to carry out an activity not already included in the final statement, or to change substantially the purpose, scope, location, or beneficiaries of an activity described in the statement. The statement and any amendments must be prepared in accordance with the following: (1) Sources and uses. All available CDBG funds must be identified and accounted for in the statement by clearly identifying the source and planned use of all CDBG funds that the grantee expects to receive during the upcoming program year, plus any CDBG funds received in the current program year that are not included in the current year's final statement. (i) The sources of CDBG funds to be included in the statement are: (A) The annual grant to be received for that grant year; (B) Program income expected to be received during that program year; (C) Program income received during the preceding program year that has not been included in a final statement; (D) Program income expected to be received during the program year and in future program years from float-funded activities described in the final statement (the amount of such income and the year(s) in which it is expected to be received must be identified and the grantee must also explain how it will respond to any delays in the receipt of such future year income (as required in paragraph (c)(4) of this section); (E) Program income expected to be received during that program year from a float-funded activity that was described in an identified preceding final statement; (F) Surplus funds from any urban renewal settlement for community development and housing activities; and (G) Any grant funds returned to the line of credit, the planned use of which has not been included in a final statement. (ii) The use of all such CDBG funds must be identified for specific activities and allowable contingencies, as described in paragraph (c)(2). (2) Content. The statement must be submitted in the manner prescribed by HUD and must, at minimum, describe: (i) The community development objectives the grantee proposes to pursue; (ii) The community development activities the grantee proposes to carry out with anticipated CDBG funds to address its community development objectives. (A) The statement must show how all of the funds expected to be available during the program year are expected to be used. This means that all of the funds identified under the sources section must be programmed for use in specific activities, except for any program income identified in the statement as stemming from a float-funded activity identified in a final statement from a preceding program year, and except that an amount not to exceed ten percent of such total available funds may be identified for the contingency of cost overruns in any of the activities contained in the statement. (B) An activity may not be included in a final statement, whether originally or by amendment, unless the activity was previously described in the proposed statement, or a proposed amendment to the final statement, and has been properly subject to citizen participation under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Neither may an activity be included in a form that has been substantially modified from the form in which it was made known to citizens pursuant to paragraph (c)(3). This means that, although the grantee has the final say as to which activities are selected for funding, it cannot elect to include a new or substantially modified activity that has not been subject to or derived from the process of citizen review. (iii) Each activity must be described in sufficient detail, including the specific regulatory provisions under which it is eligible and is expected to meet a national objective, the amount of funds expected to be used, the location of the activity, the amount of program income expected to be generated, and when such income is expected to be available for use. The description must be in sufficient detail to permit a clear understanding of the nature of the activity and to allow citizens to determine the degree to which they may be affected. For activities for which the grantee has not yet decided on a specific location, such as when the grantee is allocating an amount of funds to be used for making loans or grants to businesses or for residential rehabilitation, the description shall identify who may apply for the assistance, the process by which the grantee expects to select who will receive the assistance (including selection criteria) and how much and under what terms the assistance will be provided. The statement may include an ``urgent needs'' activity (one that is not expected to qualify under §570.208 (a) or (b)) only if the grantee identifies the activity in the statement and certifies that the activity is designed to meet other community development needs having a particular urgency because existing conditions pose a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of the community and other financial resources are not available. (iv) The statement must also describe where citizens may obtain additional information about activities described in the statement. (v) Float-funded activities, described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, must be specifically identified as such in the statement. (3) Citizen participation. (i) Statement. The grantee must prepare a statement identifying in the detail prescribed in paragraph (c)(2) the activities it proposes to carry out, and must publish the statement community-wide to afford affected citizens an opportunity to examine the statement and to provide comments on it. Publishing the proposed statement in a newspaper of general circulation will be considered to constitute community-wide publication. Simply publishing a notice that the statement is available in public libraries is not adequate for this purpose, unless such publication is accompanied by a broad distribution of the statement among neighborhood or similar citizen groups representing virtually all areas of the community whose residents are predominantly low and moderate income or that are blighted. After comment on the proposed statement has been received, the grantee must consider the comments and make such modifications to the proposed statement as the grantee considers appropriate. Upon completion, the grantee must make the final statement available to the public.
