FR941006-1-00035 FR941006-1-00008 Subpart A_General Information ยง344.0 Offering of securities. (a) In order to provide issuers of tax exempt securities with investments which allow them to comply with yield restriction and arbitrage rebate provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, the Secretary of the Treasury offers for sale the following State and Local Government Series securities: (1) Time deposit securities: (i) United States Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness, (ii) United States Treasury Notes, and (iii) United States Treasury Bonds. (2) Demand deposit securities_United States Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness. (3) Special zero interest securities: (i) United States Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness. (ii) United States Treasury Notes. (b) As appropriate, the definitions of terms used in this Part 344 are those found in the relevant portions of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations. The term ``government body'' refers to issuers of State or local government bonds described in section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code, as well as to any other entity subject to the yield restrictions in sections 141&hyph;150 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the arbitrage rebate requirements in section 143(g)(3) or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code. The term ``postmark date'' refers to the date affixed by the U.S. Postal Service, not to a postage meter date. The ``date telecopied'' for material sent by facsimile equipment is the date transmitted as it appears on the document received. The term ``date-stamp'' refers to the date affixed by the carrier service upon the carrier's taking receipt of the material. (c) This offering will continue until terminated by the Secretary of the Treasury. ยง344.1 General provisions. (a) Regulations. United States Treasury State and Local Government Series securities shall be subject to the general regulations with respect to United States securities, which are set forth in the Department of the Treasury Circular No. 300 (31 CFR part 306), to the extent applicable. Copies of the circular may be obtained from the Bureau of the Public Debt, Forms Management_Room 301, 200 Third Street, PO Box 396, Parkersburg, WV 26102&hyph;0396, or a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. (b) Issuance. The securities will be issued in book-entry form on the books of the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Public Debt, Parkersburg, WV 26102&hyph;0396. Transfer of securities by sale, exchange, assignment or pledge, or otherwise will not be permitted. (c) Transfers. Securities held in an account of any one type, i.e., time deposit, demand deposit, or special zero interest, may not be transferred within that account or to an account of any other type. (d) Fiscal agents. Selected Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, may be designated to perform such services as may be requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with the purchase of, transactions involving, and redemption of, the securities. (e) Authority of subscriber. Where a commercial bank submits an initial or final subscription on behalf of a government body, it must certify that it is acting under the latter's specific authorization; ordinarily, evidence of such authority will not be required. Subscriptions submitted by an agent other than a commercial bank must be accompanied by evidence of the agent's authority to act. Such evidence must describe the nature and scope of the agent's authorization, must specify the legal authority under which the agent was designated, and must relate by its terms to the investment action being undertaken. Subscriptions unsupported by such evidence will not be accepted.
