FR941019-2-00122 FR941019-2-00080 3. Threshold International Enforcement Issues 3.1␣Jurisdiction Just as the acts of U.S. citizens in a foreign nation ordinarily are subject to the law of the country in which they occur, the acts of foreign citizens in the United States ordinarily are subject to U.S. law. The reach of the U.S. antitrust laws is not limited, however, to conduct and transactions that occur within the boundaries of the United States. Anticompetitive conduct that affects U.S. domestic or foreign commerce may violate the U.S. antitrust laws regardless of where such conduct occurs or the nationality of the parties involved. In a world in which economic transactions observe no boundaries, international recognition of the ``effects doctrine'' of jurisdiction has become widespread. 44 44 The test adopted in the European Court of Justice usually produces the same outcomes as the ``effects'' test employed in the U.S. See Cases 89/85, etc., Ahlstrom v. Comm'n, note 21 supra . The merger laws of the European Union, Canada, Germany, France, Australia, and the Czech and Slovak Republics, among others, take a similar approach. 3.11␣Jurisdiction Over Conduct Involving Import Commerce With respect to foreign import commerce, the Supreme Court has recently in Hartford Fire Insurance Co. v. California that `'the Sherman Act applies to foreign conduct that was meant to produce and did in fact produce some substantial effect in the United States.'' 45 Imports intended for sale in the United States by definition affect the U.S. domestic market directly, and will, therefore, almost invariably satisfy the intent part of the Hartford test. Whether they in fact produce the requisite substantial effects will depend on the facts of each case. 45 113 S.CT. 2891, 2909 (1993). Illustrative Example A46 Situation: A, B, C, and D, are foreign companies that produce a product in various foreign countries. None has any U.S. production, nor any U.S. subsidiaries. They organize a cartel for the purpose of raising the price for the product in question. Collectively, the cartel members make substantial sales into the United States, both in absolute terms and relative to total U.S. consumption. 46 The examples incorporated into the text are intended solely to illustrate how the Agencies would apply the principles articulated in the Guidelines in differing fact situations. In each case, of course, the ultimate outcome of the analysis, i.e. , whether or not a violation of the antitrust laws has occurred, would depend on the specific facts and circumstances of the case. These examples, therefore, do not address many of the factual and economic questions the Agencies would ask in analyzing particular conduct or transactions under the antitrust laws. Therefore, certain hypothetical situations presented here may, when fully analyzed, not violate any provision of the antitrust laws. Discussion: These facts present the straightforward case of cartel participants selling products directly into the United States. In this situation, the transaction is unambiguously an import into the U.S. market, and the sale is not complete until the goods reach the United States. Thus, U.S. jurisdiction is clear under the general principles of antitrust law expressed most recently in Hartford Fire . The facts presented here demonstrate actual and intended participation in U.S. commerce. 47 47 See Section 3.13 infra.
