FR940503-1-00032 FR940503-1-00010 (2) The first alleged date of violation occurred no more than twelve months prior to initiation of the administrative action. The Administrator and the Attorney General may, however, jointly determine that an administrative penalty action is appropriate for either a larger penalty or a longer period of violation. Administrative penalties under section 113(d)(1) are most advantageous where: (1) The violator does not have a compliance history of multiple or repeat violations; and (2) Court-supervised injunctive relief is not appropriate. Additionally, civil judicial action is preferred over administrative action where extensive post-filing discovery will be necessary to fully develop the circumstances associated with one or more violations, and where new legal issues are presented by a case. The field citation program under section 113(d)(3) is another new enforcement authority provided by the November 15, 1990 Amendments. As indicated elsewhere in this preamble, the field citation program involves the issuance of citations that assess civil penalties, not exceeding $5,000 per day of violation, for minor violations of the Act. The focus of the field citation program will be to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements that often remain unaddressed due to limited Agency resources. The opportunity for streamlined, expedited enforcement to address minor violations should save Agency resources, reduce court backlogs, and send a clear enforcement message to violators that minor violations will not be overlooked. F. Role of Inspectors 1. Issuance by Officers/Employees Under the Act, field citations ``may be issued by officers or employees designated by the Administrator.'' It is the Agency's position that section 113(d)(3) does not authorize delegation of section 113 field citation authority to State and local officials. The legislative history supports this interpretation. 11 Comments on the Agency's position, including any alternative legal analyses or interpretations of the statute, are invited. 11 ``The citations are to be issued by Federal officers or employees designated by EPA.'' H.R. Rep. No. 101&hyph;490, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. 393 (1990). 2. Training and Guidance for Inspectors and Enforcement Officers The success of the field citation program will depend on well-trained inspectors and enforcement officers, skilled at both recognizing minor violations and determining appropriate penalty amounts. Before implementing this program, EPA will offer a number of Regional inspector training sessions to ensure that inspectors and enforcement personnel are completely familiar with the program and understand the limits of its applicability. In particular, employees will be trained to identify minor violations based on the criteria set forth in this regulation. They will also be trained to identify circumstances in which particular violations might indicate a more serious compliance problem that should be handled through a more stringent enforcement action. In addition to training, inspectors and enforcement officers will be given a detailed guidance document containing recommended penalty ranges associated with specific categories of violations. In this way, inspectors will have a ready reference if they are unsure about a particular violation. Moreover, the establishment of appropriate penalty amounts in guidance will help to ensure national consistency. Whenever there are doubts regarding how to characterize a suspected violation, inspectors will be directed to return to the office for further evaluation and consultation. G. Rules Governing Hearings on Field Citations In addition to authorizing EPA to implement a field citation program, section 113(d)(3) of the Act addresses certain basic procedural issues involving hearings on field citations. First, it provides that any person to whom a civil penalty is assessed through a field citation may elect either to pay the civil penalty or to request a hearing on the field citation. Any request for a hearing must be within the time period prescribed by the Administrator through regulation, and if a hearing is not requested within such time then the penalty assessment in the field citation becomes final. Second, this section explicitly provides that the hearing on a field citation shall not be subject to the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) provisions on formal adjudications (5 U.S.C. 554 or 556), but shall provide a reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present evidence. EPA is proposing three distinct alternatives to implement these statutory provisions and establish fair and reasonable procedures to govern hearings on field citations. These alternatives are: (1) EPA's consolidated, APA penalty assessment procedures under 40 CFR part 22, with appropriate revisions; (2) EPA's proposed consolidated, non-APA penalty assessment procedures under 40 CFR part 28, with appropriate revisions; and (3) new streamlined administrative procedures contained in today's proposal. The following section discusses and evaluates each of these alternatives. The Agency requests comment on the propriety of each of these penalty assessment procedures. Procedures for the assessment of field citation penalties must reasonably implement the requirements of section 113(d)(3), including providing a reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present evidence, and must also satisfy procedural due process considerations under the Constitution. Determining compliance with both of these requirements requires a close comparison between the proposed procedures, the factual and legal situations that are expected to arise under this program, and the interests at issue, both private and governmental.
