FR940105-2-00040 FR940105-2-00018 Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist In the Matter of HOMESPUN PRODUCTS, INC., a corporation, G & S MARKETING, INC. a corporation, and GREGORY A. STRAW, individually and as an officer of said corporations. The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of Homespun Products, Inc., a corporation, G & S Marketing, Inc., a corporation, and Gregory A. Straw, individually and as an officer of said corporations (``proposed respondents'' or ``respondents''), and it now appearing that proposed respondents are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed by and between Homespun Products, Inc. by its duly authorized officer, G & S Marketing, Inc., by its duly authorized officer, and Gregory A. Straw, individually and as an officer of said corporations, and their attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Homespun Products, Inc., is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California, with its principal office and place of business located at 201 Benton Court, Suisun, California 94585. Proposed respondent G & S Marketing, Inc. is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California, with its principal office or place of business located at 201 Benton Court, Suisun, California 94585. Proposed respondent Gregory A. Straw is an officer of said corporation. He formulates, directs and controls the policies, acts and practices of said corporation and his address is the same as that of the corporation. 2. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft complaint here attached. 3. Proposed respondents waive: a. Any further procedural steps; b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law;
