FR941103-2-00117 FR941103-2-00068 4. Allowable activities Grant funds awarded under this demonstration may be used to provide the services described in JTPA Section 314(c) and Section 314(d). The establishment of linkages with employers, development of appropriate training curricula, and negotiation of agreements with the Title III State and substate grantees will be critical parts of this demonstration, but they must be combined with delivery of services and placement of participants in unsubsidized employment. 5. Grant Period Projects must be completed not later than June 30, 1996. Applications must clearly describe project activities to be undertaken during the proposed grant period. Funding of project activity subsequent to the approved period of performance will be the responsibility of the applicant. Additional grant funds will not be available under this demonstration. 6. Cost Limitations Demonstration grants are not subject to the cost limitations for formula-funded Title III grants at Section 315 of the JTPA. However, any offeror proposing administrative costs higher than 15 percent of the budget and supportive services higher than 25 percent of the funds requested in the application shall provide a narrative justification. D. Demonstration Topic DOL is soliciting applications for demonstration projects to test the ability of brokers to market services that link specific job opportunities with appropriate training and support mechanisms so that eligible dislocated workers who successfully complete the program will get those jobs, at a cost which will be competitive with other program options available for Title III substate grantees and their participants. Part II. Application Process A. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants under this demonstration include (1) employers and associations of employers, (2) unions and organizations representing workers, and (3) education and training institutions. Consideration will be given to awarding at least one grant in each of the three categories of eligible applicants. While matching funds will not be required, applicants will have to demonstrate the ability to market their services to dislocated worker program grantees that have training resources, including Title III formula-allotted funds to States and substate grantees, or Title III National Reserve Account funds. B. Submission of Proposals An original and three (3) copies of the proposal shall be submitted. The proposal shall consist of two (2) separate and distinct parts_Part I, the Financial Proposal, and Part II, the Technical Proposal.
