FR941007-0-00083 FR941007-0-00023 (e) Transfer of QS or IFQ with restrictions. If QS or IFQ must be transferred as a result of a court order, operation of law, or as part of a security agreement, but the person receiving the QS or IFQ by transfer does not meet all of the eligibility requirements of this section, the Regional Director will approve the Application for Transfer with restrictions. The Regional Director will not assign IFQ resulting from the restricted QS to any person. IFQ with restrictions may not be used for harvesting halibut or sablefish with fixed gear. The QS or IFQ will remain restricted until: (1) The person who received the QS or IFQ with restrictions meets the eligibility requirements of this section and the Regional Director approves an Application for Eligibility for that person; or (2) The Regional Director approves the Application for Transfer from the person who received the QS or IFQ with restrictions to a person who meets the requirements of this section. (f) Transfer restrictions. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or paragraph (f)(2) of this section, only persons who are IFQ crew members, or that were initially assigned catcher vessel QS, and meet the other requirements in this section may receive catcher vessel QS. (2) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, only persons who are IFQ crew members may receive catcher vessel QS in IFQ regulatory area 2C for halibut or in the IFQ regulatory area east of 140 ○ W. long. for sablefish. (3) Catcher vessel QS initially assigned to an individual may be transferred to a corporation that is solely owned by the same individual. Such transfers of catcher vessel QS in IFQ regulatory area 2C for halibut or in the IFQ regulatory area east of 140 ○ W. long. for sablefish will be governed by the use provisions of §676.22(i); the use provisions pertaining to corporations at §676.22(j) shall not apply. (4) The Regional Director will not approve an Application for Transfer of catcher vessel QS subject to a lease or any other condition of repossession or resale by the person transferring QS, except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, or by court order, operation of law, or as part of a security agreement. The Regional Director may request a copy of the sales contract or other terms and conditions of transfer between two persons as supplementary information to the transfer application. (g) Leasing QS (applicable until January 2, 1998). A person may not use IFQ resulting from a QS lease for harvesting halibut or sablefish until an Application for Transfer complying with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and the lease agreement are approved by the Regional Director. A person may lease no more than 10 percent of that person's total catcher vessel QS for any IFQ species in any IFQ regulatory area to one or more persons for any fishing year. After approving the Application for Transfer, the Regional Director shall change any IFQ accounts affected by an approved QS lease and issue all necessary IFQ permits. QS leases must comply with all transfer requirements specified in this section. All leases will expire on December 31 of the calendar year for which they are approved. 5. Section 676.22 is amended by revising paragraph (g) to read as follows: §676.22 Limitations on the use of QS and IFQ. * * * * * (g) Limitations on QS blocks. No person, individually or collectively, may hold more than two blocks for each species in any IFQ regulatory area, except that if that person, individually or collectively, holds unblocked QS for a species in an IFQ regulatory area, such person may only hold one QS block for that species in that IFQ regulatory area. For purposes of this section, holding, or to hold, blocks of QS means being registered by NMFS as the person who received QS by initial assignment or approved transfer. * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24933 Filed 10&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
