FR940513-1-00016 FR940513-1-00004 (1) Name and address of Donee Institution (Ship to); (2) Agency name and address (holding Agency); (3) Location of property; (4) Shipping instructions (Donee contact person); (5) Complete description of property, including acquisition amount, serial number, condition code, quantity and agency order number; and (6) This statement needs to be added following property descriptions. The property requested hereon is certified to be used for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities. This donation is pursuant to the provisions of Public Law 102&hyph;245. (g) Once the excess personal property/equipment is physically received, the donee is required to immediately return a copy of the SF&hyph;122 to the donating agency indicating receipt of requested items. Cancellations should be reported to DEPPC so the property can be reported to the General Services Administration (GSA). (h) The USDA agency shall send an informational copy of the transaction to GSA. ยง2812.5 Restrictions. (a) The authorized official (see ยง2812.4(b)) will approve the donation of excess personal property/equipment in the following groups to educational institutions or nonprofit organizations for the conduct of technical and scientific educational and research activities. Eligible Groups 1FSC group 1Name 19 Ships, Small Craft, Pontoons, and Floating Docks. 23 Vehicles, Trailers and Cycles. 24 Tractors. 37 Agricultural Machinery & Equipment. 43 Pumps, Compressors. 48 Valves. 58 Communication, Detection, and Coherent Radiation Equipment. 59 Electrical and Electronic Equipment Components. 65 Medical, Dental, and Veterinary Equipment and Supplies. 66 Instruments and Laboratory Equipment. 67 Photographic Equipment. 68 Chemicals and Chemical Products. 70 General Purpose Automatic Data Processing Equipment, Software Supplies, and Support Equipment. 74 Office Machines and Visible Record Equipment. Note: Requests for items in FSC Groups or Classes other than the above should be referred to the agency head for consideration and approval. (b) Excess personal/equipment may be donated for cannibalization purposes, provided the donee submits a supporting statement which clearly indicates that cannibalizing the requested property for secondary use has greater potential benefit than utilization of the item in its existing form.
