FR940620-0-00133 FR940620-0-00029 13.3.3(3)␣Lavatories and Mirrors This provision requires lavatories and mirrors to be accessible in compliance with ADAAG 4.19. If medicine cabinets are provided, at least one must have a usable shelf no higher than 44 inches and provide clear floor space complying with ADAAG 4.2.4. Comment. A few commenters suggested that removable base cabinets should be permitted under lavatories. Response. These guidelines provide requirements for accessible dwelling units. Adaptability, which permits removable base cabinets, is provided in all units covered by the Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines. 13.3.3(4)␣Bathtubs This provision requires that bathtubs, where provided, comply with ADAAG 4.20. Few comments were received regarding this provision and no changes were made. 13.3.3(5)␣Showers This provision requires that showers, if provided, comply with ADAAG 4.21. Comment. A few commenters noted that the California State building code uses different dimensions for accessible showers. Several commenters were particularly concerned that 30 by 60 inch roll-in showers were too shallow to properly contain water. No comments were received regarding the relative usability of roll-in showers complying with ADAAG versus other designs such as those complying with California's requirements. Response. The 30 by 60 inch dimensions of roll-in showers are a minimum dimension. Nothing prohibits a designer from making a deeper shower. Furthermore, ADAAG 2.2 allows equivalent facilitation where alternative designs provide substantially equivalent or greater access to and usability of an element of a facility. No changes were made to this provision. Comment. One commenter recommended that bathtubs and showers have a means of preventing scalding from hot water surges. Response. Such devices may be beneficial to all residents. However, there is no reason to believe that these devices are more desirable in an accessible dwelling unit than in other units. 13.3.3(6)␣Bathtub and Shower Enclosures This provision provides that enclosures for bathtubs or shower stalls do not obstruct controls or the transfer from wheelchairs onto shower or bathtub seats. In addition, it provides that enclosures on bathtubs shall not have tracks mounted on the tub's rims. Comment. One comment was received that recommended minor rewording of the provision for clarity. Response. The provision has been amended to clearly indicate that tracks shall not be mounted on the tub's rims. No substantive changes have been made to this provision. 13.3.3(7)␣Fixtures and Controls This provision notes that the clear floor space at fixtures and controls and the accessible route may overlap. The provision also reiterates that those fixtures and controls required in accessible bathrooms must be on an accessible route. Comment. One commenter objected to the provision's redundancy with respect to the required accessible route. Response. With respect to redundancy, experience has shown that accessible route requirements frequently are overlooked. Therefore, this provision has been retained as proposed. 13.3.3(8)␣Maneuvering Space This provision requires a turning space complying with ADAAG 4.2.3 which requires that accessible spaces have a maneuvering space complying with ADAAG 4.2.3. Under ADAAG 4.2.3 either a sixty inch diameter turning space or a T-shaped space is allowed. See ADAAG Figure 3. Comment. Few comments were received on this provision. However, as noted at ADAAG 13.3.3(1), a small minority of commenters felt that the maneuvering space could be eliminated. Response. The guidelines address the issue of unobstructed maneuvering clearance within a bathroom at ADAAG 13.3.3(1). Maneuvering space is a prerequisite for access within and use of any space. 13.3.4␣Kitchens This section contains requirements for accessible kitchens, which are required to be located on an accessible route. Accessible kitchens and their components shall be designed to allow for the operation of cabinet and/or appliance doors. This section has been clarified to cover kitchens that are located within accessible dwelling units as well as those that serve accessible dwelling units. 13.3.4(1)␣Maneuvering Clearance This provision specifies clearances between all opposing base cabinets, counter tops, appliances, or walls depending on the kitchen layout. Comment. Several commenters noted that the minimum 40 inch clearance between base cabinets in a galley kitchen is insufficient for maneuvering if the clear width of at least one work surface is less than 36 inches. They pointed out that ADAAG 4.2.3 requires a minimum 36 inches in each portion of a T-shaped space to facilitate maneuvering. Other commenters noted that the State of California requires a minimum 48 inches between base cabinets.
