FR940725-1-00068 FR940725-1-00010 Preliminary Regulatory Evaluation, Initial Regulatory Flexibility Determination, and Trade Impact Assessment Proposed changes to Federal regulations must undergo several economic analyses. First, Executive Order 12866 directs that each Federal agency shall propose or adopt a regulation only upon a reasoned determination that the benefits of the intended regulation justify its costs. Second, the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 requires agencies to analyze the economic impact of regulatory changes on small entities. Third, the Office of Management and Budget directs agencies to assess the effects of regulatory changes on international trade. In conducting these analyses, the FAA has determined that this rule: (1) Would generate benefits that justify its costs and is not a ``significant regulatory action'' as defined in the Executive Order; (2) is not significant as defined in DOT's Policies and Procedures; (3) would not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities; and (4) would not constitute a barrier to international trade. These analyses, available in the docket, are summarized below. Regulatory Evaluation Summary Of the 57 sections that would be amended or added in this proposed rule, the FAA has identified 15 that could result in additional compliance costs in one or more airplane categories. Amendments to five sections could result in cost savings. The greatest costs would be incurred by manufacturers of WAT limited airplanes (e.g., multiengine airplanes with maximum weights of more than 6,000 pounds). When amortized over a production run, the quantified incremental costs would be relatively modest_less than $100 per airplane. The FAA solicits comments concerning the incremental certification/development costs attributable to the proposed rule. The primary benefit of the proposed rule would be the cost efficiencies of harmonization with the JAR for those manufacturers that choose to market airplanes in JAA countries as well as to manufacturers in JAA countries that choose to market airplanes in the U.S. Other benefits of the proposed rule would be decreased reliance on special conditions, simplification of the certification process through clarification of existing requirements, and increased flexibility through optional designs. Regulatory Flexibility Determination The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (RFA) was enacted by Congress to ensure that small entities are not unnecessarily and disproportionately burdened by Federal regulations. The RFA requires a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis if a proposed rule would have a significant economic impact, either detrimental or beneficial, on a substantial number of small entities. Based on FAA Order 2100.14A, Regulatory Flexibility Criteria and Guidance, the FAA has determined that the proposed amendments would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. International Trade Impact Assessment The proposed rule would not constitute a barrier to international trade, including the export of American airplanes to foreign countries and the import of foreign airplanes into the United States. Instead, the proposed flight certification procedures would be harmonized with those of the JAA and would lessen restraints on trade. Federalism Implications The regulation proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Conclusion The FAA proposes to revise the flight airworthiness standards for normal, utility, acrobatic, and commuter category airplanes to be compatible with the same standards that will be proposed for the same category airplanes by the Joint Airworthiness Authority in Europe. If adopted, the proposed revision would reduce the regulatory burden on the United States and European airplane manufacturers by relieving them of the need to show compliance with different standards each time they seek certification approval of an airplane in a different country. For the reasons discussed in the preamble, and based on the findings in the Regulatory Evaluation, the FAA has determined that this proposed regulation is not a significant regulatory action. In addition, the FAA certifies that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. This proposal is not considered significant under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979). An initial regulatory evaluation of the proposal has been placed in the docket. A copy may be obtained by contacting the person identified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . List of Subjects 14 CFR Part 1 Air transportation. 14 CFR Part 23 Aircraft, Aviation safety, Signs and symbols.
