FR941221-0-00052 FR941221-0-00017 (i) Any Partner State other than the United States; (ii) A related entity of any Partner State other than the United States; and (iii) The employee of any of the entities identified in paragraphs (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this clause. (2) The Contractor agrees to extend the waiver of liability as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause to subcontractors at any tier by requiring them, by contract or otherwise, to agree to waive all claims against the entities or persons identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iii) of this clause. (3) For avoidance of doubt, this cross-waiver includes a cross-waiver of liability arising from the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects, (March 29, 1972, 24 United States Treaties and other International Agreements (U.S.T.) 2389, Treaties and other International Acts Series (T.I.A.S.) No. 7762) in which the person, entity, or property causing the damage is involved in Protected Space Operations. (4) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this clause, this cross-waiver of liability shall not be applicable to: (i) Claims between the United States and its related entities or claims between the related entities of any Partner State (e.g., claims between the Government and the Contractor are included within this exception); (ii) Claims made by a natural person, his/her estate, survivors, or subrogees for injury or death of such natural person; (iii) Claims for damage caused by willful misconduct; and (iv) Intellectual property claims. (5) Nothing in this clause shall be construed to create the basis for a claim or suit where none would otherwise exist. (End of clause) 6. Section 1852.228&hyph;78 is revised to read as follows: 1852.228&hyph;78 Cross-Waiver of liability for NASA expendable launch vehicle launches. As prescribed in 1828.371 (c) and (e), insert the following clause: Cross-Waiver of Liability for NASA Expendable Launch Vehicle (ELV) Launches (Sep 1993) (a) As prescribed by regulation (14 CFR part 1266), NASA agreements involving ELV launches are required to contain broad cross-waivers of liability among the parties and the parties related entities to encourage participation in space exploration, use, and investment. The purpose of this clause is to extend this cross-waiver requirement to contractors and subcontractors as related entities of NASA. This cross-waiver of liability shall be broadly construed to achieve the objective of encouraging participation in space activities. (b) As used in this clause, the term: (1) Contractors and Subcontractors include suppliers of any kind. (2) Damage means: (i) Bodily injury to, or other impairment of health of, or death of, any person; (ii) Damage to, loss of, or loss of use of any property; (iii) Loss of revenue or profits; or (iv) Other direct, indirect, or consequential damage; (3) Party means a person or entity that signs an agreement involving an ELV launch; (4) Payload means all property to be flown or used on or in the ELV; and (5) Protected Space Operations means all ELV and payload activities on Earth, in outer space, or in transit between Earth and outer space performed in furtherance of an agreement involving an ELV launch or performed under the contract. ``Protected Space Operations'' excludes activities on Earth which are conducted on return from space to develop further a payload's product or process except when such development is for ELV-related activities necessary to implement an agreement involving an ELV launch or to perform this contract. It includes, but is not limited to:
