FR940722-0-00108 FR940722-0-00019 77. In addition, if a default or disqualification involves gross misconduct, misrepresentation or bad faith by an applicant, the Commission may declare the applicant and its principals ineligible to bid in future auctions, and may take any other action that it deems necessary, including institution of proceedings to revoke any existing licenses held by the applicant. See Second Report and Order at ¶198. 3. Re-Offering Licenses When Auction Winners Default 78. In the event that an auction winner defaults or is otherwise disqualified, the Commission must determine whether to hold a new auction or simply offer the license to the second-highest bidder. Parties commenting on this issue generally favored re-auctioning the license, pointing out that changing market and even technological developments since the initial auction may change the amounts that bidders are willing to pay for a license, especially if the intervening period is relatively long. They urge that any re-auction be open to new bidders, arguing that such a procedure would reduce the incentive of losing bidders to file unmeritorious petitions to deny against the auction winner. See, e.g., comments of BellSouth at 37, Utilities Telecommunications Council at 21. 79. As we stated in the Second Report and Order, we believe that, as a general rule, when an auction winner defaults or is otherwise disqualified after having made the required down payment, the best course of action is to re-auction the license. See Second Report and Order at ¶204. Although we recognize that this may cause a brief delay in the initiation of service to the public, during the time between the original auction and the disqualification circumstances may have changed so significantly as to alter the value of the license to auction participants as well as to parties who did not participate. In this situation, awarding licenses to the parties that value them most highly can best be assured through a re-auction. However, if the default occurs within five (5) business days after the bidding has closed, the Commission retains the discretion to offer the license to the second highest bidder at its final bid level, or if that bidder declines the offer, to offer the license to other bidders (in descending order of their bid amounts) at the final bid levels. 55 55 If only a small number of relatively low-value licenses are to be re-auctioned and only a short time has passed since the initial auction, the Commission may choose to offer the license to the highest losing bidders because the cost of running another auction may exceed the benefits. 80. If a new auction becomes necessary because of default or disqualification more than five (5) business days after bidding has ended, the Commission will afford new parties an opportunity to file applications. One of our primary goals in conducting auctions is to assure that all serious interested bidders are in the pool of qualified bidders at any re-auction. We believe that allowing new applications will promote achievement of this goal, which outweighs the short delay that we recognize may result from allowing new applications in a re-auction. Indeed, if we were not to allow new applicants in a re-auction, interested parties might be forced into an after-market transaction to obtain the license, which would itself delay service to the public and may prevent the public from recovering a reasonable portion of the value of the spectrum resource. 4. Long-Form Application 81. If the winning bidder makes the down payment in a timely manner, a long-form application filed on FCC Form 401 (as modified), or such other form as may be adopted for Commercial Mobile Radio Service use in GEN Docket No. 93&hyph;252, will be required to be filed by a date specified by Public Notice, generally within ten (10) business days after the close of bidding. 56 After the Commission receives the winning bidder's down payment and the long-form application, we will review the long-form application to determine if it is acceptable for filing. In addition to the information required in the long-form application of all winning bidders, each winning bidder on licenses in frequency blocks C and F will be required to submit evidence of its eligibility to bid on licenses in these blocks, as well as evidence to support its claim to any special provisions made available to designated entities. This information may be included in an exhibit to FCC Form 401, and must include the gross revenues and total assets of the applicant and all attributable investors in the applicant, and a certification that the personal net worth of each individual investor does not exceed the eligibility limitation. This information will enable the Commission, and other interested parties, to ensure the validity of the applicant's certification of eligibility to bid in blocks C and F (submitted as part of its FCC Form 175) and its eligibility for any bidding credits, installment payment options, or other special provision. Upon acceptance for filing of the long-form application, the Commission will issue a Public Notice announcing this fact, triggering the filing window for petitions to deny. If the Commission denies all petitions to deny, and is otherwise satisfied that the applicant is qualified, the license(s) will be granted to the auction winner. 56 Schedule B to FCC Form 401 will not be required to be submitted by broadband PCS applicants. However, applicants for broadband PCS licenses proposing to use any portion of broadband PCS spectrum to offer service on a private mobile radio service basis must overcome the presumption that PCS is a commercial mobile radio service. Regulatory Treatment of Mobile Services, Second Report and Order in GEN Docket No. 93&hyph;252, 9 FCC Rcd 1411, 1460&hyph;63, 59 FR 18493, Apr. 19, 1994; 47 CFR §20.9(a)(11), (b). Applicants (or licensees) seeking to dedicate a portion of the spectrum for private mobile radio service will be required to attach as an exhibit to the Form 401 application a certification that it will offer PCS service on a private mobile radio basis. The certification must include a description of the proposed service sufficient to demonstrate that it is not within the definition of commercial mobile radio service in Section 20.3 of the Commission's Rules. Id.
