FR940513-2-00246 FR940513-2-00096 •A medium score (6&hyph;12 points) is received where the applicant provides a general explanation of its capability to identify and provide local on-site training. •A low score (0&hyph;5 points) is received where the applicant provides a plan that is unclear or does not clearly state its capability to identify and provide local on-site training. (4) Evidence of Prior Resident Training Experience. The applicant should provide documented evidence, i.e., letters of support, Board resolution, etc., of prior experience, indicating success and quality of work from RCs/RMCs/ROs. (10 Points) •A high score (8&hyph;10 points) is received where the applicant provides documentation that shows support by the residents, i.e., letters of support, board resolutions, petitions, and minutes of meetings. •A medium score (1&hyph;7 points) is received where the applicant provides documentation that is limited to petitions and minutes of meetings. •No score is received where the applicant fails to provide documentation of support by project residents, and no support is mentioned. (5) Capability of Handling Financial Resources_ demonstrated through previous experience, adequate financial control procedures, or similar evidence, or an explanation of how such capability will be obtained (10 points): •A high score (7&hyph;10 points) is received where the NRO/RRO/SRO provides evidence of having over two years of experience in handling financial resources and has adequate accounting procedures in place. •A medium score (1&hyph;6 points) is received where the NRO/RRO/SRO provides evidence of having less than two years of experience in handling financial resources or has provided a plan for developing financial controls that is adequate. •No score (0 points) is received where the NRO/RRO/SRO has no experience in handling financial matters and no evidence is submitted that shows that an adequate accounting system is in place or under development. N. HA Notification HUD will send a notification to the HAs associated with the applications selected for funding. II. Application Process A. Actions Preceding Application Submission Consistent with this NOFA, HUD may direct a HA to notify its existing RCs/RMCs/ROs, as well as NROs, SROs, and RROs, of this funding opportunity. It is important for residents to be advised that even in the absence of a RC/RMC/RO, the opportunity exists to establish a RC/RMC/RO. If no RC/RMC/RO exists for any of the developments, HUD encourages a HA to post this NOFA in a prominent location within the HA's main office, as well as in each development's office. B. Application Development and Submission (1) Submission. An application kit is required as the formal submission to apply for funding. The kit includes information on the preparation of a Work Plan and Budget for activities proposed by the applicant. An application may be obtained by writing the Resident Initiatives Clearinghouse, Post Office Box 6091, Rockville, MD 20850, or by calling the toll-free number 1&hyph;800&hyph;955&hyph;2232. Requests for application kits must include your name, mailing address (including zip code), and telephone number (including area code), and should refer to document FR3669. Applications may be requested beginning May 13, 1994. An applicant RC/RMC/RO must submit its application to the local HUD field office or, in the case of IHAs, to the appropriate HUD Office of Native American Programs, listed in the Appendix to this NOFA. An applicant NRO/SRO/RRO must submit its application to: Department of Housing and Urban Development, PIH/ORI, 451 Seventh Street, SW, Room 4112, Washington, DC 20410. (2) Preparation. The application must contain the following information: (a)(i) RCs/RMCs/ROs: Name and address of the RC/RMC/RO. Name and title of the board members of the RC/RMC/RO and date of the last election. A copy of the RC's/RMC's/RO's organizational documents, i.e., charter, articles of incorporation (if incorporated), and by-laws. Name and phone number of contact person (in the event further information or clarification is needed during the application review process). (ii) NROs/RROs/SROs: Name and address of the applicant. Name, title, and telephone number of a contact person (in the event further information or clarification is needed during the application review process). (b)(i) RCs/RMCs/ROs: Name, address, and phone number of the Public Housing Agency (PHA)/Indian Housing Authority (IHA) responsible for the development(s) to which inquiries may be addressed concerning the application. (ii) NROs/RROs/SROs: A narrative statement discussing the geographical areas in which the applicant wishes to organize RCs/RMCs/ROs. In addition, the name of the PHA/IHA where the applicant proposes to organize new or inactive RCs/RMCs/ROs, and a proposed schedule of activities. (c) A narrative statement addressing the following issues: (i) For all applicants: •The name of the project(s) for which the funds are proposed to be used;
