FR941121-0-00028 FR941121-0-00001 (d) Multiple Members 1. General. When an account has multiple natural person member accountholders, delivery of disclosures to any member accountholder or agent authorized by the accountholder satisfies the disclosure requirements of part 707. (e) Oral Response to Inquiries 1. Application of rule. Credit unions need not provide rate information orally. Disclosures need be made only as appropriate. For example, the requirement to give a telephone number for a member to call about rates for interest-bearing accounts and dividend-bearing term share accounts, would not be necessary for members calling the credit union for information. Also, the disclosure reqirements are applicable only to credit union employees and volunteers acting the in ordinary course of credit union business. 2. Relation to advertising. The advertising rules do not cover an oral response to a question about rates. 3. Existing accounts. This paragraph does not apply to oral responses about rate information for existing term share accounts or accounts not currently offered. For example, if a member holding a one-year term share account requests dividend rate information about the account during the term, the credit union need not disclose the annual percentage yield, unless the member is calling for rate information under a maturity notice. (f) Rounding and Accuracy Rules for Rates and Yields (f)(1) Rounding 1. Permissible rounding. The annual percentage yield, annual percentage yield earned and dividend rate must be rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percentage point (.01%) when disclosed. Examples of permissible rounding are an annual percentage yield calculated to be 5.644%, rounded down and shown as 5.64%; 5.645% would be rounded up and disclosed as 5.65%. For account disclosures, the dividend rate may be expressed to more than two decimal places. (f)(2) Accuracy 1. Annual percentage yield and annual percentage yield earned. The tolerance for annual percentage yield and annual percentage yield earned calculations is designed to accommodate inadvertent errors. Credit unions may not purposely incorporate the one-twentieth of one percentage point (.05%) tolerance into their calculation of yields. 2. Dividend rate. There is no tolerance for an inaccuracy in the dividend rate. Section 707.4_Account Disclosures (a) Delivery of Account Disclosures (a)(1) Account Opening 1. New accounts. New account disclosures must be provided when: i. A term share account that does not automatically rollover is renewed by a member. ii. A member changes the term for a renewable term share account (from a one-year term share account to a six-month term share account, for instance) (see comment 5(b)&hyph;5 regarding disclosure alternatives). iii. A credit union transfers funds from an account to open a new account not at the member's request, unless the credit union previously gave account disclosures and any change-in-terms notices for the new account (e.g., funds in a money market share account are transferred by a credit union to open a new account for the member, such as a share draft account, because the member exceeded transaction limitations on the money market share account). iv. A credit union accepts a deposit from a member to an account that the credit union had previously deemed to be ``closed,'' under applicable federal or state law, for the purpose of treating accrued, but uncredited, dividends as forfeited dividends. New account numbers are not required by this requirement. 2. Acquired accounts. New account disclosures need not be given when a credit union acquires an account through an acquisition of, or merger with, another credit union (but see ยง707.5(a) regarding advance notice requirements if terms are changed). 3. Combination disclosures. New account disclosures need not be given when a member has already received disclosures covering several accounts, and opens a new account properly disclosed by the already received combination disclosures, if the new account is opened within a reasonable amount of time after receipt of the combination disclosures and if the received disclosures and terms are accurate at the time the new account is opened. (a)(2) Requests (a)(2)(i) 1. Inquiries versus requests. A response to an oral inquiry (by telephone or in person) about rates and yields or fees does not trigger the duty to provide account disclosures. But, when a member asks for written information about an account (whether by telephone, in person, or by other means), the credit union must provide disclosures unless the account is no longer offered to the public. 2. General requests. When member's or potential member's request disclosures about a type of account (a share draft account, for example), a credit union that offers several variations may provide disclosures for any one of them. No disclosures need be made to nonmembers, though a credit union may provide disclosures to nonmembers within its sole discretion. 3. Timing for response. Twenty calendar days is a reasonable time for responding to a request for account information that a member does not make in person. (a)(2)(ii)(A)(2) 1. Recent rates. Credit unions comply with this paragraph if they disclose an interest rate (or dividend rate on a dividend-bearing term share account) and annual percentage yield accurate within the seven calendar days preceding the date they send the disclosures. (a)(2)(ii)(B) 1. Term. Describing the maturity of a term share account as ``1 year'' or ``6 months,'' for example, illustrates a response stating the maturity of a term share account as a term rather than a date (e.g., ``June 1, 1995''). (b) Content of Account Disclosures (b)(1) Rate Information (b)(1)(i) Annual Percentage Yield and Dividend Rate 1. Rate disclosures. In addition to the dividend rate and annual percentage yield, credit unions may disclose a periodic rate corresponding to the dividend rate. No other rate or yield (such as ``tax effective yield'') is permitted. If the annual percentage yield is the same as the dividend rate, credit unions may disclose a single figure but must use both terms. 2. Fixed-rate accounts. For fixed-rate term share accounts paying the opening rate until maturity, credit unions may disclose the period of time the dividend rate will be in effect by stating, or cross-referencing, the maturity date. For other fixed-rate accounts, credit unions may use a date (such as ``This rate will be in effect through June 30, 1995'') or a period (such as ``This rate will be in effect for at least 30 days''). 3. Tiered-rate accounts. Each dividend rate, along with the corresponding annual percentage yield for each specified balance level (or range of annual percentage yields, if appropriate), must be disclosed for tiered-rate accounts. (See Appendix A, Part I, Paragraph D.)
