FR940711-1-00017 FR940711-1-00003 We recognize that some utilities' existing contracts may be Mobile-Sierra contracts that prohibit unilateral rate changes. 38 Under the Mobile-Sierra doctrine, for instance, a customer may waive its right to challenge the contract and/or the utility may waive its right to make unilateral rate changes. However, the parties may not waive the indefeasible right of the Commission to alter rates that are contrary to the public interest. 39 Accordingly, the Commission could permit public utilities that have contracts containing Mobile-Sierra provisions an opportunity to file unilateral rate changes if the Commission finds that such an action is required in the public interest. 40 38 See United Gas Pipeline Co. v. Mobile Gas Service Corp., 350 U.S. 332 (1956); FPC v. Sierra Pacific Power Co., 350 U.S. 348 (1956). 39 Papago Tribal Utility Authority v. FERC, 723 F.2d at 950, 953 (D.C. Cir. 1983). 40 350 U.S. at 355. The Commission believes that a failure to permit public utilities to address stranded costs through negotiation or unilateral rate changes could harm the public interest in at least two ways. First, the inability to seek recovery of stranded costs could impair the financial ability of a utility to continue to provide reliable service. This will depend on the magnitude of stranded costs and the prospect or lack thereof for recovering such costs from ratepayers. The prospect of not recovering from ratepayers significant amounts of stranded costs could seriously erode a utility's access to capital markets, or could drive the utility's cost of capital to unprecedented levels. This high cost of capital could precipitate other customers leaving the system which, in turn, could cause others to leave. Such a spiral could be difficult to stop once begun. Second, if some customers are permitted to leave their suppliers without paying for stranded costs, this may cause an excessive burden on the remaining customers who for whatever reason cannot leave and therefore may have to bear those costs. For these reasons, our preliminary view is that it is in the public interest to permit public utilities with Mobile-Sierra contracts a limited opportunity to unilaterally propose contract changes to address stranded costs, if those contracts do not already explicitly address stranded costs. 41 41 Customers with Mobile-Sierra contracts that do not explicitly address stranded costs may also file complaints under section 206 of the FPA, within the three-year transition period, to propose to address stranded costs in existing contracts. We clarify that if a public utility unilaterally files a proposed stranded cost amendment under either section 205 or 206, this does not necessarily mean that the Commission ultimately will find it appropriate to allow any amendment. The same is true for customer complaints under section 206. In addition, the Commission intends to allow the customer to the contract to present any other proposed stranded cost amendment which it believes reasonable. 42 Further, in analyzing what is an appropriate stranded cost amendment in the particular circumstances, we will take into account the other contractual provisions and hear arguments as to why other contractual provisions may also need to be amended. 42 If the customer is the initial proponent of the change, it will bear the burden under section 206 of the FPA. The Commission invites public comment on the proposal to establish a transition period during which utilities may renegotiate their existing contracts. The Commission also invites public comment on whether public utilities or customers with Mobile-Sierra contracts should be able to make unilateral filings or file complaints. The Commission also invites comments on whether the Commission should make a Mobile-Sierra public interest finding based on company-specific findings instead of generic industry-wide findings. The Commission is uncertain how long the proposed transition period should be. On the one hand, the renegotiation process is likely to be time-consuming, since difficult issues are at stake and some utilities have multiple contracts and may therefore be engaged in negotiations with a number of parties at the same time. On the other hand, we do not want to extend the transition period more than is necessary, since the uncertainty concerning stranded cost recovery may inhibit wholesale customers from pursuing more efficient or cheaper supply alternatives. The Commission's preliminary view is that a transition period of three years strikes an appropriate balance. However, the Commission invites comment on the appropriate length of the proposed transition period. The Commission requests that utility commenters include in their comments an estimate of the number of requirements contracts that they would seek to renegotiate to address stranded cost issues. How many of these contracts are silent on this question? How many have notice provisions, and of what duration? The Commission requests that responding utilities estimate the amount of stranded costs associated with such contracts, the relationship of the estimated stranded costs to the utility's total costs or revenues, and the potential cost shift to remaining customers. 3. Recovery of Wholesale Stranded Costs in Wholesale Transmission Rates The Commission has previously authorized provisions that permit public utilities to seek recovery of stranded costs in wholesale transmission rates in the context of utilities filing transmission tariffs of general applicability, e.g., Entergy. As discussed in the prior section, during the transition period the proposed regulations would permit utilities to file rates for transmission services that include stranded costs associated with existing wholesale requirements contracts, but only if: (1) the wholesale requirements customer gives notice pursuant to the contract, prior to the end of the three-year transition period, that it will no longer purchase all or part of its requirements from the selling utility, but instead will purchase unbundled section 205 or section 211 transmission services from the utility in order to reach a different supplier of electric energy; and (2) the transmission services will begin prior to the end of the three-year transition period. After the transition period, public utilities and transmitting utilities would no longer be permitted to recover wholesale stranded costs in rates for transmission services under section 205 or 211 of the FPA.
