FR940429-0-00150 FR940429-0-00014 State : A State of the Union, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. Telecommunications course : A course offered in an award year principally through the use of television, audio, or computer transmission, including open broadcast, closed circuit, cable, microwave, or satellite, audio conferencing, computer conferencing, or video cassettes or discs. The term does not include a course that is delivered using video cassettes or disc recordings unless that course is delivered to students physically attending classes at an institution providing the course during the same award year. If the course does not qualify as a telecommunications course it is considered to be a correspondence course, as provided for in paragraph (c) of the definition of correspondence course in this section. Title IV, HEA program : Any of the student financial assistance programs listed in 34 CFR 668.1(c). (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq. , 1078&hyph;2, 1088, 1099b, 1099c, and 1141 and 26 U.S.C. 501(c).) ยง600.3 [Reserved] ยง600.4 Institution of higher education. (a) An institution of higher education is a public or private nonprofit educational institution that_ (1) Is in a State, or for purposes of the Federal Pell Grant, Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant, Federal Work-Study, and Federal TRIO programs may also be located in the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands; (2) Admits as regular students only persons who_ (i) Have a high school diploma; (ii) Have the recognized equivalent of a high school diploma; or (iii) Are beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in the State in which the institution is physically located; (3) Is legally authorized to provide an educational program beyond secondary education in the State in which the institution is physically located; (4) Provides an educational program_ (i) For which it awards an associate, baccalaureate, graduate, or professional degree; (ii) That is at least a two-academic-year program acceptable for full credit toward a baccalaureate degree; or (iii) That is at least a one-academic-year training program that leads to a certificate, degree, or other recognized educational credential and prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation; and (5) Is_ (i) Accredited or preaccredited; or (ii) Approved by a State agency listed in the Federal Register in accordance with 34 CFR part 603, if the institution is a public postsecondary vocational educational institution that seeks to participate only in Federal student assistance programs. (b) An institution is physically located in a State if it has a campus or other instructional site in that State. (c) The Secretary does not recognize the accreditation or preaccreditation of an institution unless the institution agrees to submit any dispute involving the final denial, withdrawal, or termination of accreditation to binding arbitration before initiating any other legal action. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094, 1099b, and 1141(a)) ยง600.5 Proprietary institution of higher education. (a) A proprietary institution of higher education is an educational institution that_ (1) Is not a public or private nonprofit educational institution; (2) Is in a State; (3) Admits as regular students only persons who_ (i) Have a high school diploma; (ii) Have the recognized equivalent of a high school diploma; or (iii) Are beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in the State in which the institution is physically located; (4) Is legally authorized to provide an educational program beyond secondary education in the State in which the institution is physically located; (5) Provides an eligible program of training, as defined in 34 CFR 668.8, to prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation; (6) Is accredited;
