FR941212-0-00128 FR941212-0-00019 (c) Sales tax and drayage. Sales tax and drayage (including postage or handling charges to mail an item or replacement part) can be allowed up to $50 per claim prior to the actual cost being incurred. However, payment in excess of $50 will require the claimant to substantiate that the cost has been incurred. §536.176 Property recovered. (a) Before approval. Do not pay claims for missing property if the missing property is located before the claim is approved. Only the transit related damage will be cognizable. As an exception to this rule, compensation may be allowed for necessary items that were missing for an unreasonable time after the expected arrival date and were replaced by claimant prior to the items being located. Necessary items are those that are basic to the operation of a household. If compensation is allowed under the above exception, the claimant will disclaim in writing further interest and ownership in such items in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (b) After approval. If missing property is located after the claim is approved for payment, the claimant will normally be advised of his or her option to_ (1) Accept any or all of the items located and remit the amount already allowed for such items to the United States. In certain circumstances, the claimant will not have an option: the Chief, Personnel Claims and Recovery Division, USARCS or his designee can require the claimant to accept any or all of the items and remit the amount allowed; or (2) Disclaim in writing further interest and ownership in the property and retain the amount approved for payment. If, however, the approval or settlement authority determines that any of the recovered property is substantially different in quality, price, or value from the property claimed, the approval or settlement authority may require the claimant to return the amount allowed for such property and accept the property. §536.177 Companion claims. When two or more claims arising from the same incident are, by reason of differences in amounts within the jurisdiction of different approval or settlement authorities, action will be withheld on these claims until the authority having jurisdiction over the largest claim has determined that the claims arising out of the incident are cognizable, unless the claims lesser in amount are clearly cognizable and meritorious. §536.178 Emergency partial payments. (a) Frequently a claimant is in immediate need of funds to replace damaged or destroyed property. An emergency partial payment up to $2,000 is authorized under the following circumstances: (1) A hardship situation exists that can be alleviated by providing immediate funds for the repair or replacement of certain property lost or damaged; and (2) A claim has been presented. (3) The approval or settlement authority determines that the claim is clearly payable under this subpart, in an amount exceeding the amount of the proposed emergency payment. (b) The approval or settlement authority can approve an emergency partial payment on any claim that meets the above criteria. If the adjudicated amount exceeds the approval or settlement authority's delegated monetary amount, pay up to the delegated amount (less the emergency payment), mark the outside of the file ``PRIORITY'' and transfer it with all documentation (to include computer disk, paper screen and memorandum of opinion) to the next higher claims authority for additional payment. (c) Prior to making any emergency payment, the authority approving such payment normally will obtain an executed partial acceptance agreement from the claimant or his or her representative. Only the Chief, Personnel Claims and Recovery Division, USARCS or his designee can authorize emergency partial payments above $2,000. The authority requesting an emergency partial payment above $2,000 can coordinate telephonically with USARCS. §536.179 Personnel claims memorandum. (a) A personnel claims memorandum of opinion will be included in the file of each personnel claim disapproved; forwarded for adjudication, disapproval, or reconsideration; or forwarded with a recommendation that there be a deviation from the Allowance List or other established policy. (b) A personnel claims memorandum of opinion will be signed by the Claims JA. It will be routed through any intervening settlement authority, addressed to the settlement authority who will take final action (for example, a disapproval would be addressed to the SJA of an area claims office, and a reconsideration would be addressed to the Commander, USARCS). The memorandum will be sufficiently detailed to explain fully and support the action taken or recommended. (See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 2&hyph;55I for further instructions.) It will be arranged as follows: (1) Claimant's name and address. (2) Date and place the incident occurred giving rise to the claim. (3) Amount of claim, the date it was filed, and the date reconsideration was requested. (4) Subparts the claims were considered under, and a brief description of the incident or of the issues raised by the claimant on reconsideration. (5) Facts. (6) Opinion. (7) Recommended action. §536.180 Reconsideration. A claim will be reconsidered under the conditions listed below. Reconsiderations normally require additional investigation and review. This additional information will be documented in the file. An approval or settlement authority_ (a) May always reconsider his or her action if the original action was in error or is incorrect based on new facts. This may be pursuant to either a claimant's oral request for reconsideration or as a result of any post-settlement review conducted on the claims file. Note that while the original approving or settlement authority may consider a claimant's ``oral'' request for reconsideration, claims personnel should advise claimants that a higher settlement authority will not act on an oral request until the claimant presents it in writing in accordance paragraph (b) of this section. The basis for any change will be reflected in the file. (b) Must reconsider a claim upon the written request of the claimant or someone acting on his or her behalf. The claimant must clearly state the factual or legal basis for relief. However, the reconsideration process must be considered not as an adversarial process, but rather as an opportunity for the approval or settlement authority to continue a dialogue with the claimant. Every effort should be made to develop the claimant's version of the facts. A claim will be reconsidered even if a settlement agreement has been executed. (1) The original approval or settlement authority will modify the original action if he or she determines that the original action was incorrect or is incorrect based on new evidence. The basis for any change will clearly be reflected in the file. (2) A successor or higher approval or settlement authority will only modify the original action on the basis of fraud, substantial new evidence, mistake (misinterpretation ) of law or regulation, or an error in calculation. The basis for any change will clearly be reflected in the file. (3) An approval or settlement authority can take final action on a request for reconsideration if he or she informs the claimant in writing that the claimant_ (i) Is aware of the right to have the file reviewed by USARCS; and (ii) Will accept the additional payment as full relief on the claim; and (iii) Knows that if the offer is not satisfactory, the check will still be issued (and can be cashed without prejudicing his or her right to reconsideration); and (iv) The file will be forwarded to USARCS for final review. (4) If the approval or settlement authority does not grant additional relief, or the claimant does not wish to accept an additional payment as full relief, or the claimant does not respond by the suspense date, the JA/claims attorney will issue any offered payment and will forward the claim through any intervening area claims office or command claims service to USARCS for final action. As an exception, the Commander U.S. Army Claims Service, Europe (USACSEUR), can take final action on any reconsideration request forwarded there by a subordinate office so long as it does not involve approving a waiver of a maximum allowance. The Commander, USACSEUR, will include a complete copy of the final action and will forward the file to the Commander, USARCS. (c) The approval or settlement authority should consider 60 days from the settlement date a reasonable time to either submit a written request for reconsideration or provide an intent to file a reconsideration request. The claimant will receive written notification of this time limit. Any reconsideration where denial is recommended because it was not timely filed will be forwarded according to paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The Chief, Personnel Claims and Recovery Division may grant relief on untimely requests for reconsideration on the basis of substantial new evidence, fraud, mistake of law, or mathematical miscalculation. In appropriate situations, he may deny relief if the filing delay precluded acquiring additional facts. §536.181 Judge advocate procedures responsibilities. (a) Reductions for inaction. (1) The JA will ensure that, when a demand on a carrier or other third party (other than a private insurer (see paragraph (a)(2) of this section) is required (see recovery from third party) and the claimant's failure, absent good cause, to provide notice or perform other required actions materially prejudices effective recovery action with respect to all or part of the loss, the amount otherwise allowable under this subpart will be reduced by the amount of the anticipated recovery so affected on an item-by-item basis.
