FR941207-0-00140 FR941207-0-00022 130. In the Second Report and Order , we clarified that ``a designated entity that has defaulted or that anticipated default under an installment payment program'' may request a three to six month grace period before the Commission cancels its license. 69 69 See Second Report and Order , FCC 94&hyph;61 at ¶240. ``During this grace period, a defaulting licensee could maintain its construction efforts and/or operations while seeking funds to continue payments or seek from the Commission a restructured plan. We will evaluate requests for a grace period on a case-by-case basis *␣*␣* deciding whether to grant such requests or to pursue other measures, we may consider, for example, the licensee's payment history, including whether it has defaulted before and how far into the license term the default occurs, the reasons for default, whether the licensee has met construction build-out requirements, the licensee's financial condition, and whether the licensee is seeking a buyer under a distress sale policy. Following a grace period without successful resumption of payment or upon denial of a grace period request, we will declare the license cancelled and take appropriate measures under the Commission's debt collection rules and procedures. 70 70 Id . 131. Since several commenters requested clarification as to what the Commission would allow in the event a licensee defaults on payment of its installment monies, we clarify that lenders and entrepreneurs' block licensees are free to agree contractually to their own terms regarding situations where the licensee has defaulted under the Commission's installment payment program, and possibly other obligations. As long as there is no transfer of control, we would not become involved in the particulars of a voluntary workout arrangement between a designated entity and a third-party lender. 132. Specifically, an entrepreneurs' block licensee and its lenders may agree that, in the event the licensee defaults on its installment payments, the lenders to that licensee will cure this default by assuming the designated entity's payments to the government. Barring any transfer of control, we would not object to such an arrangement. 133. In the event a transfer of control is sought under the terms of the workout, the licensee and its lenders must apply for Commission approval of the transfer, in accordance with Section 310(d) of the Communications Act. In a situation where the lender itself is the proposed buyer or transferee, we would scrutinize such an application to determine whether, by virtue of the loan agreement, an earlier transfer of control was effectuated. We clarify that we would also expect that any requirements that arise by virtue of a licensee's status as an entrepreneur or as a designated entity would be satisfied with respect to such a sale. Thus, for example, the transfer would need to be to another qualified entrepreneur if it is to occur within our five-year holding period. 134. In the event an entrepreneurs' block licensee becomes subject to bankruptcy, our existing rules and precedent clarify how the Commission would dispose of a license in such a circumstance. Specifically, transfer to a bankruptcy trustee is viewed as an involuntary transfer or assignment to another party under Section 24.839 of the Commission's Rules. 71 In such a case therefore, there would be a pro forma involuntary assignment of the license to a court-appointed trustee in bankruptcy, or to the licensee, as a debtor-in-possession. Assuming the bankrupt estate is liquidated or the trustee finds a qualified purchaser for the licensee's system, and assuming payments to the Commission are maintained or a grace period granted, we will continue generally to defer to federal bankruptcy laws on many matters. 72 We would, however, ultimately have to approve any final transfer of the license. As stated above, we would expect that any requirements that arise by virtue of a licensee's status as an entrepreneur or as a designated entity would be satisfied with respect to such a sale. Thus, for example, the transfer would need to be to another qualified entrepreneur if it is to occur within our five-year holding period. 71 In the case of an involuntary transfer, FCC Form 490 shall be filed within thirty days following the event that gives rise to the transfer. See 47 CFR 24.839. 72 See LaRose v. FCC , 494 F.2d 1145 (D.C. Cir. 1974). See also Section 47 CFR 24.839(d)(4). Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis 135. Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. 604, the Commission's final analysis for the Fifth Memorandum Opinion and Order is as follows: Need for, and Purpose of, this Action . As a result of new statutory, authority, the Commission may utilize competitive bidding mechanisms in the granting of certain initial licenses. The Commission published an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, see generally 5 U.S.C. 603, in the Notice of Proposed Rule Making in this proceeding and published Final Regulatory Flexibility Analyses in the Second Report and Order (at ¶¶299&hyph;302) and the Fifth Report and Order (at ¶¶219&hyph;222). As noted in these previous final analyses, this proceeding will establish a system of competitive bidding for choosing among certain applications for initial licenses, and will carry out statutory mandates that certain designated entities, including small entities, be afforded an opportunity to participate in the competitive bidding process and in the provision of spectrum-based services. 136. Summary of the Issues Raised by the Public Comments . No commenters responded specifically to the issues raised by the Fifth Report and Order . We have made some modifications to the proposed requirements as appropriate. 137. Significant Alternatives Considered and Rejected . All significant alternatives have been addressed in the Fifth Report and Order and in this Memorandum Opinion and Order . Ordering Clauses 138. Accordingly, it is ordered that the Petitions for Reconsideration and/or Clarification of the Fifth Report and Order in this proceeding are granted to the extent described above and denied in all other respects. 139. It is further ordered that the Petition for Rulemaking filed by David J. Lieto on September 21, 1994 is hereby dismissed. 140. It is further ordered that the Petitions for Reconsideration of the Order on Reconsideration in this proceeding are granted to the extent described above and denied in all other respects. 141. It is further ordered that these rule changes made herein will become effective sixty days after publication in the Federal Register . This action is taken pursuant to Sections 4(i), 303(r) an 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 154(i), 303(r) and 309(j). 142. It is further ordered that the appropriate Bureau, in consultation with the Managing Director, is delegated authority to revise FCC Forms 175, 401 (and any successor forms) and to modify and create any additional forms to ensure that PCS applicants are in compliance with the requirements set forth in Part 24 of the Commission's Rules, as amended. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 24 Personal communications services. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary.
