FR941110-0-00062 FR941110-0-00016 Response : In order to promote consistency in the survey process, there needs to be a common definition of neglect for a variety of applications. We have, therefore, adopted the concept of the definition used in the Older Americans Act, as we explain below. That definition does not incorporate the terms ``willful'' or ``intent.'' While an act of neglect can be intentional, neglect can also occur unintentionally. However, we are specifying at §488.335(e) that a State must not make a finding that an individual has neglected a resident if the individual demonstrates that such neglect was caused by factors beyond his or her control. If the inattentiveness is due to factors within that person's control, intentional or unintentional, he or she can be considered to have neglected the resident(s). Therefore, while willfulness and intent may be considered when a State finds that an individual has neglected a resident, we believe the terms ``willful'' or ``intent'' should not be included in the definition because neglect can occur unintentionally. Comment : Some commenters perceived that, in order for a finding of neglect to be made against an individual, the alleged neglect must be within the individual's control or job responsibility. It was suggested that a provision be added to the proposed definition that includes the individual's ``breach of duty to provide *␣*␣* needed *␣*␣* services.'' The commenters contend that the proposed definition places the blame upon the individual and excludes the extent of the culpability of the facility to provide the necessary services or goods. Response : We agree that an employee should not be found to have neglected a resident if the neglect was caused by factors beyond the control of the employee. As this provision is already addressed in §488.335(e), we do not believe it needs to be restated in §488.301. Comment : Other commenters suggested their own State definition of neglect should suffice in order not to confuse facilities with separate definitions. Response : As noted earlier, there has been no evidence to suggest that any State definition is preferable to ours. In fact, we believe allowing each State definition to stand, as is, would increase confusion among the providers and promote inconsistency from State to State. Comment : Many commenters wished to add the phrase: ``Each resident should be free from *␣*␣*,'' prior to the proposed definition of neglect. Response : We agree that each resident should be free from neglect as well as other forms of mistreatment. This prohibition of neglect is inherent in §483.13(c). We do not believe the phrase suggested by the commenters defines the term. Therefore, we did not include it in §488.301. Comment : Other commenters requested that we require (within the definition of neglect) that evidence be presented that physical, emotional or psychological harm or some other negative outcome had occurred. Response : We do not accept this comment because neglect may be determined even if no apparent negative outcome has occurred. The potential for negative outcome must also be considered. For example, instances of neglect may include, but are not limited to, being left to sit or lie in urine or feces, isolating dependent residents by leaving them in their rooms or other isolated locations, or failing to answer call bells to provide needed assistance. Comment : Many commenters believed that ``timely'' should be removed from the definition of neglect or else be defined, as it is overly broad. Other commenters wish to add the language incorporated within section 102(37) of the Older Americans Act. Response : Although the term ``timely'' does not appear in the final definition, we believe timeliness is an integral component in determining neglect. A delay in providing needed services for a resident has the potential to cause physical harm and/or mental anguish. Such a delay (or lack of timeliness) can be considered neglect under the definition we are incorporating in the final regulation. We are adopting the concept from the Older Americans Act which provides that neglect means failure to provide goods and services necessary to avoid physical harm, mental anguish, or mental illness. Comment : Many commenters asked that HCFA include the following occupations in the proposed list of licensed health professionals: •Clinical Nurse Specialist; •Medical Records Specialist; •Dietitian; •Social Work Assistant; •Speech Pathologist or Audiologist; •Recreational or Activities Specialist; •Respiratory Therapist; •Dentist or Dental Hygienist; •Optometrist; •Podiatrist; •Pharmacist; •Psychologist; •Chiropractor; •Nursing Home Administrator; and •All other licensed health professionals.
