FR940811-2-00134 FR940811-2-00084 On August 3, 1993, NHTSA published a notice in the Federal Register (58 FR 41316) announcing that it was considering whether to expand the purposes for which the blue ``Star of Life'' could be used and whether other changes to the guidelines for the authorized use of the symbol would be appropriate. The notice requested comments from the public on whether the agency should authorize the use of the ``Star of Life'' symbol in EMS&hyph;DNR programs, including its use on personal items, such as bracelets or necklaces, to identify individuals who are DNR candidates. The notice also requested comments on whether the agency should make other revisions to its guidelines for the authorized use of the blue ``Star of Life.'' Comments Received Eighteen comments were received by the agency in response to the August 3 notice. Commenters included one Federal agency (the U.S. Fire Administration), two national organizations (the American College of Emergency Physicians and the National Association of State EMS Directors), one medical school, eight State EMS Directors, four regional or local EMS officials and an interested individual. Each of the comments addressed the central issue concerning whether to permit the use of the ``Star of Life'' symbol for DNR purposes. In addition, some comments made suggestions regarding other aspects of the criteria and specifications that were outlined in 1977. Use of ``Star of Life'' for Do Not Resuscitate Programs Of the eighteen comments received, only two States, two regional or local EMS officials and an interested individual opposed the use of the ``Star of Life'' symbol for a DNR program. The Federal agency, the medical school, both national organizations, six States and two regional or local EMS officials either supported or stated that they did not oppose the use of the ``Star of Life'' symbol for DNR purposes. Many of these comments expressed strong support for the symbol's use for these purposes. To assist the agency in deciding whether to permit the use of the ``Star of Life'' for this purpose, NHTSA requested in its August 3, 1993 notice comments addressing a number of specific questions. These questions, and the comments we received responding to them, are discussed below. 1. State EMS&hyph;DNR Programs NHTSA requested that comments provide examples of State EMS programs that have developed or are developing EMS&hyph;DNR identification programs and the identification symbols used in those programs. The comments reported that the States of California and Virginia have developed statewide DNR programs. Genesee County, MI also reported that it has a DNR program. Virginia employs the ``Star of Life'' symbol; California employs the Medic-Alert symbol; Genesee County uses a purple wrist identification bracelet. The States of Washington, Maine and Maryland are all in the process of developing DNR programs. Each of these States indicated that it is interested in or would strongly consider using the ``Star of Life'' for its DNR program. 2. Confuse the Public NHTSA sought comments on whether the proposed use of the ``Star of Life'' symbol would confuse the general public. In particular, the agency asked whether the use would likely confuse the public as to the identification and location of qualified EMS personnel and equipment. Comments from California, San Diego, the Northern Mariana Islands and the Genesee County Medical Control authority in Genesee County, MI predicted that use of the ``Star of Life'' for DNR purposes would confuse the public. More specifically, California stated, ``use of the `Star of Life' on DNR bracelets would likely confuse individuals as to the identification of qualified EMS personnel.'' However, no evidence was cited for this prediction. Virginia (which uses the ``Star of Life'' symbol for its DNR program) reported that there have been no instances of confusion. In addition, the State asserted its belief that it ``would be very unlikely that anyone would mistake the patient with such a bracelet *␣*␣* for a qualified EMT,'' since patients who are eligible to wear such bracelets have been diagnosed with a terminally ill condition. The U.S. Fire Administration, the National Association of State EMS Directors and the State of New Jersey agreed with Virginia that use of the ``Star of Life'' symbol for DNR programs is extremely unlikely to confuse the public. 3. Difficulty with Identification. NHTSA requested that States with established EMS&hyph;DNR programs explain the difficulties, if any, that EMS personnel are encountering with the identification symbols used for EMS&hyph;DNR candidates.
