FR940725-1-00044 FR940725-1-00009 (G) The total number of status offenders held in any secure detention or correctional facility pursuant to the valid court order provision set forth in paragraph (f)(3) of this section. (ii) To demonstrate the extent to which the provisions of section 223(a)(12)(B) of the JJDP Act are being met, the report must include the total number of accused and adjudicated status offenders and nonoffenders placed in facilities that are: (A) Not near their home community; (B) Not the least restrictive appropriate alternative; and (C) Not community-based. (iii) To demonstrate the extent of compliance with section 223(a)(13) of the JJDP Act, the report must include, at a minimum, the following information for the current reporting period: (A) Dates covered by the current reporting period. (B) The total number of facilities used to detain or confine both juvenile offenders and adult criminal offenders during the past 12 months AND the number inspected on-site. (C) The total number of facilities used for secure detention and confinement of both juvenile offenders and adult criminal offenders which did not provide sight and sound separation. (D) The total number of juvenile offenders and nonoffenders NOT separated in facilities used for the secure detention and confinement of both juveniles and adults. (E) The total number of juvenile detention centers located within the same building or on the same grounds as an adult jail or lockup that have been concurred with by OJJDP, including a list of such facilities. (F) The total number of juveniles detained in collocated facilities concurred with by OJJDP, that were not separated from the security or direct care staff of the adult portion of the facility. (G) The total number of juvenile detention centers located within the same building or on the same grounds as an adult jail or lockup that have not been concurred with by OJJDP, including a list of such facilities. (H) The total number of juveniles detained in collocated facilities not approved by the State and concurred with by OJJDP, that were not sight and sound separated from adult criminal offenders. (iv) To demonstrate the extent of compliance with section 223(a)(14) of the JJDP Act, the report must include, at a minimum, include the following information for the current reporting period: (A) Dates covered by the current reporting period. (B) The total number of adult jails in the State AND the number inspected on-site. (C) The total number of adult lockups in the State AND the number inspected on-site. (D) The total number of adult jails holding juveniles during the past twelve months. (E) The total number of adult lockups holding juveniles during the past twelve months. (F) The total number of accused juvenile criminal-type offenders held securely in adult jails, lockups, and collocated facilities not concurred with by OJJDP, in excess of six hours. (G) The total number of accused juvenile criminal-type offenders held securely in adult jails, lockups, and collocated facilities not concurred with by OJJDP, for less than six hours for purposes other than identification, investigation, processing, release to parent(s), or transfer to a juvenile facility. (H) The total number of adjudicated juvenile criminal-type offenders held securely in adult jails, lockups and collocated facilities not concurred with by OJJDP, for any length of time. (I) The total number of accused and adjudicated status offenders (including valid court order violators) and nonoffenders held securely in adult jails, lockups and collocated facilities not approved by the State and concurred with by OJJDP, for any length of time. (J) The total number of adult jails, lockups and collocated facilities not concurred with by OJJDP, in areas meeting the ``removal exception'' as noted in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, including a list of such facilities and the county or jurisdiction in which each is located. (K) The total number of juveniles accused of a criminal-type offense who were held in excess of six hours but less than 24 hours in adult jails, lockups and collocated facilities not approved by the State and concurred with by OJJDP, in areas meeting the ``removal exception'' as noted in paragraph (f)(4) of this section. (L) The total number of juveniles accused of a criminal-type offense who were held in excess of 24 hours in adult jails, lockups and collocated facilities not approved by the State and concurred with by OJJDP, in areas meeting the ``removal exception'' as noted in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, due to conditions of distance or lack of ground transportation. (M) The total number of juveniles accused of a criminal-type offense who were held in excess of 24 hours in adult jails, lockups and collocated facilities not concurred with by OJJDP, in areas meeting the ``removal exception'' as noted in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, due to adverse weather conditions.
