FR940613-0-00150 FR940613-0-00018 Proposed uses are those uses of or development to a private land parcel within the HCNRA initiated after June 13, 1994. Ranger is the HCNRA Area Ranger, Wallowa-Whitman National Forest, with offices located in Enterprise, Oregon, Riggins, Idaho, and Clarkston, Washington, except for the Rapid Wild and Scenic River where the term refers to the Salmon River District Ranger, Nez Perce National Forest, located in Whitebird, Idaho. Recreational facilities are facilities associated with or required for outdoor recreational activities and include, but are not limited to, parks, campgrounds, hunting and fishing lodges, and interpretive displays. Residential lands are lands within the HCNRA developed for residential purposes as of June 13, 1994 and which are assigned to the Residential land category in ยง292.22. Scenic Easement. See Conservation Easement. Screening is the reduction or elimination of the visual impact of any structure or land modification as seen from any public travel route within the HCNRA. Solid waste is discarded solid materials resulting from mining, industrial, commercial, agricultural, silvicultural, and community activities. This term does not include domestic sewage or pollutants such as silt or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows. Structure is any permanent building or facility, or part thereof such as barns, outhouses, residences and storage sheds. This includes electric transmission line systems, substations, commercial radio transmitters, relays or repeater stations, antennas, and other electronic sites and associated structures. Traditional uses are ranching, grazing, farming, timber harvesting and the occupation of homes and land associated therewith within the HCNRA, or other activities including outdoor recreational activities and facilities, which existed on or before December 31, 1975. Travel route is a route, such as a county or National Forest system road or river or trail, that is open for use by members of the general public. ยง292.22 Land category assignments. (a) Land categories. (1) All privately owned lands within the HCNRA are to be assigned to one of the following four land categories: (i) Farm/forest/grazing land. (ii) Mining land. (iii) Residential land. (iv) Commercial land. (2) Not later than August 12, 1994, a map or maps displaying the privately owned lands within the HCNRA and the land categories to which they have been assigned must be on file and available for public inspection at the Ranger's office. The Ranger shall give notice of the availability of this map or maps in the local newspapers of record. (b) Changes in land category assignment. Lands assigned to the Commercial, Residential, or Mining category may be reclassified as farm/forest/grazing land so long as the intended use or development is consistent with the standards in ยง292.23 and the Ranger has given public notice of the proposed change in the local newspaper of record and has notified adjacent landowners and the affected county government at least 30 days prior to any decision on the proposed change. ยง292.23 Standards of compatible land use and development. Private land use that conforms to the standards of this section is deemed to be compatible with the purpose for which the HCNRA was established. (a) Standards applicable to all private lands. As of June 13, 1994, the use and development of private lands in all land categories within the HCNRA is deemed compatible with the purposes for which the HCNRA was established, if the use and development of such lands meets the following standards: (1) Use and development conforms to applicable local, state, and federal environmental, natural resource, cultural resource, and land use development law. (2) All new or replacement structures are screened and/or constructed of materials that blend with the natural environment, except where structures typify the architectural style and materials of a significant historic era such as pre-World War II. Screening is not required, however, for new or replacement structures that are associated with an existing unscreened structure or structures that were not screened at the time this rule became effective.
