FR940713-1-00026 FR940713-1-00001 (v) Subgroup. A 10-bird sample collected before product enter the chiller. (vi) FPS testing. Testing conducted by the establishment to determine the CUSUM on consecutive 10-bird subgroup samples collected prior to product entering the chilling system. (vii) Rework. Reconditioning the product to correct the condition or conditions causing the nonconformances listed in Table 1. (2) Finished Product Standards are criteria applied to processed birds to ensure the product consistently meets ready-to-cook requirements. The FPS Program is designed to monitor the quality and effectiveness of the dressing and evisceration procedures. The criteria consist of nonconformances (see Table 1 of this section), the incidence of which is determined from 10-bird subgroup samples, reduced to a CUSUM number, and measured against the standards (see Table 2 of this section). Standards are applied to permit the Agency to estimate when the production process is in control and when it is out of control. The establishment is responsible for maintaining the FPS Program which, in turn, is monitored by the inspector. If an out-of-compliance condition is found, the product is segregated for rework, reworked, and retested before it may proceed into commerce. (i) Actions to be taken when the process is in control. If the CUSUM is less than the action number and the most recent subgroup sample is tolerance or below, the process is judged to be in control. (A) Establishment actions. The establishment shall: ( 1 ) Randomly select and record subgroup sampling times for each production unit of time before product reaches the FPS reinspection station on the production line. In no case shall the time between tests exceed 1 hour of production time. ( 2 ) Conduct a 10-bird subgroup test at a random time on each poultry slaughter line. These times are preselected by the establishment and available to the inspector prior to the start of the shift/day's operation. All 10 samples of the subgroup shall be collected at the random time. ( 3 ) Record the test results. If the subgroup total is tolerance or below, conduct the next randomly scheduled subgroup test. (B) Inspector actions. The inspector shall: ( 1 ) Select random times for monitoring subgroup tests for each half-shift on the evisceration line. In establishments that have multiple evisceration lines on a production shift, monitor all lines of product at the random times. ( 2 ) Collect the subgroup samples to be monitored at preselected times. All 10 samples of the subgroup shall be collected at the random time selected. ( 3 ) Conduct the 10-bird monitoring subgroup test. Record the test results. If the subgroup total is tolerance or below, conduct the next randomly scheduled subgroup test. (ii) Actions to be taken with rising CUSUM. If the establishment or inspection subgroup test result is above tolerance, the process is judged to be under questionable process control. (A) Establishment actions. The establishment shall: ( 1 ) Immediately notify the inspector in charge and the production supervisor responsible for the affected evisceration line. ( 2 ) Take specific process corrective actions for each FPS category with nonconformances to prevent the process from yielding product requiring rework. These actions are recorded on the FPS form. ( 3 ) Suspend random time FPS testing. Conduct additional subgroup tests a minimum of 15 and a maximum of 30 minutes apart at the reinspection station to determine the adequacy of process corrective actions. Include the test results in the CUSUM. If the testing results in an additional subgroup total exceeding tolerance or CUSUM equals or exceeds the action number, identify subsequent product for rework and follow procedures for process out of control. ( 4 ) If two consecutive additional subgroup tests a minimum of 15 and a maximum of 30 minutes apart demonstrate process control with subgroup totals equal to or less than tolerance, but they do not cause CUSUM to fall to the start line or below, reset CUSUM at the start number. ( 5 ) Resume random time subgroup testing as set forth in actions to be taken when the process is in control. (B) Inspector actions. The inspector shall monitor product and the effectiveness of process corrective actions by making spot-check observations to ensure that all program requirements are met. (iii) Actions to be taken when the CUSUM reaches the action number. If the subgroup test results in CUSUM equal to or exceeding the action number, or results in a rising CUSUM and a subsequent subgroup test above tolerance, the process is judged not in control. (A) Establishment actions. The establishment shall: ( 1 ) Identify subsequent product for rework. ( 2 ) Immediately notify the inspector in charge and production supervisor responsible for the affected evisceration line. ( 3 ) Take specific process corrective actions for each FPS category with nonconformances to regain process control and minimize rework. These actions shall be recorded on the FPS form. ( 4 ) Suspend random time testing. Conduct additional subgroup tests at the reinspection station to determine the adequacy of process corrective actions. Include the test results in the CUSUM. ( 5 ) After two consecutive subgroup tests at least 30 minutes apart result in subgroup totals equal to or less than tolerance, identify product that will mark the end of the rework action. ( 6 ) If two consecutive additional subgroup tests demonstrate process control with subgroup totals equal to or less than tolerance, but they do not cause CUSUM to fall to the start line or below, reset CUSUM at the start number.
