FR941121-0-00123 FR941121-0-00011 27. Section 90.415 is amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §90.415 Prohibited uses. * * * * * (b) Render a communications common carrier service, except for stations in the Special Emergency Radio Service providing communications standby facilities under §90.49, operational fixed stations licensed in the Railroad Radio Service handling public telegraph messages as agents of telegraph common carriers in those instances where such public telegraph service cannot be provided through other railroad facilities, and stations licensed under this part in the SMR, private carrier paging, Business Radio, or 220&hyph;222 MHz services. 28. Section 90.425 is amended by adding paragraph (e) to read as follows: §90.425 Station identification. * * * * * (e) Special provisions for stations licensed under this part that are classified as CMRS providers under part 20 of this chapter. (1) Station identification will not be required for 929&hyph;930 MHz nationwide paging licensees and MTA-based SMR licensees. All other CMRS stations will be required to comply with the station identification requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. (2) CMRS stations subject to a station identification requirement will be permitted to use a single call sign for commonly owned facilities that are operated as part of a single system. The call sign must be transmitted each hour within five minutes of the hour, or upon completion of the first transmission after the hour. (3) CMRS stations granted exclusive channels may transmit their call signs digitally. The station licensee must provide the Commission with information sufficient to decode the digital transmission to ascertain the transmitted call sign. 29. Section 90.437 is amended by revising paragraphs (b) and (c) to read as follows: §90.437 Posting station licenses. * * * * * (b) Entities authorized under this part must make available either a clearly legible photocopy of the authorization for each base or fixed station at a fixed location at every control point of the station or an address or location where the current authorization may be found. (c) Entities operating under a temporary permit authorized in accordance with §90.159 shall post an executed copy of the Form 572 at every control point of the system or an address or location where the current executed copy may be found. * * * * * 30. Section 90.449 is revised to read as follows: §90.449 Answers to official communications and notices of violation. (a) Licensees are required to respond to official communications with reasonable dispatch and according to the tenor of the communication. Failure to do so may be considered by the Commission to reflect adversely on a person's qualifications to hold Commission authorizations and may also create liabilities for other sanctions. (b) Any licensee receiving official notice of a violation of the terms of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, any legislative act or treaty to which the United States is a party, or the rules and regulations of the Commission, shall, within ten (10) days from such receipt or such other period as may be specified by the Commission, send a written answer to the office of the Commission originating the original notice. If an answer cannot be sent, or an acknowledgement made, within such period, acknowledgement and answer shall be made at the earliest practicable date with a satisfactory explanation of the delay. The answer to each notice shall be complete in itself and shall not be abbreviated by reference to other communications or answers to other notices. The reply shall set forth the steps taken to prevent a recurrence of improper operation. 31. Section 90.476 is amended by adding paragraph (c) to read as follows: §90.476 Interconnection of fixed stations and certain mobile stations. * * * * *
