FR941117-2-00043 FR941117-2-00037 Preapplication Workshop on Cooperative Agreements for Preventive Health Services-Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD)/Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Prevention Training Centers_Program Announcement Number 514: Meeting The National Center for Prevention Services (NCPS) of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the following preapplication workshop. Name: Preapplication Workshop on Cooperative Agreements for Preventive Health Services-STD/HIV Prevention Training Centers_Program Announcement 514. Time and Dates: 8:30 a.m._4:30 p.m., December 1&hyph;2, 1994 Status: Open to the public, limited only by the space available; seating preference for eligible applicants. Place: Sheraton Washington Hotel, 2660 Woodley Road at Connecticut Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20008, telephone 202/328&hyph;2000. Purpose: To provide information concerning programmatic and business aspects of preparing an application for funding under Program Announcement 514. Eligibility: Eligible applicants are the official public health agencies of State and local governments, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and Federally-recognized Indian Tribal governments. Availability of funds: Contingent on the availability of funds, up to $5.6 million will be available in fiscal year 1995 to fund approximately ten awards for a 1-year budget period within a 5-year project period. These awards may fund one STD/HIV Prevention Training Center in each of the ten Department of Health and Human Services regions. All applicants must compete for Part I, Clinical Services Training. Part II, Health Behavior Training, and Part III, Partner Counseling Training, are elective. Up to $4 million will be available to fund ten awards in Part I. For Part II, up to $1 million will be available to fund up to four awards. For Part III, up to $600,000 will be available for up to four awards. Awards are expected to be made on or before April 1, 1995. Matters to be Discussed: The workshop will allow participants to receive explanations from CDC staff and ask questions about a draft announcement prior to the publication of the official announcement in the Federal Register. General Information: The objective of these awards is to support innovative professional training programs in integrated STD and HIV Client management within a national network of STD/HIV Prevention Training Centers to achieve a comprehensive prevention strategy including clinical service, health behavioral, and partner counseling interventions. Applicants must demonstrate the capability to employ state-of-the-art training techniques, including distance learning technology, to reach participants regionally or nationally in a manner that prepares them to provide STD/HIV prevention interventions in the clinic and community. Training is for providers who have face-to-face contact with clients. Part I supports hands-on STD clinical services training in public health STD clinics. Applicants must demonstrate adequate clinic and training facilities for the practical experiences of participants. Plans to provide 200 hours of clinic-based course are required. Part II supports the practical skills based on behavior change theory to employ at the client level. Applicants must emphasize participant cotnact with high-risk individuals in the community. Plans to provide 100 hours of health behavior training is required. Part III supports the training of provides in STD/HIV partner counseling skills including partner elicitation, referral, and notification. Plans to provide 500 hours of partner counseling training is required. Each Part requires the organization of a qualified training administration; analysis of STD and HIV Prevention Program training needs; collaboration with graduate schools and community experts for faculty and services and inclusion of graduate assistants in training activities; provision of clinic-based, and for Part II and Part III community-based, integrated STD/HIV services and actual experiences for participants; the development of innovative distance learning strategies; quality training through acquisition of continuing education credits for participants; evaluation of training and the design of cost-effective training models; and collaboration with CDC in a nation-wide public health training network. For More Information Contact: To confirm your attendance, you may call (404) 639&hyph;8357 or FAX (404) 639&hyph;8609 the following information on or before November 25, 1994, to Robert B. Emerson: Organization's name and number of attendees. Dated: November 9, 1994. William H. Gimson, Acting Associate Director for Policy Coordination Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28376 Filed 11&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;M
