FR940317-1-00157 FR940317-1-00013 RCP Replacement cost protection RIMP Risk management program RJA Recovery judge advocate ROTC Reserve Officers' Training Corps SJA Staff judge advocate SOFA Status of Forces Agreement SPCMCA Special court-martial convening authority TAJAG The Assistant Judge Advocate General TDA Table of distribution and allowances TDY Temporary duty TGBL Through Government bill of lading TJAG The Judge Advocate General UCMJ Uniform Code of Military Justice USAFAC U.S. Army Finance and Accounting Center USAR U.S. Army Reserve USARCS U.S. Army Claims Service USAREUR U.S. Army, Europe USARSO U.S. Army South VA Department of Veterans Affairs WESTCOM U.S. Army Western Command Terms Affirmative Claims The Government's statutory right to recover money, property, or repayment in kind incurred as a result of property loss, damage, or destruction by any individual, partnership, association, or other legal entity, foreign or domestic, except an instrumentality of the United States. Also, the Government's statutory right to recover the reasonable medical costs expended for hospital, medical, surgical, or dental care and treatment (including prostheses and medical appliances) incurred under circumstances creating tort liability upon some third person. Civilian Employee A person whose activities the Government has the right to direct and control, not only as to the result to be accomplished but also as the means used. This includes, but is not limited to, full-time Federal civilian officers and employees. This term should be distinguished from ``independent contractor'' for whose actions the Government generally is not liable. The decision as to who is a civilian employee is a Federal question determined under Federal, not under local law. Claim A demand for payment of a specified sum of money (other than the ordinary obligations incurred for services, supplies, or equipment) and, unless otherwise specified in this regulation, in writing and signed by the claimant or a properly designated representative. Claim File A file containing the report of the claims officer or other report of investigation, supporting documentations, and pertinent correspondence. Claim Approval Authority Except for claims under chapter 7, 9, and 11 and subject to any limitations found in specific provisions of this regulation, the authority to approve and pay a claim in the amount presented or in a lesser amount upon the execution of a settlement agreement by the claimant. Under chapter 11, the authority of a designated Government agent to adjudicate and pay a claim in a meritorious amount within the monetary limits prescribed in that chapter. A person with approval authority may not disapprove a claim in its entirety or to make a final offer subject to any limitations found in specific provisions of this regulation. Claim Settlement Authority The authority to approve a claim, deny a claim in its entirety, or make a final offer subject to any limitations found in specific provisions of this regulation. Claims Attorney A DA or DOD civilian attorney assigned to a judge advocate or legal office who has been designated by the Commander, U.S. Army. Claims Service Claims Judge Advocate An officer of the Judge Advocate General's Corp designated by a command or staff judge advocate to be in immediate charge of claims activities of the command. Claims Officer A commissioned officer, warrant officer, or qualified civilian employee detailed by the commander of an installation or unit who is trained or experienced in the investigation of claims. Claimant An individual, partnership, association, corporation, country, state, territory, or other political subdivision of such country. It does not include the U.S. Government or any of its instrumentalities, except as prescribed by statute. Indian tribes are not proper party claimants but individual Indians can be claimants.
