FR940722-0-00066 FR940722-0-00017 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 90-Day Finding and Commencement of Status Review for a Petition To List the Southern Rocky Mountain Population of the Boreal Toad as Endangered agency: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. action: Notice of petition findings and initiation of status review. summary: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 90-day finding for a petition to add the southern Rocky Mountain population of the boreal toad ( Bufo boreas boreas ) to the List of Threatened and Endangered Wildlife. The Service finds the petition presents substantial information indicating that the requested action may be warranted. dates: The finding announced in this notice was made on July 14, 1994. Comments and materials need to be submitted by September 20, 1994, to be considered in the 12-month finding. addresses: Information, comments, or questions concerning this petition may be submitted to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ecological Services, 730 Simms Street, Suite 290, Golden, Colorado 80401. The petition, finding, and supporting documents are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. for further information contact: Terry Ireland, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ecological Services, 764 Horizon Drive, South Annex A, Grand Junction, Colorado 81506&hyph;3946, telephone, (303) 243&hyph;2778. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species, or to revise a critical habitat designation presents substantial scientific and commercial information to indicate that the petitioned action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of the receipt of the petition, and the finding is to be promptly published in the Federal Register . If the finding is positive, the Service also is required to commence a review of the status of the petitioned species. The Service announces a 90-day finding on a petition requesting the Service to list as endangered the southern Rocky Mountain population of the ``western boreal toad'' ( Bufo boreas boreas ) and initiates a status review. A petition dated September 27, 1993, was received by the Service from the Biodiversity Legal Foundation and Dr. Peter Hovingh on September 30, 1993. The petition requested that the southern Rocky Mountain population of the ``western boreal toad'' be listed as endangered and that critical habitat be designated. The Act allows the Service to list distinct population segments of vertebrate fish and wildlife. Physical and climatic characteristics of the Great Divide Basin separate boreal toads in the southern Rocky Mountains (New Mexico, Colorado, and southeastern Wyoming) from populations in the Wasatch and Uinta Mountains of Utah to the west and the Wind River and Salt River Ranges of Wyoming to the north. The Basin's hot, dry summers, lack of available water, and high desert vegetation provide unsuitable habitat for the toad. Movement of toads between the southern Rocky Mountains and populations in western Wyoming and eastern Utah is unlikely because of the great distance (>165 km (100 miles)) and harsh environment. Because of this geographic isolation, possible genetic differentiation exists between toads in the southern Rocky Mountains and the remainder of their range (Blair 1964, Hubbard 1972). Considering these factors, the Service believes the southern Rocky Mountain population of the boreal toad is a distinct population segment.
