FR940506-2-00121 FR940506-2-00069 2. Milton and Jean Phillips, Kenneth or Ann Easterday, Robert E. Harp, Cameron Brothers Construction Co., Ogram Farms, Bruce Church, Inc., Stephen Sturges, Sunkist Growers, Inc., Clayton Farms, BCP, Arizona: Water service contracts, as recommended by Arizona Department of Water Resources, with agricultural entities located near the Colorado River for up to an additional 15,557 acre-feet per year total. 3. Arizona State Land Department, State of Arizona, BCP, Arizona: Contract for 6,607 acre-feet per year of Colorado River water for agricultural use and related purposes on State-owned land. This contract action reflects an increase in a prior contract recommendation in the amount of 6,292 acre-feet per year. 4. Armon Curtis, Arlin Dulin, Jacy Rayner, Glen Curtis, Jamar Produce Corporation, and Ansel T. Hall, BCP, Arizona: Water service contracts; purpose is to amend their contracts to exempt them from the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97&hyph;293). 5. Indian and non-Indian agricultural and M&I water users. CAP, Arizona: New and amendatory contracts for repayment of Federal expenditures for construction of distribution systems. 6. Cibola Valley IDD, BCP, Arizona: Cibola Valley IDD is looking at the possibility of transferring, leasing, selling, or banking its entitlement of 22,560 acre-feet, for use in Arizona, California, and Nevada. 7. Ft. Yuma Indian Reservation (Quechan Indian Reservation), Yuma Project, Arizona and California: Surplus water contract to receive Colorado River water in the States of Arizona and California. The contract may include surplus and unused apportionment entitlements (51,616 acre-feet or 7,743 acres, whichever is less) and wheeling arrangements with Bard ID. 8. Imperial ID, Lower Colorado Water Supply Project, California: Contract providing for administration, operation, maintenance, and replacement of the project well field. 9. Lower Colorado Water Supply Project, California: Water service and repayment contracts with nonagricultural users in California adjacent to the Colorado River for an aggregate consumptive use of up to 10,000 acre-feet of Colorado River water per year in exchange for an equivalent amount of water to be pumped into the All-American Canal from a well field to be constructed adjacent to the canal. 10. County of San Bernardino, San Sevaine Creek Water Project, SRPA, California: Project and loan repayment contracts are under reformulation. 11. Tohono O'odham Nation, SRPA, Arizona: Repayment contract for a $7.3 million loan for the Schuk Toak District. 12. Bullhead City, Consolidated Water Co., Lake Havasu City, Havasu Water Co., Quartzsite, McAllister Subdivision, City of Parker, Marble Canyon, and Arizona State Land Department, BCP, Arizona: Contracts for additional M&I allocations of Colorado River water to entities located along the Colorado River in Arizona for up to 15,146 acre-feet per year as recommended by the Arizona Department of Water Resources. 13. National Park Service for Lake Mead National Recreation Area, Supreme Court Decree in Arizona v. California, and BCP in Arizona and Nevada: Memorandum of Understanding for delivery of Colorado River water for the National Park Service's Federal Establishment present perfected right of 500 acre-feet of diversions annually, and the National Park Service's Federal Establishment perfected right pursuant to Executive Order No. 5125 (April 25, 1930). 14. Imperial ID/Coachella Valley WD and/or The Metropolitan WD of Southern California, BCP, California: Contract to fund the Department of the Interior's expenses to conserve All-American Canal seepage water in accordance with Title II of the San Luis Rey Indian Water Rights Settlement Act, dated November 17, 1988. 15. Coachella Valley WD and/or The Metropolitan WD of Southern California, BCP, California: Contract to fund the Department of the Interior's expenses to conserve seepage water from the Coachella Branch of the All-American Canal in accordance with Title II of the San Luis Rey Indian Water Rights Settlement Act, dated November 17, 1988.
