FR940304-0-00037 FR940304-0-00015 •Revise §424.32(a) to state specifically that a claim for physician services must include appropriate diagnostic coding using ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM. •Revise §424.34(b)(4) to state specifically that an itemized bill furnished by a physician to a beneficiary for physician services must include appropriate diagnostic coding using ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM. •Add to §424.3 the definition of ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM, which means the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification. Coding and reporting requirements and instructions for diagnostic coding were developed in order to take into account circumstances unique to care furnished by physicians. These coding and reporting requirements and instructions for completing bills and requests for payment were developed before publication of the proposed rule and were distributed to the carriers on March 3, 1989. The carriers then mailed this information, in the form of a Medicare Bulletin, to the physicians whom they service. During preparation of these procedures and instructions, we consulted with the American Medical Association (AMA) and provided the AMA an opportunity to comment on the material. In the proposed rule, we proposed a limited grace period during which payments would not be denied and sanctions would not be imposed for failure to use diagnosis codes. We provided for a 6-month grace period until October 1, 1989 to allow physicians and their office staff to obtain training and purchase books. On August 8, 1989, we notified carriers of the extension of the grace period through a memorandum from the HCFA Bureau of Program Operations. For the convenience of the reader, we published the coding and reporting requirements as an appendix to the proposed rule. AHIMA offered nationwide training classes and training materials for physician office staff for ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM diagnostic coding, as did the AMA. Suggestions concerning modification of the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM codes, or additions to the existing codes, may be submitted in writing to the following address: National Center for Health Statistics, 6525 Belcrest Road, room 9&hyph;58, Hyattsville, MD 20782. In this final rule, we are adopting the requirements as stated in the proposed rule without modification. IV. Discussion of Public Comments In response to the proposed rule, we received 35 timely items of correspondence. Comments were received from physicians, professional health-related organizations, universities and colleges, medical facilities, state governments, laboratories, durable medical equipment suppliers and pharmaceutical companies. Although the majority of commenters were not opposed to the diagnostic coding requirement in general, they were concerned with certain aspects of the proposed rule. A. Coding Issues Comment: One commenter inquired about the possibility of an indefinite delay of the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM diagnostic coding requirement. Another commenter asserted that the diagnostic coding requirement should not be implemented until final regulations are published, which should allow for a training period of 60 days before any adverse actions. Response: The original implementation date of April 1, 1989 was extended by a 60-day grace period to allow physicians and their office staffs to purchase coding books and to obtain coding training. This grace period was further extended until October 1, 1989, at which time we required all physicians to use ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM codes on bills or requests for payment. On August 8, 1989, we notified carriers of the extension through a memorandum from the HCFA Bureau of Program Operations. In total, we allowed a 6-month grace period. We believe we provided a reasonable time period for physicians and their staffs to prepare for the new coding requirements. Comment: The American Psychiatric Association disagreed with HCFA that the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM is the only classification system acceptable for Medicare claims. They urged HCFA to allow the use of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Third Edition, Revised (DSM&hyph;III&hyph;R) coding system for mental disorders. The American Medical Association also supports the DSM&hyph;III&hyph;R coding system for use by psychiatrists. Response: DSM&hyph;III&hyph;R was designed to be compatible with ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM, but the two systems are not identical. Systems such as DSM&hyph;III&hyph;R address only certain types of diagnoses, and cannot be used universally by all types of practitioners to code all types of diagnoses on claims submitted to Medicare. In fact, ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM provides for greater specificity in coding mental disorders that DSM&hyph;III&hyph;R. Within the ``mental disorders'' range (codes 290&hyph;319) there are an additional 218 specific codes available in ICD 9&hyph;CM that are not in DSM&hyph;III&hyph;R. Thus, we continue to believe that the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM system is the only comprehensive diagnostic coding system that is suitable for Medicare claims. Comment: The College of American Pathologists stated that the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM coding system is limited in its description of disease states. The commenter asserted that the Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine (SNOMED), which it publishes, is more specific. Response: The SNOMED is an excellent coding system. However, as stated above, the Department of Health and Human Services is signatory to the WHO's nomenclature regulations binding the United States to use of the ICD for official government purposes. Even though ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM has recognized limitations, it can be updated as the need arises via the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM Coordination and Maintenance Committee. Comment: One laboratory recommended that the burden of furnishing the proper diagnosis codes be placed on the physician ordering a test rather than the supplier of the service. The commenter expressed a concern that the laboratory performing the test should not be held responsible for performing a test that Medicare later determines to be not medically necessary.
