FR940505-1-00069 FR940505-1-00012 •EPA study and assessment (in accordance with section 405 of the Act and in conjunction with the Council of Economic Advisors) of economic incentive measures and approaches for stimulating additional air pollution control progress, concentrating on air pollution problems for which no existing methods of control exist; •EPA research contracts with public and private agencies, institutions, and individuals to carry out specific projects relating to new air pollution reduction technologies; •EPA grants under section 105 of the Act to State and local air pollution control agencies and to other nonprofit organizations to conduct research or demonstration projects; and •EPA research fellowships both at EPA and at research organizations or universities. In the 1990 Amendments to the CAA, Congress assigned EPA additional responsibilities for several specific new air pollution control technology projects, ranging from hydrogen fuel cell vehicle test programs to studies of renewable energy and energy conservation incentives. Congress also broadened the scope of EPA's mission: ``the [EPA] Administrator shall conduct a basic engineering research and technology program to develop, evaluate, and demonstrate nonregulatory strategies and technologies for air pollution prevention. Such strategies and technologies shall be developed with priority on those pollutants which pose a significant risk to human health and the environment, and with opportunities for participation by industry, public interest groups, scientists, and other interested persons in the development of such strategies and technologies.'' Section 103(g). (b) Recent National Initiatives. The Federal commitment to a leadership role in development of clean technologies and control approaches is reflected in several new comprehensive initiatives. ( 1 ) Climate Change Action Plan. The Climate Change Action Plan was announced by President Clinton and Vice President Gore on October 19, 1993. The plan consists of 50 new or expanded programs and innovative public-private partnerships. The unifying goal of the plan is reduction in greenhouse gases, which include one of the two principal ozone precursors: oxides of nitrogen. In addition, the majority of the plan's initiatives_whether in the area of energy demand actions, transportation actions, or energy supply actions_will directly advance progress toward ozone attainment in the South Coast, either through projects to reduce energy consumption or programs to spur increased reliance on clean energy sources. Many provisions of the Action Plan are intended to produce almost immediate progress, and some of these actions, like the parking cash-out program, are already incorporated as core measures in this FIP. Successful implementation of this group of initiatives will reduce the growth in emissions in the South Coast associated with the area's projected population increases, economic development, rising energy use, and expanded transportation requirements. Other provisions of the Climate Change plan involve a continuing effort to advance long term strategies and stimulate programs and technologies that will yield their greatest reductions in the first decade of the next century. As a means of ensuring overall coordination, the President has instructed the White House National Economic Council, the Office on Environmental Policy, and the Office of Science and Technology Policy to co-chair interagency working groups to examine all budget, technology, research and development, regulatory and economic policies that could impact greenhouse gas emission levels beyond the year 2000. From this effort will come cooperative federal pilot projects and technical assistance programs designed to establish an empirical basis for the technological advances that will provide the foundation for sustainable development in future decades. An example of this coordinated long-term commitment is the pesticide use reduction project of EPA, the Department of Agriculture, and the Food and Drug Administration. The specific strategies under this initiative include establishing incentives for the development, registration, and use of biological pesticides and the promotion of the high-technology bio-engineering industry; initiation of demonstration projects for reductions in overall pesticide use; and support for integrated pest management programs. The success of this program should eventually, through regulatory and nonregulatory incentives, accomplish further VOC reductions beyond the air pollution achievements of the pesticide control measure proposed in this FIP (see section III.C.4.d.). Besides impressive reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, this program is anticipated to result in energy savings worth $1.9 billion through 2000, and savings of $9 billion of the period of 2001&hyph;2010. ( 2 ) Technology Innovation Strategy. EPA's newly announced Technology Innovation Strategy was released in draft form on November 23, 1993. This inter-agency initiative is under the direction of the Innovative Technology Council. It has as its goal to foster the development, commercialization, and widespread use of innovative technologies that can efficiently close the gap tween our Nation's ambitious environmental goals and its ability to meet them, and provide the base for sustainable development as economic activity, population, and threats to the environment grow worldwide. The Strategy includes four focus areas. The first plan area, Environmental and Restoration Technologies, begins with an allocation of $10.8 million for projects in FY&hyph;94. The program's goal is to support the development, testing, and commercialization of technological breakthroughs needed for critical environmental progress. Projects currently funded include: Cleaner Processes in Plating and Metal Finishing _developmental research for cleaner technologies in electroplating and metal finishing operations; Pollution Prevention-Based Materials Cleaning/Decontamination _development and demonstration of pollution-prevention based surface cleaning technologies for use in advanced manufacturing operations and service industries; Supercritical CO 2 _production of a solvent-free alternative technology for metal degreasing operations; Enhancing Market Penetration of Water-Borne and Other Low-Solvent Consumer/Commercial Adhesives _identification of the key technical and institutional barriers to the use of new adhesive technologies by EPA's Air and Energy Engineering Research Laboratory, pinpointing research and development needs, directing key product and applications research and development, and demonstrating successfully developed processes and products; and NO X Control by Hybrid Technologies _development of cost-effective hybrid NO X control technologies for combustion sources, including advanced fuel reburning (AFR)/selective non-catalytic reduction (SCNR). The second plan area, Clean Technology for Small Business, is initially funded at a $12 million level. It includes many projects directed toward development, commercialization, and diffusion of new cleaner technologies. Among the projects is the Merit program in Southern California, facilitating the use of pollution prevention technologies in the South Coast.
