FR940826-2-00143 FR940826-2-00072 [Release No. 34&hyph;34555; File No. SR&hyph;CSE&hyph;94&hyph;01] August 19, 1994. Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Amendment No. 1 to Proposed Rule Change by Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to the Exchange's Quality of Markets Policy Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on August 1, 1994, the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Inc. (``CSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The CSE hereby proposes to amend its prior filing regarding the CSE's policy governing Quality of Markets. The following is the text of the proposed rule change, with italics representing new language to be added and brackets representing deleted language: D. Non-Preferencing Designated Dealers (a) ITS Inbound Activity [The percentage of a non-preferencing member firm's total monthly CSE trade activity which consists of ITS inbound executions shall equal at least 5%] The percentage of a non-preferencing member firm's total monthly CSE trade activity which consists of ITS inbound executions shall equal or exceed the average percentage achieved by preferencing Designated Dealers that manually enter quotations. If there exist no preferencing Dealers on CSE that are manually entering quotations, then the percentage of a non-preferencing member firm's total monthly CSE trade activity which consists of ITS inbound executions shall equal at least 5%. For the purpose of comparing ITS inbound activity, a rolling three-month average will be used to derive the percentage for the DDs entering manual quotations and these will be compared to the next month's percentages achieved by those member firms using computer-generated quotations. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose On February 25, 1994, the CSE filed proposed changes to its quality of markets policy. 1 The proposal calls for the elimination of autoquoting and the adoption of objective standards to ensure that CSE specialists are contributing to the national market system. In response to comments on the filing, the Exchange proposes to amend one component of its new policy, the Intermarket Trading System (``ITS'') inbound execution requirement. Specifically, the requirement, as amended, would require that all Designated Dealers who computer-generate their quotations, whether or not they preference order flow, generate the same percentage of ITS inbound activity as preferencing Designated Dealers who manually generate quotes. The Exchange believes that such an approach would more fairly allocate the burden of improved performance across all of its specialists. 1 The rule change was published for public comment in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33849 (April 1, 1994), 59 FR 16870 (April 8, 1994). 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is intended to promote just and equitable principles of trade. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The CSE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were either solicited or received with respect to Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file size copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CSE&hyph;94&hyph;01 and should be submitted by September 16, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21008 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
