FR940207-2-00117 FR940207-2-00064 The current proposal would authorize the Amex to list and trade options on ADRs where 50% or more of the world-wide trading volume in the underlying foreign security occurs in the U.S. ADR market. The proposal also provides that the percentage of the world-wide trading volume that occurs in the U.S. ADR market meet a maintenance standard of 30% for the ADR options to continue to be trading on the Exchange. Under the proposal, if the ADR options meet the above-noted criteria, the options may be listed without the existence of a surveillance sharing agreement between the Amex and the primary exchange on which the foreign securities underlying the ADRs trade. 5 5 Under the proposal, should the ADR option not meet this numerical standard, the Exchange could not list the ADR option unless there is a surveillance sharing agreement between the Exchange and the primary exchange on which the foreign securities underlying the ADRs trade or the Commission specifically authorized the listing. The Commission would give such authorization in the context of approving a rule filing submitted under Section 19 of the Act and Rule 19b&hyph;4, thereunder. The proposal provides that to determine whether 50% or more of the world-wide trading volume in the underlying foreign security occurs in the U.S. ADR market, the Amex will calculate the trading volume for the previous three months in the related securities which can affect the pricing of the foreign security underlying the ADR option. 6 Under the proposal, the Amex will determine that at least 50% of the world-wide trading volume in a particular foreign security occurs in the U.S. ADR market if the combined trading volume for ADRs overlying any class of the foreign issuer's common stock, occurring in the U.S. ADR market, is not less than 50% of the sum of (1) The combined trading volume for all classes of the foreign issuer's common stock, and (2) the combined trading volume for all ADRs overlying any of these classes of stock. 7 The above-noted calculation also will be used to determine if the trading volume in the U.S. ADR market falls below 30% of the world-wide trading volume for the underlying foreign security. 8 6 Under the proposal, such related securities include all classes of common stock issued by the foreign issuer and ADRs that overly any one of these classes of common stock. See Letter from Claire P. McGrath, Managing Director and Special Counsel, Derivative Securities, Amex, to Richard Zack, Branch Chief, Office of Derivatives Regulation, Division, Commission, dated January 6, 1994 (``ADR Letter''). 7 See ADR Letter, supra note 6, and telephone conversation between Claire P. McGrath, Managing Director and Special Counsel, Derivative Securities, Amex, and Brad Ritter, Attorney, Office of Derivatives Regulation, Division, Commission, January 27, 1994. 8 See ADR Letter, supra note 6. Under this calculation, the trading volume for any U.S. ADR trading on an exchange that is not part of the U.S. ADR market will be included in the determination of world-wide trading volume, but not in the determination of U.S. ADR market trading volume. The Amex also represents that it will use its best efforts to discover all markets (foreign and U.S.) on which the foreign security (and any related securities) underlying the ADR options trades. The proposal also defines the U.S. ADR market as the U.S. self-regulatory organizations that are members of the Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') 9 and whose markets are linked together by the Intermarket Trading System (``ITS''). 10 The U.S. self-regulatory organizations that currently make up the U.S. ADR market are the Amex, the BSE, the CBOE, the CHX, the CSE, the NASD, the NYSE, the PSE, and the Phlx. 11 9 ISG was formed on July 14, 1983 to, among other things, coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, January 29, 1990. The members of the ISG are: the Amex, the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc, (``BSE''), the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE''), the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. (``CHX''), the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Inc. (``CSE''), the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD''), the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE''), the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc. (``PSE''), and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx''). 10 ITS is a communications system designed to facilitate trading among competing markets by providing each market with order routing capabilities based on current quotation information. The system links the participant markets and provides facilities and procedures for: (1) The display of composite quotation information at each participant market, so that brokers are able to determine readily the best bid and offer available from any participant for multiple trading securities; (2) efficient routing of orders and sending administrative messages (on the functioning of the system) to all participating markets; (3) participation, under certain conditions, by members of all participating markets in opening transactions in those markets; and (4) routing orders from a participating market to a participating market with a better price. The exchanges on which Empresas ADRs trade are ITS participant markets. The NASD's Computer Assisted Execution System links NASD market makers, for order routing and execution purposes, to ITS for ADRs. 11 See ADR Letter, supra note 6.
