FR940110-1-00105 FR940110-1-00006 ยง960.19 Temporary suspension of AHP contributions. (a) Application for temporary suspension. (1) If a Bank finds that the contributions required pursuant to ยง960.18 are contributing to the financial instability of the Bank, the Bank shall notify the Board promptly, and may apply in writing to the Board for a temporary suspension of such contributions. (2) A Bank's application for a temporary suspension of contributions shall: (i) State the period of time for which the Bank seeks a suspension; (ii) State the grounds for a suspension; (iii) Include a plan for returning the Bank to a financially stable position; and (iv) Be accompanied by the Bank's preceding year's annual financial report, if available, and the Bank's most recent quarterly and monthly financial statements and any other financial data the Bank wishes the Board to consider. (b) Board review of application for temporary suspension._ (1) Grounds for approval of application. In reviewing a Bank's application for a temporary suspension of contributions to determine the Bank's financial instability, the Board shall consider the following factors: (i) Whether the Bank's earnings are severely depressed. The Board shall consider the extent to which the Bank's quarterly or annual net earnings have decreased from the preceding quarter or year, and whether such decline is projected to continue; (ii) Whether there has been a substantial decline in the Bank's membership capital. The Board shall consider the extent to which the Bank's paid-in membership capital has declined in any given quarter or year, and whether such decline is projected to continue; (iii) Whether there has been a substantial reduction in the Bank's advances outstanding. The Board shall consider the extent to which the Bank's level of advances has declined in any given quarter or year, and whether such decline is projected to continue; and (iv) Whether any other financial condition exists with respect to the Bank which has resulted in, or is likely to result in, the financial instability of the Bank. (2) Limitations on grounds for approval of application. The Board shall disapprove an application for a temporary suspension if it determines that the Bank's reduction in earnings is a result of: (i) A change in the terms of advances (other than subsidized advances) to members which is not justified by market conditions; (ii) Inordinate operating and administrative expenses; or (iii) Mismanagement. (c) Board decision. The Board shall approve or disapprove a Bank's application for a temporary suspension within 30 calendar days of receipt of such application, and the Board's decision shall be in writing and shall be accompanied by specific findings and reasons for its action. A copy of the Board's decision shall be forwarded to each of the Banks.
