FR940831-2-00095 FR940831-2-00070 Pursuant to the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993 Bethlehem Steel Corporation and U.S. Steel Group, a Unit of USX Corporation Notice is hereby given that, on July 15, 1994, pursuant to section 6(a) of the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993, 15 U.S.C. 4301 et seq. (``the Act''), Bethlehem Steel Corporation and U.S. Steel Group, a unit of USX Corporation, filed written notifications simultaneously with the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission disclosing (1) the identities of the parties and (2) the nature and objectives of a cooperative research and development venture, regarding which venture the parties have signed a Non-binding Letter of Intent effective as of April 20, 1994. The notifications were filed for the purpose of invoking the Act's provisions limiting the recovery of antitrust plaintiffs to actual damages under specified circumstances. Pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Act, the identities of the parties are Bethlehem Steel Corporation, Bethlehem, PA; and U.S. Steel Group, a unit of USX Corporation, Pittsburgh, PA and the general areas of planned activity by the venture are research and development activities in the field of basic iron and steelmaking technologies and processes, such as primary iron and steel process development, finishing steel process development, and steel process instrumentation development. Pursuant to the Non-binding Letter of Intent, the parties are negotiating a written agreement for the venture and selecting joint research projects in the field of research covered thereby; they expect to file a further notification under the Act after and in connection with execution of such written agreement. Constance K. Robinson, Director of Operations, Antitrust Division. Joint Venture Worksheet (First Filings) A. Name of venture: Bethlehem Steel Corporation and U.S. Steel Group, a unit of USX Corporation Nature of notification: X original Concise statement of purpose: Research and development in the field of basic iron and steelmaking technologies and processes. For ventures involving research and development only: Identity of parties to venture: 1. Bethlehem Steel Corporation 2. U.S. Steel Group, a unit of USX Corporation [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21426 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
