FR941121-2-00106 FR941121-2-00087 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Monroe and Greenbrier County, WV, Giles County, VA AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an Environmental Impact Statement will be prepared for a proposed highway project involving about 52 miles of US 219 and extending from US 460 in the south to 3.5 miles north of I&hyph;64 in the north. A 2-mile length of US 219 from the Rich Creek junction with US 460 to the state line is in Giles County, Virginia. The remaining section of US 219 is in Monroe County and Greenbrier County, West Virginia. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bobby W. Blackmon, Acting Division Administrator, Federal Highway Administration, 550 Eagan Street, Suite 300, Charleston, West Virginia 25301, Telephone: (304) 347&hyph;5929, or Ben L. Hark, Environmental Section Chief, Roadway Design Division, West Virginia Department of Transportation, 1900 Kanawha Boulevard East, Building 5, Room A&hyph;830, Capitol Complex, Charleston, West Virginia 25305&hyph;0430, Telephone: (304) 558&hyph;3236. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the West Virginia Department of Highways (WVDOH), will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for a proposed highway improvement to US 219 expanding the existing two-lane roadway to a four-lane, controlled access highway. Most of the 52-mile highway improvement will occur in West Virginia, with a 2-mile section at the southern end extending into Virginia. The intent of the project is to improve access in the project area where US 219 serves as the primary north-south route through major population concentrations, business centers, and recreation areas in the eastern portion of West Virginia. Also, the roadway comprises the southernmost segment of the 540-mile long ``Seneca Trail International Highway,'' as US 219 is presently known. This highway proceeds from the Canadian border at Buffalo to Virginia, linking with interstate highways to all mid-Atlantic and southeastern states. Following implementation of the US/Canada and North American Free Trade (NAFTA) Agreements, increasing trade and tourist traffic is expected, which could promote economic expansion in adjacent depressed areas of Appalachia. Present roadway deficiencies in the proposed project area include sections with poor geometric design, lack of sight distance, poor level of service, restrictive speed limits, and a lack of passing opportunities. These functional, operational, and physical deficiencies compel this action. Project alternatives will involve the No-Action Alternative and a combination of Build Alternatives. The EIS will assess the alternatives and their environmental effects through detailed studies of socioeconomic, natural, visual, and cultural resources; air quality; noise impacts; secondary and cumulative effects; energy utilization; hazardous wastes; utilities; and permitting. Joint development prospects, congestion management, the relationship between local short-term uses of man's environment and the maintenance and enhancement of long-term productivity, and any irreversible and irretrievable commitments of resources which would be involved in the proposed action will be determined. A Plan of Study describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be forwarded to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies. Agencies will be invited to attend a scoping meeting where aspects of the proposed action will be discussed. When completed, the draft EIS will be provided for public and agency review and comment. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning the proposed action should be directed to the FHWA or West Virginia Department of Transportation at the addresses provided. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 20.205, Highway Research Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on: November 8, 1994. Bobby W. Blackmon, Acting Division Administrator, Charleston, West Virginia. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28656 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
