FR940506-1-00069 FR940506-1-00014 (ii) Invoice date. (Contractors are encouraged to date invoices as close as possible to the date of mailing or transmission.) (iii) Contract number or other authorization for work or services performed (including order number and contract line item number). (iv) Description of work or services performed. (v) Delivery and payment terms ( e.g. , prompt payment discount terms). (vi) Name and address of Contractor official to whom payment is to be sent (must be the same as that in the contract or in a proper notice of assignment). (vii) Name (where practicable), title, phone number, and mailing address of person to be notified in event of a defective invoice. (viii) Any other information or documentation required by the contract. (ix) While not required, Contractors are strongly encouraged to assign an identification number to each invoice. (3) Interest penalty. An interest penalty shall be paid automatically by the designated payment office, without request from the Contractor, if payment is not made by the due date and the conditions listed in subdivisions (a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(iii) of this clause are met, if applicable. However, when the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday when Federal Government offices are closed and Government business is not expected to be conducted, payment may be made on the following business day without incurring a late payment interest penalty. (i) A proper invoice was received by the designated billing office. (ii) A receiving report or other Government documentation authorizing payment was processed and there was no disagreement over quantity, quality, Contractor compliance with any contract term or condition, or requested progress payment amount. (iii) In the case of a final invoice for any balance of funds due the Contractor for work or services performed, the amount was not subject to further contract settlement actions between the Government and the Contractor. (4) Computing penalty amount. The interest penalty shall be at the rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury under section 12 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 611) that is in effect on the day after the due date, except where the interest penalty is prescribed by other governmental authority ( e.g. , tariffs). This rate is referred to as the ``Renegotiation Board Interest Rate,'' and it is published in the Federal Register semiannually on or about January 1 and July 1. The interest penalty shall accrue daily on the invoice payment amount approved by the Government and be compounded in 30-day increments inclusive from the first day after the due date through the payment date. That is, interest accrued at the end of any 30-day period will be added to the approved invoice payment amount and be subject to interest penalties if not paid in the succeeding 30-day period. If the designated billing office failed to notify the Contractor of a defective invoice within the periods prescribed in subparagraph (a)(2) of this clause, the due date on the corrected invoice will be adjusted by subtracting from such date the number of days taken beyond the prescribed notification of defects period. Any interest penalty owed the Contractor will be based on this adjusted due date. Adjustments will be made by the designated payment office for errors in calculating interest penalties. (i) For the sole purpose of computing an interest penalty that might be due the Contractor, Government acceptance or approval shall be deemed to have occurred constructively as shown in subdivisions (a)(4)(i) (A) and (B) of this clause. In the event that actual acceptance or approval occurs within the constructive acceptance or approval period, the determination of an interest penalty shall be based on the actual date of acceptance or approval. Constructive acceptance or constructive approval requirements do not apply if there is a disagreement over quantity, quality, Contractor compliance with a contract provision, or requested progress payment amounts. These requirements also do not compel Government officials to accept work or services, approve Contractor estimates, perform contract administration functions, or make payment prior to fulfilling their responsibilities. (A) For work or services completed by the Contractor, Government acceptance shall be deemed to have occurred constructively on the 7th day after the Contractor has completed the work or services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract. (B) For progress payments, Government approval shall be deemed to have occurred on the 7th day after Contractor estimates have been received by the designated billing office.
