FR940620-0-00081 FR940620-0-00028 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Parts 591 and 592 [Docket No. 89&hyph;5; Notice 13] RIN 2127&hyph;AD00 Importation of Vehicles and Equipment Subject to Federal Safety, Bumper, and Theft Prevention Standards; Registered Importers of Vehicles Not Originally Manufactured To Conform to the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Interim final rule, request for comments. SUMMARY: This interim final rule amends part 591 to adopt a continuous entry bond as an alternative to the single entry bond that is required to accompany each nonconforming vehicle imported into the United States. Under the alternative, a registered importer of motor vehicles who imports more than one vehicle can enter vehicles under a continuous bond that covers an indefinite number of vehicles at a single time up to the value of the bond. The new bond has a ceiling value of $1,000,000, and is valid for an indefinite period. Conforming amendments are also adopted for part 592. The agency has determined that immediate action is in the public interest since it has been informed by a Registered Importer that the principal bonding company that issues single entry bonds has decided to terminate offering them. The agency is also requesting comments whether NHTSA should make permanent this alternative. The interim final rule also deletes the provisions which expired on October 31, 1992 that allowed importation of a vehicle without the agency of a registered importer if the importer owned the vehicle before October 31, 1988. DATES: Effective Date : The amendments made by this interim final rule are effective on June 20, 1994. Comments : Comments must be received on or before August 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to Docket No. 89&hyph;5; Notice 13, and be submitted to: Docket Section, room 5109, 400 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, D.C. 20590 [Docket hours are from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.]. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Taylor Vinson, Office of Chief Counsel, NHTSA (202&hyph;366&hyph;5263). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under the regulatory scheme in effect for the importation of motor vehicles subject to the Federal motor vehicle safety, bumper, and theft prevention standards, a non-conforming vehicle may be entered under bond in an amount equal to 150 percent of its dutiable value. The purpose of the bond is to assure that the vehicle is subsequently brought into conformance, or, alternatively, delivered to the U.S. Customs Service for export, or abandoned. The bond covers only one motor vehicle. A Registered Importer (RI) who is an importer of Canadian vehicles for resale asked NHTSA recently for permission to use a continuous surety bond that would cover more than one motor vehicle. The example given was of a continuous bond of $150,000 which would cover 10 vehicles imported together, each with a value of $10,000 as determined by the U.S. Customs Service, instead of 10 individual bonds for 10 vehicles of $10,000 value, each bond set at $15,000. NHTSA replied (letter of June 4, 1993, to Dan Kokal of Champagne Imports) that it was unable to implement this suggestion without rulemaking, but that it would consider the feasibility of it. After review of this matter, NHTSA tentatively concluded that the amendment of its regulations to permit an importer the choice of a continuous entry bond could simplify entry procedures for both government and the private sector, and would therefore be in the public interest. However, before it could initiate rulemaking, it was informed on April 28, 1994, by another RI, Lawrence A. Beyer, that ``the only bonding company which issues these bonds [has] now advised me that they no longer wish to issue these bonds.'' According to Mr. Beyer, the effect of this development is that ``[w]ithout these bonds, registered importers can no longer import. The jobs and livelihood of many people is (sic) at stake.'' For this reason, NHTSA is amending part 591 to permit a continuous entry bond, as an alternative to the single entry bond, which has a ceiling of $1,000,000, to minimize the possibility that a registered importer might have to obtain more than one continuous entry bond. Under the present scheme, Customs ensures that the bond is attached to the HS&hyph;7 importation form, and forwards the documents to NHTSA. Under the alternative, the bond will already be on file at NHTSA. However, the importer will be required to attach to the HS&hyph;7 importation form a photocopy of the continuous entry bond and a copy of the Customs Entry Summary (CF 7501) which states the entered value of the vehicle. This information is necessary to enforce bond forfeiture should that be necessary. The continuous entry bond is simply that shown in Appendix A with the reference to ``vehicle'' in the singular changed to the plural ``vehicles'' when appropriate. Because Customs will ensure that a photocopy of the continuous entry bond is attached to the importation form, the bond processing fee of $4.75 per importation form will continue to apply, but the single fee will cover all vehicles represented by the single importation form. The notice also adopts certain housekeeping amendments. Under section 591.6(g), nonconforming vehicles whose importers met certain specified requirements could be imported before October 31, 1992, without the offices of a registered importer. As this authority has now expired and will not be renewed, the agency has deleted it, as well as the bond (Appendix B) which accompanied this type of entry. Conforming amendments are made elsewhere in part 591 as well.
