FR941222-0-00080 FR941222-0-00013 Three comments questioned whether the rule applies to nonfederal lands within the boundaries of National Park System units. The final rule, as does the proposed, applies to all nonfederal lands within such boundaries, without regard to title. Congress explicitly directed that the law apply ``*␣*␣* within the boundary of any unit of the National Park System.'' It is not within the authority of the National Park Service to rewrite an act of Congress and limit the rule's applicability to only ``Federal lands within the boundary.'' There are many statutes establishing National Park System units. A brief survey of these statutes disclosed that the phrase ``within the boundaries'' is commonly employed to refer to both Federal land and nonfederally owned land or interests in land within the outer boundaries a unit. The statute, Pub. L. 98&hyph;506, that mandates this final rule specifically uses the term `` within the boundary of any unit of the National Park System.'' (Emphasis added) One comment from Alaska noted that 36 CFR 1.2 applies only certain regulations to nonfederal lands, and then, only in those units under the concurrent or exclusive legislative jurisdiction of the United States. However, the self-imposed limitation of 36 CFR 1.2(b) applies only to regulations at 36 CFR parts 1 through 5 and 7. Because Congress specifically enacted a statute, Pub. L. 98&hyph;506, that applies to all lands within the boundaries of a unit, the regulations derived from that statute are not limited by 36 CFR 1.2(b). The situation most analogous to 36 CFR part 6 is 36 CFR part 9, subpart A, Mining and Mining Claims. The regulations at 36 CFR part 9A apply to all mining claims within a unit, both patented and unpatented, and in all parks, even in those where the United States exercises neither concurrent nor exclusive legislative jurisdiction. Thus, for example, patented claims, which are private property in every sense of the word, in Death Valley National Monument, or the Kantishna area of Denali National Park and Preserve (areas of proprietary jurisdiction only) are governed by 36 CFR part 9 subpart A, notwithstanding 36 CFR 1.2(b). The same principle applies to 36 CFR part 6. Three comments questioned whether the regulations apply to nonfederal lands within unit boundaries in units of the National Park System specifically in Alaska. (Alaska units of the National Park System contain approximately 2.7 million nonfederal acres of a total of over 54 million acres encompassed within their boundaries, or approximately 5% of the total acreage.) The basis for the comments from Alaska lies in section 103(c) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) (16 U.S.C. 3103(c)). That language states: Only those lands within the boundaries of any conservation system unit which are public lands (as such term is defined in this Act) shall be deemed to be included as a portion of such unit. No lands which, before, on, or after the date of enactment of this act, are conveyed to the State, to any Native Corporation, or any private party shall be subject to the regulations applicable solely to public lands within such units. If the State, a Native Corporation, or other owner desires to convey any such lands, the Secretary may acquire such lands in accordance with applicable law (including this Act), and any such lands shall become part of the unit, and be administered accordingly. (Emphasis added) The comments from Alaska cite this language to raise the significant issue of whether nonfederal lands within National Park System units in Alaska are part of the units at all, and thus subject to any NPS regulations, including the final rule at 36 CFR part 6. Section 103(c) language creates a question of statutory interpretation. Namely, does this section effectively render the solid waste site law (Pub. L. 98&hyph;506), and its implementing regulations, inapplicable to all nonfederal lands in National Park System units in Alaska? Or does it simply mean that the non-federal lands are not be to be administered as part of the conservation unit in the same manner as the Federal lands? It is the Service's opinion that the language of section 103(c) does not render the final rule at 36 CFR part 6 inapplicable to nonfederal lands in units of the National Park System in Alaska because of the presence of the word ``solely.'' Since Pub. L. 98&hyph;506 authorizes the regulation of solid waste disposal sites, and prohibits all but certain such sites, ``within the boundary of any unit of the National Park System,'' neither the law, nor its regulations apply ``solely'' to public lands within the units. The other possibility is that section 103(c) renders Pub. L. 98&hyph;506 inapplicable by its own terms. Pub. L. 98&hyph;506 applies ``within the boundary of any unit of the National Park System.'' The first sentence of section 103(c) specifies: Only those lands within the boundaries of any conservation system units which are public lands (as such term is defined in this Act) shall be deemed to be included as a portion of such unit . (Emphasis added) Under this argument, since nonfederal lands are not ``a portion of'' a unit, they are not ``within the boundary of a National Park System unit'' and thus not subject to this regulation. The Service believes that the better view of the law negates this argument. Pub. L. 98&hyph;506 applies ``within the boundary of any unit of the National Park System.'' Words in a statute generally are to be given their common meaning. The common understanding of the words ``within the boundary'' is that something be within the outer limits. It does not mean the same thing as ``a portion of.'' Perhaps the best indication of this analysis is the use of the word ``within'' in the Alaska Lands Act itself. Section 1301(b)(7) (16 U.S.C. 3191(b)), refers to ``privately owned areas, if any, which are within such unit .'' Thus, while there are no privately-owned areas which are ``a portion of'' the unit, the Alaska Lands Act recognizes that there are privately-owned areas ``within'' a unit. Section 103(c) itself speaks of ``only those lands within the boundaries of any conservation system unit which are public lands,'' thus implying the existence of non-public lands within those boundaries. The Service therefore concludes from the language of section 103(c) itself that nonfederal lands are ``within'' the boundaries of Alaska units of the National Park System even if they are not ``a portion of'' the unit. The comments from Alaska offer an opportunity to further clarify the applicability of 36 CFR part 6 and illuminate the exceptions to this rule that are specifically aimed at small private residential inholders. Persons who either reside or farm within the exterior boundaries of a National Park System unit need not submit a request and obtain a permit from the Regional Director for the disposal of residential or agricultural wastes on their lands. The proposed rule at §6.2(c)(iii) stated that such waste could be disposed of ``on lands or waters'' that ``he or she owns or leases'' within the unit. In response to two comments, the final rule deletes the word ``waters'' since disposing of solid waste in water or wetlands may likely violate other laws. In the interest of gender neutrality, the word ``person'' is substituted for ``he or she.''
