FR940324-2-00068 FR940324-2-00042 Review Process: Applications submitted in response to this RFA will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with established PHS/SAMHSA peer review procedures for grants. Applications that are accepted for review will be assigned to an Initial Review Group (IRG) composed primarily of non-Federal experts. Notification of the IRG recommendation will be sent to the applicant upon completion of the initial review. In addition, the IRG recommendations on technical merit of applications will undergo a second level of review by the appropriate advisory council whose review may be based on policy considerations as well as technical merit. Applications may be considered for funding only if the advisory council concurs with the IRG recommendation for approval. Review Criteria: The following criteria will be used in the technical merit review of services demonstration project applications. The points noted in parentheses for each criterion indicate the maximum number of points the reviewers may assign to that criterion. These points will be used to calculate a raw score for each application. The raw score will be converted to the official priority score. •adequacy of documentation of unmet need, including a description of special population(s) to be served, if applicable, and the availability of and access to the current mental health delivery system by people affected by and living with HIV/AIDS (30) •adequacy and appropriateness of the goals and objectives, and approach, including the specific mental health services to be provided and the additional project elements that assure the development of an infrastructure (25); •appropriateness of the proposed project in terms of (1) budget, (2) management plan, (3) personnel, (4) time frame, (5) resources, and (6) adequacy, availability, and accessibility of facilities (20) •appropriateness of the proposed evaluation design and methodology (15) •experience of the applicant in delivering mental health services (10) The following criteria will be used in the technical merit review of the coordinating center applications. The points noted in parentheses for each criterion indicate the maximum number of points the reviewers may assign to that criterion. These points will be used to calculate a raw score for each application. The raw score will be converted to the official priority score.
