FR941130-0-00008 FR941130-0-00002 The Board has determined that each of the requirements in the final rule is necessary to satisfy specific FDIC concerns about safety and soundness, breaches of fiduciary duty and other violations of law in connection with mutual-to-stock conversions. At the same time, the FDIC believes that it is essential to consider the existence of state regulation and supervision in determining the proper role in the conversion process for the FDIC as the primary federal regulator of State Savings Banks. As discussed above, many of the comments that the FDIC received on the Proposed Policy Statement, the Interim Rule and the Proposed Rule expressed agreement with the FDIC's federal oversight role in mutual-to-stock conversions of State Savings Banks, but several also suggested the FDIC have a limited role in conversions of State Savings Banks and that deference be paid to states' rights on issues outside the FDIC's areas of concern. With the issuance of the final rule, the Board is attempting to strike the proper balance in this regard. In particular, the final rule includes a provision stating that, in the event that a State Savings Bank proposing to convert determines that compliance with any provision of the final rule would be inconsistent or in conflict with applicable state law, the bank may file with the FDIC a written request for waiver of compliance with the provision. The request must demonstrate that the requested waiver would not be detrimental to the safety and soundness of the bank, entail a breach of fiduciary duty by the bank's management, or otherwise be detrimental or inequitable to the bank, its depositors, any other insured depository institution(s), the federal deposit insurance funds or the public interest. In this connection, the Board does not believe that state-wide exemptions from the requirements of the final rule are appropriate or practical. Establishing exemption criteria and applying those criteria equitably and consistently would prove very difficult, if not unrealistic. The Board prefers the case-by-case approach contained in the final rule. The OTS's concerns about avoiding insider abuses in mutual-to-stock conversions of federal and state savings associations are the same as the FDIC's concerns about insider abuses in conversions of State Savings Banks. Thus, as noted above, to the extent necessary and appropriate, the FDIC's final rule and the OTS Revisions include most of the same requirements. As indicated in the Proposed Rule, many of the requirements of the final rule are prompted by the Board's concerns about bank management's proper exercise of its fiduciary duties. As discussed in the preambles to the Interim Rule and the Proposed Rule, the duties and obligations of directors/trustees and officers of mutual savings banks are identical to the responsibilities the FDIC has historically enunciated and enforced concerning directors and officers of commercial banks. 2 The two principal duties of care and loyalty that directors and officers of commercial banks must exercise on behalf of the institution and its constituencies ( i.e., depositors, creditors and shareholders) also apply to directors/trustees of mutual savings banks. Both duties have long antecedents in the common law of corporations and financial institutions. 3 2 See e.g. , Statement Concerning the Responsibilities of Bank Directors and Officers (FDIC Legal Division, December 3, 1992); Pocket Guide for Directors (FDIC 1988). 3 Greenfield Savings Bank v. Abercrombie , 211 Mass. 252, 97 N.E. 897, 39 L.R.A.n.s. 173 (1912) provides a detailed discussion of liability of trustees of a savings bank. Directors/trustees (as well as officers) of mutual savings institutions are held to the same standard of care and loyalty as directors and officers of stock banks. Thus, the directors/trustees and officers of mutual State Savings Banks must fulfill their duty of loyalty to the institution by administering its affairs with the utmost candor, personal honesty and integrity. They are prohibited from advancing their own personal or business interests or those of others at the expense of the bank. This general fiduciary duty has been frequently interpreted to include an element of fairness and good faith which, in the context of mutual-to-stock conversions, affords protection to the various stakeholders (particularly depositors) of mutual savings banks. The FDIC, through the final rule, also requires the directors/trustees and officers of mutual savings banks to adhere to the same standards of loyalty and care that are required of directors and officers of stock institutions in order to prevent insider abuse. As indicated throughout, the requirements in the final rule are rooted in concerns about safety and soundness, breaches of fiduciary duty and/or other violations of law.
