FR940728-2-00066 FR940728-2-00047 Part I A. Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Requirements 1. During the period beginning effective date and lasting through expiration, the permittee is authorized to discharge from each outfall effluent from water treatment facilities to receiving waters as designated in Part II A. a. Such discharges shall be limited and monitored by the permittee as specified below: ␣ 1Effluent characteristic 1Discharge limitations 2Avg. monthly 2Max. daily1 1Monitoring requirements 2Measurement2 frequency 2Sample type Flow (MGD) See note A.1. i See note A.1. i 1/week Daily average. TSS(mg/l) 30 50 1/week Grab. Settleable Solids (ml/l) 1, 5 .1 0.2 1/week Grab. pH See note A.1 g See note A.1 g Aluminum(mg/l) See note A.1 j See note A.1 j 1/month Grab. LC50&C&hyph;NOEC3 See note A.1 h See note A.1 h Grab. Chlorine Residual4 ug/l See note A.1 k See note A.1 k Daily Grab. 1State certification requirement. 2Samples shall be taken only when discharging. 3LC&hyph;50 is the concentration of effluent in a sample that causes mortality to 50% of the test population at a specific time or observation. No Observed Chronic Effect Concentration (C&hyph;NOEC) is the highest concentration of effluent to which organisms are exposed in a life-cycle or partial life-cycle test which causes no adverse effect on growth, survival and reproduction. 4Test only if chlorination is used in the process. 5Commonwealth of Massachusetts only. b. The discharge shall not cause objectionable discoloration of the receiving waters. c. There shall be no discharge of floating solids or visible foam. The discharge shall be adequately treated to insure that the surface water remains free from pollutants in concentratins or combinations that settle to form harmful deposits, float as foam, debris, scum or other visible pollutants. It shall be adequately treated to insure that the surface waters remain free from pollutants which produce odor, color, taste or turbidity in the receiving water which is not naturally occuring and would render it unsuitable for its designated use. d. The effluent limitations are based on the state water quality standard and are certified by the states. e. Samples taken in compliance with the monitoring requirements specified above shall be taken at the point of discharge. f. All discharges as designated in IB shall pass through a settling pond for 24 hours minimum detention time or other approved treatment system and meet the effluent limitations in Part I.1.a. prior to discharge to waters of the states. g. pH. Massachusetts. The pH of the effluent shall not be less than nor greater than the range given for the receiving water classifications, unless these values are exceeded due to natural causes. The following table specifies ranges for Massachussetts: ␣ 1Classification 1Range B 6.5&hyph;8.3 C 6.5&hyph;9.0 SB 6.5&hyph;8.5 SC 6.5&hyph;9.0 Maine The pH range in both freshwater and saltwater is 6.0 to 8.5 su. Unless establishes on a case-by-case basis (By State Policy). New Hampshire The pH of the effluent shall not be less than 6.5 standard units (su) nor greater than 8.0 su at any time unless these values are exceeded due to natural causes. h. One chronic and modified acute toxicity screening test shall be performed by the permittee within 90 days after the issuance date of this general NPDES permit. One grab sample will be taken during normal facility operation. The Cerio-daphnia dubia for fresh water and sea-urchin for marine water shall be used as test organism in the test. A copy of the test procedure and detailed protocol will be provided upon request from EPA, Region I. The results of the chronic biological test (C&hyph;NOEC and LC50) will be forwarded to State and EPA within 30 days after the completion of all tests. i. The states of Massachusetts and New Hampshire will have a maximum daily limit of 1.0 mgd. The state of Maine will have a maximum daily limit of 0.15 mgd. j. For the states of Massachusetts and New Hampshire report only. For the state of Maine the maximum daily limit of Aluminum will be 5.0 mg/l. k. For the states of Massachusetts and New Hampshire report only. For the state of Maine the maximum daily limit of chlorine residual will be 1.0 mg/l. B. Monitoring and Reporting 1. Reporting Maine, Massachusetts and New Hampshire Monitoring results obtained during the previous 6 months shall be summarized for each quarter and reported on separate Discharge Monitoring Report Form(s) postmarked no later than the 15th day of the month following the completed reporting period. The reports are due on the 15th days of January and July. The first report may include less than 6 months information. Signed copies of these, and all other reports required herein, shall be submitted to the Director and the State at the following addresses as follows: a. EPA shall receive copy of all reports required herein: NPDES Program Operations Section, Water Compliance Branch Water Management Division, Environmental Protection Agency, Post Office Box 8127, Boston, MA 02114. b. Massachusetts Division of Water Pollution Control. (1) The Regional offices wherein the discharge occurs, shall receive a copy of all reports required herein: Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, Massachusetts Division of Water Pollution Control, Western Regional Office, 436 Dwight St., Suite 402, Springfield, MA 01101 Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, Massachusetts Division of Water Pollution Control, Southeastern Regional Office, 20 Riverside Drive Lakeville, MA 02346 Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection Massachusetts Division of Water Pollution Control, Northeastern Regional Office, 10 Commerce Way, Woburn, MA 01801 Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, Massachusetts Division of Water Pollution Control, Central Regional Office, 75 Grove Street, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605 (2) The Central Boston Office shall receive all notifications reports other than the DMRs required by this permit shall be submitted to the States at: Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, Massachusetts Division of Water Pollution Control 7th Floor, 1 Winter Street, Boston, MA 02108. c. Maine Department of Environmental Protection. Signed copies of all reports required by this permit shall be sent to the State of Maine Department of Environmental Protection, Operation and Maintenance Division, State House, Station 17. Augusta, ME 04333. d. New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services. Signed copies of all reports required by this permit shall be sent to the State at: New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, Water Supply and Pollution Control Division, Permits and Compliance Section; P.O. Box 95, Concord, New Hampshrie 03302&hyph;0095. C. Additional General Permit Conditions 1. Notification Requirements
