FR940126-2-00105 FR940126-2-00055 When Should Your Child Get the MMR Vaccine? Most children should have a total of 2 MMR vaccines. They should get vaccine at: 12 to 15 months of age AND when starting school OR when starting middle school or junior high school These vaccines may be given at the same time as other childhood vaccines. People who do not know if they are protected against measles, mumps, and rubella should ask their doctor/nurse about getting MMR. Are There Risks With MMR? The MMR vaccine is the best way to protect your child against these 3 serious diseases. But there are risks with any medicine, including vaccines. There is a very small chance that serious problems, even death, could occur after getting vaccines. The risk from the vaccine is much smaller than the risk from the diseases. Most people who get MMR will not have any problems at all. Some will have minor problems like: soreness, redness, or swelling where the shot is given; mild fever; rash; a little swelling of the glands in the cheeks, neck, or under the jaw. Occasionally, pain, stiffness, or swelling in the joints (arthritis) may occur, usually 1&hyph;3 weeks after getting the vaccine. The arthritis usually does not last long. Occasionally, it lasts or comes and goes for months or longer. Young women are more likely than children to have joint problems. Rarely, more serious problems may come within 3 weeks of getting MMR. Usually they do not cause lasting harm. These rare problems include: Severe allergic problems; seizures (usually caused by fever); and low number of platelets (a type of blood cells). Other rare serious problems have been seen after MMR was given, but it is not known if the vaccine caused the problems. These problems are even more rare than the ones above and include hearing loss and inflammation of the brain that could lead to lasting damage. If a serious or unusual problem occurs after getting any vaccine, call a doctor or get the person to a doctor right away. What Is the Injury Compensation Program? The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program is a U.S. government program that gives compensation (payment) for some persons thought to be injured by vaccines. For facts about this program, call this toll-free number: 1&hyph;800&hyph;338&hyph;2382. If you believe that the person getting the vaccine had a serious problem because of the vaccine, tell the doctor/nurse or health department. Ask him or her to report the problem on a Vaccine Adverse Event Report form. If you want to report it yourself, you can get the form by calling this toll-free number: 1&hyph;800&hyph;822&hyph;7967. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention MMR 00/00/94 (Proposed) 42 U.S.C. 300aa&hyph;26
