FR940503-0-00064 FR940503-0-00020 When the Council began developing Amendment 5, groundfish stocks were overfished and the prospects were dim for improvement without the effort-reduction program. Since then, the condition of the stocks has deteriorated to the point where NMFS, with Council support, implemented emergency regulations to protect haddock. Each new assessment of groundfish stocks underlines the urgency of implementing rigorous and effective management measures. The Council designed the management program using annual incremental reductions in fishing effort. The result of implementing the effort-reduction program for less than 12 months in the first year is that vessels fishing under the individual allocation option would have their annual allocation compressed into eight months, while vessels under the fleet DAS would be required to meet the annual time-out requirement over eight months, instead of the full year. Since the vessels in the individual DAS category generally choose to be in that group because of their higher allocation of opportunity than under the fleet group, the conservation benefits of the first year's reductions in allocation would be negated if the same allocation were distributed over only 8 months, instead of 12. On the other hand, vessels in the fleet DAS category would be disproportionately burdened if they were required to declare the same amount of time out of groundfishing over 8 months, that they would have to take over 12 months had Amendment 5 been implemented beginning on January 1. Many of the vessels in this category ordinarily would meet their time-out requirement during the first few months of the year when the weather limits fishing opportunity, or when they are in other winter fisheries such as northern shrimp. A further need for Framework Adjustment #1 arises from the Amendment 5 requirement that all vessels declare one 20-day block out of groundfishing during the spawning months of March, April, and May. Since NMFS decided to implement the effort-reduction program on May 1, that requirement would be compressed into the month of May for the first year. As a result, at least two-thirds of the fleet would be required to be out of groundfishing at the same time, unless Framework Adjustment # 1 were implemented. Many fishermen are unable to plan how to best use their time and resources during the required period out of groundfishing given the relatively short notice, and the substantial impact that the sudden loss of two-thirds of the domestic supply of groundfish might have on the processing sector and the market. This final rule will adjust the rule implementing the effort-reduction program so that each allocation of DAS (fleet or individual) is done on a 365-day program year beginning with the first full year of implementation of Amendment 5. Comments and Responses During the period following the approval of Amendment 5 and preceding the Council's formal initiation of the framework adjustment, a number of individual fishermen, interested members of the public, and industry association representatives commented on the problems with the current effort-reduction program implementation schedule. Since the comment period had not begun, these comments were not tabulated; however, all comments were in support of the Council's expeditiously making the adjustment that is contained in this rule. During the comment period spanning the two required Council meetings, the Council received written comments from one individual and two associations_the Provincetown Draggermen's Association and the Seafood Harvester's Association of New York. Oral comments were submitted by three individuals. All of the public comments supported the Council's action and urged expeditious implementation. No negative comments were received on the proposed action during or outside the comment period. The Council requested publication of the management measures as a final rule after considering the required factors stipulated under the Framework Measures in Amendment 5 and providing supporting analysis for each factor considered. The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA) determined that the framework adjustments to the FMP that this rule would implement are consistent with the national standards, other provisions of the Magnuson Act, and other applicable law. The AA, in making that determination, has taken into account the information, views, and comments received during the two public hearings and comment period under the FMP's framework adjustment mechanism as specified in 50 CFR 651.40. Considering the opportunity for public comment at Council meetings on January 12 through 13, February 16 through 17, March 17, and April 6 through 7, and Groundfish Committee meetings on February 2 through 3 and February 24, and considering the need for immediate resource protection for the groundfish stocks, the provisions for continuing evaluation of the adjusted measures, and the timing of the rule relative to the requirement that all vessels take twenty days out of the fishery during May, 1994, the AA has waived for good cause the proposed rules and additional comment period.
