FR940720-0-00114 FR940720-0-00007 Enforcement under the equipment-based method would be relatively simple. An inspector would only have to determine whether a piece of equipment was farm or construction equipment, or an other type of equipment. If it is farm or construction equipment, nothing more need be done, as the piece of equipment would not be subject to state regulation. If it is not farm or construction equipment, the inspector need only look for the required CARB label if there are California standards for that type of equipment. Enforcement would require additional steps if an engine line based system were used: for example, the inspector would have to determine whether a non-preempted piece of equipment contained an engine from a manufacturer who claimed its entire engine line as preempt from state regulation. If the primary use determination were based on an engine line, EPA would have several concerns. As with the equipment based method, two equipment lists would still be developed, but additionally each engine line for every engine manufacturer must be determined to be preempted or not after gathering data on whether the engines were now installed in farm or construction equipment. This would add another layer of calculations to the process. According to many of those who commented at the public hearing, engine destination data are difficult to obtain. In a case where most engines in an engine line are used in non-preempted equipment, the engine line would be split, causing the same burden as manufacturers stated would occur in the equipment-based method and which they wanted to avoid. Additionally, this method would give a competitive advantage to manufacturers who now make engine lines which are primarily used in farm and construction equipment. Such manufacturers, who have engines for which state regulation is preempted, would enjoy an advantage over a manufacturer whose engines are not preempted and therefore must meet California's emission standards. Ford Motor Company recognized this issue and expressed its concerns and disagreement with EMA on this issue. EPA is also concerned that the commenters' method would be contrary to section 209 in that it is overinclusive and inconsistent in its definition of farm and construction equipment. Under the commenters' method, if 70 percent of the engines in an engine line were used in farm and construction equipment and 30 percent were used in other equipment, the entire engine line would be preempted. Thus, the regulation of some engines would be preempted even though they are not used in farm or construction equipment. This would create a preemption greater than that contemplated by the statute. Moreover, the method is inconsistent in application: if 70 percent of the engines in an engine line were used in non-preempted equipment but the remainder were used in farm or construction equipment, California could only regulate 70 percent of the engines, not 100 percent. Therefore, the method gives engine manufacturers the benefit of full preemption when the majority of the engines are preempted, but it does not allow full California regulation if the majority of the engines are not preempted. This inconsistency appears arbitrary and could result in higher emissions (as noted by Ford Motor Company) because California would be precluded from regulating engines that it would otherwise be able to regulate under a more evenhanded approach. Furthermore, this approach does not solve the question that is at the heart of the ``primary use'' issue: i.e., when should a multiple use piece of equipment be defined as farm and/or construction equipment? In order to determine whether an engine line is being used 30 percent in farm and construction equipment or 70 percent in farm or construction equipment, one still must know what is meant by farm and construction equipment. This approach, taken by itself, does not provide an answer. Finally, manufacturers did not explain how a newly developed engine line would be judged (preempted or non-preempted) since there would be no existing data upon which to base a determination. EMA stated that the equipment-based method would result in higher certification costs than the engine-line method. EPA believes that under both methods, engine manufacturers could face additional costs for any engine they wished to certify for sale in California. These costs would include research and development expenses to develop a cleaner engine, and administrative and testing expenses associated with the state certification process. Those engine manufacturers who chose to compete in the California market would face higher certification costs than those who did not, but there should be little difference in certification costs between the two methods. In the final rule, rather than use the engine-line method, EPA is requiring a primary use test that preempts California from regulating new engines that are installed in equipment that is primarily used in farming or construction settings. H. Labeling Requirement The NPRM would require engine manufacturers to label new engines which are used in construction equipment or vehicles or used in farm equipment or vehicles and which are smaller than 175 horsepower. The label would state to which standard or standards (California, Federal, or both) the engine is certified. Most commenters opposed the labeling requirement. CARB stated that it intended to require labels on engines that comply with California emission regulations. CARB, EMI, and EMA agreed that a federal labeling requirement was not appropriate until EPA determined under section 213 whether federal standards were necessary. In fact, EMI argued that authority for labeling lies in section 213, not section 209(e). EPA has decided to not implement a labeling requirement under section 209(e). It should be noted that the regulation setting forth federal nonroad standards under section 213 contains a labeling requirement. 32 32 See 59 FR 31306, June 17, 1994, specifically 40 CFR Part 89, Subpart B, ยง89.110&hyph;96.
