FR940128-1-00043 FR940128-1-00006 Additionally, where food-contact surfaces are constructed of toxic materials (e.g., lead shucking blocks), the product may be directly contaminated with the toxic material (Ref. 74). Therefore, FDA tentatively concludes that it is necessary to require that processors take affirmative steps to minimize the possibility that any risks will be created by the utensils and equipment they use. Proper construction of the equipment should be ensured at the time it is received, and whenever it is modified or repaired. The frequency of subsequent inspections necessary to ensure that the sanitary condition of the equipment has not declined with time will depend on the frequency of its use, the materials and construction methods, and the nature of its use. In ยง123.10(c)(3) the agency is proposing to require that such controls be performed and documented with such frequency as is necessary to ensure control. In ยง123.10(a)(4), the agency is proposing to require that the processor ensure that food-contact surfaces are regularly cleaned and sanitized with cleaning and sanitizing preparations that are suitable for this purpose. Surfaces that are not adequately cleaned and sanitized can be a source of filth to subsequent products produced on the equipment, an attractant for vermin, and a reservoir for pathogenic microorganisms. Infrequent cleaning of equipment can result in the formation of biofilms, microscopic films in which microorganisms can be entrapped, shielded from the action of sanitizers, and physically bound to the food-contact surface of the equipment. An effective cleaning compound is one that will lower the surface tension of water so that spills can be lifted and flushed away. Ordinary soap is generally ineffective for equipment washing because of its limited ability to solubilize fats, oils, and proteins. Mildly alkaline detergents are generally suitable for cleaning seafood processing plants, but high alkaline detergents are often necessary for heavy buildups of fats and proteins. Mineral deposits will frequently require the use of acid cleaners. An effective sanitizing agent is one that has a good bacteriocidal effect on the types of pathogens normally present in the plant environment and is safe, stable, and convenient for use. Examples include hypochlorites, iodophors, and quaternary ammonium compounds (Refs. 73, 74, 75, 76, and 77). To eliminate the product residue that accumulates on product contact surfaces during production, FDA is proposing in ยง123.10(a)(4)(i) to require that utensils and surfaces of equipment that contact food during processing be thoroughly washed at the end of the day's operations. FDA is also proposing in ยง123.10(a)(4)(iii) that sanitizing be performed on the same utensils and equipment immediately before the beginning of production, so that any recontamination that occurs between cleaning and production can be eliminated.
