FR940603-1-00190 FR940603-1-00009 For submersible transformers, it includes the cable terminations, the enclosure and cover, drainable material (when specified), 6 and the excavation when required. For pad-mount transformers, it does not include the pad, site preparation, drainable material, backfilling or compaction which are included in the pad assembly units. 6 XXX Engineer check here if drainable material is specified. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit Price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor & materials 1Extended price_labor & materials UG l l l l l Total, Section UG_ XXXX SECTION UK_UNDERGROUND SECONDARY AND SERVICE ASSEMBLY UNITS An underground secondary and service assembly unit consists of secondary or service cable terminal housing mounted in place. It includes the power pedestal, stake (when required), mounting hardware, warning sign, directional marker, housing identification marking and the cable identification tags. It does not include the cable terminations, ground rod, or pad, when required. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit Price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor & materials 1Extended price_labor & materials UK l l l l l Total, Section UK_ XXXX SECTION UM_MISCELLANEOUS UNDERGROUND ASSEMBLY UNITS A miscellaneous underground assembly unit consists of an additional unit needed in the Project for new construction but not otherwise listed in the Proposal. This section includes the miscellaneous assembly units as shown on the respective underground construction drawings. Where miscellaneous units consist of or include a primary cable termination, the unit includes the preparation of the cable to accommodate the termination, the stress cone and the connection of the cable to the terminal equipment. Pad assembly units are in this section and include the site preparation, bedding, drainable material when specified, cable slot, backfilling, tamping and the pad in place. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit Price 2Labor 2Materials 2Llabor & materials 1Extended price_labor & materials UM l l l l l Total, Section UM_ XXXX SECTION UR_UNDERGROUND EXCAVATION ASSEMBLY UNITS UR 1&hyph;S(d)␣Plowing Assembly Unit, Soil_Consists of one (1) lineal foot of plowing in soil, measured parallel to the surface of the ground, to a specified depth (D), in inches, including the compacting, except as specifically provided for in other units. This unit includes all material and labor required in the repair and/or replacement of streets, roads, drives, fences, lawns, shrubbery, watermains, pipes, pipelines and contents, underground power and telephone facilities, buried sewerage and drainage facilities, and any other property damaged during the plowing of the cable, except as specifically provided for in other units. This unit does not include underground cable facilities installed in the slot. Note: Where in the judgment of the Owner greater than normal difficulty will be involved in plowing because of the presence of underground facilities of other utilities, this unit will be suffixed by the letter ``T''. This will be applicable only in those areas predesignated by the Owner on the detail maps herein. All plowing outside of the predesignated area on the map, regardless of the difficulty in placement actually experienced, will be inventoried as the regular UR 1&hyph;S(D) units. If field conditions show the existence of rock to prevent the placing of the cable in soil to the depth required in the specifications, the Owner may specify UR 2&hyph;R units. Where more than one cable is to be installed in the slot, the UR1&hyph;S unit designation should be modified by a suffix corresponding to the number of cables installed. Example: UR1&hyph;S(D) 3c for 3 cables plowed at one time. UR 2&hyph;S(D&W)␣Trenching Assembly Unit, Soil_Consists of one (1) lineal foot of trenching in soil, measured parallel to the surface of the ground, to a specified depth (D) and width (W), in inches, including the excavation, and backfilling and compacting.
