FR941017-1-00020 FR941017-1-00001 5. In §50.54, paragraph (ff) is added to read as follows: §50.54 Conditions of licenses. * * * * * (ff) For licensees of nuclear power plants that have implemented the earthquake engineering criteria in appendix S of this part, plant shutdown is required as provided in paragraph IV(a)(3) of appendix S. Prior to resuming operations, the licensee shall demonstrate to the Commission that no functional damage has occurred to those features necessary for continued operation without undue risk to the health and safety of the public and the licensing basis is maintained. 6. Appendix S to Part 50 is added to read as follows: Appendix S to Part 50_Earthquake Engineering Criteria for Nuclear Power Plants General Information This appendix applies to applicants for a design certification or combined license pursuant to part 52 of this chapter or a construction permit or operating license pursuant to Part 50 of this chapter on or after [EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE]. However, if the construction permit was issued prior to [EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE], the operating license applicant shall comply with the earthquake engineering criteria in Section VI of appendix A to 10 CFR part 100. I. Introduction Each applicant for a construction permit, operating license, design certification, or combined license is required by §50.34(a)(12), (b)(10), and General Design Criterion 2 of appendix A to this part to design nuclear power plant structures, systems, and components important to safety to withstand the effects of natural phenomena, such as earthquakes, without loss of capability to perform their safety functions. Also, as specified in §50.54(ff), nuclear power plants that have implemented the earthquake engineering criteria described herein must shut down if the criteria in paragraph IV(a)(3) of this appendix are exceeded. These criteria implement General Design Criterion 2 insofar as it requires structures, systems, and components important to safety to withstand the effects of earthquakes. II. Scope The evaluations described in this appendix are within the scope of investigations permitted by §50.10(c)(1). III. Definitions As used in these criteria: Combined license means a combined construction permit and operating license with conditions for a nuclear power facility issued pursuant to subpart C of part 52 of this chapter. Design Certification means a Commission approval, issued pursuant to subpart B of part 52 of this chapter, of a standard design for a nuclear power facility. A design so approved may be referred to as a ``certified standard design.'' The Operating Basis Earthquake Ground Motion (OBE) is the vibratory ground motion for which those features of the nuclear power plant necessary for continued operation without undue risk to the health and safety of the public will remain functional. The Operating Basis Earthquake Ground Motion is only associated with plant shutdown and inspection unless specifically selected by the applicant as a design input. A response spectrum is a plot of the maximum responses (acceleration, velocity, or displacement) of idealized single-degree-of-freedom oscillators as a function of the natural frequencies of the oscillators for a given damping value. The response spectrum is calculated for a specified vibratory motion input at the oscillators' supports. The Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion (SSE) is the vibratory ground motion for which certain structures, systems, and components must be designed to remain functional. The structures, systems, and components required to withstand the effects of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion or surface deformation are those necessary to assure: (1) The integrity of the reactor coolant pressure boundary, (2) The capability to shut down the reactor and maintain it in a safe shutdown condition, or (3) The capability to prevent or mitigate the consequences of accidents that could result in potential offsite exposures comparable to the guideline exposures of §50.34(a)(1)(ii). Surface deformation is distortion of geologic strata at or near the ground surface by the processes of folding or faulting as a result of various earth forces. Tectonic surface deformation is associated with earthquake processes. IV. Application to Engineering Design The following are pursuant to the seismic and geologic design basis requirements of §100.23 of this chapter: (a) Vibratory Ground Motion. (1) Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion. The Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion must be characterized by free-field ground motion response spectra at the free ground surface. In view of the limited data available on vibratory ground motions of strong earthquakes, it usually will be appropriate that the design response spectra be smoothed spectra. The horizontal component of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion in the free-field at the foundation level of the structures must be an appropriate response spectrum with a peak ground acceleration of at least 0.1g. The nuclear power plant must be designed so that, if the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion occurs, certain structures, systems, and components will remain functional and within applicable stress, strain, and deformation limits. In addition to seismic loads, applicable concurrent normal operating, functional, and accident-induced loads must be taken into account in the design of these safety-related structures, systems, and components. The design of the nuclear power plant must also take into account the possible effects of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion on the facility foundations by ground disruption, such as fissuring, lateral spreads, differential settlement, liquefaction, and landsliding, as required in §100.23 to part 100 of this chapter. The required safety functions of structures, systems, and components must be assured during and after the vibratory ground motion associated with the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion through design, testing, or qualification methods. The evaluation must take into account soil-structure interaction effects and the expected duration of vibratory motion. It is permissible to design for strain limits in excess of yield strain in some of these safety-related structures, systems, and components during the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion and under the postulated concurrent loads, provided the necessary safety functions are maintained. (2) Operating Basis Earthquake Ground Motion.
