FR941007-1-00159 FR941007-1-00009 (ii) Address affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs that are not being met by the private market. (2) The OTS shall evaluate community development services pursuant to the following criteria: (i) The extent to which the savings association provides community development services; and (ii) The innovativeness and responsiveness of community development services. (3) When evaluating a savings association's overall service performance, the OTS shall weigh the savings association's community development services according to the characteristics and needs of the savings association's service area(s), the capacity and constraints of the savings association, and the opportunities available to the savings association to provide community development services. (4) At a savings association's option, the OTS shall consider in its assessment of a savings association's service performance a community development service provided by an affiliate of the savings association, provided that the community development service is not claimed by any other institution. (d) Service performance rating. The OTS shall rate a savings association's service performance as provided in Appendix A of this part. §563e.25 Community development test for wholesale or limited purpose savings associations. (a) Scope of test. (1) The OTS shall assess the degree to which a wholesale or limited purpose savings association (as defined in §563e.12 of this part) is helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) under the community development test only if the savings association's written request to be designated as a wholesale or limited purpose savings association has been approved by the OTS before the commencement of its CRA examination, and the designation has not been revoked either at the request of the savings association or at the OTS's own initiative. (2) The community development test evaluates the record of a wholesale or limited purpose savings association in helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) through qualified investments, community development lending, or community development services. (3) For purposes of the community development test only, community development loans include small business and small farm loans and loans to low- and moderate-income individuals and geographies, whether or not reported or collected by the savings association or one of its affiliates as home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, or consumer loans, pursuant to §563e.42 of this part. (b) Assessment criteria. The OTS shall evaluate the community development performance of a wholesale or limited purpose savings association pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The number and amount of community development loans outstanding, qualified investments (as defined in §563e.23 of this part), or community development services (as defined in §563e.24 of this part); (2) The use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services and their connection to credit needs; and (3) The degree of responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs.
