FR940505-1-00507 FR940505-1-00012 (2) Non-permitted sources. If state or federal law prohibits the permitting authority from requiring an Authority to Construct or a Permit to Operate pursuant to §52.3000, General Permit Requirements, the applicant for authorized emission reduction credits shall execute a legally binding contract with one or more owner(s) or operator(s) of the non-permittable emissions unit that ensures the sum of all emission reductions will be provided in accordance with the requirements of this section, and will continue for the life of the stationary source using the credits or life of the credits as provided in the application. Such a contract shall be filed with the EPA and, by its terms, be enforceable by the EPA. In the absence of federally enforceable conditions, the execution of a source- specific SIP revision is required. (3) Certification of ERCs in the absence of a district banking rule. If the applicable district does not have a banking rule, the EPA will certify the ERC in accordance with EPA's most recent emission trading policy. (d) Exemptions. Concurrent stationary source modification: Concurrent reductions need not be authorized prior to use as offsets, if those reductions satisfy all criteria established by this section; §52.3000, General Permit Requirements; and §52.3001, New Source Review. For the purposes of this exemption, ``concurrent stationary source modification'' means the simultaneous modification of emission units and/or the addition of new emissions units to a stationary source with all emission reductions occurring after the issuance of the Authority to Construct authorizing such reductions, but before the start of operation of the new or modified emissions unit(s) with emission increases. (e) Administrative requirements. (1) Procedures for authorization of ERCs. (i) Any person or entity, or an authorized agent, applying to use an ERC in accordance with §52.3001, New Source Review, must submit a complete application for authorization of ERCs 60 days prior to submitting an Authority to Construct Application under §52.3001. (ii) The person or entity requesting ERC authorization shall submit an application on forms approved by the EPA. (iii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the application must include an engineering evaluation and verification of district certification of the ERC and any other information necessary to calculate the emission reductions as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Documents submitted and received according to a district banking rule may be sufficient for the application for authorization. (iv) Applicants may claim confidentiality for submitted information to the extent allowed and provided for by Federal Regulation at 40 CFR part 2. (v) To verify emission reductions claimed in conjunction with an application for ERC authorization, the EPA may require source tests by approved methods, continuous monitoring, production records, fuel use records, or any other appropriate means. (2) General calculation of emission reductions. The following procedures apply to the calculation of ERCs for all sources: (i) Actual emission reductions from modifications to, or shutdowns of, existing emissions units shall be calculated for each calendar quarter by subtracting the proposed emissions from historical actual emissions. Any positive value shall qualify for conversion to an emission reduction credit. (ii) Credits shall be quantified in terms of pounds of pollutants per quarter for each calendar quarter. (iii) In addition to the criteria explained in the definition of Actual Emission Reductions above, actual emission reductions shall be adjusted to at least reflect those emission rates achievable with reasonably available control technology (RACT), or best available retrofit control technology (BARCT), or any requirement of federal or state implementation plan rules, whichever results in the greatest adjustment. (iv) The EPA may adjust the credits to maintain any discounting by the district prior to district certification of the ERCs. Such discounting includes adjustments made by the district for deposit into a district priority reserve bank and reductions claimed by the district to meet any federal planning requirements. (v) The original ERC Certificate should be surrendered prior to authorization of an ERC.
