FR940513-0-00153 FR940513-0-00034 Some commentors changed their positions on this issue. Although initially opposing the NEMA recommendation ( i.e. , for the encircled ``E''), ACEEE later stated that publishing an encircled ``E'' on incandescent reflector lamp packaging would be acceptable as long as wattage, life, and lumens per watt were included in catalogs. 183 LRC originally supported the encircled ``E'' requirement alone, but, at the Workshop, added that its support was dependent on a requirement to include wattage and life disclosures (presumably on packages), with which NEMA agreed. 184 Osram supported the NEMA recommendation in its initial comment and, in its post-Workshop comment, continued to support an encircled ``E'' disclosure, along with an additional recommendation that beam performance information (in accordance with ANSI standards) and average life also be disclosed on packages. 185 183 ACEEE, GG&hyph;1, 3; (Supp.), GG&hyph;21, 4. 184 LRC, GG&hyph;15, 3; (Tr.), 312. 185 Osram, G&hyph;4, 2; (Supp.), G&hyph;11, 4. The Commission has determined to require disclosure of an encircled ``E'' on packages and in catalogs 186 for those general service incandescent reflector lamps that meet or exceed the minimum efficiency standards set by EPCA. But, to inform purchasers of the meaning and significance of this information, the Commission is requiring that a brief explanatory statement also appear on the packages for the lamps and in catalogs from which they can be ordered. Specifically, manufacturers must disclose clearly and conspicuously the encircled ``E'' on the principal display panel of packaging for these lamps. On the principal display panel or on another panel, manufacturers also must disclose clearly and conspicuously the statement, ``(The encircled ``E'' logo, followed by:) means this bulb meets Federal minimum efficiency standards.'' The encircled ``E'' and the explanatory statement must be linked by asterisks. In catalogs from which general service incandescent reflector lamps can be ordered by purchasers, manufacturers also must disclose clearly and conspicuously the encircled ``E'' in close proximity to each entry for a covered general service incandescent reflector lamp. On each page in such a catalog upon which the encircled ``E'' appears, manufacturers also must disclose, clearly and conspicuously at least once, the statement: ``(The encircled ``E'' logo, followed by:) means this bulb meets Federal minimum efficiency standards.'' See §305.11(e)(2) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 186 The record indicates that manufacturers of general service incandescent (reflector) lamps sell many of their products through catalogs, especially to commercial and industrial customers, and many commentors believed that disclosures should appear in catalogs. See, e.g. , NEMA, G&hyph;3, 29, 31, (Supp.), G&hyph;10, 29; Osram, G&hyph;4, 2; ACEEE, GG&hyph;1, 3&hyph;4, (Supp.), GG&hyph;21, 2; LBL (Supp.), GG&hyph;22, 3; OR DOE, GG&hyph;13, 9; WA SEO, GG&hyph;18, 4; Hubbell, GG&hyph;9, 1. The Commission also has concluded, however, that the encircled ``E'' disclosure and explanatory statement alone will not provide purchasers of general service incandescent reflector lamps with enough information to select the most energy efficient products to fill their lighting needs. Several comments show that there will continue to be a range of choice among different general service incandescent reflector lamps with varying efficiencies after the DOE standards become effective. 187 Moreover, the record shows that some manufacturers generally already disclose some of several other factors for these lamps_design voltage, wattage, laboratory life, beam spread, and beam intensity. 188 One industry member, Angelo, suggested that it would work no hardship on sellers for the Commission to mandate the same disclosures as those proposed for general service incandescent lamps. 189 187 Angelo (Supp.), G&hyph;8, 2; ACEEE (Supp.), GG&hyph;21, 2; LBL (Supp.), GG&hyph;22, 3. 188 NEMA, G&hyph;3, 29&hyph;30, (Supp.), G&hyph;10, 29; Philips, G&hyph;5, 2; LRC (Tr.), 307. 189 Angelo, G&hyph;1, 2. The Commission has determined, therefore, to require that manufacturers of general service incandescent reflector lamps disclose, on packages and in catalogs, the following elements: design voltage (if other than 120), wattage, light output (expressed in average initial lumens), 190 average laboratory life (expressed in hours), the Advisory Disclosure and, on packages only, number of bulbs in package (if more than one). 191 For the reasons explained in Part IV.C.1.a, above, the disclosure of wattage, lumens, and life must be based on operation at 120 volts regardless of the lamp's design voltage. The format requirement for these disclosures will be the same as they are for general service incandescent lamps and compact fluorescent lamps. See §§305.11(e)(1)(A)&hyph;(D) and 305.14(d)(1) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 190 Because of the unique nature of the light output of general service incandescent (reflector) lamps, the amendments require that light output (in lumens) for these products be measured for only the beam spread of the lamp, as determined by industry standards. 191 The reasons for the specific versions of these elements have already been discussed in Part IV.C.1.a&hyph;2.c, above. The Commission will not, therefore, repeat the discussion here. 2. Disclosures in Point-of-Sale Materials Two comments addressed the issue of disclosures in point-of-sale materials for general service incandescent reflector lamps. ACEEE recommended that average annual operating cost and average lifetime indicators be included on both packaging and point-of-sale displays for sales to residential purchasers. 192 LBL thought that efficacy ( i.e., efficiency) information should be included in point-of-sale materials for residential purchasers. 193 192 ACEEE, GG&hyph;1, 3&hyph;4. 193 LBL (Supp.), GG&hyph;22, 3. The Commission has already discussed its position generally respecting required disclosures in point-of-sale materials in Part IV.C.7, above. The Commission's position is the same respecting point-of-sale materials for general service incandescent reflector lamps. Accordingly, the Commission is not requiring specific disclosures for these products at point of sale. But, as for the other lamp products, if point-of-sale operating cost disclosures are voluntarily made, the assumptions used (cost of electricity, hours of use, etc. ) must be disclosed. 194 See §305.13(a)(2) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 194 See Part IV.C.2.b, above.
