FR940830-0-00024 FR940830-0-00005 (g) If a plan of combination provides for a resulting Federal mutual savings association's name or location to be changed, its charter shall be amended accordingly. If the resulting institution is a Federal mutual savings association, the effective date of the combination shall be the date specified in the approval; if the resulting institution is not a Federal savings association, the effective date shall be that prescribed under applicable law. Approval of a merger automatically cancels the Federal charter of a Federal association that is a disappearing institution as of the effective date of merger, and the association shall, on that date, surrender its charter to the Office. 6. Section 546.3 is revised to read as follows: §546.3 Transfer of assets upon merger or consolidation. On the effective date of a merger or consolidation in which the resulting institution is a Federal association, all assets and property of the disappearing institutions shall immediately, without any further act, become the property of the resulting institution to the same extent as they were the property of the disappearing institutions, and the resulting institution shall be a continuation of the entity which absorbed the disappearing institutions. All rights and obligations of the disappearing institutions shall remain unimpaired, and the resulting institution shall, on the effective date of the merger or consolidation, succeed to all those rights and obligations, subject to the Home Owners' Loan Act and other applicable statutes. 7. Section 546.4 is amended by adding a sentence to the end of the concluding text of the section to read as follows: §546.4 Voluntary dissolution. * * * * * *␣*␣* A Federal savings association is not required to obtain approval under this section where the Federal savings association transfers all of its assets and liabilities to a bank in a transaction that is subject to §563.22(b) of this chapter. PART 552_INCORPORATION, ORGANIZATION, AND CONVERSION OF FEDERAL STOCK SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS 8. The authority citation for part 552 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1462, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a. 9. Section 552.2&hyph;6 is revised to read as follows: §552.2&hyph;6 Conversion from stock form depository institution to Federal stock association. With the approval of the Office, any stock depository institution that is, or is eligible to become, a member of a Federal Home Loan Bank, may convert to a Federal stock association, provided that the depository institution, at the time of the conversion, has deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and provided further, that the depository institution, in accomplishing the conversion, complies with all applicable statutes and regulations, including, without limitation, section 5(d) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The resulting Federal stock association must conform within the time prescribed by the OTS to the requirements of section 5(c) of the Home Owners' Loan Act. For purposes of this section, the term ``depository institution'' shall have the meaning set forth at 12 CFR 552.13(b). 10. Section 552.2&hyph;7 is added to read as follows: §552.2&hyph;7 Conversion to National banking association or State bank. A Federal stock association may convert to a National banking association or a State bank after filing a notification or application, as appropriate, with the Office in accordance with the applicable provisions of §563.22(b) of this chapter. 11. Section 552.13 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) through (f), (h)(1), (h)(2) introductory text, (h)(2)(iii), (h)(2)(iv), and (j) through (l); and by removing and reserving paragraph (g), to read as follows:
