FR940505-1-00369 FR940505-1-00012 Adhesion promoter means a coating applied over both an existing non-sanded topcoat and the coated area immediately adjacent to the non-sanded topcoat, to promote the adhesion of a subsequent topcoat. No topcoat, primer, primer sealer, or primer surfacer shall be classified as an adhesion promoter. Alkyd enamel means an enamel coating derived from any of several different synthetic resins made by heating together a polybasic acid, such as phthalic or maleic acid, and a polyhydric alcohol, such as glycerin or a glycol. Anti-glare safety coating means a coating formulated to eliminate glare for safety purposes on interior surfaces of a vehicle and which shows a reflectance of 25 or less on a 60 ○ gloss meter. Basecoat means a pigmented topcoat which is the first topcoat applied as part of a multistage topcoat system. Basecoat/clearcoat topcoat system means a topcoat system composed of a basecoat portion and a clearcoat portion. The VOC content of a basecoat/clearcoat topcoat system shall be calculated according to the following formula: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.097 Where: VOC ms =the composite VOC content, less water and less exempt compounds to be used for compliance determination under the multistage topcoat system coating category. VOC bc =the VOC content, less water and less exempt compounds as applied, of any given basecoat. 2 VOC cc =two times the VOC content, less water and less exempt compounds as applied, of any given clearcoat. Bright metal trim repair coating means a coating applied directly to chrome-plated metal surfaces for the purpose of appearance. Bus means any motor vehicle having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight of more than 8,600 pounds, which is designed primarily for the transportation of persons and has a design capacity of over 12 persons. Clearcoat means a topcoat which contains no pigments or only transparent pigments and which is the final topcoat applied as a part of a multistage topcoat system. Coating means a material which is applied to a surface and which forms a film in order to beautify and/or protect such surface. Elastomeric materials mean coatings which are specifically formulated and applied over coated or uncoated flexible plastic substrates for the purpose of adhesion. Electrostatic application means charging of atomized paint droplets for deposition by electrostatic attraction. Enamel means a coating that cures by chemical cross-linking of its base resin. Enamels can be readily distinguished from lacquers because enamels are not resoluble in their original solvent. Extreme-performance topcoat means a topcoat used on the surface of Group II vehicles and mobile equipment, and which qualifies under the provisions of paragraph (c)(6)(vii) of this section. General topcoat means any type of topcoat except extreme-performance topcoat, metallic topcoat, and any topcoat applied as part of a multistage topcoat system. Grams of VOC per liter of material means the weight of VOC per volume of material and can be calculated by the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.098 Where: W s =weight of volatile compounds in grams; W w =weight of water in grams; W es =weight of exempt compounds in grams; and V m =volume of material in liters. Group I vehicles mean passenger cars, small-sized trucks and vans, medium-sized trucks and vans, motor homes, and motorcycles. Group II vehicles and equipment mean large-sized trucks, buses, street and mobile equipment. High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) spray means equipment used to spray a coating by means of a gun that operates between 0.1 and 10 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) air pressure. Highway means a way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel. Highway includes street. Impact-resistant coating means any coating applied to a rocker panel for the purpose of chip resistance to road debris. Lacquer means a coating which dries primarily by solvent evaporation and, hence, is resoluble in its original solvent. Metallic/iridescent topcoat means a topcoat which contains iridescent particles, composed of either metal as metallic particles or silicon as mica particles, in excess of 5 g/L (0.042 lb/gal) as applied, where such particles are visible in the dried film. Midcoat means a semi-transparent topcoat which is the middle topcoat applied as part of a three-stage topcoat system. Mobile equipment means self-propelled equipment which is physically capable of being driven on a highway. Mobile equipment includes, but is not limited to, the following: truck bodies, truck trailers, utility bodies, camper shells, and miscellaneous hauling equipment. Motor home means any motor vehicle originally designed, or permanently altered, and equipped for human habitation as defined in Section 362 of the California Vehicle Code. Motor vehicle means a vehicle which is self-propelled and which is physically capable of being driven on a highway.
