FR940119-1-00006 FR940119-1-00001 The last option, providing extra credit to State agencies targeting populations with the greatest barriers to employment, was rejected because of its administrative burdens. The option would have resulted in better targeting of hard-to-employ populations, and thus, taken State agencies in the direction the program is heading. However, the Department is reluctant to implement a major increase in reporting requirements for a relatively short period of time before outcome-based performance standards are implemented. The Department further believes that the definition of hard-to-employ populations should be coordinated with the JOBS program during development of outcome-based performance standards. Accordingly, the Department is proposing to amend ยง273.7(d)(1)(i)(B) in this rulemaking to specify that the $15 million E&T funds will be frozen at the levels the State agencies received in FY 1993. In accordance with current rules, performance-based funds will be allocated by the ratio of the number of E&T mandatories placed in an E&T program in an eligible State to the number of E&T mandatories placed in all eligible States in Calendar Year 1991. The rule proposes that the FY 1993 levels be used for the two Fiscal Years following the year in which this rule is published in final form. The Department is anxious to receive suggestions for ways the performance-based funds could be distributed beyond that, until outcome-based performance standards are implemented. The State agencies must continue to meet established performance standards (i.e., 10 percent in FY 1994) to be eligible for their share of these funds as is required under 7 CFR 273.7(d)(1)(i)(B). Should a State agency fail to meet the 10 percent performance standard in a given fiscal year, it would be ineligible to receive its share of performance-based funding in the second following fiscal year. For instance, if a State agency fails to meet the 10 percent performance standard in FY 1992, it would be ineligible to receive performance-based funding in FY 1994. Should this occur, the Department is proposing in this rule to recalculate the performance-based funds to the State agencies on the basis of Calendar Year 1991 data, but excluding the States which did not place at least 10 percent of their eligible population. As required under current rules, State agencies may not submit corrected FNS 583 reports any later than March 1 if they are to be used in determining whether a State agency is eligible for performance-based funding. Implementation The proposed provisions in this rule are effective retroactively to October 1, 1993. The State agencies are not required to take any action to implement these provisions.
