FR940719-0-00039 FR940719-0-00014 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 52 [CT&hyph;10&hyph;1&hyph;5893; A&hyph;1-FRL&hyph;4885&hyph;8] Approval and Promulgation of Title V, Section 507, Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program for Connecticut AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: EPA is approving a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision submitted by the State of Connecticut for the purpose of establishing a small business stationary source technical and environmental compliance assistance program. The SIP revision was submitted by the State to satisfy the Federal mandate to ensure that small businesses have access to technical assistance and regulatory information necessary to comply with the Clean Air Act (CAA). The rationale for the approval is set forth in this action. DATES: This final rule will become effective July 18, 1994, unless notice is received within 30 days that adverse or critical comments will be submitted. If the effective date is delayed, timely notice will be published in the Federal Register . ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Linda M. Murphy, Director, Air, Pesticides and Toxics Management Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region I, JFK Federal Building, Boston, MA 02203. Copies of the documents relevant to this action are available for public inspection during normal business hours, by appointment at the Air, Pesticides and Toxics Management Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region I, One Congress Street, 10th floor, Boston, MA; Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., (6102), Washington, DC 20460; and the Bureau of Air Management, Department of Environmental Protection, State Office Building, 79 Elm Street, Hartford, CT 06106&hyph;1630. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Emanuel Souza, Jr., (617) 565&hyph;3248. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Implementation of the provisions of the CAA, as amended in 1990, will require regulation of many small businesses so that areas may attain and maintain the National ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) and reduce the emission of air toxics. Small businesses frequently lack the technical expertise and financial resources necessary to evaluate such regulations and to determine the appropriate mechanisms for compliance. In anticipation of the impact of these requirements on small businesses, the CAA requires that States adopt a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program (PROGRAM), and submit this PROGRAM as a revision to the federally approved SIP. In addition, the CAA directs the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to oversee these small business assistance programs and report to Congress on their implementation. The requirements for establishing a PROGRAM are set out in section 507 of title V of the CAA. In February 1992, EPA issued Guidelines for the Implementation of Section 507 of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments , in order to delineate the Federal and State roles in meeting the new statutory provisions and as a tool to provide further guidance to the States on submitting acceptable SIP revisions. The State of Connecticut has submitted a SIP revision to EPA in order to satisfy the requirements of section 507. In order to gain full approval, the State submittal must provide for each of the following PROGRAM elements: (1) The establishment of a Small Business Assistance Program (SBAP) to provide technical and compliance assistance to small businesses; (2) the establishment of a State Small Business Ombudsman to represent the interests of small businesses in the regulatory process; and (3) the creation of a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP) to determine and report on the overall effectiveness of the SBAP. II. Analysis Connecticut has met all of the requirements of section 507 by submitting a SIP revision that implements all required PROGRAM elements. 1. Small Business Assistance Program Section 507(a) sets forth six requirements 1 that the State must meet to have an approvable SBAP. The first requirement is to establish adequate mechanisms for developing, collecting and coordinating information concerning compliance methods and technologies for small business stationary sources, and programs to encourage lawful cooperation among such sources and other persons to further compliance with the Act. 1 A seventh requirement of section 507(a), establishment of an Ombudsman office, is discussed in the next section. The SBAP will act as an information clearing house by referring small businesses to technical experts, specifically trained to handle specific questions relevant to achieving compliance with the CAA. The State has further met this requirement through proactive and reactive components. The proactive component involves adequate communication with and information outreach to small businesses on technical and compliance issues. The reactive component involves the establishment of a clearinghouse for handling incoming inquiries from small businesses regarding methods for achieving compliance with air pollution control requirements under the CAA. The second requirement is to establish adequate mechanisms for assisting small business stationary sources with pollution prevention and accidental release detection and prevention, including providing information concerning alternative technologies, process changes, products and methods of operation that help reduce air pollution. The State has met this requirement by including mechanisms to provide assistance which allows the SBAP to coordinate information relating to pollution prevention and accidental release detection with Federal, state and local agencies and by allowing the SBAP clearinghouse to disseminate information on pollution prevention and accidental release prevention and detection. Furthermore, a contact directory will be developed and made available which will include a list of technical experts in the areas of pollution prevention, accidental release prevention and detection and familiarity with pollution prevention technologies and alternatives to reduce pollution. The third requirement is to develop a compliance and technical assistance program for small business stationary sources which assists small businesses in determining applicable requirements and in receiving permits under the Act in a timely and efficient manner. The State's SBAP will utilize several mechanisms to provide compliance and technical assistance to small businesses. These include developing industry-specific information packets, providing training to educate small business owners on conducting self-inspections and understanding the compliance requirements, and communicating changes in regulations and policy to small businesses through workshops, flyers and presentations. The SBAP will develop a data base that includes small business stationary sources and associations to attempt to notify affected sources of potential changes or rules that affect them. Additionally, the SBAP will work with trade associations, local agencies, educational facilities, and community leaders to establish environmental partnerships to bring about voluntary compliance with regulations under the CAA through participation and educational activities. The fourth requirement is to develop adequate mechanisms to assure that small business stationary sources receive notice of their rights under the Act in such manner and form as to assure reasonably adequate time for such sources to evaluate compliance methods and any relevant or applicable proposed or final regulation or standards issued under the Act. The State has met this requirement by listing three possible methods. As stated above the SBAP will develop a data base that includes small business stationary sources and associations and will coordinate with appropriate agency staff to attempt to notify affected sources of potential changes or rules that affect them. Additionally, formal public notification procedures will be developed and implemented agency-wide that will attempt to insure timely notice of small businesses of their rights and obligations under the CAA. Finally, as stated earlier, the SBAP will work with trade associations, local agencies, educational facilities, and community leaders to establish environment partnerships to bring about voluntary compliance with regulations under the CAA through participation and educational activities. The fifth requirement is to develop adequate mechanisms for informing small business stationary sources of their obligations under the Act, including mechanisms for referring such sources to qualified auditors or, at the option of the State, for providing audits of the operations of such sources to determine compliance with the Act. The State has met this requirement by identifying various mechanisms in the SIP revision. Some of these mechanisms include visits to small businesses, public service announcements, seminars conducted by the CT DEP and the establishment of a clearinghouse to handle inquiries from small businesses. These methods may be utilized to inform small businesses of their obligations under the CAA. Furthermore, the State is designing a program for referring sources to qualified auditors to determine if they are meeting the requirements of the CAA. The sixth requirement is to develop procedures for consideration of requests from small business stationary sources for modification of: (A) Any work practice or technological method of compliance; or (B) the schedule of milestones for implementing such work practice or method of compliance preceding any applicable compliance date, based on the technological and financial capability of any such small business stationary source. The SIP revision states that the DEP will establish approved procedures to provide for the review of requests from small businesses for modification of work practice or technical methods of compliance based on financial and technological capability. A system will be provided for collecting and coordinating information on compliance methods and technologies. Data bases and experts in different areas will provide definitive guidance information. No such modification may be granted unless it is in compliance with the applicable requirements of the CAA. Additionally, the CT DEP will establish approval procedures for modification requests based on financial and technological capability. 2. Ombudsman Section 507(a)(3) requires the designation of a State office to serve as the Ombudsman for small business stationary sources. The State has met this requirement by placing the office in the Office of the Commissioner of Environmental Protection, fully independent of the Bureau of Air Management. This office will be funded and adequately staffed to carry out its duties. A specific list of Ombudsman duties are listed in the SIP revision. Some of the duties the Ombudsman office will perform includes conducting evaluations of all the programs elements, facilitating and promoting the participation of small businesses in the development of new regulations that impact small businesses, aiding in the dissemination of information to small businesses, participating in and sponsoring meetings and conferences for small businesses, arranging for and assisting in the preparation of guideline documents by the SBAP and interfacing with regional and state offices of the Small Business Administration, the Department of Commerce, and/or state and Federal agencies. The Ombudsman will also be a member of the Compliance Advisory Panel. The Ombudsman will serve as the Secretariat for the development and dissemination of panel reports and advisory opinions. 3. Compliance Advisory Panel Section 507(e) requires the State to establish a Compliance Advisory Panel that must include two members selected by the Governor who are not owners or representatives of owners of small businesses; four members selected by the State legislature who are owners, or represent owners, of small businesses; and one member selected by the head of the agency in charge of the Air Pollution Permit Program. The State has met this requirement by including the ombudsman as a panel member and therefore, establishing an eight member CAP. The CAA requires a minimum of 7 individuals on the Panel. Selection of the panel members is consistent with the CAA requirements and the addition of the ombudsman does not change the overall makeup of the panel. In addition to establishing the membership of the CAP, the State PROGRAM delineates four responsibilities of the Panel: (1) To render advisory opinions concerning the effectiveness of the SBAP and the difficulties encountered; (2) to periodically report to EPA concerning the SBAP's adherence to the principles of the Paperwork Reduction Act, the Equal Access to Justice Act, and the Regulatory Flexibility Act 2 ; (3) to review and assure that information for small business stationary sources is easily understandable to the layperson; and (4) the Ombudsman may serve as the Secretariat for the development and dissemination of panel reports and advisory opinions. 2 Section 507(e)(1)(B) requires the CAP to report on the compliance of the SBAP with these three Federal statutes. However, since State agencies are not required to comply with them, EPA believes that the State PROGRAM must merely require the CAP to report on whether the SBAP is adhering to the general principles of these Federal statutes. 4. Eligibility Section 507(c)(1) of the CAA defines the term ``small business stationary source'' as a stationary source that: (A) Is owned or operated by a person who employs 100 or fewer individuals; (B) Is a small business concern as defined in the Small Business Act; (C) Is not a major stationary source; (D) Does not emit 50 tons per year (tpy) or more of any regulated pollutant; and (E) Emits less than 75 tpy of all regulated pollutants. The SIP revision's eligibility requirements for the PROGRAM is consistent with the CAA. The State has also provided for the exclusion from the small business stationary source definition, after consultation with EPA and the SBA and upon notice and opportunity for public hearing, those categories of small businesses that the State has determined to have sufficient technical and financial capabilities to comply with the requirements of the CAA. While the State was not clear in the January 12, 1993 SIP revision that the SBA would be consulted, the State submitted a letter to Region I on April 6, 1994 clarifying that EPA and the SBA would be consulted if the State excluded source categories from the small business stationary source definition. III. Final Rulemaking Action The State of Connecticut has submitted a SIP revision implementing each of the required PROGRAM elements required by section 507 of the CAA. The State expects all the elements of the PROGRAM to be fully operational by November 15, 1994. EPA is therefore approving the SIP revision submitted by the State of Connecticut. Final Action EPA is approving the SIP revision implementing each of the required PROGRAM elements required by section 507 of the CAA. The State expects to appoint all the members of the CAP by July 1994 and have a fully operational small business assistance program by November 15, 1994. Because EPA considers this final rule noncontroversial and routine, we are approving it today without prior proposal. This action will become effective on July 18, 1994 unless by June 20, 1994, notice is received that adverse comments will be submitted. If such notice is received, this action will be withdrawn before the effective date by publishing a subsequent document. That document will simultaneously withdraw the final action and begin a new rulemaking by announcing a proposal of the action and establishing a comment period. If no such comments are received, the public is advised that this action will be effective July 18, 1994. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. Each request for revision to the SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors, and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. By this rule, EPA is approving a State program created for the purpose of assisting small businesses in complying with existing statutory and regulatory requirements. The program being approved today does not impose any new regulatory burden on small businesses; it is a program under which small businesses may elect to take advantage of assistance provided by the State. Therefore, because EPA's approval of this program does not impose any new regulatory requirements on small businesses, I certify that it does not have a significant economic impact on any small entities affected. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Acting Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225) as revised by an October 4, 1993, memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. On January 6, 1989, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) waived Table 2 and 3 SIP revision (54 FR 222) from the requirements of section 3 of Executive Order 12991 for a period of 2 years. The EPA has submitted a request for a permanent waiver for Table 2 and 3 SIP revisions. The OMB has agreed to continue the waiver until such time as it rules on EPA's request. This request is still applicable under Executive Order 12866 which superseded Executive Order 12291 on September 30, 1993. Under section 307(b)(1) of the CAA, petitions for judicial review of this action must be filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the appropriate circuit by July 18, 1994. Filing a petition for reconsideration by the Administrator for this final rule does not affect the finality of this rule for the purposes of judicial review, nor does it extend the time within which a petition for judicial review may be filed, and shall not postpone the effectiveness of such rule or action. This action may not be challenged later in proceedings to enforce its requirements. (See section 307(b)(2) of the CAA.) List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Small business assistance program. Note: Incorporation by reference of the State Implementation Plan for the State of Connecticut was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on July 1, 1982. Dated: May 4, 1994. John P. DeVillars, Regional Administrator, Region I. Part 52 of chapter I, title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 52_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 52 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Subpart H_Connecticut 2. Section 52.370 is amended by adding paragraph (c)(65) to read as follows: §52.370 Identification of plan. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (65) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan establishing a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program were submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 12 and August 9, 1993. (i) Incorporation by reference. (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated January 12, 1993 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. (B) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan for the Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program dated January 1993 and effective on January 12, 1993. (C) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated August 9, 1993 clarifying and updating the January 12, 1993 submittal. (ii) Additional materials. (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated April 6, 1994 clarifying the January 12, 1993 submittal. (B) Other non-regulatory portions of the State's submittal. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12158 Filed 5&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
