FR940228-2-00054 FR940228-2-00030 National Institutes of Health Availability of Training Fellowships Under the Intramural Research Training Award Program AGENCY: National Institutes of Health, PHS, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The National Institutes of Health (NIH) announces the availability of training fellowships under the Intramural Research Training Award (IRTA) Program, created pursuant to section 405(b)(1)(C) of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act (42 U.S.C. 284(b)(1)(C)), section 464W of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 285q&hyph;1), section 472 of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 286b&hyph;3), and section 485B(b) of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 287c(b)). Women and minorities are encouraged to apply. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Office of Education, National Institutes of Health, Building 10, room 1C129, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, Telephone (301) 496&hyph;2427. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The IRTA Program is designed to provide opportunities for developmental training and practical research experience in the laboratories of the NIH. Training fellowships are available to postdoctoral scientists at the beginning stages of their professional research careers, and to high school, college, graduate and professional (e.g. medical dental, etc.) school students pursuing studies in academic disciplines related to biomedical research. Candidates must be U.S. citizens, noncitizen nationals of the United States, or individuals lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the U.S. Applicants may not be excluded from consideration for the IRTA Program on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, age, national origin, political affiliation, or any other nonmerit factor. Subject to the availability of funds, IRTA Fellowship awards are made on the basis of NIH's assessment of the mutuality of research interests, the qualifications of the candidates, and their potential to benefit from the training assignment. Recipient are not Federal employees. Fellowship awards are granted in the following three categories: Postdoctoral IRTA Fellowship Awards Postdoctoral Fellowships are awarded to promising physicians and Ph.D. level investigators, to enhance their research capabilities in the early postdoctoral stage of their careers. Postdoctoral Fellowships may be awarded to individuals with Ph.D., M.D., D.D.S., D.M.D., D.V.M., or equivalent degrees, and five years or less of relevant postdoctoral research experience. Awards are made initially for one or two years, and may be renewed in one-year increments up to a maximum of five years in the Program. Initial stipends range between $25,000 and $30,000 per annum for investigators with less than one year of postdoctoral experience, between $26,500 and $32,000 per annum for investigators with one to two years of postdoctoral experience, between $28,000 and $34,000 per annum for investigators with two to three years of postdoctoral experience, between $29,500 and $36,000 per annuam for investigators with three to four years of postdoctoral experience, and between $31,000 and $38,000 for investigators with four to five years of postdoctoral experience. Predoctoral IRTA Fellowship Awards Predoctoral Fellowships are awarded to students enrolled in Ph.D., M.D., D.D.S., D.M.D., D.V.M., or equivalent degree programs at fully accredited U.S. universities. Predoctoral Fellowships are designed to support a period of full-time research training in NIH laboratories, undertaken as an integral part of participants' academic program. Awards are generally granted for the purpose of developing and writing a thesis in an NIH intramural laboratory, although other academically related training may occasionally be supported. For students pursuing a degree for which a thesis is not required (e.g., M.D., D.V.M., etc.), a full-time training program in biomedical research will be designed. Students must be admitted to graduate or professional school and be a doctoral degree candidate before they can be considered. Normally, most students will have completed their first year of graduate course work before beginning the Program. Written agreement from the school is required. Predoctoral IRTA Fellows are normally expected to devote full-time to their NIH training assignments. IRTA awards are not intended as grants to support academic training and Predoctoral IRTA Fellows are normally expected to pay any university tuition, fees, or other costs themselves. Predoctoral awards are made initially for one or two years, and may be renewed in one-year increments. The maximum duration is normally three years or until students receive their doctoral degree, whichever comes first. In individual cases, renewals beyond three years may be approved provided the student is making reasonable and acceptable progress towards obtaining the doctoral degree.
