FR940906-1-00005 FR940906-1-00004 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;08] Airworthiness Directives; Turbomeca Arriel 1 Series Turboshaft Engines AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the supersedure of an existing airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to Turbomeca Arriel 1 series turboshaft engines, that currently requires repetitive checks for engine rubbing noise during gas generator shutdown, and for free rotation of the gas generator by rotating the compressor manually after the last flight of the day. This action would continue to require these checks, but eliminates the reference to the Turbomeca service bulletin, allows the pilot to perform all the checks required in this proposed rule, clarifies the inspection interval requirement for daily checks, and specifies terminating action for the repetitive checks required by this AD. In addition, this action would allow the check for engine rubbing noise to be performed during engine motoring, and specifies that the engine turbine (T4) temperature must be below 150 degrees Centigrade when performing the check for free rotation. This proposal is prompted by comments submitted by operators of the affected engines in response to the existing AD and the availability of an improved design 2nd stage nozzle guide vane. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent engine failure due to rubbing of the 2nd stage turbine disk on the 2nd stage turbine nozzle guide vane, which could result in complete engine failure and damage to the aircraft. DATES: Comments must be received by November 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;08, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299. Comments may be inspected at this location between 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Turbomeca, 64511 Bordes Cedex - France. This information may be examined at the FAA, New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Rumizen, Aerospace Engineer, Engine Certification Office, FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299; telephone (617) 238&hyph;7137, fax (617) 238&hyph;7199. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;08.'' The postcard will be date-stamped and returned to the commenter.
