FR940830-1-00107 FR940830-1-00015 A related issue is the point at which a student's earnings must be counted. For example, a household applies on June 10, and the student will be 21 on June 20. Or, a household is certified through December 31, and the student turns 21 on August 10. This issue was addressed in Policy Memo 84&hyph;6 dated October 24, 1983, which has since been rescinded. The Policy Memo provided that if a student turned 18 in the month of application, the caseworker should determine at the time of the interview how much income the student received or anticipated receiving after turning 18. That amount would be counted as income to the household, and any amount received prior to the 18th birthday would be excluded. For participating households, the Policy Memo provided that the student's earned income should not be counted before he or she turned 18. Because it would not be feasible to determine and count only the portion of a month's income that was received after the birthday for an ongoing household, the income would be counted in the month the student turned 18 only if the change occurred on the first of the month. A rule published in the Federal Register on December 4, 1991 (56 FR 63597), amended the regulations for retrospective budgeting to incorporate the provisions of Policy Memo 84&hyph;6 for retrospectively budgeted households into the regulations. Current regulations at 7 CFR 273.21(j)(1)(vii)(A) provide that the earned income of a student is counted only if the student is 18 years of age or older ``at the beginning of the budget month.'' By way of providing an example, the preamble to the rule (56 FR at 63602) clarifies that in a two-month retrospective budgeting system, if a student turns 18 during the month of September, the student's earned income is not counted until the month of October becomes the budget month. That is when the student is 18 years of age at the beginning of the budget month. An objection was raised to the provision in Policy Memo 84&hyph;6 that required State agencies to treat applicant and ongoing households differently. For the month of application, workers were required to count the income received by a student after he turned 18. However, in an ongoing household, the income was not to be counted unless the student turned 18 on the first of the month. To make the requirements for applicant and ongoing households and prospective and retrospective budgeting procedures the same, we are proposing to add a new paragraph (E) to 7 CFR 273.10(e)(2)(i) to provide that for prospective eligibility and benefit determination, the earned income of a high school or elementary school student shall be counted beginning with the month following the month in which the student turns 22. We are also proposing to amend 7 CFR 273.21(j)(1)(vii) to provide for retrospective eligibility and budgeting purposes that the income of an elementary or secondary student shall be counted beginning with the budget month after the month in which the student turns 22. In the examples above, the earnings of the student who will be 22 in the middle of June, the month of application, would not be included in household income until July. The earnings of the student who turns 22 in August in the middle of the certification period would not be included in household income until September. Eligibility workers would have to be alert to a change in the age of a student during the certification period. Under this proposal, a student's earnings would be included in budget month income the month following the month the student turns 22 under both prospective and retrospective budgeting and at application and during the certification period. Under retrospective budgeting, the effect of including a student's earnings would not be reflected in the allotment until the issuance month corresponding to the budget month following the month in which the student becomes 22. This rule proposes to amend 7 CFR 273.9(c)(7) to provide that the earned income of an elementary or secondary school student shall be excluded if the student is (1) 21 years of age or younger; (2) living in the same food stamp household with a natural, adoptive or step-parent, under the parental control of another member of the same food stamp household other than a parent, or in a separate food stamp household but living with a natural, adoptive or step-parent; and (3) attending school (including GED classes) at least half-time. We are retaining the provisions of the current regulations regarding the continuation of the exclusion during temporary interruptions in school attendance and the proration of income when the child's share cannot be differentiated. We are also proposing to amend 7 CFR 273.10(e)(2)(i) and 7 CFR 273.21(j)(1)(vii)(A) to provide that the earnings of elementary and secondary school students shall not be counted until the month following the month in which the student becomes 22. For clarity, we propose to amend the phrase in the first sentence of 7 CFR 273.21(j)(1)(vii)(A) regarding averaged income to add a reference to 7 CFR 273.21(f), which specifies the circumstances under which retrospectively budgeted income may be averaged.
