FR941128-2-00077 FR941128-2-00046 (3) All of the biochemical materials, including, but not limited to, reagents, cell lines, monoclonal antibodies, bacculovirus stocks and rotarvirus stocks that are directed to the development of a vaccine to protect humans against rotavirus disease; and (4) All documentation, written materials, and other relevant data that are directed to the development of a vaccine to protect humans against rotavirus disease; as of that date of the licensing pursuant to Paragraph V or VI of this Order, which can be licensed to the Rotavirus Licensee including, but not limited to, those items enumerated in the Confidential Appendix A attached to the Confidential version of this Agreement on file at the Commission. II Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines Divestiture Provisions It is further ordered, That: A. Within four (4) months of the date this Order becomes final, AHP shall divest, absolutely and in good faith, AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine Assets and consummate an agreement that includes the provisions required by Paragraph II.C of this Order, with an Acquirer or a New Acquirer, as applicable, (hereinafter ``Divestiture Agreement''). B. Respondent shall divest AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine Assets only to and consummate a Divestiture Agreement only with an Acquirer or New Acquirer, as applicable, that receives the prior approval of the Commission and only in a manner that receives the prior approval of the Commission. The purpose of the divestiture of AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine Assets and the Divestiture Agreement is to ensure the continuation of AHP Tenanus and Diphtheria Vaccine Assets as an ongoing, independent operation, engaged in the same business in which AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine Assets are presently engaged, and to remedy the lessening of competition resulting from the proposed Acquisition as alleged in the Commission's Complaint. C. The Divestiture Agreement shall include the following and AHP shall commit to satisfy the following: 1. AHP shall Contract Manufacture and deliver to the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, in a timely manner the requirements of the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, for Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines at AHP's Cost for a period not to exceed five (5) years from the date the Divestiture Agreement (or the New Acquirier's Divestiture Agreement, as applicable) is approved, or six (6) months after the date the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, obtains all necessary FDA approvals to manufacture Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines for sale in the United States, whichever is earlier; Provided, however, That the five (5) year period shall be extended for a period not to exceed twenty-four (24) months if the trustee submits to the Commission the certification provided for in Subparagraph II.C.10 of this Order. 2. AHP shall commence delivery of Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines to the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, within two (2) months from the date the Commission approves the Acquirer and the Divestiture Agreement (or the New Acquirer and its Divestiture Agreement). 3. After AHP commences delivery of Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine to the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, pursuant to Subparagraph II.C.2 of this Order, all inventory of Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines produced by AHP at its facility located at Marietta, Pennsylvania, regardless of the date of its production, may be sold by AHP only to the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable. 4. AHP shall make representations and warranties to the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, that the Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines contract manufactured by AHP for the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, meet the United States Food and Drug Administration approved specifications therefore and are not adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 321, et seq. AHP shall agree to indemnify, defend and hold the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, harmless from any and all suits, claims, actions, demands, liabilities, expenses or losses alleged to result from the failure of the Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines contract manufacturer by AHP to meet FDA specifications. This obligation shall be contingent upon the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, giving AHP prompt, adequate notice of such claim, cooperating fully in the defense of such claim, and permitting AHP to assume the sole control of all phases of the defense and/or settlement of such claim, including the selection of counsel. This obligation shall not require AHP to be liable for any negligent act or omission of the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, or for any representations and warranties, express or implied, made by the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, that exceed the representations and warranties made by AHP to the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable.
