FR941102-1-00034 FR941102-1-00006 Additionally, as the result of recent investigations, MSHA has permanently decertified two training instructors and temporarily decertified one training instructor for a three-year period. As a result of continuing criminal proceedings, the Agency also temporarily decertified for a two-year period one person who performed noise surveys and permanently decertified two individuals who performed noise surveys. MSHA temporarily decertified for a two-year period another individual who was an approved electrical qualifications instructor. List of Subjects in 30 CFR Parts 42, 48, 70, 71, 75, 77 and 90 Decertification, Mine safety and health. Dated: October 26, 1994. J. Davitt McAteer, Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health. For the reasons set out in the preamble, it is proposed to amend 30 CFR chapter I as follows: 1. A new part 42 is added to read as follows: PART 42_DECERTIFICATION OF APPROVED INSTRUCTORS AND CERTIFIED AND QUALIFIED PERSONS Sec. 42.1␣Purpose and scope. 42.2␣Definitions. 42.3␣Warning letter. 42.4␣Notice of proposed action. 42.5␣Informational meeting. 42.6␣Notice of district manager's decision. 42.7␣Appeal to the administrator. 42.8␣Hearing before an administrative law judge. 42.9␣Notice of decertification. 42.10␣Recertification. Authority: 30 U.S.C. 811. §42.1 Purpose and scope. This part establishes the criteria and procedures for suspension or revocation of the authority given to individuals to perform certain tasks or duties that must be done by an approved instructor, or a certified or qualified, person. These procedures apply to all persons recognized by MSHA as certified, qualified, or approved under chapter I of this title. §42.2 Definitions. The following definitions apply in this part: Administrator . MSHA's Administrator for Coal Mine Safety and Health or Administrator for Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health, as appropriate. Certified . To be certified, qualified, or approved in accordance with the requirements of MSHA regulations, either directly or through a State program recognized by MSHA, to perform tasks or duties for which this chapter requires such specific authority. Similarly, certification means certification, qualification, or approval. Decertify . To temporarily or permanently revoke a person's certification, qualification, or approval. If MSHA recognizes a person's certification by a State, then decertify means that MSHA will no longer recognize that person's State certification for purposes of compliance with this chapter. Decertification means temporary or permanent revocation of a person's certification, qualification, or approval. §42.3 Warning letter. (a) If a certified or qualified person or approved instructor fails to follow the procedures set by this chapter for performing a task or duty requiring certification or qualification, or the person no longer meets the requirements to retain his or her certification or qualification or status as an approved instructor, or the certified person's conduct leads to, or contributes to the violation of any training, safety or health standard, the district manager may send a warning letter to that person in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested. (b) The warning letter shall state_ (1) That the certified or qualified person or approved instructor is receiving a warning letter of deficient conduct in performing certain tasks or duties pertaining to his or her certification, qualification or approval, and that further deficient conduct may lead to other action by MSHA; and (2) Any remedial action that must be initiated by the certified or qualified person or approved instructor to retain his or her status.
