FR940825-2-00174 FR940825-2-00108 A budget is not required with the prospectus submission. However a comprehensive, line-item budget will be required of those applicants invited to submit a comprehensive proposal and complete budget guidelines will be given at that time. Each budget award will not exceed a total of $120,000 for three years. The following is a brief outline of allowable costs for the program: (1) International economy-class airfare for participants. Travel must be on U.S. flag carriers wherever such routes exist. (2) Project-related domestic travel to other academic institutions, libraries for research, and conferences, while in the host country. International and domestic travel costs for all participants funded by the Agency must be based upon economy fare. (3) Per diem for housing, meals, and incidentals. (4) Educational materials, excluding computer hardware and audio-visual equipment, not to exceed $12,000 for three years. (5) One planning trip for one participant per institution. (6) Medical insurance for foreign participants only, while on project-related travel to the U.S. Medical insurance is compulsory for all U.S. and foreign participants. (7) All direct administrative costs associated with grant activities are not to exceed 20% of the total grant amount. Unallowable costs: (1) Expenses for student exchanges. (2) Travel and per diem for dependents. (3) Any costs for non-U.S. citizens or nationals from U.S. institutions, or citizens of other than the host country representing foreign institutions (except for the New Independent States as stated in the eligibility section above). (4) Any indirect administrative costs. Note: Grants awarded to eligible U.S. organizations with less than four years of experience in conducting international exchange programs will be limited to $60,000. Geographic Area Programs The program invites prospectuses, for two-way projects only (involving the U.S. and one foreign country) except for the North American Trilateral (Canada-U.S.-Mexico) and APEC (Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation) exchanges. Prospectuses may encompass one or more eligible academic disciplines. American studies includes the fields of American history civilization, literature, social sciences, and art. Africa Eligibility is open to all sub-Saharan African countries except for the following: Angola, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Liberia, Rwanda, Somalia, and Zaire. Eligible academic disciplines are limited to the social sciences, humanities, the arts, business administration, education, educational administration, law, and environmental studies. Prospectuses which focus on democratic institution-building, including economic reform, and prospectuses which focus on conflict resolution and ``Rule of Law'' are also encouraged.
