FR940817-2-00083 FR940817-2-00043 Quantitative analyses of neurobehavioral data obtained from an occupational cohort provide a range of possible RfC estimates in addition to the current, verified Mn RfC value of 0.05 m g/m3. In ORD's judgment, the leading candidates for a possible alternative RfC estimate are approximately 0.09 to 0.2 m g/m3, based on currently available information. By definition, RfC analyses do not yield a precise concentration that defines a demarcation between safety and hazard. Rather, interpretation of a Mn RfC estimate is best made in relation to an assessment of population exposures to Mn, with the understanding that the RfC is a protective level, not a predictive value. The exposure assessment, based largely on data from the PTEAM study, provides some reasonable but necessarily uncertain estimates of personal exposure levels of Mn that might result from the use of MMT in gasoline. These estimates indicate that if MMT (at 1/32 g Mn/gal) were used in all unleaded gasoline in Riverside, CA (or the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area), approximately 40 to 50% of the population could experience PM 4 Mn exposures exceeding the current RfC of 0.05 m g/m3 (derived from PM 5 Mn health effects data), and approximately 5 to 10% could experience PM 4 Mn exposure levels around 0.1 m g/m3 or higher (see Figure 2). In terms of the Los Angeles area population of 14.5 million persons, even an estimate of 5% of the population implies over 700,000 persons. Uncertainties are inherent in any risk assessment. In this case, on the health assessment side, the numerical uncertainty factors used in the RfC analyses presented here have been explicitly described and explained in and summarized above. These factors are intended to provide a reasonable degree of public health conservatism reflecting areas of biological knowledge as well as areas of information deficit. In addition, an RfC estimate by definition reflects uncertainty spanning perhaps an order of magnitude, and thus there is no significant difference between the verified RfC of 0.05 m g/m3 and alternative estimates of 0.09 to 0.2 m g/m3. Other qualitative uncertainties are also discussed above. On the exposure assessment side, the primary uncertainties are related to projections from the PTEAM data, rather than the PTEAM data per se. Inferences about the relative contributions of crustal and automotive sources to PM 4 Mn were drawn from studies conducted in geographical and temporal proximity to the PTEAM study, but both the data from these studies and the inferences based on them introduce uncertainties. Attempts to adjust the PTEAM data in various ways, including any extrapolation from the 24-hour average distribution obtained in the fall of 1990 to a long-term average for other seasons, introduce progressively greater uncertainties at each step. Some adjustments have not even been attempted. For example, a weighting of the daytime and nighttime PTEAM exposure data to reflect a higher average ventilation rate during daytime activities and a lower ventilation rate during nighttime activities (e.g., sleeping) would have resulted in higher personal exposure estimates. Thus, given other approaches or assumptions, different projection estimates are possible. It must therefore be emphasized that the two projections of Mn exposure levels in Figure 2 should not be interpreted as upper and lower bound estimates, for even the higher projection could possibly underestimate, or the lower projection overestimate, the PM 4 Mn exposure levels associated with MMT. As for the relevance of the PTEAM Riverside personal exposure estimates to other communities, the PTEAM study was, strictly speaking, only designed to statistically represent Riverside, CA. In that respect, the design and conduct of the PTEAM study provide a high degree of confidence that it does accurately represent 24-hour average Mn exposure concentrations for the Riverside population in the fall of 1990. In ORD's judgment, the PTEAM study provides a reasonable representation of the Los Angeles Basin as well, given the commonalities in geography, vehicle usage, and meteorology. However, the relevance of the Riverside data to other U.S. communities depends upon their similarities or differences in the most relevant characteristics or dimensions. For example, to the extent that several other major U.S. metropolitan areas (or subcommunities in these areas) also have a high level of vehicle usage, the Riverside projections may have greater relevance. To the extent that these same areas do not share the meteorological conditions that contribute to the Mn exposure levels measured in Riverside, the Riverside projections have lesser relevance. It is also important to consider other sources of Mn exposure apart from automotive and crustal sources. Although Riverside had no major point sources of Mn contributing to the personal exposure levels measured in the PTEAM study, other communities may have such sources, and thus the personal exposure levels of Mn from all sources might be higher in other communities than in Riverside.
