FR941110-0-00207 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Many commenters urged HCFA to delay the requirement for the State to indemnify HCFA for FFP repayment until day 90 if a facility is not in compliance with the requirements. Some commenters believed that the proposed rule eliminates any incentive for State survey agencies to recommend alternative remedies by imposing a requirement to indemnify HCFA for FFP from day one. Others wanted to modify the regulations so that States would not be required to guarantee repayment until day 90. One commenter believed that such a policy would be consistent with the Act and would ensure that facilities have the opportunity to make corrections. Response: Sections 1819(h)(2)(C) and 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act specify that the Secretary may continue payments over a period of not longer than 6 months after the effective date of the findings. To read ``the effective date of the findings'' to mean the 90th day would extend the correction period from up to six months and up to nine months. Moreover, it would greatly distort the intent and clear meaning of the phrase ``effective date of the findings'' to designate the 90th day after the findings were first cited as the effective date. Therefore, the period covered by the sections 1819(h)(3)(C) and 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act is a maximum of six months, starting with the last day of the survey. Sections 1819(h)(3)(C)(iii) and 1919(h)(3)(D)(iii) of the Act provides that the facility (for Medicare) and the State (for Medicaid) agree to repay the Federal government payments received under these subparagraphs if the corrective action is not taken in accordance with the approved plan and time period. Therefore, if the facility or the State must agree to repay money received for the period covered by section 1819(h)(3)(C) or 1919(h)(3)(D), they must agree to repay money received since the last day of the survey. Therefore, when the State or a facility enters into a repayment agreement and the facility does not take action in accordance with its approved plan and timetable for corrective action or does not achieve substantial compliance, the State or facility would be held financially accountable for the period covered by the repayment agreement. We also disagree with the commenter's assertion that the repayment period should not start until the 90th day in order to give facilities more time to correct deficiencies. The facility is notified of its deficiencies during the survey, at the exit conference and then formally through the Statement of Deficiencies shortly after the completion of the survey. We believe that the beginning of the repayment period is irrelevant to the correction period. The facility has up to 6 months to take corrective action in accordance with its approved plan and timetable for corrective action or achieve substantial compliance, or both. If the facility does not meet that goal, the State or the facility will be expected to pay back the Federal funding for the period covered by the repayment agreement. Comment: Many commenters recommended that we delete redesignated §488.450(a)(1)(iii). Their comments included the following: •It is unrealistic that a State will agree to repay the Federal government payments received if corrective action is not taken in accordance with a facility's plan of correction; •The language does not fit within the concept of enforcement as envisioned in the Act; •This provision is a heavy disincentive to use intermediate remedies; •A State should not be monetarily penalized for a facility's failure to comply with regulations when an alternative remedy is chosen over termination; •To put the State at risk for something that is ultimately out of the State's control does not make for good public policy; and
