FR940811-0-00015 FR940811-0-00007 The FAA acknowledges that the functional tests specified in paragraph (e) of this AD and CMR items are similar in terms of scheduled maintenance and recordkeeping. However, this AD addresses an unsafe condition and requires installation of the synch-lock to correct that unsafe condition. The FAA has determined that the requirement for functional tests is necessary in order to ensure the effectiveness of that installation in addressing that unsafe condition. As discussed in the preamble of the proposal, this determination is based on the fact that the synch-lock is a new design whose reliability has not been adequately proven through service experience. In addition, service experience to date has demonstrated that failures can occur within the synch-lock that may not be evident during normal operation of the thrust reverser system and may not result in activation of the synch-lock ``unlock'' indicator. The FAA notes that the ATA's suggested alternative to accomplishment of the functional tests would permit each operator to determine whether and how often these tests should be conducted. In light of the severity of the unsafe condition, however, the FAA has determined that allowing this degree of operator discretion is not appropriate at this time. Therefore, this AD is necessary to ensure that operators accomplish tests of the integrity of the synch-lock installation in a common manner and at common intervals. The ATA also requests that the proposed interval of 1,000 hours time-in-service for accomplishment of the repetitive functional tests specified in paragraph (e) of the proposal be extended to 1,500 hours time-in-service. The ATA explains that Boeing has recommended an interval of 4,000 hours time-in-service for inclusion in the next Maintenance Review Board (MRB) report. If the FAA denies an extension of the proposed interval, the ATA requests that the FAA explain why its analysis is so stringent in comparison with Boeing's recommendation. The ATA believes that AD compliance times should be consistent with operators' regularly scheduled maintenance unless a risk analysis requires otherwise. The ATA reasons that compliance times that are inconsistent with scheduled maintenance holds force operators to reschedule maintenance actions at considerable expense and disruption to their operations. The FAA has reconsidered the proposed interval of 1,000 hours time-in-service for accomplishment of the initial and repetitive functional tests required by paragraph (e) of this AD. The FAA recognizes that an initial and repetitive interval of 4,000 hours time-in-service for accomplishment of these functional tests, as recommended by Boeing, corresponds more closely to the interval at which most of the affected operators conduct regularly scheduled ``C'' checks. In light of the safety implications of the addressed unsafe condition and the practical aspects of accomplishing orderly functional tests of the fleet during regularly scheduled maintenance where special equipment and trained maintenance personnel will be readily available, the FAA finds that accomplishment of the tests at intervals of 4,000 hours time-in-service will provide an acceptable level of safety. Paragraph (e) of the final rule has been revised accordingly. The ATA also requests that the cost of parts be included in the economic impact information, below, in order to present a total cost impact of the rule on the ``U.S. public.'' The ATA recognizes that Boeing plans to supply parts at no cost to operators; however, the ATA suspects the parts costs borne by Boeing would be substantial. The FAA does not concur with the commenter's request. The total cost impact figures shown in the economic impact information, below, represent the costs for time necessary to perform the inspections, adjustments, tests, and modification required by this AD. The cost analysis in AD rulemaking actions typically does not include parts costs when those parts are provided by the manufacturer at no cost to operators. Such costs are not attributable to the AD; the manufacturer would incur these costs even if no AD were issued. The FAA has revised paragraph (d) of the final rule to specify that the correct reference for Boeing Service Bulletin 767&hyph;78&hyph;0061 is Revision 1, rather than Revision 2, as cited in the proposal. The issue date of Revision 1 (August 5, 1993) appeared correctly in the proposed rule. The FAA also has revised paragraphs (a) and (b) of the final rule to clarify the appropriate compliance time. Those paragraphs restate requirements for accomplishment of certain actions required by AD 92&hyph;03&hyph;03. The FAA's intent is that the tests, inspections, and adjustments required by those paragraphs would have been accomplished within 60 days after January 27, 1992 (the effective date of AD 92&hyph;03&hyph;03). After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the changes previously described. The FAA has determined that these changes will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD. There are approximately 119 Model 767 series airplanes equipped with General Electric CF6&hyph;80A series engines of the affected design in the worldwide fleet. The FAA estimates that 69 airplanes of U.S. registry will be affected by this AD. The inspections, adjustments, and functional tests required currently by AD 92&hyph;03&hyph;03 require approximately 16 work hours per airplane to accomplish the required actions, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of those actions on U.S. operators of Model 767 series airplanes equipped with General Electric CF6&hyph;80A series engines is estimated to be $60,720, or $880 per airplane. For U.S. operators of Model 767 series airplanes equipped with General Electric CF6&hyph;80A series engines, the FAA estimates that it will take approximately 786 work hours per airplane to accomplish the modification required by this AD, and 1 work hour to accomplish the required functional tests, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. Required parts will be supplied by the manufacturer at no cost to operators. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of those actions on U.S. operators of Model 767 series airplanes equipped with General Electric CF6&hyph;80A series engines is estimated to be $2,986,665, or $43,285 per airplane. There are approximately 95 Model 767 series airplanes equipped with Pratt & Whitney JT9D&hyph;7R4 series engines of the affected design in the worldwide fleet. The FAA estimates that 30 airplanes of U.S. registry will be affected by this AD. The inspections, adjustments, and functional tests required currently by AD 92&hyph;03&hyph;03 require approximately 16 work hours per airplane to accomplish the required actions, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of those actions on U.S. operators of Model 767 series airplanes equipped with Pratt & Whitney JT9D&hyph;7R4 series engines is estimated to be $26,400, or $880 per airplane. For U.S. operators of Model 767 series airplanes equipped with Pratt & Whitney JT9D&hyph;7R4 series engines, the FAA estimates that it will take approximately 812 work hours per airplane to accomplish the modification required by this AD, and 1 work hour to accomplish the required functional tests, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. Required parts will be supplied by the manufacturer at no cost to operators. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of those actions on U.S. operators of Model 767 series airplanes equipped with Pratt & Whitney JT9D&hyph;7R4 series engines is estimated to be $1,341,450, or $44,715 per airplane. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The number of required work hours for accomplishing the required functional tests, as indicated above, is presented as if the accomplishment of those tests required by this AD were to be conducted as ``stand alone'' actions. However, in actual practice, those tests for the most part will be accomplished coincidentally or in combination with normally scheduled airplane inspections and other maintenance program tasks. Therefore, the actual number of necessary additional work hours for accomplishment of the functional tests will be minimal in many instances. Additionally, any costs associated with special airplane scheduling will be minimal. The FAA recognizes that the required modification will require a large number of work hours to accomplish. However, the 5-year compliance time specified in paragraph (d) of this AD should allow ample time for the synch-lock installation to be accomplished coincidentally with scheduled major airplane inspection and maintenance activities, thereby minimizing the costs associated with special airplane scheduling. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this action (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A final evaluation has been prepared for this action and it is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES.
