FR940831-2-00172 FR940831-2-00106 Nonforeign Area Cost-of-Living Allowances Background Survey Data Collection Procedures Survey Description The following information will be provided to the participants verbally or in writing. Participants who are familiar with the program and the survey may be provided with less information as appropriate. Purpose The Federal Government pays Cost-Of-Living-Allowances (COLA) in Alaska, Hawaii, and certain U.S. territories and possessions. Living cost differences are determined by comparing costs of goods, services, housing, transportation, and other items in the allowance area with the cost of the same or similar items and services in the Washington, DC, area. The U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is responsible for the operation of the COLA program. OPM, or its representative, conducts annual surveys to determine living cost differences. OPM conducts full-scale Background Surveys approximately once every five years to review the appropriateness of items, services, and businesses covered in the annual Price surveys. Elements of the Background Survey may be repeated annually on a limited basis as part of the maintenance of and preparation for the annual Price Surveys. OPM uses the Background Survey to identify the services, items, quantities, outlets, and locations that will be surveyed to collect living cost data within the allowance areas and the Washington, DC, area. The Background Survey also is used to collect information on local trade practices, consumer buying patterns, taxes and fees, and other economic characteristics related to living costs. Data Collection Full-scale Background Surveys are conducted approximately once every five years. OPM identifies major manufacturers, local governments, retail outlets, realty firms, and businesses providing professional services to be surveyed on the basis of business volume and local prominence. Participation is voluntary. Data are collected by telephone and/or personal interview. Confidentiality All data collected are used only for the purposes described above. The Government pledges to hold all micro or ``raw'' data collected in confidence. Names of participating businesses and institutions may be released. Names of individuals are not released. Summary data will be made available to the public only to the extent that micro data cannot be associated with data sources. Public Burden Information Public burden reporting for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 5 minutes to 30 minutes per response. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestion for reducing this burden to Reports and Forms Management Officer, U.S. Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street, N.W., Room CHP 500, Washington, DC, 20415; and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (3206&hyph;0199), Washington, DC, 20503.
