FR940727-0-00115 FR940727-0-00026 (s) Federal funds authorized means the total amount of Federal funds obligated by DOL for use by the recipient. This amount may include any authorized carryover of unobligated funds from prior funding periods when permitted by DOL's regulations or DOL's implementing instructions. (t) Federal share of real property, equipment, or supplies means that percentage of the property's acquisition costs and any improvement expenditures paid with Federal funds. (u) Funding period means the period of time when Federal funding is available for obligation by the recipient. (v) Grant officer means any person authorized to enter into, modify or terminate any financial assistance awards and make related determinations and findings. DOL grant officers shall be designated by name on a ``Certificate of Appointment.'' (w) Intangible property and debt instruments means, but is not limited to, trademarks, copyrights, patents and patent applications and such property as loans, notes and other debt instruments, lease agreements, stock and other instruments of property ownership, whether considered tangible or intangible. (x) Obligations means the amounts of orders placed, contracts and grants awarded, services received and similar transactions during a given period that require payment by the recipient during the same or a future period. (y) Outlays or expenditures means charges made to the project or program. They may be reported on a cash or accrual basis. For reports prepared on a cash basis, outlays are the sum of cash disbursements for direct charges for goods and services, the amount of indirect expense charged, the value of third party in-kind contributions applied and the amount of cash advances and payments made to subrecipients. For reports prepared on an accrual basis, outlays are the sum of cash disbursements for direct charges for goods and services, the amount of indirect expense incurred, the value of in-kind contributions applied, and the net increase (or decrease) in the amounts owed by the recipient for goods and other property received, for services performed by employees, contractors, subrecipients and other payees and other amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performance are required. (z) Personal property means property of any kind except real property. It may be tangible, having physical existence, or intangible, having no physical existence, such as copyrights, patents, or securities. (aa) Prior approval means written approval by an authorized official evidencing prior consent. (bb) Program income means gross income earned by the recipient that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of the award (see exclusions in ยง95.24(e) and (h)). Program income includes, but is not limited to, income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under federally-funded projects, the sale of commodities or items fabricated under an award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and interest on loans made with award funds. Interest earned on advances of Federal funds is not program income. Except as otherwise provided in Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, program income does not include the receipt of principal on loans, rebates, credits, discounts, etc., or interest earned on any of them. (cc) Project costs means all allowable costs, as set forth in the applicable Federal cost principles, incurred by a recipient and the value of the contributions made by third parties in accomplishing the objectives of the award during the project period. (dd) Project period means the period established in the award document during which Federal sponsorship begins and ends. (ee) Property means, unless otherwise stated, real property, equipment, intangible property and debt instruments. (ff) Real property means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, but excludes movable machinery and equipment. Real property includes, but is not limited to, real property acquired before publication of these regulations and real property transferred from prior years.
