FR940214-1-00010 FR940214-1-00004 c. Detailed description of program methodology and approaches, including, as appropriate: _plans for distribution, selling commodities, how local currencies will be spent, and administrative of technical persons involved in each phase; _transportation and storage systems that will be used to move the agricultural products from the receiving port to the point of distribution, or to where the product is reprocessed, packaged or sold; _any reprocessing or repackaging or the commodity; _logistics plan demonstrating the adequacy of port, transportation, and storage facilities to deliver commodities to recipients or to sell the commodities, without undue risk of spoilage or waste. d. Governmental or nongovernmental institutions and entities involved in the program and the extent to which the program will strengthen or increase the capabilities of institutions or entities in the recipient country. e. Method of educating recipients or participants of donation source, program requirements, and, where appropriate, preparation and use of the commodity. f. Describe records, accountability methods and supervisory activities for controlling and monitoring distribution of products, sales of commodities, and use of generated proceeds. Describe plans for evaluating program outcome. g. Information indicating that the host or local government supports the program. h. Detailed budget for program, including costs that will be covered by the applicant, other organizations or local governments; which activities monetized proceeds will cover; and any request for USDA administrative funds. The budget should include how costs of administration, storage, transportation, processing and repackaging will be financed. 6. Use of Funds or Goods and Services Generated: When the activity involves the use of monetized proceeds, the receipt of goods or services from the barter of commodities, or program income, the following information must be provided: a. The quantity and type of commodities to be sold or bartered; b. The amount of monetized proceeds anticipated to be generated from the same, or the value of the goods or services anticipated to be generated from the barter, of the donated agricultural commodities; except that where such amount or value cannot be estimated, the Cooperating Sponsor will describe the method to be used to ensure that a fair return of cash, goods or services will be received for the commodities; c. The steps taken to use the private sector in the process of selling commodities; d. The amount of program income expected to be generated; e. The specific uses of sale proceeds or program income and a timetable for their expenditure; f. Procedures for assuring the receipt and deposit of monetized proceeds and program income into a separate special account and for the disbursement of the proceeds and program income; g. Information concerning the extent to which any sale or barter of the donated agricultural commodities would displace or interfere with any sales that may otherwise be made; and h. The recipient agency, if any, that will be involved in the program and a description of each recipient agency's capability to perform its responsibilities as stated in the Plan of Operation. 7. Distribution Methods: a. A thorough description of the transportation and storage system which will be used to move the agricultural commodities from the receiving port to the point at which distribution is made to the recipient; b. A thorough description of any reprocessing or repackaging of the commodities that will take place; and c. A logistics plan that demonstrates the adequacy of port, transportation, storage, and warehouse facilities to handle the flow of commodities to recipients without undue spoilage or waste. 8. Duty Free Entry: Information indicating that commodities to be directly distributed to recipients will be imported and distributed free from all customs, duties, tolls, and taxes. 9. Economic Impact:
