FR940512-2-00193 FR940512-2-00078 b. The identification of the emergency service needs of each youth and the provision of the appropriate services either directly or through referrals to community agencies and individuals. c. An explanation of the services which are available and the requirements for participation, and the securing of a voluntary commitment from each youth to participate in project services prior to admitting the youth into the project. d. The recording of basic background information on each youth admitted into the project. e. The assignment of primary responsibility to one staff member for coordinating the services provided to each youth. f. The contact of the parent(s) or legal guardian of each youth provided temporary shelter within the timeframe established by State law or, in the absence of State requirements, preferably within 24 but within no more than 72 hours following the youth's admission into the project. 3. Temporary Shelter. The project shall provide temporary shelter and food to each youth admitted into the project and requesting such services. a. Each facility in which temporary shelter is provided shall be in compliance with State and local licensing requirements. b. Each facility in which temporary shelter is provided shall accommodate no more than 20 youth at any given time. c. Temporary shelter shall normally not be provided for a period exceeding two weeks during a given stay at the project. d. Each facility in which temporary shelter is provided shall make at least two meals per day available to youth served on a temporary shelter basis. e. At least one adult shall be on the premises whenever youth are using the temporary shelter facility. 4. Individual and Group Counseling. The project shall provide individual and/or group counseling to each youth admitted into the project. a. Individual and/or group counseling shall be available daily to each youth admitted into the project on a temporary shelter basis and requesting such counseling. b. Individual and/or group counseling shall be available to each youth admitted into the project on a non-residential basis and requesting such counseling. c. The individual and/or group counseling shall be provided by qualified staff. 5. Family Counseling. The project shall make family counseling available to each parent or legal guardian and youth admitted into the project. a. Family counseling shall be provided to each parent or legal guardian and youth admitted into the project and requesting such services. b. The family counseling shall be provided by qualified staff. 6. Service Linkages. The project shall establish and maintain linkages with community agencies and individuals for the provision of those services which are required by youth and/or their families but which are not provided directly by the centers. a. Arrangements shall be made with community agencies and individuals for the provision of alternative living arrangements, medical services, psychological and/or psychiatric services, and the other assistance required by youth admitted into the project and/or by their families which are not provided directly by the project.
