FR941205-1-00040 FR941205-1-00014 For an agreement fitting into one of the three covered classes, the proposed rule has the following important features: •A revised information form that would accompany the agreement when it is first filed, requiring the submission of specific data on the agreement member lines' cargo carryings, revenue results and port service patterns before they entered into the agreement. •If the agreement goes into effect, additional provisions requiring the member lines to submit reports on their operations on a regular and ongoing basis. Thus, the proposed rule would establish reporting requirements as Commission regulations that would have the status of agency public policy and could be enforced by Commission or court sanctions if necessary. •Linkage between the information form and the subsequent reports. Aside from some activities that are relevant only to effective agreements (such as independent rate actions), the reporting requirements track the subject areas of the information form. This would enable the Commission to compare the carriers' operations and economic results before and after their agreement went into effect. 1. Classification of Agreements: The Six ``Class A/B'' Activities ``Class A'' and ``Class B'' agreements permit the same kinds of activities; the difference between them is market share. An agreement is a ``Class A/B'' agreement if it authorizes any one of the following six activities: •Ratemaking. This specifically includes not only traditional conference agreements, under which a group of lines agree upon fixed rates and practices and are bound to them under a common tariff, but also agreements under which non-conference lines meet among themselves or with a conference to discuss rates, or to discuss and agree upon rates on a ``non-binding'' basis. The latter types of agreements have become increasingly common, and their presence in a trade raises serious concerns about the true level of competition since they involve discussions and agreements about rates between non-conference lines or between a conference and its non-conference competitors. These concerns are not necessarily lessened by the fact that any agreement reached with regard to a particular rate would not bind the carriers to adhere to the rate; a shipper in the trade seeking to negotiate a rate with a carrier would still be faced with an arrangement that unilaterally brings outside carriers into the rate negotiation process and potentially limits the shipper's ability to negotiate the best possible rates for its cargo. The ``ratemaking'' criterion is met if the agreement authorizes its carrier members to (1) agree on a binding basis under a common tariff, (2) agree on a non-binding basis, or (3) discuss any kind of basic linehaul rate_including port-to-port rates, independent action rates, overland rates, minilandbridge rates, interior point intermodal rates, proportional rates, through rates, joint rates, minimum rates, volume rates, joint time/volume rates, project rates, freight-all-kinds rates, volume incentive programs, service contract rates, loyalty contract rates, rates on commodities exempt from tariff filing, and so forth_or any kind of ancillary charge or allowance that affects the total transportation cost to the shipper. Those include surcharges, arbitraries, currency adjustment factors, terminal handling charges, pickup and delivery charges, demurrage, absorption and equalization allowances, and so forth. On the other hand, in the interest of balance and restraint, the proposed rule does not treat as ``ratemaking'' agreements those agreements that concern how rates are collected from shippers_ for example, credit conditions and the handling of delinquent accounts_but do not concern the level of the rates themselves, or those agreements that concern charges or payments to persons other than shippers, e.g., inland divisions of through rates, brokerage, freight forwarder compensation, employment of neutral bodies for self-policing purposes, or development of electronic cargo information systems. •Discussion or exchange of vessel-operating cost data. The Commission has received a number of agreements that do not authorize rate discussions or agreements of any kind, but do authorize discussion of or exchange of cost data among the member carriers. The antitrust laws have been applied against such arrangements in other industries, on the theory that the sharing of pricing information can have a significant impact on price competition. 14 The most significant costs for ocean common carriers are vessel-operating costs, which the proposed rule defines to include wages of officers and crew, fringe benefits, consumable stores, supplies and equipment, maintenance and repair, insurance, vessel fuel, and bareboat charter hire. 15 The 1984 Act allows carriers to enter into agreements to discuss and exchange information about these costs, but the Commission believes that they should be subjected to the same degree of scrutiny as their close cousins, rate discussion agreements. On the other hand, again in the interest of balance and restraint, the ``costs'' criterion does not apply to discussion of other types of expense that are less important for setting rates (for example, terminal costs). In order to make this distinction effective, agreements seeking to authorize discussion or exchange of cost data must specify whether that authority includes any of the vessel-operating costs. 14 E.g., Sugar Institute, Inc. v. United States, 297 U.S. 553 (1936); American Column & Lumber Co. v. United States, 257 U.S. 377 (1921). 15 See 46 CFR 232.5(E)(1)(ii).
