FR941116-2-00096 FR941116-2-00075 [Release No. 34&hyph;34954; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;59] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to Publication of Final NASD Disciplinary Decisions November 9, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on October 26, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing to amend its Resolution of the Board of Governors_Notice to Membership and Press Suspensions, Expulsions, Revocations, and Monetary Sanctions and Release of Certain Information Regarding Disciplinary History of Members and Their Associated Persons (``Resolution'') under Article V, Section 1 of the Association's Rules of Fair Practice. 1 Below is the text of the proposed rule change. Proposed new language is italicized; proposed deletions are in brackets. 1 NASD Manual, Rules of Fair Practice, Art. V, Sec. 1 (CCH) ¶2301. Rules of Fair Practice Article V Sanctions for Violation of the Rules Section 1 * * * * * Resolution of the Board of Governors Notice to Membership and Press of Suspensions, Expulsions, Revocations, and Monetary Sanctions and Release of Certain Information Regarding Disciplinary History of Members and Their Associated Persons The Association shall, in response to a written inquiry or telephonic inquiry via a toll-free telephone listing, release certain information as contained in its files regarding the employment and disciplinary history of members and their associated persons, including information regarding past and present employment history with NASD members, all final disciplinary actions taken by federal or state or foreign securities agencies or self-regulatory organizations that relate to securities or commodities transactions; all pending disciplinary actions that have been taken by federal or state securities agencies or self-regulatory organizations that relate to securities and commodities transactions and have been reported on Form BD or U&hyph;4 and all foreign government or self-regulatory organizations disciplinary actions that are securities or commodities related and reported on Form BD or U&hyph;4; and all criminal indictments, informations or convictions reported on Form BD or Form U&hyph;4. The Association will also release information concerning civil judgments and arbitration decisions in securities and commodities disputes involving public customers. The Association shall report to the membership and to the press pursuant to the procedures and at the times outlined herein any order of suspension, cancellation or expulsion of a member; or suspension or revocation of the registration of a person associated with a member; or suspension or barring of a member or person associated with a member from association with all members; or imposition of monetary sanctions of $10,000 or more upon a member or person associated with a member. The Board of Governors may, in its discretion, determine to waive the notice provisions set forth herein as to an order of imposition of monetary sanctions of $10,000 or more upon a member or person associated with a member, under those extraordinary circumstances where notice would violate fundamental notions of fairness or work an injustice. If a decision of a District Business Conduct Committee is not appealed to or called for review by the NBCC, the order of the District Business Conduct Committee shall become effective on a date set by the Association but not before the expiration of 45 days after the date of decision. Notices of decisions imposing monetary sanctions of $10,000 or more or penalties of expulsion, revocation, suspension and/or the barring of a person from being associated with all members shall promptly be transmitted to the membership and to the press, concurrently; provided, however, no such notice shall be sent prior to the expiration of 45 days from the date of the said decision. Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, expulsions and bars imposed pursuant to the provisions of Article II, Sections 10 and 11 of the Code of Procedure shall become effective upon approval or acceptance by the National Business Conduct Committee, and publicity regarding any sanctions imposed pursuant to Article II, Sections 10 and 11 of the Code may be issued immediately upon such approval or acceptance. If a decision of a District Business Conduct Committee is appealed to or called for review by the Board of Governors, the order of the District Business Conduct Committee is stayed pending a final determination and decision by the Board and notice of the action of the District Business Conduct Committee shall not be sent to the membership or the press during the pendency of proceedings before the Board of Governors. If a final decision of the Association is not appealed to the Securities and Exchange Commission, the sanctions specified in the decision (other than bars and expulsions) shall become effective on a date established by the Association but not before the expiration of 30 days after the date of the decision, unless the decision specifies otherwise. Notices of decisions imposing monetary sanctions of $10,000 or more on penalties of expulsion, revocation, suspension and/or the barring of a person from being associated with all members shall promptly be transmitted to the membership and to the press, concurrently; provided, however, no such notice shall be sent prior to the expiration of 30 days from the date of a [said] decision imposing sanctions other than expulsion, revocation, and/or the barring of a person from being associated with all members. If a decision of the Board of Governors imposing monetary sanctions of $10,000 or more or a penalty of expulsion, revocation, suspension and/or barring of a member from being associated with all members is appealed to the Securities and Exchange Commission, notice thereof shall be given to the membership and to the press as soon as possible after receipt by the Association of notice from the Securities and Exchange Commission of such appeal and the Association's notice shall whether the effectiveness of the Board's decision has or has not been stayed pending the outcome of proceedings before the Securities and Exchange Commission.
