FR941006-2-00172 FR941006-2-00113 Site Selection. Representatives of SJI, NCSC, and AJS will select sites to participate in the program on a competitive basis. Site selection will be based on the following criteria: •The level of support and participation of the State and local courts serving the proposed site; •The level of support and participation of representatives of a broad range of interested community groups in the proposed site; •The site's technological and logistical capability to participate in the meeting; •The likelihood of continued efforts to improve public confidence in the courts serving the site after the meeting; •The availability of funding from local sources to support the site costs of participating in the meeting; and •Geographical diversity across all participating sites. Meeting Content. The sponsors presently contemplate an evening orientation program at all downlink sites (including a common video presentation at each site that defines the mission of the Meeting), followed by a full-day program featuring national satellite broadcasts mixed with local discussions. With the guidance and support of the conference sponsors, each participating site will be responsible for originating local programs to complement the national program. All selected sites will receive: •Technical assistance regarding the use of satellite technology and the conduct of the local programs; •Conference materials including the opening videotape, notebooks and other informational materials about effective ways to improve public confidence in the courts; and •Post-conference products including multiple copies of a manual for implementing model programs, a national directory of programs, and a video of conference highlights. Application Process. Applications seeking to organize and convene a downlink program must respond to a National Town Hall Meeting Request for Proposals (RFP) available from NCSC. To obtain a copy of the RFP, applicants should write to: National Center for State Courts, National Town Hall Project, 300 Newport Avenue, Williamsburg, VA 23187&hyph;8798. All applications must be sent to the same address and postmarked no later than February 15, 1995. Further information about the National Town Hall Meeting and the application process is available from NCSC [(804) 253&hyph;2000] and AJS [(312) 558&hyph;6900]. Previous SJI-supported projects that address these issues include: evaluation of an experimental community court in New York City; development of a manual for management of court interpretation services and materials for training and assisting court interpreters; development of touchscreen computer systems, videotapes and written materials to assist pro se litigants; a demonstration of the use of volunteers to monitor guardianships; studies of effective and efficient methods of providing legal representation to indigent parties in criminal and family cases and the applicability of various dispute resolution procedures to different cultural groups; guidelines for court-annexed day care systems; and development of a manual for implementing innovations in jury selection, use, and management; technical assistance and training to facilitate implementation of the Standards on Jury Management; development of a guide for making juries accessible to persons with disabilities. b. Education and Training for Judges and Other Key Court Personnel. The Institute continues to be interested in supporting an array of projects to strengthen and broaden the availability of court education programs at the State, regional, and national levels. Accordingly, this category is divided into five subsections: (i) State Initiatives; (ii) National and Regional Education Programs; (iii) Judicial Education Technical Assistance; (iv) Conferences; and (v) Scholarships. All Institute-supported conferences and education and training seminars should be accessible to persons with disabilities in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
