FR940128-1-00135 FR940128-1-00006 e. For dry salting, the fish should be returned to a refrigerated area of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or lower immediately after the application of the salt. f. Different species of fish and fish of dissimilar size and weight should not be mixed in the same brining tank. g. Brines should not be reused unless they are subject to a process that effectively returns them to a microbiological condition equivalent to the original, unused brine made with potable water and food-grade salt. h. Fish may be rinsed with potable water after brining. i. Drying of a product to be cold-smoked should be carried out in a refrigerated area at 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below. j. Smoking operation. (1) Fish should be arranged without overcrowding and without touching each other within the smokehouse oven or chamber to permit uniform smoke absorption, heat exposure, and dehydration. Fish smoked in the same smoke chamber load should be of relatively uniform size and weight. (2) Liquid smoke, generated smoke, or a combination of liquid smoke and generated smoke needs to be applied to all surfaces of the product. Liquid smoke may be applied to the product before, at the beginning, or during the process. If only generated smoke is to be used, it needs to be applied to the fish during the first half of the process. If a combination of liquid smoke and generated smoke is used, the generated smoke may be applied at any stage of the process. k. Each smoking chamber should be equipped with a temperature recording device to indicate the temperature of the air and of the fish within the smoking chamber. Additionally, each chamber should be equipped with a temperature indicating device to indicate the temperature of the air within the smoking chamber. l. During hot-smoking or cold-smoking, a temperature recording device should be used to monitor both the internal temperature of the fish and the ambient temperature of the smoking chamber. The internal temperature readings should be obtained by inserting probes from the temperature recording device into the thickest flesh portion of three or more of the largest fish in the smoking chamber. The temperature from the slowest heating fish should be considered the processing temperature. 6. Post-Smoking a. Cooling after smoking. After smoking, the product needs to be rapidly cooled to minimize recontamination. Continuous cooling from 140 ○F (60 ○C) to achieve an internal temperature of 70 ○F (21.1 ○C) or below within 2 hours and an internal temperature of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below within an additional 4 hours, unless processing after smoking as described in section 6.b. of this Appendix, occurs during either of these time periods, will effectively minimize recontamination. Other time/temperature parameters may also be effective. Processors should ensure that the cooling parameters are met by either: (1) Monitoring. Monitoring and recording internal product temperatures at least every 2 hours; or (2) Studies. i. Conducting or obtaining a study that establishes that appropriate cooling temperatures are always met under prescribed processing conditions. The study should establish the limits of significant variables that could affect the rate of cooling. These variables may include product size, ambient air temperature, and amount of product in the cooler. An adequate study should consist of at least three processing runs under the prescribed processing conditions; and ii. Monitoring and recording the prescribed processing conditions as identified by the study in section 6.a.2.i. of this Appendix at least every 2 hours. b. Processing after smoking. Products that will receive processing after smoking should not be exposed to ambient temperatures of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or higher for longer than a cumulative total of 4 hours after smoking. If they are exposed to such temperatures for more than 4 hours, unacceptable recontamination is the likely result. Processors are required to regularly monitor and record the length of time that the product is exposed to temperatures above 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) under 21 CFR 123.8. FDA recommends that such monitoring and recording be done at least every 2 hours. c. Final product cooling. To avoid microbiological hazards for perishable finished products, the internal temperature of the finished product should be 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below within 4 hours of placement in a finished product container. Processors should either conduct: (1) Monitoring. Monitor and record internal product temperatures at least every 2 hours; or (2) Studies. i. Conduct or obtain a study that establishes that the internal temperature of the finished product will always be 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below within 4 hours of placement in a finished product container under prescribed processing conditions. The study should establish the limits of significant variables that could affect the rate of cooling. These variables may include product size, ambient air temperature, and amount of product in the cooler. An adequate study should consist of at least three processing runs under the prescribed processing conditions; and ii. Monitoring and recording the prescribed processing conditions as identified by the study in section 6.c.2.i. of this Appendix at least every 2 hours. d. Refrigerated storage. (1) In-process products. Refrigeration units that are being used to store in-process products or finished products must operate at a temperature of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below in accordance with 21 CFR 123.10(a)(14). (2) Temperature devices. Units should be equipped with both a temperature-indicating device and a temperature-recording device. In lieu of a temperature-recording device, a processor may equip a refrigeration unit with a high temperature alarm or a maximum-indicating thermometer and maintain a temperature log that notes temperature with such frequency as is necessary to achieve control. e. Distribution. All perishable finished products should be distributed in a manner that ensures that the internal temperature is maintained at 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below. 7. Temperature Monitoring Equipment
