FR940802-0-00074 FR940802-0-00013 Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. Rule Changes Part 22 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 22_PUBLIC MOBILE SERVICES 1. The authority citation for Part 22 continues to read as follows: Authority: Sections 4, 303, 48 Stat. 1066, 1083, as amended; 47 U.S.C. Sections 154, 303. 2. Section 22.941 is amended by revising paragraph (b)(4) to read as follows: §22.941 Criteria for comparative cellular renewal proceedings. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (4) Copies of all Commission orders finding the licensee to have violated the Communications Act or any Commission rule or policy, and a list of any pending proceedings that relate to any matter described in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section. * * * * * 3. Section 22.942 is revised to read as follows: §22.942 Procedures for comparative renewal proceedings. The following procedures shall apply to comparative renewal proceedings in the Domestic Public Cellular Radio Telecommunications Service: (a) Within sixty (60) days of the issuance of the Public Notice announcing the filing of a renewal application and applications competing with that renewal application, the renewal applicant must file an original and four copies of its renewal expectancy showing with the Commission. (b) Interested parties have thirty (30) days from the date that the renewal applicant submits its renewal expectancy showing to file petitions to deny any of the mutually exclusive applications. Applicants have fifteen (15) days to file replies; no further pleadings will be accepted. (c) In most instances, the renewal application and any competing application(s) will be designated for a two-step hearing procedure. An Administrative Law Judge will conduct a threshold (step one) hearing, in which both the licensee and the competing applicants will be parties, to determine whether the renewal applicant deserves a renewal expectancy. If the order designating the applications for hearing specifies any basic qualifying issues against the licensee, those issues will be tried in this threshold (step one) hearing. If the Presiding Judge determines that the renewal applicant is basically qualified and due a renewal expectancy, the competing applicants will be found ineligible for further consideration and their applications will be denied. If the Presiding Judge determines that the renewal applicant does not merit a renewal expectancy but is otherwise qualified, then all the applications filed for that market will be considered in a comparative hearing (step two) which follows the expedited procedures described in §§22.916 (b)(5) through (b)(8). (d) If a competing applicant demonstrates that its proposal so far exceeds the services presently being provided that there would be no purpose in making a threshold determination as to whether the renewal applicant deserved a renewal expectancy vis-a-vis such a competing applicant, such a competing applicant may request a waiver of the threshold hearing (step one) of the two-step hearing procedure. Such a waiver request must be filed at the time the requestor's application is filed. Petitions opposing such waiver requests must be filed within thirty (30) days after the renewal applicant has filed its renewal expectancy showing. Replies to such petitions must be filed within 15 days of the petitions; no further pleadings will be accepted. If a request to waive the step one hearing is granted, the renewal expectancy issue will be designated as part of the step two hearing and will remain the most important comparative factor in deciding the case, as provided in §22.941(a). (e) If the Presiding Judge issues a ruling in the step one hearing which denies the licensee a renewal expectancy, all the applicants involved in the proceeding will be allowed 90 days after the release of the Judge's ruling in step one to file their direct cases. Rebuttal cases must be filed within 30 days after the filing of the direct cases. (f) The Presiding Judge shall use the expedited hearing procedures delineated in §§22.916 (b)(5) through (b)(8) in both step one and step two hearings conducted in comparative cellular radio renewal proceedings. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18729 Filed 8&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
