FR940912-1-00030 FR940912-1-00010 In both the SOCMI NSPS and the HON, ``wastewater'' is defined to encompass both process wastewaters and maintenance wastewaters. Examples of process wastewater streams include, but are not limited to, wastewater streams exiting process unit equipment (e.g., decanter water, such as condensed steam used in the process), product tank drawdown, feed tank drawdown, filter-press filtrate, and residuals recovered from waste management units. Examples of maintenance wastewater streams, which encompass all maintenance-related wastewater streams, are those generated by descaling of heat exchanger tubing bundles, cleaning of distillation traps, and draining of pumps into an individual drain system. However, the regulatory approach taken in the SOCMI NSPS is different from the one taken in the final HON. The proposed SOCMI wastewater NSPS requires that controls be applied to reduce air emissions from both process and maintenance wastewater streams from SOCMI process units that produce any of the listed chemicals. In the HON, maintenance wastewater is regulated by subpart F, and process wastewater is regulated by subpart G. Subpart F, ยง63.105, requires the source owner or operator to develop a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan which includes a description of procedures for managing wastewaters generated during maintenance. In the final HON, the facility's plan must include a description of procedures that will ensure that all maintenance wastewater is properly managed and HAP emissions are controlled. No such plan is required in the proposed NSPS. The EPA selected the regulatory approach for maintenance wastewater as proposed in the NSPS because it was determined through review of the industry, which included plant visits to newly constructed SOCMI process units, that the technologies available for the collection and treatment of these wastewaters have been adequately demonstrated at SOCMI plants. The EPA is soliciting comments on the proposed approach to regulating SOCMI process unit maintenance wastewaters. The EPA is interested in receiving information on why new SOCMI process units could not be designed and operated to control air emissions from maintenance wastewaters in the same manner as process wastewaters and information on the impact the small-quantity cutoff for process units and the low-flow exemption for wastewater streams will have on the collection and treatment of SOCMI maintenance wastewaters in relation to air emission control. Wastewater streams at SOCMI plants are collected and treated in a variety of ways. Generally, wastewater passes through a series of collection and treatment units before being recycled to the facility or discharged from the facility. Collection and treatment schemes for wastewater are facility specific. The flow rate and organic compound composition of wastewater streams at a particular plant are functions of the processes used, which in turn influence the sizes and types of collection and treatment units. Many of the collection and treatment system units are either directly or indirectly open to the atmosphere; this atmospheric interface creates a potential for VOC emissions. The magnitude of VOC emissions from SOCMI process unit wastewaters is dependent on factors such as the physical properties of the pollutants, the temperature of the wastewater, and the design of the individual collection and treatment unit managing the wastewater. Climatic factors such as ambient temperature and wind speed also affect VOC emissions at many wastewater collection and treatment units. Potential sources of VOC emissions associated with wastewater collection and treatment systems include individual drain systems, manholes, junction boxes, lift stations, trenches, sumps, weirs, oil-water separators, equalization or neutralization basins, clarifiers, aeration basins, storage and treatment tanks, surface impoundments, and containers. A discussion of each of these emission sources is contained in Chapter 3 of the BID. C. Pollutants to be Regulated New source performance standards are developed under the authority of section 111 of the Act. Section 111 of the Act requires the regulation of new and modified sources of criteria pollutants (identified under section 110 of the Act) and certain other designated pollutants.
