FR940525-2-00115 FR940525-2-00064 The proposed Technical Specification changes to delete prescribed audit frequencies and remove the Emergency Plan and Security Plan from Technical Specifications are administrative in nature and do not involve changes to the physical plant or operations. The proposed changes do not affect systems, structures, or components (SSCs) or the operation of these SSCs; and therefore do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident. III. This change does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed Technical Specification changes to delete prescribed audit frequencies and remove the Emergency Plan and Security Plan from Technical Specifications do not involve any reductions in the margin of safety. The proposed changes will enable more effective resource utilization through performance based scheduling of audits in the affected areas. Using performance indicators and other measures of program effectiveness, potential problems can be more readily identified and audit resources can be applied to these areas to enhance performance. The proposed performance based audit process will maintain or enhance the margin of safety in the areas audited. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Osterhout Free Library, Reference Department, 71 South Franklin Street, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania 18701. Attorney for licensee: Jay Silberg, Esquire, Shaw, Pittman, Potts and Trowbridge, 2300 N Street NW., Washington, DC 20037. NRC Project Director: Charles L. Miller. Philadelphia Electric Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;352 and 50&hyph;353, Limerick Generating Station, Units 1 and 2, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania Date of amendment request: March 28, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed modification to Technical Specification (TS) Section 4.8.4.3.a, would increase the surveillance interval for the functional test of the Reactor Protection System (RPS). The increase would be from every six (6) months to each time the plant is in cold shutdown for a period of 24 hours, unless the test was performed in the previous six months. This change is based on guidance provided in Generic Letter 91&hyph;09, ``Modification Of Surveillance Interval For The Electrical Protective Assemblies In Power Supplies For The Reactor Protection System.'' Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed Technical Specification changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The Reactor Protection System equipment subject to the proposed Technical Specifications changes are not accident initiators. The Electrical Protective Assemblies (EPAs) specified by these proposed changes are not required to actuate in order to mitigate an accident. The functional test methodology of the RPS electrical power monitoring channels will not be effected by the proposed change in test frequency. The design and function of the EPAs will not be altered and will perform as originally designed. A review of the RPS electrical power monitoring relays surveillance test history results was performed and supports the proposed TS changes to extend the testing interval. Fifty-one (51) surveillance tests were reviewed, and all the as-found channel calibration results were within the required TS limits. There were identified deficiencies in four (4) of the fifty-one tests performed, however, these four deficiencies did not affect the operability of the RPS EPAs. Based on good historical surveillance test results, we have concluded that the reliability of the equipment is not expected to degrade during the proposed extended test interval. Furthermore, the proposed reduced testing will result in a net decrease in the probability of occurrence of a malfunction of equipment important to safety. These malfunctions would cause an invalid inadvertent trip of the RPS which would impose unnecessary challenges on the affected unit at power. The guidance set forth in Generic Letter 91&hyph;09 states ``The staff concludes that the benefit to safety of reducing the frequency of testing during power operations more than offsets the risk to safety from relaxing the surveillance requirement to test the EPAs during power operation.'' Since the RPS EPAs are not accident initiators, and the design and function of the equipment will not be affected by the proposed TS changes, and the reliability of the equipment is not expected to degrade during the extended test interval, and the changes would reduce the probability of unnecessary challenges to the affected unit, we have concluded that the proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed TS changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The design and function of the RPS EPAs will not be affected by the proposed TS changes. The failure modes of the existing equipment will remain unchanged, and no new accident types will be created. The RPS electrical power monitoring channels' functional test methodology will not be affected by the proposed change in test frequency. Therefore, the proposed TS changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. 3. The proposed TS changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Based on a review of the RPS electrical power monitoring relays surveillance test history results we have concluded that the reliability of the equipment is not expected to degrade during the proposed extended test interval. In addition, the benefit to safety by reducing the frequency of testing during power operation and the attendant possible challenges to safety systems more than offsets any risk to safety from relaxing the surveillance requirements to test the EPAs during power operation. Therefore, the proposed TS changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Pottstown Public Library, 500 High Street, Pottstown, Pennsylvania 19464.
