FR940705-2-00177 FR940705-2-00091 Section IV-C&hyph;1-b-(2)-(j). Adding new entries to the list of molecules toxic for vertebrates (see Appendix F); and Section IV-C&hyph;1-b-(2)-(k). Determining appropriate containment conditions for experiments according to case precedents developed under Section IV-C&hyph;1-b-(2)-(c). Section IV-C&hyph;1-b-(3). The NIH Director shall conduct, support, and assist training programs in laboratory safety for Institutional Biosafety Committee members, Biological Safety Officers, Principal Investigators, and laboratory staff. Section IV-C&hyph;2. Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (RAC) The RAC is responsible for carrying out specified functions cited below as well as others assigned under its charter or by the DHHS Secretary, the DHHS Assistant Secretary for Health, and the NIH Director. The RAC consists of 25 members including the Chair, appointed by the DHHS Secretary or his/her designee, at least fourteen of whom are selected from authorities knowledgeable in the fields of molecular genetics, molecular biology, recombinant DNA research, or other scientific fields. At least six members of the RAC shall be persons knowledgeable in applicable law, standards of professional conduct and practice, public attitudes, the environment, public health, occupational health, or related fields. Representatives from Federal agencies shall serve as non-voting members. Nominations for the RAC may be submitted to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. All meetings of the RAC shall be announced in the Federal Register , including tentative agenda items, 15 days before the meeting. Final agendas, if modified, shall be available at least 72 hours before the meeting. No item defined as a Major Action under Section IV-C&hyph;1-b-(1) may be added to an agenda following Federal Register publication. The RAC shall be responsible for advising the NIH Director on the actions listed in Sections IV-C&hyph;1-b-(1). Section IV-C&hyph;3. Office of Recombinant DNA Activities (ORDA) ORDA shall serve as a focal point for information on recombinant DNA activities and provide advice to all within and outside NIH including institutions, Biological Safety Officers, Principal Investigators, Federal agencies, state and local governments, and institutions in the private sector. ORDA shall carry out such other functions as may be delegated to it by the NIH Director, including those authorities described in Section IV-C&hyph;1-b-(2). ORDA's responsibilities include, but are not limited to the following: Section IV-C&hyph;3-a. Reviewing and approving experiments in conjunction with ad hoc experts involving the cloning of genes encoding for toxin molecules that are lethal for vertebrates at an LD 50 >100 nanograms per kilogram body weight in organisms other than Escherichia coli K&hyph;12 (see Section III-B&hyph;1 and Appendices F-I and F-II); Section IV-C&hyph;3-b. Reviewing and approving certain experiments involving the deliberate transfer of recombinant DNA or DNA or RNA derived from recombinant DNA into one or more human subjects, in consultation with the RAC Chair and one or more RAC members, as necessary, that qualify for the Accelerated Review process (see Section III-B&hyph;2); Section IV-C&hyph;3-c. Reviewing and approving minor changes to human gene transfer protocols approved under Sections III-A&hyph;2 and III-B&hyph;2, in consultation with the RAC Chair and one or more RAC members, as necessary; Section IV-C&hyph;3-d. Reviewing and approving the membership of an institution's Institutional Biosafety Committee, and where it finds the Institutional Biosafety Committee meets the requirements set forth in Section IV-B&hyph;2 will give its approval to the Institutional Biosafety Committee membership; Section IV-C&hyph;3-e. Publishing in the Federal Register :
