FR941207-2-00096 FR941207-2-00066 II. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6 and the rules and regulations thereunder. Section 6(b)(5) of the Act provides that the rules of the exchange must promote just and equitable principles of trade and remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, and in general to protect investors and the public interest. 11 11 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1988). The proposal will help the PHLX to provide an orderly market and to encourage small investor participation in the options markets by facilitating the use of AUTO&hyph;X. AUTO&hyph;X enhances the Exchange's ability to execute small public customer orders in a timely, accurate, and efficient manner. The manual assignment of contra-participation increases the time needed to execute each trade through AUTO&hyph;X. During periods of heavy trading volume, this manual operation may severely restrict AUTO&hyph;X's utility. Therefore, the automation of assignments of contra-parties for AUTO&hyph;X trades should improve order processing and turnaround time. By not manually entering contra-participant information for each trade, the Wheel should reduce opportunities for keypunching errors. In addition, the Wheel should generally reduce the number of contra-participants for each trade. 12 The reduction in the number of contra-parties to each contract may increase the efficiency of order processing. By enhancing AUTO&hyph;X's utility, the proposal should assist in providing a free and open market. 12 Currently, the specialist and all ROTs with parity or priority at the execution price would be contra-participants to an AUTO&hyph;X trade. Under the Wheel, the maximum number of contra-participants would be three. (The maximum permissible size for AUTO&hyph;X orders is twenty-five contracts, which would be split into two ten-contract assignments and one five-contract assignment.) Finally, the Commission finds good cause for approving Amendments No. 1 and No. 2 prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof. Amendment No. 1 provides minor amendments to the procedure consistent with the original proposal. Amendment No. 2 merely clarifies the interaction between the Wheel and the trading crowd and limit order book. The Commission did not receive any comments on the original proposal, which was noticed for the full statutory period. Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning Amendments No. 1 and No. 2 to the proposed rule change. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to Amendments No. 1 and No. 2 between the Commission and any persons, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง522, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing also will be available at the principal office of PHLX. All submissions should refer to file No. SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;32 and should be submitted by December 28, 1994. III. Conclusion For the reasons stated above, the Commission finds that the proposed file change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 13 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;32) be, and hereby is, approved. 13 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 14 14 17 CFR ยง200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30031 Filed 12&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
