FR940817-2-00286 FR940817-2-00114 2. If any necessary Plan of Action has not been adopted at the time of activation of this Agreement, the Administrator shall assure completion of such Plan of Action in order to meet DOD requirements. 3. The Committee Chair shall: a. Notify the Attorney General, the Chairman, the Director and all Participants of the time, place and nature of each meeting and of the proposed agenda of each meeting to be held to implement this Agreement; b. Provide for publication in the Federal Register of a notice of the time, place and nature of each such meeting. If a meeting is open, a Federal Register notice will be published reasonably in advance of the meeting. If a meeting is closed, a Federal Register notice will be published within ten (10) days after the meeting and will include the reasons for closing the meeting; c. Establish the agenda for each meeting and be responsible for adherence to the agenda; d. Provide for a full and complete transcript or other record of each meeting and provide one copy each of transcript or other record to the Attorney General, the Chairman, the Director, all Participants and the designated staff member of DOD; and e. Take necessary action to protect confidentiality of data discussed with or obtained from Participants. C. The Representative of the Secretary of Defense _USTRANSCOM is the SecDef's representative in the implementation of this Agreement. D. Ship and Space Chartering_ Charters or other agreements for ships, ship space or intermodal shipping services/systems will be executed, as specified in the relevant Plan of Action. E. Leases of Intermodal Equipment _Lease agreements for intermodal equipment will be executed, as specified in the relevant Plan of Action. F. Management Service Contracts _Management service contracts will be executed, as specified in the relevant Plan of Action. G. Termination of Charters, Leases and Other Contractual Arrangements 1. USTRANSCOM will notify the Administrator as far in advance as possible of the prospective termination of charters, leases, management service contracts or other contractual arrangements under this Agreement. 2. If this Agreement is superseded by the general requisitioning of ships, the Administrator, as a matter of discretion, may replace charters made under this Agreement with charters made under requisition. IX. Joint Planning in the Standby Period A. Chairmanship _During the standby period, when engaged in the planning described in IX.B., the Committee will be co-chaired by MARAD and USTRANSCOM. B. Planning_ 1. During the standby period the Committee may be convened to: a. Develop a Plan of Action to implement this Agreement;
