FR940303-2-00100 FR940303-2-00055 11. Based solely on (a) our [my] knowledge, (b) the Mortgagor's Opinion Certification and (c) the Docket Search; there is no litigation or other claim pending before any court or administrative or other governmental body or threatened in writing against the Mortgagor, or the Property, [to be inserted when mortgagor is not a sole-asset mortgagor] or any other properties of the Mortgagor] [, except as identified on Exhibit XXX ]. 12. The Mortgage is in appropriate form for recordation in XXXXXX [insert proper name of local land records office] of XXXXXX [Insert County or City] of the Property Jurisdiction, and is sufficient, as to form, to create the encumbrance and security interest it purports to create in the Property. 13. Filing of the Financing Statements in the Filing Offices will perfect the security interest in the Personalty of the Mortgagor located in the Project Jurisdiction, but only to the extent that, under the Uniform Commercial Code in effect in the Project Jurisdiction, a security interest in each described item of Personalty can be perfected by filing. The Filing Offices are the only offices in which the Financing Statements are required to be filed in order to perfect the Mortgagee's security interest in the Personalty. 14. The Loan does not violate the usury laws or laws regulating the use or forbearance of money of the Property Jurisdiction. [15. [[For use only if mortgagor is a trust] The Mortgagor is an irrevocable trust that has a term consistent with HUD's requirements and the term of the irrevocable trust is not affected by the terms of any of the beneficiaries' interests.] [The laws of the Property Jurisdiction govern the interpretation and the enforcement of the Loan Documents notwithstanding that the Mortgagor may be formed in a jurisdiction other than the Property Jurisdiction. The Mortgagor can sue and be sued in the Property Jurisdiction without the necessity of joining any of the beneficiaries of the Mortgagor, including without limitation, a suit on the Note or a foreclosure proceeding arising under the Mortgage. Venue for any foreclosure proceeding under the Mortgage may be had in [Property Jurisdiction]. [16. [Use in Cases Involving Bond Financing] Based solely on the opinion of XXXXXX [Insert Bond Counsel], dated as of the date hereof and attached hereto as Exhibit XXX , to the extent that any of the provisions of the Bond Documents are inconsistent with any of the provisions of the Loan Documents or Supporting Documents, the provisions of the Loan Documents or Supporting Documents shall govern.] [17. [Use in cases where the development of the property is governed by an agreement with a public entity] Based upon our knowledge and the Mortgagor's Opinion Certification, there is no default under the Public Entity Agreement, and construction in accordance with the Plans and Specifications and within the time frame specified in the Construction Contract will not lead to a default under the Public Entity Agreement.] In addition to the assumptions set forth above, the opinions set forth above are also subject to the following qualifications: (i) The Uniform Commercial Code of the Property Jurisdiction requires the periodic filing of continuation statements with XXXXXX [and XXXXXX ] not more than XXXXXX prior to and not later than the expiration of the XXXX year period from the date of filing of the Financing Statements and the expiration of each subsequent XXX year period after the original filing, in order to maintain the perfection and priority of security interests and to keep the Financing Statements in effect. (ii) We express no opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the Property Jurisdiction [and the Organizational Jurisdiction, if it is different,] and the laws of the United States of America. The opinions expressed above concern only the effect of the laws (excluding the principles of conflict of laws) of the Property Jurisdiction [and the Organizational Jurisdiction, if it is different] and the United States of America as currently in effect. We assume no obligation to supplement this opinion if any applicable laws change after the date of this opinion, or if we become aware of any facts that might change the opinions expressed above after the date of this opinion. We [I] confirm that: (a) based on the Organizational Documents, the name of the Mortgagor in each of the Documents and the Title Policy and FHA Commitment is the correct legal name of the Mortgagor; (b) the legal description of the Property is consistent in the Documents wherein it appears and in Appendix XXX hereto; (c) we [I] do not have any financial interest in the Project, the Property, or the Loan, other than fees for legal services performed by us, arrangements for the payment of which has been made; and we [I] agree not to assert a claim or lien against the Project, the Property, the Mortgagor, the Loan proceeds or income of the Project; (d) other than as counsel for the Mortgagor, we have no interest in the Mortgagor (or any principal thereof) or the Mortgagee or any other party involved in the Loan transaction and do not serve as [a director, officer or] [an] employee of the Mortgagor or the Mortgagee. We have no undisclosed interest in the subject matters of this opinion; (e) based solely on the Surveyor's Certificate and the Surveyor's Plat, flood insurance [is or is not] required pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 4012a(a); [insert if flood insurance is required. Based solely on the Flood Insurance Receipt, flood insurance is in effect which satisfies the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 4012a(a);] and (f) to our knowledge, there are no liens or encumbrances against the Property which are not reflected as exceptions to coverage in the Title Policy. The foregoing opinions are for the exclusive reliance of Mortgagee, its counsel and HUD; however, they may be made available for informational purposes to, but not for the reliance of, the assigns or transferees of Mortgagee, or prospective purchasers of the Loan. We [I] acknowledge that the making, or causing to be made, of a false statement of fact in this opinion letter and accompanying materials may lead to criminal prosecution or civil liability as provided pursuant to applicable law, which may include 18 U.S.C. 1001, 1010, 1012; 31 U.S.C. 3729, 3802. ␣␣␣Sincerely, [Authorized Signature] [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4823 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;01&hyph;M
