FR940523-1-00011 FR940523-1-00004 Explanation of Provisions Treasury Regulation §301.7425&hyph;4(b)(3)(ii) does not provide a specific time period within which the purchaser at a nonjudicial foreclosure sale may submit a claim for excess expenses after the redemption. The proposed regulations clarify that claims for excess expenses must be submitted within the time periods specified in the regulations in order for the purchaser to be reimbursed. The proposed regulations establish a 30-day limit after a request is made by the district director for the purchaser at a nonjudicial sale or his or her successor in interest to furnish a written itemized statement of expenses in excess of income. Since excess expenses could be incurred after a district director's request, a purchaser who fails to submit a claim at this time may submit a claim within 30 days after the date of redemption. These limits will allow the purchaser a reasonable amount of time within which to determine the amount of any excess expenses and to submit a claim to the United States. After the expiration of the relevant time periods, the United States may distribute all surplus proceeds associated with the sale of the redeemed property unhindered by any possibility of a claim for excess expenses made in the future when the surplus proceeds of sale are no longer available to satisfy such a claim. Adding time limits will also expedite the handling of redemption sales by earlier disposition of surplus proceeds of sale. Disputes concerning properly submitted claims will still be resolved by the United States within a reasonable time after the redemption period. The Service solicits comments as to whether the 30-day period after the date of redemption for a purchaser to submit an itemized statement of excess expenses or to submit additional excess expenses is adequate. Special Analyses It has been determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, an initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, this notice of proposed rulemaking will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Comments and Requests for a Public Hearing Before these proposed regulations are adopted as final regulations, consideration will be given to any written comments that are submitted timely (preferably a signed original and eight copies) to the IRS. All comments will be available for public inspection and copying. A public hearing may be scheduled if requested in writing by a person that timely submits written comments. If a public hearing is scheduled, notice of the date, time, and place for the hearing will be published in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Robert A. Walker, Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (General Litigation). However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects in 26 CFR Part 301 Employment taxes, Estate taxes, Excise taxes, Gift taxes, Income taxes, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Proposed Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR part 301 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 301_PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 301 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣* Par. 2. Section 301.7425&hyph;4(b)(3)(ii) is amended by revising the third sentence and adding a fourth sentence to read as follows: §301.7425&hyph;4 Discharge of liens; redemption by United States. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (3) *␣*␣* (ii) *␣*␣* If a purchaser or his or her successor in interest has failed to furnish the written itemized statement within 30 days after the request therefor is made by the district director, or there is a disagreement as to the amount properly payable under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, or if there were additional excess expenses that were not claimed in the original itemized statement, the purchaser or his or her successor in interest may submit a written itemized statement to the district director within 30 days after the date of redemption. If the purchaser or his or her successor in interest fails to timely submit such a written itemized statement, no amount shall be payable for expenses in excess of income. * * * * * Margaret Milner Richardson, Commissioner of Internal Revenue. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12465 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4830&hyph;01&hyph;U
