FR940627-0-00248 FR940627-0-00019 ( i ) At the time of sacrifice on gestation day 20 or at death during the study, each dam shall be examined macroscopically for any structural abnormalities or pathological changes which may have influenced the pregnancy. ( ii ) The contents of the uterus shall be examined for embryonic or fetal deaths and the number of viable fetuses. Gravid uterine weights need not be obtained from dead animals where decomposition has occurred. The degree of resorption shall be described in order to help estimate the relative time of death. ( iii ) The number of corpora lutea shall be determined in each pregnant dam. ( iv ) Each fetus shall be weighed, all weights recorded, and mean fetal weights determined. ( v ) Each fetus shall be examined externally and the sex determined. ( vi ) One-half of the rat fetuses in each litter shall be examined for skeletal anomalies, and the remaining half shall be examined for soft tissue anomalies, using appropriate methods. (ii) Histopathology. (A) Histopathology on vagina, uterus, ovaries, testes, epididymides, seminal vesicles, and prostate as appropriate for all males and histology group females in the control and high concentration groups and for all animals that died or were euthanized during the study. If abnormalities or equivocal results are seen in any of these organs/tissues, the same organ/tissue from test animals in lower concentration groups shall be examined. Note: Testes, seminal vesicles, epididymides, and ovaries, at a minimum, shall be examined in perfusion-fixed (pressure or gravity method) test subjects, when available. (B) All gross lesions in all study animals shall be examined. (C) As noted under mating procedures, reproductive organs of animals suspected of infertility shall be subject to microscopic examination. (D) The following organs and tissues, or representative samples thereof, shall be preserved in a suitable medium for future histopathological examination: all gross lesions; vagina; uterus; ovaries; testes; epididymides; seminal vesicles; prostate; liver; and kidneys/adrenals. (3) Evaluation of results. (i) The findings of a developmental toxicity study shall be evaluated in terms of the observed effects and the exposure levels producing effects. It is necessary to consider the historical developmental toxicity data on the species/strain tested. (ii) There are several criteria for determining a positive result for reproductive/teratologic effects; a statistically significant dose-related decrease in the weight of the testes for treated subjects over control subjects, a decrease in neonatal viability, a significant change in the presence of soft tissue or skeletal abnormalities, or an increased rate of embryonic or fetal resorption or death. Other criteria, e.g., lengthening of the estrous cycle or the time spent in any one stage of estrus, changes in the proportion of viable male vs female fetuses or offspring, the number and type of cells in vaginal smears, or pathologic changes found during gross or microscopic examination of male or female reproductive organs may be based upon detection of a reproducible and statistically significant positive response for that evaluation parameter. A positive result indicates that, under the test conditions, the test substance does induce reproductive organ or fetal toxicity in the test species. (iii) A test substance which does not produce either a statistically significant dose-related change in the reproductive organs or cycle or a statistically significant and reproducible positive response at any one of the test points may not induce reproductive organ toxicity in this test species, but further investigation , e.g., to establish absorption and bioavailability of the test substance, should be considered. (h) Test report. In addition to the reporting requirements as specified under 40 CFR 79.60 and the vehicle emissions inhalation toxicity guideline as published in 40 CFR 79.61, the following specific information shall be reported: (1) Individual animal data. (i) Time of death during the study or whether animals survived to termination. (ii) Date of onset and duration of each abnormal sign and its subsequent course. (iii) Feed and body weight data. (iv) Necropsy findings. (v) Male test subjects. (A) Testicle weight, and body weight: testicle weight ratio. (B) Detailed description of all histopathological findings, especially for the testes and the epididymides. (vi) Female test subjects.
