FR940505-1-00152 FR940505-1-00012 Based on the impact the second and third possible FIP control strategies (listed above) would have on military readiness, and the already scheduled decrease in military aircraft operations, EPA proposes that military aircraft be exempt from the FIP. EPA requests comments on excluding military aircraft from the FIP control strategy. The proposed FIP program will control mobile source emissions from other base operations under the control of DOD. These sources include APUs, GSE, captive vehicle fleets, privately-owned vehicles, and any other mobile sources operated within an air base's boundaries. The military bubble also will include DOD-controlled non-aircraft emissions sources that operate at locations other than military bases, such as ground equipment based at civilian airports. The bubble will be basin-wide rather than air base-specific, given the variability introduced by base closure and realignment activities, as well as the need for operational flexibility. EPA proposes to impose a declining cap on total emissions for controlling these other base operations emissions from all air bases within each FIP area. This avoids the difficulty of having to allocate baseline emissions among multiple entities (e. g., perhaps down to individual air bases). This approach also takes advantage of the military's centralized command structure; DOD (or each branch of the armed forces) can mandate air base performance at a certain emissions level (excluding aircraft emissions) commensurate with environmental objectives while maintaining the flexibility to stage specific missions and other functions among various bases inside or outside of the basin. This control strategy provides individual base commanders with the flexibility to implement specific operational and procedural measures necessary to achieve the specified emissions goal, and avoids having EPA attempt to implement specific control measures for military operations. The centralized command structure means that a single entity is the focus of the control strategy. An absolute emissions cap approach does not require a projection of activity in future years, one of the required assumptions for a program based on allowable emissions per activity unit. Finally, a control strategy that fundamentally relies upon the environmental efficiency of operations, such as the emission rate-based program proposed for commercial aircraft, appears less desirable for military air bases given the inherent unpredictability of military operations. EPA also seeks comments on the second alternative approach, to establish a declining cap for an emissions bubble which includes military aircraft emissions and therefore requires reductions in aircraft emissions also. Further, comments are requested on the desirability of the third possible control approach, an approach that includes aircraft emissions but is based on a target average emission rate per aircraft operation with a fee for emissions above the target. This third approach would be similar to that being proposed today for commercial aviation.
