FR941125-0-00016 FR941125-0-00007 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Office of the Attorney General 28 CFR Part 0 [AG ORDER No. 1932&hyph;94] Costs of Incarceration AGENCY: Department of Justice. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule provides for the collection and establishment of a fee to cover the cost of incarceration of inmates committed to the custody of the Attorney General, and for the further administration of this procedure by the Director, Bureau of Prisons. This rule is promulgated to implement newly enacted statutory authority on recovering the costs of incarceration. The rule also is intended to help ensure the continued efficient operation of federal correctional institutions, including the provision of beneficial programming for inmates. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Roy Nanovic, Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons, HOLC Room, 754, 320 First Street, NW., Washington, DC 20534, telephone (202) 514&hyph;6655. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On April 5, 1994, the Department of Justice published a proposed rule, to be codified at 28 CFR part 0, providing for the assessment and collection of a fee to cover the costs of incarceration of inmates committed to the custody of the Attorney General, and for the further administration of this procedure by the Director, Bureau of Prisons. (59 FR 15880.) The other provisions for the administration and collection of the fee had been contained in a proposed rule previously published on June 28, 1993. These provisions will be promulgated by the Bureau of Prisons (Bureau) in a separate document. Comments on the proposed rule were received from one individual. A portion of these comments related to the provisions previously proposed on June 28, 1993 which are to appear in the Bureau's final rule. These comments are noted here and will be fully addressed in the Bureau's document. The commenter objected to the proposed rule stating that the fee was clearly a punishment which would be additional to any imposed by the court. The commenter stated that the basis of the proposed rule was unexplained and alleged that the fee would prove to be an economic hardship to inmates, that inmates would be at greater risk to return to criminal behavior upon release from prison, and that families of inmates would be impoverished through application of the regulations. In response, the Department notes that the regulations implement the clearly stated provisions of the statute to establish and collect a fee to cover the costs of confinement. The statute (Pub. L. 102&hyph;395, section 111, 106 Stat. 1828, 1842) and implementing Bureau regulations also clearly provide for protection against unduly burdening the inmate or the inmate's dependents, including cases where a judge has imposed or waived a fine pursuant to section 5E1.2 (f) and (i) of the United States Sentencing Guidelines, or any successor provisions. Further discussion of these protections are contained in the final rule to be published by the Bureau of Prisons. The commenter claimed that the proposed rule was unfair to pretrial inmates who cannot afford bail. The Department notes that the statute and regulations are not applicable to pretrial inmates. The commenter objected to the delegation to the Director of Bureau of Prisons of the authority to collect the fine and to promulgate all regulations concerning the collection of the fee, claiming that the Director did not have the expertise for collecting the fee and was not in a position to understand the ramifications of imposing the fee. In making this point, the commenter suggested that a judge was better suited to understand ``*␣*␣* the ramifications of this punishment fine [sic].'' In response, the Department notes that existing Bureau regulations on inmate financial responsibility (see 28 CFR part 545, subpart B) demonstrate the Bureau's expertise in such matters. As noted above, the fee to cover the cost of incarceration is required under statutory authority and further delegation of this authority by the Attorney General outside the executive branch, as suggested by the commenter, would be inappropriate.
