FR941003-1-00024 FR941003-1-00003 Sections 1.603 and 1.606 are proposed to be amended by deleting the third sentence (``Each count shall define a separate patentable invention.'') as redundant in view of the identical sentence in §1.601(f). In addition, it is proposed to clarify §§1.603 and 1.606 by amending them to require each application to contain, or be amended to contain, at least one patentable claim which corresponds to each count. In section 1.604, it is proposed to amend paragraph (a)(1) by changing ``his or her'' to ``its.'' In §1.605, it is proposed to amend paragraph (a) for clarification. Section 1.606 is also proposed to be amended to note that the claim in the application need not be, and most often will not be, identical to a claim in the patent. In §1.607, it is proposed to amend paragraph (a)(4) by changing ``his or her'' to ``its'' and to add a new paragraph (a)(6) requiring an applicant seeking an interference with a patent to demonstrate compliance with 35 U.S.C. 135(b) which provides: A claim which is the same as, or for the same or substantially the same subject matter as, a claim of an issued patent may not be made in any application unless such a claim is made prior to one year from the date on which the patent was granted. Requiring an applicant to show compliance with §135(b) before an interference is declared will prevent an interference from being declared where the applicant cannot satisfy §135(b) with respect to any claim alleged to correspond to the proposed count. In §1.608, it is proposed to amend paragraphs (a) and (b) in several respects. First, both paragraphs are proposed to be amended to delete the information about effective filing dates, which would appear instead in §1.601(g) as proposed to be amended. Second, it is proposed to relax the current requirement of paragraph (a) for an affidavit filed by the applicant. Paragraph (a) as proposed to be amended would permit a statement to be filed by the applicant or a practitioner of record. Third, it is proposed to change ``sufficient cause'' in paragraph (b) and in other interference rules to ``good cause'' in order to make it clear that only one ``cause'' standard is intended. Fourth, it is proposed to change ``81/2 x 11 inches (21.8 by 27.9 cm.)'' to ``21.8 by 27.9 cm. (81/2 x 11 inches).'' In §1.609, it is proposed to amend paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) to require the examiner's statement (i.e., the form PTO&hyph;850, also known as the initial interference memorandum) to explain why each claim designated as corresponding to a count is directed to the same patentable invention as the count and why each claim designated as not corresponding to a count is not directed to the same patentable invention as the count. The proposed amendment, if adopted, would provide the Board and the parties with the benefit of the examiner's reasoning and would provide a better foundation for considering preliminary motions to designate claims as corresponding or as not corresponding to a count. In §1.610, it is proposed to amend paragraph (a) by deleting the language ``a panel consisting of at least three members of'' as superfluous and by deleting the reference to §1.640(e), which is proposed to be amended to allow a request for reconsideration under §1.640(c) to be decided by an individual administrative patent judge rather than by the Board. It is further proposed to amend paragraph (b) by deleting ``Unless otherwise provided in this section,'' as unnecessary in light of the proposed amendment to paragraph (a). Section 1.611 is proposed to be amended by redesignating paragraph (a)(8) as paragraph (a)(9) and adding a new paragraph (a)(8) requiring that a notice of declaration of interference indicate why each claim designated as corresponding to a count is directed to the same patentable invention as the count and why each claim designated as not corresponding to a count is not directed to the same patentable invention as the count. This information should assist the parties in deciding whether to move to have claims designated as corresponding or not corresponding to the count. An administrative patent judge can satisfy this requirement by enclosing a copy of the examiner's statement with the parties' copies of the declaration notice. It is also proposed to capitalize the first word in each of paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3). In §1.612, it is proposed to amend paragraph (a) to change ``opposing party's'' to ``opponent's'' and to add a sentence referring to §1.11(e) concerning public access to interference files. In §1.614, it is proposed to clarify the meaning of paragraph (a) by changing ``the Board shall assume jurisdiction'' to ``the Board acquires jurisdiction.'' In §1.616, in addition to authorizing an award of compensatory attorney fees and expenses in appropriate circumstances, as discussed above, it is proposed to amend current paragraph (b) (which is proposed to be redesignated as paragraph (a)(2)) to permit a party to be sanctioned for failing to comply with the rules or an order by entering an order precluding the party from filing any type of paper. Paragraph (b) currently permits entry of an order precluding the filing of a motion or a preliminary statement. Section 1.617 is proposed to be amended to authorize a party against whom a §1.617(a) order to show cause has been issued to respond with an appropriate preliminary motion under §1.633(c), (f) or (g). A preliminary motion under §1.633(c) to redefine the interference, under §1.633(f) for benefit of the filing date of an earlier application or under §1.633(g) attacking the benefit accorded a patentee may be appropriate where the count set forth in the notice declaring the interference is not the same as the count proposed in the applicant's showing under §1.608(b). A preliminary motion under §1.633(f) or (g) may also be appropriate where the count set forth in the notice delcaring the interference is the same as the count proposed in the applicant's showing under §1.608(b), but the notice either fails to accord the applicant the benefit of the filing date of an earlier application whose benefit was requested in the §1608(b) showing or accords the parentee the benefit of the filing date of an earlier application whose benefit the §1.608(b) showing argued should not be accorded the patentee. In §1.618, it is proposed to amend paragraph (a) for clarification and to state that a paper that has been returned as unauthorized will not thereafter be considered in the interference. Paragraph (a) currently states that a paper that has been returned as unauthorized will not thereafter be considered by the Patent and Trademark Office. In §1.625, it is proposed to simplify paragraph (a) by deleting ``the invention was made in the United States or abroad and'' as surplusage. Section 1.626 is proposed to be simplified by changing ``earlier application filed in the United States or aboard'' to ``earlier filed application.'' The same change is proposed for §§1.630, 1.633(f), 1.633(g), 1.637(c)(1)(vi), 1.637(e)(1)(viii), 1.637(e)(2)(vii) and 1.637(h)(4). In §1.628, it is proposed to amend paragraph (a) by changing ``ends of justice'' to ``interest of justice'' to be consistent with the language used in §§1.628(a) and 1.687(c), since a single standard is intended. Paragraph (a) of §1.628 is also proposed to be amended to apply the ``interest of justice'' requirement only to corrected preliminary statements that are filed on or after the due date for serving preliminary statements. Where the moving party has not yet seen the opponent's statement, an opponent will not normally be prejudiced by the filing of a corrected statement. In §1.629, it is proposed to amend paragraphs (a), (c)(1) and (d) to make them consistent with the proposed amendment of the definition of ``effective filing date'' in §1.601(g). In §1.631, it is proposed to amend paragraph (a) to delete ``by the examiner-in-chief'' (second occurrence) as superfluous. Section 1.632 is proposed to be amended to more precisely state that a notice of intent to argue abandonment, suppression or concealment must be filed ``within ten days after,'' rather than ``within ten days of,'' the close of the testimony-in-chief of the opponent.
