FR940429-0-00277 FR940429-0-00015 (vi) Other Department of Education records and materials if the records and materials were provided to the hearing official no later than 3 days after the institution's or servicer's filing of its request for review. * * * * * (f) The hearing official accepts only evidence that is both admissible and timely under the terms of paragraph (e) of this section, and relevant and material to the appeal. Examples of evidence that shall be deemed irrelevant and immaterial except upon a clear showing of probative value respecting the matters described in paragraph (d) of this section include_ (1) Evidence relating to a period of time other than the period of time covered by the audit or program review; (2) Evidence relating to an audit or program review of an institution or third-party servicer other than the institution or servicer bringing the appeal, or the resolution thereof; and (3) Evidence relating to the current practice of the institution or servicer bringing the appeal in the program areas at issue in the appeal. (g) (1) The hearing official may schedule an oral argument if he or she determines that an oral argument is necessary to clarify the issues and the positions of the parties as presented in the parties' written submissions. (2) In the event that an oral argument is conducted, the designated department official makes a transcribed record of the proceedings and makes one copy of that record available to each of the parties to the proceeding. * * * * * 42. Section 668.123 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.123 Collection. To the extent that the decision of the Secretary sustains the final audit determination or program review determination, subject to the provisions of ยง668.24(c)(3), the Department of Education will take steps to collect the debt at issue or otherwise effect the determination that was subject to the request for review. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 43. A new Appendix A to part 668 is added to read as follows: Appendix A to Part 668_Standards for Acceptable Refund Policies by Participating Institutions For purposes of ยง668.22(b)(1)(iv)(A), the Secretary considers an institution to have a fair and equitable refund policy if the institution uses a policy that meets the minimum requirements of this appendix. These requirements do not affect an institution's obligation to comply with other Department of Education regulations. (I) The governing board of the institution must review and approve the schedule of all institutional charges and refund policies applicable to students. The pricing of services and refund policies have important consequences to students, parents, the institution, and society; as such, pricing and refund policies must receive board attention and approval. (II) The institution must seek consumer views in the process of establishing and amending charge and refund structures. Decisions regarding institutional funds are ultimately the sole responsibility of the institution's legally designated fund custodians. However, consumer concerns do affect decision making, and involving consumers in decision making related to charges and refunds is an essential approach for assessing student needs and creating public awareness of institutional requirements. (III) The institution must publish a current schedule of all student charges (including the costs of required supplies and equipment), publish a statement of the purpose for such charges and related refund policies, have those statements readily available free of charge to current and prospective students, and substantiate that the costs of required supplies and equipment are reasonably related to the cost of providing the supplies and equipment to the students. Students and parents have a right to know what charges they will be expected to pay and what will or will not be refunded. They also have a right to know what services accompany payment of the charges. Informational materials published free for students and prospective students are ideal for this purpose. (IV) The institution must clearly designate all optional charges as ``optional'' in all published schedules and related materials. Charges that are mandatory and charges that are optional must be plainly differentiated in all printed materials. Statements accompanying the schedule may include institutional endorsements of the optional program or service. The institution must state clearly in its schedule if a charge is optional for some students but required for others. (V) The institution must clearly identify charges and deposits that are nonrefundable as ``nonrefundable'' on all published schedules. Institutions determine on an individual basis which of their charges are refundable or nonrefundable. In general, admission fees, application fees, laboratory fees, facility and student activity fees, and other similar charges are not refundable. These fees are generally charged to cover the cost of activities such as processing applications and other student information, reserving academic positions and establishing the limits of institutional programs and services, reserving housing space, and otherwise setting the fixed costs of the institution for the coming academic periods. Institutions determine on an individual basis which of their deposits are refundable or nonrefundable. Some deposits will be nonrefundable or will be credited to a student's account (e.g., tuition deposits). Others are refundable according to the terms of the deposit agreement (e.g., deposits for breakage). (VI) The institution must refund housing rental charges, less a deposit, as long as written notification of cancellation is made prior to a well-publicized date that provides reasonable opportunity to make the space available to other students. Written notification on or before the beginning of the term of the contract is necessary to ensure utilization of housing units. During the term of the contract, room charges are generally not refundable. However, based on the program offered, space availability, debt service requirements, State and local laws, and other individual circumstances, institutions may provide for some more flexible refund guideline for housing. (VII) The institution must refund board charges in full, less a deposit, if written notification of cancellation is made prior to a well-publicized date that falls on or before the beginning of the term of the contract. Subsequent board charges should be refunded on a pro rata basis. It is reasonable to make a refund for those goods and services not consumed. The deposit should reflect that portion of an institution's costs that are fixed for the term of the contract. (VIII) The institutional refund policy must include the following requirements: A. The institution must refund 100 percent of the tuition charges, less an administrative fee that does not exceed the lesser of $100 or 5 percent of the tuition, if the student submits written notice of cancellation on or before one week preceding the first day of classes for the period of enrollment for which the student was charged. B. The institution must refund at least 90 percent of the tuition charges if the student submits written notice of cancellation between the end of the period of time specified in (VIII) A. and the end of the first 10 percent (in time) of the period of enrollment for which the student was charged. C. The institution must refund at least 50 percent of the tuition charges if the student submits written notice of cancellation between the end of the first 10 percent (in time) of the period of enrollment for which the student was charged and the end of the first 25 percent (in time) of that period of enrollment. D. The institution must refund at least 25 percent of the tuition charges if the student submits written notice of cancellation between the end of the first 25 percent (in time) of the period of enrollment for which the student was charged and the end of the first 50 percent (in time) of the period of enrollment.
