FR940721-0-00077 FR940721-0-00014 Second, manufacturers may use any procedures that they expect, in good faith, to yield ``similar results.'' For example, the manufacturers could use the CAFE procedures for making content determinations so long as they made adjustments to attempt to account for differences between the CAFE content requirements and Labeling Act requirements, e.g., CAFE does not exclude assembly, sales, and marketing costs. Third, manufacturers may choose to rely entirely on information they already have in their possession or, at their option, obtain additional information from some suppliers to help them make the necessary calculations. To the extent that manufacturers are following this alternative approach, their suppliers may as well. NHTSA notes that Nissan asked, in a telephone call to NHTSA's Office of Chief Counsel, how the Labeling Act requirements apply to MY 1994 vehicles that are manufactured on or after October 1, 1994. As discussed below, it is the agency's opinion that the Act's requirements do not apply to any MY 1994 vehicles. The first sentence of section 210(b)(1) reads as follows: ``Each manufacturer of a new passenger motor vehicle distributed for commerce for sale in the United States shall annually establish for each model year and cause to be affixed *␣*␣* on each vehicle manufactured on or after October 1, 1994, in a prominent place, one or more labels *␣*␣*.'' Section 210(b)(2) provides that the percentages required for the label ``shall be established at the beginning of the model year *␣*␣*.'' With respect to the issue of how the Labeling Act requirements apply to MY 1994 vehicles, NHTSA believes it is significant that: (1) The requirement to label vehicles takes effect on the date traditionally considered to be the beginning of MY 1995 (October 1, 1994), and (2) the percentages required to be included on the label are to be established at the beginning of the model year. Reading these provisions together, the agency believes that the statute requires the labeling requirements to begin with MY 1995 vehicles, since the time when the percentages are to be established for that model year corresponds to the effective date of the requirements. NHTSA notes that very few MY 1994 vehicles are likely to be manufactured on or after October 1, 1994. K. Other Issues 1. Supplier Definitions Section 210(f)(15) defines allied supplier to mean ``a supplier of passenger motor vehicle equipment that is wholly owned by the manufacturer, or in the case of a joint venture vehicle assembly arrangement, any supplier that is wholly owned by one member of the joint venture arrangement.'' Section 210(17) defines outside supplier to mean ``a supplier of passenger motor vehicle equipment to a manufacturer's allied supplier or anyone other than an allied supplier who ships directly to the manufacturer's final assembly point.''
