FR940504-1-00042 FR940504-1-00017 1. Establish two GOA trawl fishery categories for the purpose of apportioning the GOA halibut bycatch limit already established for the trawl gear fisheries (§672.20(f)). These two categories are the following: (1) The shallow-water fishery complex (pollock, Pacific cod, Atka mackerel, shallow-water flatfish, flathead sole, and ``other species''); and (2) the deep-water fishery complex (the deep water flatfish, rex sole, arrowtooth flounder, sablefish, and rockfish); 2. Revise the method for calculating retainable amounts of groundfish species under directed fishing standards (§672.20(h) and §675.20(i)). Revised methods prohibit using retained amounts of arrowtooth flounder, or groundfish species that are closed to directed fishing, as a basis for calculating retainable amounts of other, more valuable groundfish species that are closed to directed fishing; and 3. Adjust the opening date for the BSAI yellowfin sole and ``other flatfish'' fisheries from May 1 to January 1. As a result of this season adjustment, directed fishing standards governing retainable amounts of flatfish species at §675.20(h)(2) are also revised. At its December 1993 meeting, the Council requested that NMFS implement these measures early in the 1994 fishing year by emergency interim rulemaking. An emergency rule was issued on February 10, 1994 (59 FR 6222) under section 305(c) of the Magnuson Act. A detailed description of, and justification for, each of the proposed management measures, including editorial changes to regulations addressing GOA halibut bycatch limits, follow. Establishment of Two GOA Trawl Categories for Purposes of Apportioning the Halibut Bycatch Mortality Limit Existing regulations at §672.20(f) establish a framework process for the annual specification of separate Pacific halibut PSC limits for ``trawl'' and ``fixed gear'' fisheries, and for apportioning those limits by season. Although these regulations limit the bycatch of Pacific halibut in the GOA groundfish trawl fisheries, they have resulted in conflict among, and preemption of, groundfish trawling operations in the GOA as various trawl fishery components compete for shares of the available halibut PSC limit. This conflict occurs due to seasonal variations in halibut bycatch rates and amounts of halibut caught in the various trawl fisheries; NMFS lacks regulatory authority to apportion the halibut PSC limit among separate trawl fishery categories. Under existing regulations, the possibility exists for the activities of one group of trawl vessels fishing for a particular groundfish species or species complex to take a disproportionate amount of the halibut PSC limit relative to other groundfish fisheries. The halibut PSC limit may be reached before the attainment of the fisheries' TAC amount and cause closure of all trawling operations in the GOA, except for trawling for pollock with pelagic trawl gear. Such closures may cause: significant amounts of economically important TAC to remain unharvested; idling of vessels and crew; and, a disruption of processing, fishing support sectors, fishery-dependent communities, and intermediate and final markets. Even if the total trawl PSC limit is not reached prematurely, the threat that it may be reached at any point in the fishing year can force other user groups to incur unnecessary costs, alter fishing plans, or operate in a manner that causes conflict among user groups. Many of the potentially adverse impacts of the present process used to manage halibut bycatch in the GOA trawl fisheries could be avoided or reduced if the GOA trawl PSC limit were apportioned between competing fishery categories. Fishery data from the GOA trawl fisheries indicate that the variation in halibut bycatch rates and associated bycatch mortality in these fisheries appears to be relatively well demarcated by the following operational categories: (1) Those vessels fishing for species in the ``shallow-water species complex'' (pollock, Pacific cod, shallow-water flatfish, flathead sole, Atka mackerel, or ``other species''); and (2) those vessels fishing for species in the ``deep-water species complex'' (sablefish, rockfish, deep water flatfish, and arrowtooth flounder). The Council's recommended management measure included flathead sole in the deep-water complex; however, 1993 fishery data show that more than 65 percent of the total GOA flathead sole harvest was associated with fisheries in the shallow-water complex. Therefore, NMFS proposes to include flathead sole in the shallow-water complex. In general, the shallow-water and deep-water complexes are associated with inshore and offshore trawl operations, respectively. Based on Council recommendations at its September and December 1993 meetings, NMFS proposes to apportion the 1994 GOA halibut trawl PSC limit among fisheries and seasons as set out below: Apportionment of the 2,000 metric ton (mt) halibut bycatch mortality limit established for the 1994 GOA trawl fisheries among the shallow and deep-water trawl fishery complexes and seasons. Seasons open and close at 12 noon, Alaska local time (A.l.t.), except that the first season opens at 0001 hours, A.l.t., January 20, and the last season ends at 12 midnight, A.l.t., December 31. ␣ 1Season 1Shallow complex 1Deep complex 1Total Jan. 20&hyph;Mar. 31 500 mt 100 mt 600 mt. Mar. 31&hyph;Jun. 30 100 mt 300 mt 400 mt. Jun. 30&hyph;Sep. 30 200 mt 400 mt 600 mt. Sep. 30&hyph;Dec. 31 (1) (1) 400 mt. 1No apportionment.
