FR940303-2-00016 FR940303-2-00013 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Finding of No Significant Impact for the Establishment of a Reserve of Ozone Depleting Substances AGENCY: Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), DOD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: An environmental assessment on the Establishment of a Reserve of Ozone Depleting Substances was prepared pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 ( et seq ) and the Council on Environmental Quality Guidelines (40 CFR Parts 1500&hyph;1508). The environmental assessment concluded that there will be no significant impact on the environment and that preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement will not be necessary. Interested parties may submit comments to the address listed below for a 30-day period from the date of this notice. EFFECTIVE DATE: 25th of February 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Mr, Jan Reitman, CAAE, Staff Director, Environmental and Safety Policy Office, Defense Logistics Agency, Cameron Station, Alexandria, VA 22304&hyph;6100, (703) 274&hyph;6124. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: DLA has been directed to establish a reserve of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) to ensure that supplies for mission-critical uses will be available. An environmental assessment has been prepared to address the proposed strategy for establishing the ODS Reserve, possible alternative approaches, environmental consequences of the proposed action, and measures recommended to mitigate potentially adverse effects. This environmental assessment has been prepared in accordance with Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) regulations and DLA implementing regulation DLAR 1000.22, Environmental Consideration in DLA Actions. The proposed action involves the establishment of a Defense Reserve to support mission-critical requirements for CFC refrigerants and halon fire extinguishing agents. CFC solvents may be maintained in the Reserve if requirements are fully justified. Although the Reserve may receive deposits from all sources within the DoD, material will be issued only to mission-critical systems and users as identified to the DLA by the Military Services. The establishment of the Reserve will give DoD the capability to centrally receive, recontainerize, recycle and reclaim ODS. This reclamation capability will be established at the Defense Distribution Depot Richmond, Virginia, which already has extensive operations involving compressed gas receipt, storage, and distribution and cylinder refurnishment. The Reserve will be located within structures currently used for cylinder storage and refurbishment and will require no new construction. DLA will institute a variety of safeguards including personnel training, equipment upgrades, and leak detection programs to maintain the inventory and avoid unnecessary emissions. Reserve operations will not require air emission, water discharge, or hazardous waste management permits. DLA will manage inventory levels in order to ensure that excess quantities of materials are not maintained in the Reserve and will phase out materials when no longer needed for mission-critical purposes. Any excess will be disposed of in compliance with environmental regulatory requirements. New purchases of ODS will be necessary in order to establish inventories at levels which can be sustained through recovery and reclamation. The quantity of new ODS purchases will be validated in coordination with the DoD Inspector General. The total quantity of ODS expected to be acquired for the initial establishment of the Reserve will be less than the average quantity of ODS purchased annually by DoD in recent years. Specific measures have been identified in the assessment to mitigate potentially adverse effects which might occur during establishment or operation of the Reserve. The establishment of a Reserve and the initiation of central recovery, recycling and reclamation operations will allow DoD to conserve ODS inventories, maintain mission-critical systems which are dependent on ODS, and avoid the need for an exemption to the production phase out pursuant to Section 604(f) of the Clean Air Act Amendments. The establishment of a defense Reserve for mission-critical ODS is not considered a major action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment or requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement. A public comment period regarding the environmental assessment will begin at the time of publication of this notice and will conclude 30 days following. Copies of the environmental assessment are available for inspection at the address listed above. Dated: February 25, 1994. Jan B. Reitman, Staff Director, (Environmental and Safety Policy). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4782 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3620&hyph;01&hyph;M
