FR941207-2-00084 FR941207-2-00062 Second, the NYSE asserts that the CHX is proposing a private auction market outside of the NMS quotation facilities. The NYSE states that the Chicago Match raises market structure issues similar to the issues it claims are raised by the ``Selectnet'' System operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers (``NASD''). 44 The NYSE asserts that both Selectnet and Chicago Match are inappropriately driven by orders that are hidden from public view and that do not have the opportunity to interact with trading interest from other markets. The NYSE further asserts that the presence of the ``near match'' function emphasizes that the proposal is merely a hidden auction market conducted outside of the NMS because the ``near match'' function allows the participants to have a broker negotiate the transaction outside of the auction process. The NYSE concludes that, while the Commission has sanctioned this result in the case of PTSs, there is no precedent for allowing a national stock exchange to operate such a ``hidden auction.'' 44 The NYSE states that it previously commented on the ``Selectnet'' system by way of a Letter from Janes E. Buck, Secretary, NYSE, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, dated October 30, 1992. The NYSE letter also asserts that the Chicago Match violates Exchange Act Rule 11Ac1&hyph;1 (the ``Firm Quote Rule'' or ``Quote Rule''). 45 The NYSE states that, like the Selectnet trading interest, Chicago Match orders that are displayed to other Chicago Match participants are bids and offers under the Commission's rules because ``bid'' and ``offer'' are defined as the ``prices communicated by an exchange member *␣*␣* to any broker or dealer, or to any customer, at which he is willing to buy or sell one or more round lots of a reported security.'' 46 The NYSE states that Chicago Match users are bidding for and offering stock in accordance with the definition in Rule 11Ac1&hyph;1 and because the trading interest is firm, the CHX must take these quotations into account in calculating the best bid and offer that it provides to the Consolidated Quote System (``CQS''). 47 45 17 CFR 240.11Ac1&hyph;1 (1994). 46 NYSE Letter No. 1, citing Exchange Act Section 6(c)(1). 47 The NYSE states that paragraph (b)(1)(i) of the Firm Quote Rule requires an exchange to collect, process and make available to quotation vendors the best bid and best offer ``communication on the floor of the exchange .␣.␣. by any responsible broker or dealer.'' The NYSE also states that paragraph (a)(3)(i) of that rule defines a responsible broker or dealer basically as any member of the exchange. The NYSE believes that the original proposal would lead to a failure to protect displayed limit orders. The NYSE states that the Intermarket Trading System (``ITS'') has rules discouraging trade throughs, i.e., the trading of a stock in one market at a price inferior to that in another market. Similarly, the ITS ``Block Policy'' provides price protection for quotations at the quoted price when a Block Policy transaction prints at inferior prices. The NYSE states that the Chicago Match proposal violates these price protection rules. The NYSE further asserts that the Chicago Match would ``formally bifurcate the retail and institutional markets, allowing large institutional investors to trade outside the current market, without providing price protection for publicly-displayed retail customer limit orders.'' 48 48 NYSE Letter No. 1 at 6. The NYSE asserts that the initial proposal 49 would allow the Chicago Match to accept short sales and would therefore operate in violation of Exchange Act Rule 10a&hyph;1 (``Short Sale Rule''), which prohibits a short sale at a price below the last different reported price. The NYSE asserts that the system would allow the seller to sell stock at a price that is actually below the price reported to the tape. 49 As of the time of filing of Amendment No. 1. Finally, the NYSE argues that the Chicago Match should not be able to trade securities that are neither listed on the Exchange nor traded pursuant to unlisted trading privileges (``UTP''). 50 The NYSE states that pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 12 of the Act, an exchange can trade only securities that are registered under the Act (or exempt from registration), and then only if the securities are listed on the exchange or if the exchange receives UTP. 50 The NYSE states that, ``there appear to be no limits on the securities to be included in the Chicago Match. These could be (i) securities listed on another exchange for which the CHX does not have UTP; (ii) Nasdaq securities that are outside the Commission's over-the-counter UTP pilot, or (iii) securities that are not registered under the Exchange Act, such as non-U.S. securities exempt from registration under Exchange Act Rule 12q3&hyph;2(b), or even non-U.S. securities that should be registered under the Exchange Act and which are neither registered nor exempt from registration. NYSE Letter No. 1 at 7. B. The NYSE's Second Comment Letter The NYSE filed a second comment letter with the Commission 51 after publication of the first four amendments to the proposed Chicago Match rules. 52 The second letter states that the proposed amendments fail to address the problems associated with Chicago Match. The NYSE continues to believe that the Chicago Match will conduct an auction based on hidden liquidity charges. The NYSE states that the proposal presents transparency concerns and would allow CHX specialists to trade ahead of customers. 51 Letter from James E. Buck, Senior Vice President and Secretary, NYSE, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, dated August 15, 1994 (``NYSE Letter No. 2''). 52 See note 8, supra. First, the NYSE believes that the reporting methodology/plan proposed by the CHX continues to violate the Commission's rules and the CTA plan. Because the final Chicago Match proposal fails to require a report of the price at which the transaction would be executed, the NYSE states that the Chicago Match actually would provide inaccurate trading information, thereby violating the reliability of the tape. Second, the NYSE letter asserts that the Chicago Match will allow specialists to trade ahead of customer orders. The NYSE argues that, because of liquidity credits, a specialist quote that is entered into the Chicago Match may be able to have priority over customer orders entered into the system. C. The CHX's Responses
