FR940406-2-00086 FR940406-2-00048 h. By signing and submitting this application, the applicant is certifying that it will comply with the Federal requirements concerning debarment and drug-free regulations set forth in Attachments C and D. The total number of pages for the narrative portion of the application package must not exceed 30 pages in their entirety. Applications must be uniform in composition since OCS may find it necessary to duplicate them for review purposes. Therefore, applications must be submitted on 81/2×11 inch paper only. They must not include colored, oversized or folded materials, organizational brochures, or other promotional materials, slides, films, clips, etc., in the proposal. Such materials will be discarded if included. Applications should be two-holed punched at the top center and fastened separately with a compressor slide paper fastener, such as an ACCO clip, or a binder clip. While applications must be comprehensive, OCS encourages conciseness and brevity in the presentation of materials and cautions the applicant to avoid unnecessary duplication of information. 2. Acknowledgment of Receipt An acknowledgment postcard will be mailed to all applicants with an identification number which will be noted on the acknowledgment. This number must be referred to in all subsequent communications with OCS concerning the application. If an acknowledgment is not received within three weeks after the deadline date, applicants must notify ACF by telephone (202) 401&hyph;9234. Applicant should also submit a mailing label for the acknowledgment card. Part H_Post Award Information and Reporting Requirements Following approval of the applications selected for funding, notice of project approval and authority to draw down project funds will be made in writing. The official award document is the Financial Assistance Award which provides the amount of Federal funds approved for use in the project, the budget period for which support is provided, and the terms and conditions of the award. In addition to the General Conditions and Special Conditions (where the latter are warranted) which will be applicable to grants, grantees will be subject to the provisions of 45 CFR parts 74 (non-governmental) and 92 (governmental) along with OMB Circulars 122 and 87. Grantees will be required to submit semi-annual progress and financial reports (SF&hyph;269) as well as a final progress and financial report.
