FR940111-1-00023 FR940111-1-00007 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;ANE&hyph;69] Airworthiness Directives; General Electric Company CF6 Series Turbofan Engines AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to General Electric Company (GE) CF6&hyph;45/&hyph;50 series turbofan engines. This proposal would require repetitive inspections of the left compressor discharge pressure (CDP) manifold and lower CDP tube for cracks, and if found cracked, rework or replacement with serviceable parts. This proposal would also require rework or replacement of the left CDP manifold, lower CDP tube, stage 14 turnbuckle, and other related CDP bleed air hardware, and inspection of the compressor rear frame (CRF) as a terminating action to the inspection program. This proposal is prompted by reports of cracks in the left CDP manifold, lower CDP tube, and CRF bleed port struts, that have resulted in inflight engine shutdowns and rejected takeoffs. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent cracks in the left CDP manifold, lower CDP tube, and CRF bleed port struts, which could result in an inflight engine shutdown, rejected takeoff, or damage to the engine nacelle. DATES: Comments must be received by March 14, 1993. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;ANE&hyph;69, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299. Comments may be inspected at this location between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from General Electric Aircraft Engines, CF6 Distribution Clerk, room 132, 111 Merchant Street, Cincinnati, OH 45246. This information may be examined at the FAA, New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert J. Ganley, Aerospace Engineer, Engine Certification Office, FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299; telephone (617) 238&hyph;7138; fax (617) 238&hyph;7199. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 93&hyph;ANE&hyph;69.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;ANE&hyph;69, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299.
