FR940128-1-00011 FR940128-1-00006 4. Seafood industry representatives have urged the Federal Government to institute a mandatory, HACCP-type inspection system for their products. 5. A nationally mandated HACCP-type system of controls appears to be a prerequisite for continued access to world markets. II. Safety A. Background Ensuring the safety of seafood presents special challenges to both the industry that produces it and to Government agencies charged with protecting the public health. Seafood is unique in many respects. While often thought of as homogeneous in nature, seafood is actually a variety of products encompassing literally hundreds of species that have little in common other than an aquatic origin. Collectively, seafoods have perhaps the most diverse and complex microbiology of any food commodity (Ref. 3, p. xi). The range of habitats for edible species is also extraordinary and diverse ranging from cold to warm water, bottom dwelling to surface feeding, deep sea to near shore, and fresh water to saltwater. Fish are exposed to the bacteria and viruses that naturally occur in their environment as well as to those that enter the water through pollution. Chemicals, some of which are toxic to humans, can accumulate in fish as well. Fish can also accumulate natural toxins and parasites that are specific to marine animals. As a consequence, fish are subject to a wide range of hazards before harvest. B. The Safety Data The question of how safe is the seafood in the marketplace has been the subject of public debate in recent years. This debate has occurred partly because precise data on the numbers and causes of foodborne illnesses in the United States do not exist. Foodborne illnesses tend to be significantly underreported to public health authorities. Data on foodborne illnesses that are meaningful from an epidemiological standpoint are difficult and expensive to develop. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDCP) of the U.S. Public Health Service (PHS) compiles data in its Foodborne Disease Surveillance System that are reported from State and local health authorities. All foodborne illnesses are underreported to this system (Ref. 4). Nonetheless, CDCP data are the best available and can at least be used to identify trends and emerging concerns about various diseases (Ref. 5, p. 219). The data suggest that most seafood-related illnesses result from certain natural toxins in finfish and from viruses in molluscan shellfish consumed raw or partially cooked (Ref. 4). The wide range of other hazards that can affect seafood undoubtedly result in illnesses, but the available data indicate that such illnesses are not as common. Thus, according to the CDCP data, the actual occurrence of problems tends to be limited relative to the range of hazards that could cause problems and tends to be associated with a minority of commercially available species. In the CDCP system, seafood accounted for 4.8 percent of reported cases of foodborne illness for the period 1973 to 1987 (Ref. 4). However, as CDCP has pointed out, variations in rates of underreporting among different foods and varying etiologies make it impossible to compare safety among different foods based solely on CDCP data (Ref. 4). This is certainly true for seafood. Some seafood-related illnesses tend to be overreported to CDCP's system relative to other foodborne diseases, due largely to their distinctive characteristics, while others are probably underreported relative to other causes because they are less distinctive and more difficult to diagnose (Ref. 4). FDA has attempted to determine the relative safety of seafood through risk assessment. The results of this effort indicate that the risk of illness associated with molluscan shellfish consumed raw or partially cooked is greater than for any cooked flesh food. However, seafood overall is as safe or safer than other flesh foods in terms of frequency of illness (Refs. 5, p. 25; and 6). The conclusions of the National Academy of Sciences' (NAS) Institute of Medicine, in its 1991 report entitled ``Seafood Safety,'' are consistent with the CDCP data and the FDA risk assessment. According to NAS, ``Most seafoods available to the U.S. public are wholesome and unlikely to cause illness in the consumer'' (Ref. 7, p. 1). Moreover, in reviewing the CDCP data, the report noted that the 23 percent increase in seafood consumption in the United States in the 10-year period ending 1989 was not accompanied by a concomitant increase in reported seafood-borne illnesses (Ref. 7, p. 27). Nevertheless, as NAS pointed out, ``there are areas of risk'' (Ref. 7, p. 1). The report addressed at some length virtually every possible risk that could affect seafood and made numerous recommendations relating to existing and proposed control measures. NAS recommended that improvements be made in the present system of regulatory control (Ref. 7, p. 1) and repeatedly recommended HACCP controls wherever appropriate. ``Inspection and testing should focus on actual problems (as in HACCP systems),'' NAS concluded (Ref. 7, p. 16).
