FR940202-0-00018 FR940202-0-00003 §567.5 Components of capital. (a)␣*␣*␣* (2) Deductions from core capital: (i) Intangible assets are deducted from assets for purposes of determining core capital except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section and §567.12 of this part. (ii) Paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section does not apply to qualifying supervisory goodwill held by an eligible savings association (as defined in §567.1(h) of this part) to the extent permitted by this paragraph. The amount of qualifying supervisory goodwill may not exceed the applicable percentage of adjusted total assets as calculated for the tangible capital requirement set forth in the following table: ␣ 1␣ 1Percent Jan. 1, 1993_Dec. 31, 1993 0.750 Jan. 1, 1994_Dec. 31, 1994 0.375 Thereafter 0 (iii) [Reserved] * * * * * 3. Section 567.6 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(L) to read as follows: §567.6 Risk-based capital credit risk weight categories. (a)␣*␣*␣* (1)␣*␣*␣* (iv)␣*␣*␣* (L) Any intangible assets not deducted from capital pursuant to §567.5(a)(2) of this part; * * * * * 4. Section 567.9 is amended by revising paragraph (c)(1) to read as follows: §567.9 Tangible capital requirement. * * * * * (c)␣*␣*␣* (1) Any intangible assets, except certain purchased mortgage servicing rights as provided in §567.12 of this part. * * * * * 5. A new §567.12 is added to read as follows: §567.12 Qualifying intangible assets. (a) Scope. This section prescribes the maximum amount of qualifying intangible assets that savings associations may include in calculating tangible and core capital. (b) Definition. Qualifying intangible assets means purchased mortgage servicing rights and purchased credit card relationships. Purchased mortgage servicing rights may be included in (that is, not deducted from) tangible and core capital calculations and purchased credit card relationships may be included in core capital calculations. These assets may be included in capital only to the extent they meet the limitations and restrictions set forth in this section. Other identifiable intangible assets, including core deposit intangibles not grandfathered pursuant to paragraph (g)(3) of this section, must be deducted from assets and capital, except as provided by §567.5(a)(2)(ii) of this part. (c) Market valuations. The OTS reserves the authority to require any savings association to perform an independent market valuation of qualifying intangible assets on a case-by-case basis or through the issuance of policy guidance. An independent market valuation, if required, shall be conducted in accordance with any policy guidance issued by the OTS. A required valuation shall include adjustments for any significant changes in original valuation assumptions, including changes in prepayment estimates or attrition rates. The valuation shall determine the current fair market value of the qualifying intangibles by applying an appropriate market discount rate to the net cash flows expected to be generated from the intangibles. This independent market valuation may be conducted by an independent valuation expert evaluating the reasonableness of the internal calculations and assumptions used by the association in conducting its internal analysis. The association shall calculate an estimated fair market value for the qualifying intangibles at least quarterly regardless of whether an independent valuation expert is required to perform an independent market valuation. (d) Value limitation. For purposes of calculating core capital under this part (but not for financial statement purposes), each qualifying intangible asset must be valued at the lesser of: (1) 90 percent of the fair market value of the intangible assets determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; or (2) 100 percent of the remaining unamortized book value of the intangible assets determined in accordance with the instructions in the Thrift Financial Report. (e) Core capital limitation _(1) Aggregate limit. The maximum aggregate amount of qualifying intangible assets that may be included in core capital shall be limited to the lesser of: (i) 50 percent of the amount of core capital computed before the deduction of any disallowed qualifying intangible assets; or (ii) The amount of qualifying intangible assets determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
