FR940516-1-00085 FR940516-1-00006 The exploratory meeting recommended in the convening report was held in Ann Arbor, Michigan on November 16&hyph;17, 1992. Participants decided that state and public interest representatives needed more technical information to fully understand some of the regulatory issues participants might face. It was also decided that another meeting was necessary to discuss the potential design of a consultative process for a small SI engine rulemaking. The technical briefing for state and public interest representatives was conducted in Ann Arbor on December 16, 1992. On January 28&hyph;29, 1993, a meeting to discuss consultative process design was held in Ann Arbor. At the January meeting, it was suggested that EPA consider a two-phased approach to regulation of small SI engines. In the suggested first phase, EPA would propose regulations for new small SI engines through the normal regulatory process rather than a consultative process. It was suggested that Phase 1 regulations could be similar to California's Regulation for 1995 and Later Utility and Lawn and Garden Equipment Engines, modified as necessary to meet CAA requirements. (For example, EPA's proposal could modify CARB's program by including engines preempted from regulation in California.) The Phase 1 proposal would be completed as soon as possible, but no later than the spring of 1994. The final rule would be promulgated no later than spring of 1995. The suggested second phase of regulation could be developed through the consultative process of regulatory negotiation. It could include issues such as useful life, in-use emissions, evaporative emissions, refueling emissions, test procedure, and market-based incentive programs. Negotiations could begin in Fall 1993 and continue for approximately 18 months. EPA has decided to proceed with the phased approach. Today's action proposes the first phase of regulation for new small SI engines. The data that supports the proposed emission standards and the technology, cost, and benefits assessments for this proposal are outlined herein and in the draft Regulatory Support Document (RSD), a copy of which is located in the public docket for this rulemaking. EPA does not currently have sufficient data to establish useful life standards or an in-use liability program. However, rather than lose the potential early emission benefits while EPA develops the data necessary to establish useful life and in-use liability, EPA is choosing to claim those early benefits in this first phase of new small SI engine regulation and to continue developing the data necessary for the second phase of small SI engine regulation. EPA believes that the potential for early benefits to public health and the environment provided by the first phase of emission standards is of sufficient magnitude to postpone determinations of useful life and in-use liability until the second phase of rulemaking. The phased approach to regulation of small SI engines is incorporated in the Sierra Club v. Browner settlement, a copy of which is available in the public docket for this rulemaking. IV. Requirements of the Proposed Rule The general provisions of this rule, as well as the rationale for the key parts of this proposal, are briefly described in the following section. A. Overview EPA proposes to regulate emissions of hydrocarbons (HC), NO X , and CO from certain new nonroad spark-ignition engines that have a gross power output at and below 19 kW. 1 A spark-ignition engine is an internal combustion engine in which the air/fuel mixture is ignited in the combustion chamber by an electric spark. 1 To convert kilowatts to horsepower multiply kW by 1.34 and round to the same number of significant digits. For example 3.5 kW×1.34=4.7 hp.
