FR940606-1-00019 FR940606-1-00008 Table 3._ Composition Requirements for Approved Cleaning Solvents 1Cleaning solvent type 1Composition requirements Aqueous Cleaning solvents in which water is the primary ingredient (≥80 percent of solvent as applied must be water). Aqueous solvents must be non-flammable, non-combustible, and 100 percent soluble in water. Detergents, surfactants, and bioenzyme mixtures and nutrients may be combined with the water along with a variety of additives such as organic solvents (e.g., high boiling point alcohols), builders, saponifiers, inhibitors, emulsifiers, pH buffers, and antifoaming agents. Hydrocarbon-Based Cleaners that are composed of a mixture of hydrocarbons and oxygenated hydrocarbons and have a maximum vapor pressure of 7 mm Hg at 20 ○C (3.75 in. H 2 O at 68 ○F). These cleaners also contain no HAP or ozone depleting compounds. The EPA is proposing a work practice standard for the cleaning of spray guns at all new and existing affected sources. The proposed rule would require all spray guns to be cleaned by one or more of the following methods (or their equivalent): (1) Use of an enclosed spray gun cleaning system that is kept closed when not in use, (2) nonatomized discharge of solvent into a waste container that is kept closed when not in use, (3) disassembly of the spray gun and cleaning in a vat that is kept closed when not in use, and (4) atomized spray into a waste container that is fitted with a device designed to capture atomized solvent emissions. In addition, the EPA is proposing that leaks from enclosed spray gun cleaners be repaired as soon as practicable but no later than 15 days from when the leak is first discovered. The EPA is also proposing a work practice standard for the flush cleaning of parts, assemblies, and components of a coating unit. Under the proposed rule, each time a part, assembly, or component of a coating unit (with the exception of spray guns) is flush cleaned, the spent cleaning solvent would be emptied into an enclosed container or collection system that is kept closed when not in use. The following cleaning operations, which would still be required to comply with the proposed housekeeping requirements, would be exempt from the proposed cleaning solvent composition and vapor pressure requirements: (1) Cleaning during the manufacture, assembly, installation, or testing of components of breathing oxygen systems that are exposed to the breathing oxygen, (2) Cleaning during the manufacture, assembly, installation, or testing of parts, subassemblies, or assemblies that are exposed to strong oxidizers or reducers (e.g., nitrogen tetroxide, liquid oxygen, hydrazine), (3) Cleaning and surface activation prior to adhesive bonding, (4) Cleaning of electronics and assemblies containing electronics,
