FR940407-1-00027 FR940407-1-00011 (b) Those who aspire to become full-time teachers of American history, American government, or social studies in grades 7&hyph;12 who: (1) Are matriculated college seniors pursuing their baccalaureate degrees full time and will receive those degrees no later than August 31st of the year of the fellowship competition in which they apply or prior recipients of baccalaureate degrees; (2) Plan to begin graduate study on a full-time basis; (3) Have demonstrated records of willingness to devote themselves to civic responsibilities; (4) Are highly recommended by faculty members, deans, or other persons familiar with their potential for graduate study of American history and government and with their serious intention to enter the teaching profession as secondary school teachers of American history, American government, or social studies in grades 7&hyph;12; (5) Qualify for admission with graduate standing at accredited universities of their choice that offer master's degree programs that allow at least 12 hours or their equivalent of study of the origins, principles, and development of the Constitution of the United States and of its comparison with the constitutions and history of other forms of government; (6) Are able to complete their proposed courses of graduate study in no more than two calendar years from the commencement of study under their fellowships, normally through full-time study; (7) Agree to attend the Foundation's four-week Summer Institute on the Constitution, normally during the summer following the commencement of study under their fellowships; and (8) Sign an agreement that, after completing the education for which the fellowship is awarded, they will teach American history, American government, or social studies full time in secondary schools for a period of not less than one year for each full academic year of study for which assistance was received, preferably in the state listed as their legal residence at the time of their fellowship award. For the purposes of this provision, a fully academic year of study is the number of credit hours determined by each university at which Fellows are studying as constituting a full year of study at that university. Fellows' teaching obligations will be figured at full academic years of study; and when Fellows have studies for partial academic years, those years will be rounded upward to the nearest one-half year to determine Fellows' total teaching obligations. ยง2400.4 Definitions. As used in this part: Academic year means the period of time in which a full-time student would normally complete two semesters, two trimesters, three quarters, or their equivalent of study. Act means the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Act. College means an institution of higher education offering only a baccalaureate degree or the undergraduate division of a university in which a student is pursuing a baccalaureate degree. Fee means a typical and usual non-refundable charge levied by an institution of higher education for a service, privilege, or use of property which is required for a Fellow's enrollment and registration. Fellow means a recipient of a fellowship from the Foundation. Fellowship means an award, called a James Madison Fellowship, made to a person by the Foundation for graduate study. Foundation means the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation. Full-time study means study for an enrolled student who is carrying a full-time academic workload as determined by the institution under a standard applicable to all students enrolled in a particular educational program. Graduate study means the courses of study beyond the baccalaureate level, which are offered as part of a university's master's degree program and which lead to a master's degree. Institution of higher education has the meaning given in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a)). Junior fellowship means a James Madison Fellowship granted either to a college senior or to a college graduate who has received a baccalaureate degree and who seeks to become a secondary school teacher of American history, American government, or social studies for full-time graduate study toward a master's degree whose course of study emphasizes the framing, principles, history, and interpretation of the United States Constitution. Master's degree means the first pre-doctoral graduate degree offered by a university beyond the baccalaureate degree, for which the baccalaureate degree is a prerequisite.
