FR940223-2-00111 FR940223-2-00062 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE [AAG/A Order No. 82&hyph;94] Privacy Act of 1974; New System of Records Pursuant to the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), the Department of Justice, United States Marshals Service, proposes to establish a new Privacy Act system of records entitled ``U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) Key Control Record System, JUSTICE/USM&hyph;016.'' Title 5 U.S.C. 552a(e) (4) and (11) provide that the public be given a 30-day period in which to comment on any new routine uses of a system of records. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB), which has oversight responsibilities under the Act, requires a 40-day period in which to conclude its review of the system. Therefore, please submit any comments by March 25, 1994. The public, OMB, and the Congress are invited to submit written comments to Patricia E. Neely, Staff Assistant, Systems Policy Staff, Information Resources Management, Justice Management Division, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530 (Room 850, WCTR Building). In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(r), the Department has provided a report on this system to OMB and the Congress. The system description is printed below. Dated: February 4, 1994. Stephen R. Colgate, Assistant Attorney General for Administration. JUSTICE/USM&hyph;016 System name: U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) Key Control Record System. system location: Internal Security Division, Office of Inspections, United States Marshals Service, 2611 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia. categories of individuals covered by the system: Current and former employees of the USMS who have been issued office keys for USMS Headquarters locations. categories of records covered by the system: Records contained in this system consist of an automated index which includes the name of the employee to whom a key is issued; the social security number (only when two or more employees have identical names, including middle initial); unique key identification code number; key type (e.g., grand master, master, submaster, change); storage container hook number; description (e.g., number identification) of door(s), room(s), and/or area(s) the key opens or accesses; transaction type and/or status (e.g., key issued, transferred, retrieved, lost, broken) and transaction date; and, any other appropriate comment, e.g., comments regarding key, door, room, area, etc. In addition, a manual index with abbreviated data is maintained as a backup system. This manual index includes the room/suite number, the name of the employee to whom a key is issued, the key identification code number, and date(s) of issuance and retrieval. authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301 and 44 U.S.C. 3101. purpose: The USMS Key Control Record System serves as a record of keys issued and facilitates continuing security at USMS Headquarters locations. Records are maintained to assist in restricting office and work area access to authorized USMS personnel by controlling, monitoring and tracking keys issued. In addition, records assist in identifying any repairs, changes, or additional security measures that may be necessary as a result of lost or broken keys. routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Records or information may be disclosed: (a) In the event that a record(s) indicate a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal, or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by rule, regulation, or order pursuant thereto, the relevant record(s) may be disclosed to the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, or local, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation, and/or charged with enforcing or implementing such statute, rule, regulation or order, (b) in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the USMS is authorized to appear when any of the following is a party to litigation or has an interest in litigation and such records are determined by the USMS to be arguably relevant to the litigation: The USMS or any of its subdivisions; any USMS employee in his or her official capacity, or in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice agrees to represent the employee; or the United States where the USMS determines that the litigation is likely to affect it or any of its subdivisions, (c) to the news media and the public pursuant to 28 CFR 50.2 unless it is determined that release of the specific information in the context of a particular case would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, (d) to a Member of Congress or staff acting upon the Member's behalf when the Member or staff requests the information on behalf of and at the request of the individual who is the subject of the record, and (e) to the National Archives and Records Administration and to the General Services Administration in records management inspections conducted under the authority of 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906. policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: storage: Automated index records are stored on magnetic disks. Paper copies of automated records are kept in file folders and original paper records of the manual index are stored in card files. retrievability: Records are retrieved by name of the individuals covered by the system. safeguards: Access to these records is restricted to personnel of the USMS Internal Security Division. Computerized records may be accessed only by assigned code and password. Paper records are located in a restricted area and are maintained in metal filing cabinets or safes which are locked during non-duty hours. retention and disposal: Records are retained for 3 years after turn-in of the key, at which time they are destroyed (General Records Schedule 18). system manager and address: Chief, Internal Security Division, Office of Inspections, United States Marshals Service, 2611 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia. notification procedures: Direct all inquiries to the system manager identified above. Clearly mark the letter and envelope ``Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Request.'' record access procedures: Make all requests for access in writing and clearly mark letter and envelope ``Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Request.'' Clearly indicate the name of the requester, nature of the record sought, approximate dates of the record, and provide the required verification of identity (28 CFR 16.41(d)). Direct all requests to the system manager identified above, Attention: FOI/PA Officer, and provide a return address for transmitting the information. contesting record procedures: Direct all requests to contest or amend information to the system manager listed above. State clearly and concisely the information being contested, the reasons for contesting it, and the proposed amendment to the information sought. Clearly mark the letter and envelope ``Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Request.'' record source categories: Information contained in this system is collected from the individual and the system manager. system exempted from certain provisions of the act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3947 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
