FR940826-0-00126 FR940826-0-00020 34. In the Second Report and Order the Commission imposed a default penalty for withdrawing a bid after a simultaneous multiple round auction has closed. 70 This default penalty was set at 3 percent of the amount of the winning bid the next time the license is offered by the Commission, or 3 percent of the amount of the defaulting bidder's bid, whichever is less. The default penalty would be imposed in addition to the bid withdrawal penalty, which was set at the difference between the amount bid and the amount of the subsequent winning bid. We stated that the default penalty was intended to provide an incentive for bidders who wished to withdraw their bids to do so before the close of the auction. We stated that such a penalty was appropriate because a withdrawal that occurs after an auction closes is likely to be more harmful than one that occurs before closing. We stated that if a withdrawal occurs after the auction closes, other bidders will have little opportunity to revise their strategies, and the likelihood will be lower that the licenses will be awarded to those who value them most. We also stated that default imposes on the government the extra costs of re-auctioning the license. 70 Second Report and Order at ¶154. 35. Petition. AIDE asserts that the default penalty will produce a windfall to the Treasury if the winning bid exceeds the defaulting bid by more than 3 percent. 71 AIDE states that the defaulting bidder should pay no penalty if the second bid exceeds the defaulting bid by 3 percent or more, and that if the second bid exceeds the defaulting bid by less than 3 percent, the defaulting bidder's penalty should be the difference between the second winning bid and 103 percent of the defaulting bid. 71 AIDE Petition at 14. 36. Discussion. We believe that it is appropriate to charge the full 3 percent default penalty in addition to the bid withdrawal penalty whether or not the winning bid in the second auction exceeds the defaulting bid. As we stated in the Second Report and Order, the function of the default penalty is to encourage bidders who plan to withdraw their bids to do so before the close of the auction. 72 The additional costs to the Commission and to other bidders of auctioning the license a second time, and the increased likelihood that the license will not be won by the bidder who values it most, are incurred as a consequence of default regardless of the level of the bids. Even if the winning bid is higher than the defaulting bid, we have no reason to believe that it is higher than the winning bid would have been had the defaulting bidder withdrawn before the close of the auction, nor have we reason to believe that a high winning bid compensates for the undesirable effects of default. Consequently, we retain the default penalty as set forth in the Second Report and Order. 72 Second Report and Order at ¶154. F. Disclosure of Bidding Information 37. In the Second Report and Order the Commission recognized the informational benefits to be gained from releasing bidder identities during an auction, but concluded that such information should not be released because ``the risk of collusion and strategic manipulation outweighs the benefits of the additional information.'' Instead the Commission adopted an intermediate approach pursuant to which the bidder identification numbers and bid amounts for each bidder will be released at the end of each round of bidding. This approach provides bidders with useful information without incurring excessive risks of collusion and strategic manipulation. 73 73 Id at ¶158. 38. Petitions. GTE and Southwestern Bell request that the identities of bidders be released during the course of the auction. GTE requests that the identity of the bidder associated with each bidder identification number be disclosed during the bidding process. 74 SBC states that the Commission should announce both the identity of the highest bidder and the bid amount for each round of the auction. 75 GTE argues that a bidder must construct a strategy based on its own valuation of the spectrum as well as estimates of its competitors' valuations and past bids, and that a fundamental component of this exercise is knowledge of who the competitors are. GTE notes that the Commission's sole justification for not furnishing information about the identity of bidders is a concern for collusion, and states that the Second Report and Order includes other mechanisms for minimizing collusion. GTE states that increases in available information raise the level of competition and the efficiency of license assignments, and that access to bidder identification information may increase revenue from the auction process while ensuring award to the bidder who most highly values the license. 76 SBC argues that the decision to keep winning bidder identities secret creates an opportunity for collusive behavior because cartels could coordinate activities and punish violators without detection. SBC notes that if the identity of all bidders is known, the Commission and bidders need not be concerned with protecting bidders' identity. SBC states that knowing who the successful bidders are affects other bidders' ability to assess the accuracy of their valuation of the spectrum and allows them to ascertain that an aggregation of licenses is underway which might pose a competitive threat. MCI states that because of the potential for bidder collusion and strategic manipulation, bidder identities should not be revealed. 77 74 GTE Petition at 4&hyph;6. 75 SBC Petition at 8&hyph;10. 76 GTE Petition at 5&hyph;6. 77 MCI Comments at 3. 39. Discussion. Arguments in favor of disclosing bidder identities primarily turn on the value of the information in improving the quality of bids. Some auction experts argue that bidders' estimates of license values can be improved by comparing them to the valuations of their competitors. 78 Bidders' valuations of licenses may also be highly dependent on knowing the identity of neighboring carriers, especially regional leaders and competitors, and on knowing the manner in which complementary licenses are likely to be used and the compatibility of standards both inside and outside their desired service areas. Maximizing information available to bidders may increase bids by decreasing bidders' incentives to reduce their bids to avoid the ``winner's curse,'' the tendency for the bidder who most overestimates the value of the item for sale to win an auction. Revealing bidder identities may facilitate awarding licenses to those who value them most highly by providing more information to bidders. More accurate valuation of licenses by bidders can thus improve the efficiency of license assignments. In addition, publicly disclosing the identity of other bidders may encourage vigorous bidding for licenses. Releasing bidder identities may increase interest in and media coverage of the auctions. 78 See e.g. comments of PacBell on NPRM, Attachment by Paul R. Milgrom and Robert B. Wilson at 21.
