FR940418-0-00031 FR940418-0-00010 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 91&hyph;21; Notice 3] RIN 2127&hyph;AE76 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Air Brake Systems; Automatic Brake Adjusters AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation (DOT). ACTION: Final rule, response to petitions for reconsideration. SUMMARY: This notice responds to petitions for reconsideration of a final rule amending Standard No. 121, Air Brake Systems, (49 CFR 571.121). The rule amended the standard by requiring, inter alia, automatic brake adjusters on all medium and heavy vehicles and establishing readjustment limits for the performance of the adjusters. NHTSA received several petitions requesting the agency to reconsider the limits on the adjusters. This document grants those petitions. DATES: Effective Date: The amendment to ยง571.121 becomes effective October 20, 1994. Petitions for reconsideration : Any petitions for reconsideration of this rule must be received by NHTSA no later than May 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Any petition for reconsideration should refer to the docket and notice number set forth in the heading of this notice and be submitted to: Administrator, NHTSA, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard C. Carter, Crash Avoidance Division, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590 (202&hyph;366&hyph;5274). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On October 20, 1992, NHTSA published a final rule that amended Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 121, Air Brake Systems, to require, inter alia, automatic brake adjusters on all air-braked vehicles. (57 FR 47793.) That amendment improves the braking performance of vehicles by ensuring that each vehicle has a device that automatically maintains proper brake adjustment, thus eliminating the need for frequent inspection and manual adjustment of the brakes. To provide for a specific performance requirement for the adjusters, the rule also specified that the adjuster would have to perform such that ``the readjustment limits shall be in accordance with those specified in'' a regulation of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). 1 ( See , S5.1.8(a) of Standard No. 121.) The readjustment limits relate to the distance that a part of the brake (the pushrod) must travel, or stroke, before engaging the brake. The readjustment limits specify maximum distances for pushrod stroke. 1 Appendix G to subchapter B of Chapter III_``Minimum Periodic Inspection Standards,'' 49 CFR parts 200 to 399. NHTSA received timely petitions for reconsideration of the rule from Rockwell International (Rockwell) and White GM/Volvo. Petitioners asked for reconsideration of the requirements for the readjustment limits for the adjuster. Mr. John Kourik submitted a late petition to reconsider various aspects of the rule, including the readjustment limits. NHTSA is treating Mr. Kourik's petition as a petition for rulemaking, pursuant to the agency's regulations (see 49 CFR 553.35). However, NHTSA is responding in today's document to the issues raised by Mr. Kourik about the readjustment limits, since they are almost identical to those of Rockwell and White GM/Volvo. Each petitioner was concerned about the readjustment limit. Among the petitioners' criticisms were that the requirement is not objective, is inappropriate for certain air brake systems, and is likely to restrict new brake designs. Petitioners also believed that NHTSA did not provide adequate notice about the specification in the final rule for the FHWA readjustment limits. The concern about the adequacy of notice resulted from the development of the requirement from the original proposal in the NPRM. In the NPRM, NHTSA proposed that a brake adjuster perform so that it ``maintains brake adjustment within the manufacturer's recommended adjustment limits.'' 56 FR 20396, 20401, May 3, 1991. Several commenters, including White GM/Volvo, GM, Ford, and Midland-Grau, believed that the proposal would not provide any significant safety benefits and might cause unnecessary complications and confusion. For example, some commenters argued that, since there is no objective criteria as to what constitutes ``maintains brake adjustment,'' the requirement would be vague. Also, White GM/Volvo, GM and Ford believed that the proposal might be misinterpreted as requiring the manufacturer to be responsible for brake adjustment throughout the vehicle's life, even though under the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act the manufacturer is responsible for the compliance of the new vehicle only until the first consumer purchase. One commenter, Midland-Grau, recommended that NHTSA incorporate the FHWA's requirements for brake adjustment, set forth in the Minimum Periodic Inspection Standards.
