FR940414-1-00097 FR940414-1-00010 §455.45 New source performance standards (NSPS). Any new source subject to this subpart which discharges process wastewater pollutants must meet the following standards: There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants. §455.46 Pretreatment standards for existing sources (PSES). (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, any existing source subject to this subpart which introduces pollutants into a publicly owned treatment works must comply with 40 CFR part 403 and achieve the pretreatment standards for existing sources as follows: There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants. (b) Any wastewater from the formulating, packaging and repackaging of small quantities of sanitizer products at any existing source which introduces pollutants into a publicly owned treatment works must comply with 40 CFR part 403 and achieve the pretreatment standards for existing sources as follows: There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants from Interior Cleaning Wastewater Sources. (c) The provisions of this section do not apply to discharges resulting from the formulating, packaging or repackaging of the inorganic active ingredient sodium hypochlorite (also referred to as bleach). §455.47 Pretreatment standards for new sources (PSNS). (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any new source subject to this subpart which introduces pollutants into a publicly owned treatment works must comply with 40 CFR part 403 and achieve the pretreatment standards for new sources as follows: There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants. (b) The provisions of this section do not apply to discharges resulting from the formulating, packaging or repackaging of the inorganic active ingredient sodium hypochlorite (also referred to as bleach). 4. A new subpart E consisting of §§455.60 through 455.67 is proposed to be added to read as follows: Subpart E_Repackaging of Agricultural Pesticides Performed by Refilling Establishments Whose Principal Business is Retail Sales Sec. 455.60␣Applicability; description of the repackaging of agricultural pesticides performed by refilling establishments whose principal business is retail sales subcategory. 455.61␣Special definitions. 455.62␣Effluent limitations guidelines representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best practicable pollutant control technology (BPT). 455.63␣Effluent limitations guidelines representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best conventional pollutant control technology (BCT). 455.64␣Effluent limitations guidelines representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best available technology economically achievable (BAT). 455.65␣New source performance standards (NSPS). 455.66␣Pretreatment standards for existing sources (PSES). 455.67␣Pretreatment standards for new sources (PSNS). Subpart E_Repackaging of Agricultural Pesticides Performed by Refilling Establishments Whose Principal Business is Retail Sales §455.60 Applicability; description of the repackaging of agricultural pesticides performed by refilling establishments whose principal business is retail sales subcategory.
