FR940429-0-00200 FR940429-0-00015 Past performance of an institution or persons affiliated with an institution. Comments: Two commenters were concerned about the proposal to expand the requirements whereby an institution is not considered to be financially responsible if an individual, who exercises substantial control over any other existing institutions or defunct institution or third-party servicer, owes a liability for a violation of a Title IV requirement, and is not making payments according to an agreement established with the Secretary to repay the liability. Several commenters wanted all references to a member or members of a person's family deleted from the regulations citing that people should not be held financially or legally responsible for the actions of members of their family who have reached their majority. Another commenter was concerned about the inclusion of a member of the person's family without regard to whether there is any partnership between the individuals and felt that this requirement unnecessarily broadens the scope of the requirement. Several commenters suggested that the percentage of ownership interest used to establish substantial control over an institution or third-party servicer be set at 50 percent rather than 25 percent stating that a 25 percent ownership interest does not mean that the person has control of the business. Discussion: Section 498(e)(4)(B) refers to audit findings of more than 5 percent of an institution's Title IV, HEA program funds for any award year. The Secretary considers this statutory provision to be designed to require the consideration of the loss of that amount of Title IV, HEA program funds, regardless of whether that loss was identified from an audit or as the result of a program review. The Secretary considers the criteria in the provisions of ยง668.15(c)(2) to be indicative of serious problems with financial responsibility. An institution in one of these categories has already failed to comply properly with the Title IV, HEA program requirements and has had the opportunity, during its appeal process or other negotiations with the Department's officials, to demonstrate any mitigating circumstances that might have justified reducing or eliminating the sanction or finding. The Secretary agrees with the commenters who suggested that one of the categories of past performance problems should be revised to reflect a failure of an institution to resolve satisfactorily any significant compliance problem. The Secretary is satisfied that citing an institution for a failure to submit acceptable required audit reports in a timely fashion is a better standard of past performance problems than a final determination. A final determination is issued only after an acceptable audit report has been submitted and the findings have been formally issued to the institution. An institution can be cited for failure to submit an audit report in a timely fashion, and an institution can have its audit report returned because the report is unacceptable. These actions do not imply that the institution has committed any other violations of Title IV, HEA program requirements, but it is essential for the Secretary to have acceptable audit reports on time so that the Secretary can evaluate whether the institution is appropriately administering its participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. Changes: The criterion in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section has been revised to provide that the failure to resolve satisfactorily any significant problem identified in a program review or audit report causes an institution not to be considered financially responsible. Exceptions to the general standards of financial responsibility. Comments: Three commenters suggested that performance bonds should be accepted to meet the standard for surety amounting to at least 50 percent of total Title IV HEA program funding under the statute. The commenters contended that performance bonds may provide equal, if not better, protection to the Secretary than letters of credit because it is often possible to collect on performance bonds even after the expiration date. Discussion: The Secretary has determined that the level of protection afforded by performance bonds is not sufficient due to the relative difficulty in collecting against such instruments compared to recoveries under a letter of credit. In some instances involving school closures where a performance bond was in place, the Secretary might be required to submit and document claims on a student-by-student basis before a third party before collecting the full amount of institutional liabilities. Collection under an irrevocable letter of credit has proven to be reliable and effective in protecting the federal interests. Changes: None. Comments: A number of commenters responded to the Secretary's request in the February 28, 1994 NPRM for specific standards that might be employed to measure the acceptability of a State's tuition recovery fund. Several commenters recommended that the Department only require states to certify that the fund can pay all required refunds on behalf of schools that close precipitously. Some of the commenters recommended that the Secretary take into consideration the success of various teach-out measures which exist in the various states. One commenter recommended removal of the exemption because many charges associated with attending an institution that are properly included in refunds are not considered part of tuition, and would not be recoverable by the student in the event an institution closes. The commenter went on to recommend that the Secretary require an actuarial analysis and certification of full funding before considering a fund acceptable. Some of the commenters believed that a State's tuition recovery fund should be acceptable if the State has taxing authority to require schools to contribute to the fund. One commenter provided the Department with a number of suggestions including: assessing the extent of refund obligation that the fund would cover, the current funding level, maximum fund balance, amounts of annual assessments, amount of annual claims, the authority of the fund's administrator and the historical experience of the fund. One commenter believed that the Department would not effectively be able to evaluate the State's tuition recovery fund. Another commenter suggested that the acceptability of the state's tuition recovery fund should be determined by comparing a State fund's established maximum payout to an individual institution's annual loan volume. Discussion: In general, the Secretary believes that a State's tuition recovery fund will be found to be acceptable where it has the backing of the full faith and credit of the State and agrees to administer such refund payments in accordance with the requirements of the HEA programs. Based upon historical experience, State tuition recovery funds have been poorly capitalized and fund administrators have little authority to levy assessments. Many of the funds will pay refunds only for students currently enrolled, and not to students that were owed refunds when the institution closed. Other State tuition recovery funds have only provided protection to in-state residents and, in general, have capped payments at a predetermined maximum level without regard to the refund owed under the HEA programs. Some problems have also arisen where refunds were being made directly to students on a first-come, first-served basis that exhausted the available funds without apportioning them ratably to the funding sources that should have received the refunds for the benefit of those students. Given these concerns regarding the acceptability of State tuition recovery funds, the Secretary does not believe it is appropriate to address these criteria through regulation at this time. The Secretary will continue to review this issue to determine what standards, if any, may be set out through regulation. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter supported the requirement that an institution maintain a minimum cash reserve equal to 10 percent of deferred tuition revenue but believed that an institution's contributions to a State's tuition recovery fund should be included in calculating the reserve requirement. One commenter noted that the North Carolina General Statute 115D&hyph;90 requires an institution to maintain a guaranty bond in an amount equivalent to an institution's deferred tuition revenue at peak enrollment. The commenter believed that students were already afforded reasonable protection under the bond requirement and suggested that the cash reserve be required when no other form of protection exists. Another commenter believed that the Secretary should fully exempt institutions which retain deferred tuition amounts through independently administered escrow arrangements.
