FR940513-2-00087 FR940513-2-00039 Part III_Information and Guidelines for the Application Process and Review Part III of this Announcement contains general information for potential applicants and basic guidelines for submitting applications in response to this announcement. Application forms are provided along with detailed instructions for developing and assembling the application package for submittal to the Administration on Aging (AoA). General guidelines on applicant eligibility were provided in Part I. Specific eligibility guidelines were provided in Part II under certain priority areas. A. General Information 1. Review Process and Considerations for Funding Within the limits of available federal funds, AoA makes financial assistance awards consistent with the purposes of the statutory authorities governing the AoA Discretionary Funds Program and this Announcement. The following steps are involved in the review process. a. Notification: All applicants will automatically be notified of the receipt of their application and informed of the identification number assigned to it. b. Screening: To insure that minimum standards of equity and fairness have been met, applications which do not meet the screening criteria listed in Section D below, will not be reviewed and will receive no further consideration for funding. c. Expert Review: Applications that conform to the requirements of this program announcement will be reviewed and scored competitively against the evaluation criteria specified in Section F, below. This independent review of applications is performed by panels consisting of qualified persons from outside the federal government and knowledgeable non-AoA federal government officials. The scores and judgments of these expert reviewers are a major factor in making award decisions. d. Other Comments: AoA may solicit views and comments on pending applications from other federal departments and agencies, State and Area Agencies on Aging, interested foundations, national organizations, experts, and others, for the consideration of the Assistant Secretary for Aging in making funding decisions. e. Other Considerations: In making funding award decisions, the Assistant Secretary for Aging will pay particular attention to applications which focus on older persons with the greatest economic and social need, with particular attention to the low-income minority elderly. Final decisions will also reflect the equitable distribution of assistance among geographical areas of the nation, and among rural and urban areas. The Assistant Secretary for Aging also guards against wasteful duplication of effort in making funding decisions. f. Other Funding Sources: AoA reserves the option of discussing applications with, or referring them to, other federal or non-federal funding sources when this is determined to be in the best interest of the federal government or the applicant. g. Decision-Making Process: After the panel review sessions, applicants may be contacted by AoA staff to furnish additional information. Applicants who are contacted should not assume that funding is guaranteed. An award is official only upon receipt of the Financial Assistance Award (Form DGCM 3&hyph;785). h. Timeframe: Applicants should be aware that the time interval between the deadline for submission of applications and the award of a grant is at least two months and often three months or more in duration. This length of time is required to review and process grant applications. 2. Notification Under Executive Order 12372 This is not a covered program under Executive Order 12372. B. Deadline for Submission of Applications This Program Announcement contains different deadline dates for the submission of applications, depending upon the priority area under which an application is submitted. Please check each priority area carefully to determine the deadline date for the application you plan to submit. Applications must be either sent or hand-delivered to the address specified in Section D, below. Hand-delivered applications are accepted during the normal working hours of 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Eastern Time, Monday through Friday. An application will meet the deadline if it is either: 1. Received at the mailing address on or before the applicable deadline date; or 2. Sent before midnight of the applicable deadline date as evidenced by either (1) a U.S. Postal Service receipt or postmark or (2) a receipt from a commercial carrier. The application must also be received in time to be considered under the competitive independent review mandated by Chapter 1&hyph;62 of the DHHS Grants Administration Manual. Applicants are strongly advised to obtain proof that the application was sent by the applicable deadline date. If there is a question as to when an application was sent, applicants will be asked to provide proof that they have met the applicable deadline date. Private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of a timely submittal. Applications which do not meet the above deadlines are considered late applications. The Office of Administration and Management will notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered under the applicable grant review competition. AoA may extend a deadline date for applications because of acts of God, such as floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, when there is widespread disruption of the mail, or when AoA determines an extension to be in the best interest of the government. Depending upon the precipitating factor(s), the extension will apply to all potential applicants in the area affected by the natural disaster, or to all potential applicants across the nation. Notice of the extension will be published in the Federal Register . C. Grantee Share of the Project Under the Discretionary Funds Program, AoA does not make grant awards for the entire project cost. Successful applicants must, at a minimum, contribute one (1) dollar, secured from non-federal sources, for every three (3) dollars received in federal funding. The non-federal share must equal at least 25% of the total project cost. Applicants should note that, among applications of comparable technical merit, the greater the non-federal share the more favorably the application is likely to be considered. The one exception to this cost sharing formula is for applications from American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands or the Northern Mariana Islands. Applicants from these territories are covered by Section 501(d) of Public Law 95&hyph;134, as amended, which requires the Department to waive ``any requirement for local matching funds under $200,000.'' The non-federal share of total project costs for each budget period may be in the form of grantee-incurred direct or indirect costs, third party in-kind contributions, and/or grant related income. Indirect costs may not exceed those allowed under federal rules established, as appropriate, by OMB Circulars A&hyph;21, A&hyph;87, and A&hyph;122. If the required non-federal share is not met by a funded project, AoA will disallow any unmatched federal dollars. A common error is to match 25% of the federal share rather than 25% of the entire project cost.
