FR940407-1-00040 FR940407-1-00012 II. The Commission's Comparable Earnings Test Compared to the WACC A. Theoretical Issues The Commission has used its variation of the CET in a number of rate investigations. Commission orders adjudicating the reasonableness of rate increases under the CET have been repeatedly upheld by the courts. E.g., Matson Navigation Company, Inc. v. FMC, 959 F.2d 1039 (D.C. Cir. 1992); and Puerto Rico Maritime Shipping Authority v. FMC, 678 F.2d 327 (D.C. Cir.), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 906 (1982). However, the Commission's CET does present a theoretical shortcoming compared to the WACC method, in that it is unlikely to equate the allowable rate of return with the cost of capital, because it uses historical accounting data to calculate an average book value 12 rate of return that the regulated carrier should be allowed. 12 Book value means the value at which an asset is carried on a balance sheet. The accounting rate of return for a company is not equivalent to the firm's true economic rate of return because accounting and economic concepts of income and value are substantially different. Accounting numbers are derived on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles while economics specifies the use of opportunity costs. This difference is particularly acute when the economy is characterized by high and variable rates of inflation. For example, accountants define asset values in terms of acquisition or historical costs while economists define asset values on the basis of market values or replacement costs. This distinction effects both the income statement as well as the balance sheet. Consequently, an accounting-based rate of return methodology such as the Commission's CET does not adequately measure a regulated carrier's true cost of capital. In Docket No. 91&hyph;51, the State of Hawaii noted the problems associated with using accounting data and criticized the Commission's CET for being accounting-based and not market-based. Several empirical tests have demonstrated that there is a large discrepancy between accounting rate of return and true economic return. 13 These studies also demonstrate that biases inherent in book returns are systematic, and that these biases do not cancel out by averaging across companies. Furthermore, the type and magnitude of bias for regulated firms are different than those of unregulated firms contained in the comparable risk group of firms selected in applying the Commission's CET method. 14 13 See, for example, Franklin M. Fisher and John J. McGowan, ``On the Misuse of Accounting Rates of Return to Infer Monopoly Profits,'' 73 Am. Econ. Rev. 82&hyph;97, March 1983; and Richard Brealy and Stewart C. Myers, Principles of Corporate Finance, New York: McGraw-Hill, Chapter 12, 1981. 14 Regulators (including the FMC) commonly set rates on the basis of a book value rate base. In such instances, the economic (i.e., market) value of a regulated firm will tend to be closer to its book value in comparison to the economic values and book values of the unregulated firms contained in the proxy group. The book returns of the unregulated firms are, therefore, likely to be substantially more biased than those of the regulated firm under consideration.
