FR941222-2-00130 FR941222-2-00100 (a) One or more effective community advisory committees comprised of representatives of local institutions and a balance of racial/ethnic, gender and income mix of residents of the communities (and, where appropriate, colonias) to be served has been or will be formed to participate in identifying local needs to be addressed by the COPC and to form a partnership with the COPC to develop and implement strategies to address those needs; (b) There is a plan for involving the community advisory committee(s) in the execution of the research and outreach agenda; and (c) The outreach agenda includes training projects for local community leaders, when appropriate. (7) (5 points) The application is submitted by a consortium composed of a variety of different kinds of post-secondary institutions. Maximum points will be awarded to consortia composed of universities, colleges and junior, technical or community colleges. (8) (10 points) The overall concept and organization of the application. In rating this factor, HUD will consider: (a) The interrelatedness of the components of the application, such as the relationship of the research capacity to dissemination and outreach activities; and (b) The likelihood that the project can be initiated and completed within the two year grant period, as measured by such elements as sufficient staff, realistic schedules, the quality of supervision and project management, and the likelihood that other related commitments essential to the project will be in place. B. Selection Process Applications for funding under this NOFA will be evaluated competitively and points will be awarded as specified in the Rating Factors section described above. Applications will be reviewed by a combination of external peers and internal reviewers. After assigning points based upon the factors all applications will be listed in rank order. Applications will then be funded in rank order until all available funds have been expended. However, in order to be funded, an applicant must receive a minimum score of 70. HUD reserves the right to fund all or portions of the proposed activities identified in each application, based upon the eligibility of the proposed activities. If two or more applications have the same number of points, the application with the most points for rating factor (6) shall be selected. If there is still a tie, the application with the most points for rating factor (7) shall be selected. If the amount of funds remaining after funding as many of the highest ranking applications as possible is insufficient for the next highest ranking application, HUD shall determine (based upon the proposed activities) if it is feasible to fund part of the application and offer a smaller grant to the applicant. If HUD determines that given the proposed activities a smaller grant amount would make the activities infeasible, or if the applicant turns down the reduced grant amount, HUD shall make the same determination for the next highest ranking application until all applications with scores of at least 70 points or available funds have been exhausted. If HUD receives an insufficient number of applications to exhaust all funds, or if funds remain after HUD approves all approvable applications, HUD may negotiate increased amounts of grant awards up to an additional $250,000. Increased grants will be offered in rank order to applicants with scores of at least 70 points. C. Geographic Distribution HUD reserves the right to make selections out of rank order to provide for a geographic distribution of funded COPCs. The geographic balance that HUD will use, if it decides to implement this option, will be based on a combination of two adjacent standard HUD regions (e.g., Southwest and Southeast Regions, Great Plains and Midwest Regions, etc.). If the rank order does not yield at least one fundable COPC within each two region combination, then HUD may select the highest ranking application from such a combination, as long as the minimum score of 70 is achieved. It is HUD's intent to fund at least one COPC that serves the colonias, as defined by Section 916(d) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as long as the applicant receives a minimum score of 70. III. Application Process A. Obtaining Applications To obtain a copy of the application kit, contact: HUD USER, ATTN: COPC, P.O. Box 6091, Rockville, Maryland 20850. Requests for application kits must be in writing, but requests may be faxed to: 301&hyph;251&hyph;5747 (this is not a toll-free number). Requests for application kits must include the applicant's name, mailing address (including zip code), telephone number (including area code) and must refer to ``Document FR&hyph;3825.'' HUD strongly recommends the use of the fax transmission option to promote accuracy and expedite HUD response time. B. Application Deadline To be considered for funding, the application package must be physically received by the Office of University Partnerships, Office of Policy Development and Research, Department of Housing and Urban Development, in care of the Division of Budget, Contracts, and Program Control, Room 8230, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410 by 4:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on February 15, 1995. The application deadline is firm as to date, hour and place. In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, the Department will treat as ineligible for consideration any application that is received after the deadline. Applicants should take this practice into account and make early submission of their materials to avoid any risk of loss of eligibility brought about by unanticipated delays or other delivery-related problems. IV. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements A. Application Content The application kit contains instructions which must be followed in submitting an application. The following is a checklist of the application contents that will be specified in the Request for Grant Applications (the technical term for the application kit): (1) Transmittal letter signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the institution; (2) OMB Standard Form 424 (Application for Federal Assistance), Form 424B (Non-Construction Assurances) and Budget Summary; (3) Executive summary of the proposed COPC; (4) Statement of Work (no more than 15 pages) which must incorporate all eligible activities proposed in the application and detail how the proposed work will be accomplished. Following a task-by-task format, the Statement of Work must: (a) Delineate the tasks and sub-tasks involved in each of the areas for which the COPC is responsible, including research activities, outreach/technical assistance activities, community advisory committee activities, local/regional clearinghouse activities, and other activities necessary to carry out the responsibilities delineated under Program Requirement # 1, Responsibilities, outlined above. (b) Indicate the sequence in which the tasks are to be performed, noting areas of work which must be performed simultaneously. (c) State the intermediate and end products to be developed by task and sub-task. (d) Provide a framework for, and be consistent with, the Project Management Work Plan requirements. (5) Narrative summary of Project Management Work Plan. (6) Narrative statement addressing each of the rating factors in Section II of this NOFA.
