FR941104-2-00018 FR941104-2-00012 Form EIA&hyph;1605, Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gases AGENCY: Energy Information Administration. ACTION: Notice of proposed new Form EIA&hyph;1605, ``Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gases,'' and its short version, Form EIA&hyph;1605EZ, ``Short Form for Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gases,'' and Solicitation of Comments. SUMMARY: The Energy Information Administration (EIA), as part of its continuing effort to reduce paperwork and respondent burden (required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Public Law No. 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq .), conducts a presurvey consultation program to provide the general public and other Federal agencies with an opportunity to comment on proposed reporting forms. This program helps to ensure that requested data can be provided in the desired format, reporting burden is minimized, reporting forms are clearly understood, and the effect of collection requirements on respondents can be properly assessed. Currently, EIA is soliciting comments concerning the proposed Form EIA&hyph;1605, ``Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gases'' and its short version Form EIA&hyph;1605EZ, ``Short Form for Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gases.'' DATES: Written comments should be received by December 5, 1994. EIA will endeavor to consider any comments submitted after this deadline to the extent possible prior to submission of the forms and instructions to the Office of Management and Budget for clearance. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Mr. Arthur Rypinski, Greenhouse Gases Voluntary Reporting Program, Office of Integrated Analysis and Forecasting, Energy Information Administration, EI&hyph;81, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20585, or via e-mail (internet) to infoghg@eia.gov. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Copies of the draft form and instructions have been sent to all those parties who commented on the Department of Energy's DRAFT_Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gases under Section 1605(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992: General Guidelines and Supporting Documents. In addition, copies will be provided to the administrative heads of the ``Green'' programs (voluntary emission reduction programs) sponsored by the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency. To determine if you will be receiving a copy or to request a copy of the proposed form and instructions, please call 1&hyph;800&hyph;308&hyph;1898. You may also send your request via fax to 1&hyph;800&hyph;542&hyph;1956, or via internet to: infoghg@eia.gov. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background II. Current Actions III. Request for Comments I. Background In order to fulfill its responsibilities under the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 (Public Law No. 93&hyph;275) and the Department of Energy Organization Act (Public Law No. 95&hyph;91), EIA is obliged to carry out a central, comprehensive, and unified energy data and information program. As part of this program, EIA collects, evaluates, assembles, analyzes, and disseminates data and information related to energy. Legislative authority The legislative authority for this voluntary program is section 1605(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Public Law 92&hyph;486) which states: (b) VOLUNTARY REPORTING_ (1) ISSUANCE OF GUIDELINES. Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, after opportunity for public comment, issue guidelines for the voluntary collection and reporting of information on sources of greenhouse gases. Such guidelines shall establish procedures for the accurate voluntary reporting of information on_ (A) greenhouse gas emissions_ (i) for the baseline period of 1987 through 1990; and (ii) for subsequent calendar years on an annual basis; (B) annual reductions of greenhouse gas emissions and carbon fixation achieved through any measures, including fuel switching, forest management practices, tree planting, use of renewable energy, manufacture or use of vehicles with reduced greenhouse gas emissions, appliance efficiency, methane recovery, cogeneration, chlorofluorocarbon capture and replacement, and power plant heat rate improvement; (C) reductions in greenhouse gas emissions achieved as a result of_ (i) voluntary reductions; (ii) plant or facility closings; and (iii) State or Federal requirements; and
