FR940505-1-00368 FR940505-1-00012 (B) Any catalysts, reducers, or other components used and the mix ratio; and (C) The VOC content limit from paragraph (b)(3) of this section and the actual VOC content, as applied, or vapor pressure of the wood product coating material. (ii) Maintain records of the monthly volume (e.g., gallons) of each wood product coating material. (iii) Control equipment records. Any person using an emission control system as a means of complying with this section shall maintain daily records of key system operating and maintenance procedures which will demonstrate continuous operation and compliance of the emission control device during periods of emission producing activities. Key system operating parameters are those necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section such as temperatures, pressures, and flowrates. (iv) All records shall be maintained for at least five years and shall be made available to EPA upon request. (6) Test Methods. (i) Determination of VOC content. (A) The VOC content of coatings and strippers shall be determined by using EPA Method 24 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (B) The exempt compound content of coatings and strippers shall be determined by ASTM Method D&hyph;4457&hyph;85, which is limited to the measurement of dichloromethane and 1,1,1- trichloroethane only. (C) The VOC content of emissions shall be determined by EPA Method 18 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (ii) Equipment test methods. (A) Capture efficiency. The efficiency of the collection device of the emission control system, as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section, shall be determined by the EPA method described at ยง52.741(a)(4)(iii). (B) Destruction or removal efficiency. The efficiency of the control device of the emission control system, as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section, shall be determined by the EPA method described at ยง52.741(a)(4)(iv). The VOC content measured and calculated as carbon in the control device exhaust gases shall be determined by EPA Method 25 or Method 25A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (C) Transfer efficiency. The transfer efficiency for other coating application methods, as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(6) of this section, shall be determined in accordance with South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) method ``Spray Equipment Transfer Efficiency Test Procedure for Equipment User, May 24, 1989.'' This transfer efficiency (TE) test method is approved only for the limited purpose of comparing alternative application technologies under controlled conditions. The results of these tests are not transferable to a production setting. The test method is not acceptable for determining TE to establish VOC emission reduction credits to allow the use of higher VOC coatings, or to establish VOC credits for trading or offset purposes. (c) Automotive refinishing operations. (1) Applicability. This section applies to all coating operations of Group I vehicles and Group II vehicles and equipment, as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, or their existing parts and components, for the purpose of on-site refinishing and modification except Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) coatings applied at manufacturing plants. Facilities with coating operations considered within the scope of this section include: autobody repair/paint shops, production autobody paint shops, new car dealer repair/paint shops, fleet operator repair/paint shops, custom-made car fabrication facilities, and truck body-builders. For the purposes of this section, the affected area is the Sacramento Metro Area for ozone as described in 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Acrylic enamel means an enamel coating derived from an acrylic polymer containing hydroxyl functionality.
