FR941222-0-00033 FR941222-0-00003 The NUHOMS&hyph;52B has not been used yet. Pre-operational testing of the first cask system put in place under the general license is to be performed in accordance with Certificate of Compliance, Attachment A, ``Conditions for Systems Use.'' Monitoring and surveillance of the system will be performed under the conditions of the Certificate of Compliance. The first use of the Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;52B will not place plant workers, the public, or the environment at risk. Conditions of use for the Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;52B ensure adequate safety of the workers, the public, and the environment. The Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;52B has been designed and will be fabricated to well established criteria of the ASME B&PV and ACI codes. It uses construction materials that have well known and documented properties to provide the necessary structural strength and radiation shielding to meet regulatory requirements. While the Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;52B is not identical to the NUHOMS&hyph;24P, many parallels in design and function can be drawn to demonstrate that the Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;52B will perform as intended. J.6. Comment. One commenter stated that even though dry cask storage passes all NRC rules and is one of the least expensive methods, it would seem that a different location or more expensive storage method is worth lives, resources, and property. Response. Based on numerous NRC reviews and growing experience with dry cask storage technologies, the NRC has concluded that spent fuel can be safely stored in dry casks without significant risk to the public health and safety. More expensive storage techniques or alternative storage locations would not provide any significant additional public protection. Further, the storage location is a matter of Congressional policy as reflected in Section 218(a) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, which includes the following directive: ``The Secretary [of DOE] shall establish a demonstration program in cooperation with the private sector, for the dry storage of spent nuclear fuel at civilian nuclear power reactor sites, with the objective of establishing one or more technologies that the [Nuclear Regulatory] Commission may, by rule, approve for use at the sites of civilian nuclear power reactors without, to the maximum extent practicable, the need for additional site- specific approvals by the Commission.'' Section III(a) also finds that the generators of the spent fuel have the primary responsibility to provide for the interim storage of the spent fuel until it is accepted by the DOE. The type of spent fuel stored in the dry cask storage systems is one factor that allows the cost of the systems to be lower. Because the fuel has cooled a number of years, passive cooling can be used rather than active cooling as is required for fuel just removed from the reactor. Passive cooling reduces the cost by not having active components such as pumps, heat exchanger, water filters, and the maintenance required for these components. J.7. Comment. One commenter opposed licensing any dry cask storage system other than the DOE multi-purpose canister (MPC) because it minimizes handling individual fuel assemblies, standardizes compatibility between storage sites and DOE, and reduces cost. Multiple cask designs lead to less expertise in production, operation, and accident management. Federal regulations need to be amended to mandate only the use of the MPC. Response. The DOE MPC system will not be available for general use until well after 1997. In the meantime, additional storage capacity is needed now at several reactor sites. Once the MPC is available for general use, most utilities might use it. However, given the demonstrated and immediate need of some reactors for an additional storage capacity, and given NRC's responsibility to implement dry cask storage under a general license pursuant to NWPA of 1982, it would not be prudent for NRC now to require use of MPC designs that not even DOE has yet approved. The NRC does not agree that the number of cask designs has a significant effect on the level of expertise available because standard engineering and scientific skills such as mechanical and civil engineers and health safety specialists can be hired as needed. K. Several commenters had concerns about decommissioning issues. K.1. Comment. One commenter, citing the draft SER, stated that decommissioning and decontamination of reactors and reactor sites remain uncertain at best. ``At this time, it is not known whether demolition and removal of the HSM can be performed by conventional methods *␣*␣*. The reinforced structure of the HSM, for example, will require considerable effort to demolish.'' The commenter continues by indicating that in its typical fashion of putting off until tomorrow what it cannot deal with today, the NRC considers ``ease of decommissioning (a) secondary consideration.'' Response. The demolition of the HSM will be more difficult than a typical building because of the large amount of reinforced steel it contains. However, it is technically feasible and represents a likely level of effort similar to that required to demolish a bank vault. Bank vaults are routinely demolished without extraordinary effort. The HSM may become slightly radioactive from being exposed to a neutron radiation field during the spent fuel storage period, which would require some containment during demolition to prevent the spread of contamination. Recognizing this, the NRC considers decommissioning a secondary consideration compared to the safety afforded by storage of spent fuel in dry casks.
