FR941205-0-00129 FR941205-0-00027 EPA is also approving a new method, the Colisure test, for simultaneously determining the presence of total coliforms and E. coli, both of which must be monitored under the Total Coliform Rule (40 CFR 141.21). Data supporting the use of this method was presented in the notice of July 14, 1994 (NOA). Most commenters supported approval of the Colisure test, but several raised questions about the test, primarily concerning the incubation time. They cited the Broadway et al. (1992) data that indicated that only 64% and 69% of the bottles were total coliform-positive and E. coli -positive, respectively, after 24 hours compared to the 48-hour results. According to the Broadway et al. data, 85% and 88% of the bottles were total coliform-positive and E. coli -positive, respectively, after 28 hours compared to the 48-hour results. EPA agrees with the commenters who contended that 24 hours of incubation was insufficient for the Colisure test. The Agency, however, believes that the recovery rate after 28 hours is reasonable, and will approve the Colisure test as a 28-hour test. Moreover, based on additional data from the product manufacturer showing that the false-positive rate after 48 hours is small, EPA will allow laboratories to hold the test up to 48 hours before observing results. Chemical Methods There were only minor comments on the proposal to update chemistry methods to the versions contained in the 18th edition of Standard Methods. The 18th edition versions contain no or minor changes to earlier versions, and EPA received no comments to document specific hardships in converting to 18th edition chemical methods. Several commenters noted that, although thallium is not in the scope of SM 3113B, EPA erroneously approved SM 3113B for thallium (57 FR 31840, July 17, 1992). EPA agrees and will delete this approval in today's rule. A commenter noted that the 18th edition version of SM 4500&hyph;Cl&hyph;G omits instructions that would allow measurement of total residual chlorine in drinking water samples using a colorimetric method. The Standard Methods Committee has written (Eaton, 1993b) that an editorial omission, not a technical change, occurred in recent versions of SM 4500&hyph;Cl&hyph;G. The error will be corrected in the next (19th) edition of Standard Methods. EPA corrects the error today by describing the omitted instructions in Technical Notes on Drinking Water Methods (EPA, 1994d). E. Methods To Be Withdrawn and Replaced General Comments Received on Withdrawal of Methods One commenter suggested that all methods carry a ``draft'' status for three years after publication; other commenters asked EPA to approve new methods more quickly. It would defeat EPA's intent to provide modern technology quickly, if a method had to be published, proposed, and then kept in draft status for three years. EPA balances this problem by allowing optional use of old or new methods during a transitional period, which in the case of this rule extends to July 1, 1996 (or 18 months after publication, whichever is later). Several commenters believed EPA was eliminating, or intended to eliminate, all autoanalyzer or colorimetric methods. This is incorrect; EPA is replacing only obsolete methods with equivalent ASTM, EPA and Standard Methods. EPA is not eliminating colorimetric or autoanalyzer technology for any regulated contaminant, except arsenic. Evidence of EPA's intent is in the 1993 methods manual (EPA, 1993a), which updated colorimetric methods for cyanide (335.4), nitrite and nitrate (353.2), and sulfate (375.2). EPA has and continues to approve autoanalyzer and colorimetric ASTM and Standard Methods for cyanide, fluoride, nitrite, nitrate and sulfate. Some commenters stated that changing from EPA methods to equivalent Standard Methods and ASTM methods would be very time-consuming and expensive, but provided no specific information to support this statement. EPA is withdrawing methods that are incomplete and often require users to rely on the equivalent ASTM or Standard Methods. Thus the change, in many cases, has already taken place. In other cases, there are very minor differences between the withdrawn and the replacement methods. EPA notes that laboratories may continue to use a withdrawn method for other than compliance monitoring samples. EPA's actions in today's rule save laboratories money, because they need only support one version of an ASTM, EPA, or Standard Method. Prior to this rule, laboratories were required to use methods in the 14th, 16th, 17th, and 18th editions of Standard Methods, and at least two different versions of EPA Methods 200.7 and 524.2.
