FR940223-2-00172 FR940223-2-00097 (7) A decision or order under subrule (6) may be made with the concurrence of any three panelists. Part VIII_Completion of Panel Review 77. (1) Subject to subrule (2), when a panel issues: (a) an order dismissing a panel review under subrule 58(3) or 71(1), (b) a decision under rule 72 or subrule 73(6) that is the final action in the panel review, or (c) an order under subrule 73(5), the panel shall direct the responsible Secretary to issue a Notice of Final Panel Action (model form provided in the Schedule) on the eleventh day thereafter. (2) Where a motion is filed pursuant to subrule 76(1) regarding a decision referred to in subrule (1)(b), the responsible Secretary shall issue the Notice of Final Panel Action on the day on which the panel (a) issues a ruling finally disposing of the motion; or (b) directs the responsible Secretary to issue the Notice of Final Panel Action, the issuance of which shall constitute a denial of the motion. 78. If no Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee is filed, the responsible Secretary shall publish a Notice of Completion of Panel Review in the official publications of the involved Parties, effective. (a) on the day on which a panel is terminated pursuant to subrule 71(2); or (b) in any other case, on the 31st day following the date on which the responsible Secretary issues a Notice of Final Panel Action. 79. Where a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee has been filed, the responsible Secretary shall publish a Notice of Completion of Panel Review in the official publications of the involved Parties, effective on the day after the day referred to in rule 64 or subrule 65(a) of the NAFTA Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules. 80. Panelists are discharged from their duties on the day on which a Notice of Completion of Panel Review is effective, or on the day on which an Extraordinary Challenge Committee vacates a panel review pursuant to subrule 65(b) of the NAFTA Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules. Stays and Suspensions 81. Where a panelist becomes unable to fulfill panel duties, is disqualified or dies, panel proceedings and the running of time periods shall be suspended, pending the appointment of a substitute panelist in accordance with the procedures set out in Annex 1901.2 to Chapter Nineteen of the Agreement. 82. Where a panelist is disqualified, dies or otherwise becomes unable to fulfill panel duties, after the oral argument, the chairperson may order that the matter be reheard, on such terms as are appropriate, after selection of a substitute panelist. 83. (1) A Party may make a request, pursuant to Article 1905.11(a)(ii) of the Agreement, that an ongoing panel review be stayed by filing the request with the responsible Secretariat. (2) A Party who files a request under subrule (1) shall forthwith give written notice of the request to the other involved Party and to the other involved Secretariat. (3) On receipt of a request under subrule (1), the responsible Secretary shall (a) immediately give written notice of the stay of the panel review to all participants in the panel review; and (b) publish a notice of the stay of the panel review in the official publications of the involved Parties. 84. On receipt of a report containing an affirmative finding with respect to a ground specified in Article 1905.1 of the Agreement, the responsible Secretary for panel reviews referred to in Article 1905.11(a)(i) of the Agreement shall (a) immediately give notice in writing to all participants in those reviews; and (b) publish a notice of the affirmative finding in the official publications of the involved Parties. 85. (1) A Party who intends to suspend the operation of Article 1904 of the Agreement pursuant to Article 1905.8 or 1905.9 of the Agreement shall endeavour to give written notice of that intention to the other involved Party and to the involved Secretaries at least five days prior to the suspension. (2) On receipt of a notice under subrule (1), the involved Secretaries shall publish a notice of the suspension in the official publications of the involved Parties.
