FR940406-2-00040 FR940406-2-00020 •Risk assessment is viewed as a mechanical process, without opportunity for public input, that often fails to give due consideration to affected stakeholders; •Stakeholders have voiced concerns that risk assessments may result in an inequitable distribution of resources both among and within facilities and sites. Notwithstanding these obstacles, the National Research Council has concluded that a risk based approach to environmental cleanup is both feasible and desirable. In order for such an approach to be effective in influencing Remedial Action Decisions, it is necessary that risk management and risk assessment theory and processes, robust public participation programs, and public policy decision makers be brought together and integrated into one coherent decision making process. EM is interested in receiving proposals from applicants that propose creative and innovative methods for providing credible risk assessments and credible practices for implementation of risk-based decisions. Proposals should address cost/risk policy and priority setting at the DOE sites involving decontamination, decommissioning, environmental restoration, facilities transition, technology development, and site management. Proposals that include an integrated-systems approach that includes technology-based solutions for reducing, eliminating, or mitigating risks at the weapons complex are most desirable. In addition, proposers should demonstrate an organizational capability both to work with diverse multi-disciplinary technical groups and to work with social and cultural issues in the risk assessment arena. Additional factors to be considered in decision-making and in establishing priorities include: •Federal Facilities Agreements; •State and local agreements; •Tribal agreements; •Public participation and outreach to affected citizen groups; •Innovative approaches to development of credible risk assessments and implementation of risk-based decision making; •Strategies and methods for identifying and filling data gaps and reducing uncertainties; •Environmental justice, socioeconomic and sociopolitical issues; and •Other environmental, worker, and public health and safety issues. II. Objective Merit Review An objective merit review of each proposal will be accomplished in accordance with EM's Merit Review System, as published in the Federal Register on May 6, 1991 (56 FR 20602). Applicants are advised that EM shall utilize the procedure detailed under subsection IV(E)(2) of its Merit Review System (56 FR 20604), i.e., field readers shall be utilized in lieu of standing review committees. III. Proposal Format The proposal shall contain two sections, technical and cost. Technical proposals shall be no more than fifty (50) pages in length; resumes of proposed key personnel should be submitted as an appendix to the technical proposal and will not be counted against the page limit. It is left to the proposer to determine how best to structure the proposal. However, the following information shall be included: a. Proposals shall include a detailed project description that discusses the specific tasks to be performed under the proposed project. b. Proposals must also demonstrate that the offeror is perceived as neutral and credible, and is capable of conducting scientifically valid and responsible assessments. Assessments must include clear statements of what is not known and what is uncertain, as well as statements of what is known. Proposals must demonstrate how independent, external peer-review will be conducted. c. Proposals must demonstrate that the offeror has the experience and capability to plan, organize, manage, and facilitate public participation in communities. Proposals must also demonstrate that the offeror has the experience and ability to effectively communicate complicated scientific information on potential risks and uncertainties, to local and national stakeholders, other affected and concerned citizens, and decision makers at all levels. d. Proposals must demonstrate that the offeror presently has or is capable of obtaining staff with the training, expertise, and experience needed to conduct scientifically complex risk assessments and cost assessments. Proposals must identify the technical and scientific staff that will actually conduct the studies and detail their professional experience as well as their level of program involvement. e. Proposals must demonstrate that the offeror has the ability to integrate their work with the activities of other organizations conducting risk assessments. f. Proposals must demonstrate that the offeror has management capability, for both financial and scientific management, and a demonstrated skill in planning and scheduling projects of comparable magnitude to that proposed under this NOPI. Cost proposals shall have no page limit. The cost proposal shall include a summary breakdown of all costs, and provide a detailed breakdown of costs on a task-by-task basis for each task contained in the project description. In addition, any expectation concerning cost sharing shall be clearly stated. Cost sharing is encouraged, but it shall not be considered in the selection process. IV. Evaluation Criteria The evaluation criteria are as specified in subsection IV(G) of EM's Merit Review System (56 FR 20604). V. Awards Approximately $20 million may be available in FY 1995 for projects. If sufficient acceptable applications are received, available funding may determine the number of awards. Awards, if any, will be determined through evaluation of applications received against the evaluation criteria, and the availability of funds. Awards, either grants or cooperative agreements, will be made only to technically acceptable applicants. Budget and project periods may be negotiated to fit the requirements of particular projects; awards will be on a schedule to be agreed to by DOE and the awardee. DOE reserves the right to support or not support any portion, all, or none of the proposals submitted. Issued in Washington, DC, on March 31, 1994. Thomas P. Grumbly, Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8234 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
