FR940228-0-00013 FR940228-0-00002 Comment: One comment suggested clarifying the provisions under section 11, ``Settlement of Claim'', by indicating that mixed grains will be graded based on a sample of the insured (predominant) grain. Response: According to current procedure, mixed grains may be quality adjusted if the predominant grain is separable from other grains in the mix. Additionally, the predominant grain must meet policy requirements for quality adjustment. This is a procedural matter and will remain in loss adjustment procedure handbooks. Comment: Two comments recommended that the provisions be revised to state that only those optional units on which production is commingled will be combined. As proposed, the provisions require that all optional units within a basic unit be combined when production is commingled between any optional units. Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has revised the provisions accordingly. Comment: One comment stated that language under section 11, ``Settlement of Claim'', is misleading because it indicates that ``All appraised production which is: Not less than the production guarantee will be counted for acreage that is abandoned *␣*␣*'' This could lead the reader to believe that only appraised production in excess of the production guarantee will be counted. The comment recommended revising the language as follows: ``All appraised production as follows: Not less than the production guarantee for acreage which is abandoned *␣*␣*.'' Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has revised the language as recommended. Comment: One comment suggested that ``appraised production'' be defined in the policy. The comment also inquired if FCIC intends to include definitions of ``appraised production,'' ``harvested production'' and ``uninsured causes'' in the small grains policy? Response: The term ``appraised production'' is defined in the provisions. ``Harvested production'' and ``uninsured causes'' are definitive terms and do not require specific definitions. Comment: One comment suggested clarifying the provisions under section 11, ``Settlement of Claim'', by revising the language to read as follows: ``(i) not less than the production guarantee for: (a) acreage which is abandoned, (b) put to another use without our consent, (c) damaged solely by uninsured causes, or (d) for which you fail to provide records of production that are acceptable to us.'' Response: FCIC agrees that separating the items in the language makes it easier to read and revisions have been made accordingly. Comment: One comment recommended that the provisions under section 11, ``Settlement of Claim'', be revised to allow adjusting production for both (1) moisture exceeding the requirements in the policy and (2) quality deficiencies exceeding the grade requirements stated in the policy for each small grain crop. The comment also recommended that an adjustment for moisture should be addressed using moisture charts in the handbook. Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has revised the provisions so that adjustments for moisture and quality are determined separately. Comment: One comment inquired if individuals licensed under the United States Warehouse Act are qualified to determine grade due to damaged kernels, shrunken or broken kernels, defects, sound barley, thin barley, sound oats, etc. The comment also inquired if tests for vomitoxin by state university labs and commercial labs licensed by the state will continue to be acceptable. Response: Grain graders licensed under the United States Warehouse Act are authorized to inspect, weigh, and grade grain for the purposes of warehouse receipts. Ability to grade grain varies considerably. When grade problems exist and elevator personnel are unable to adequately establish the quality, samples are generally sent to Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS) for a grade determination. FGIS has the authority to make final grade determinations. Insurers who are uncomfortable with grade determinations made by individuals licensed under the United States Warehouse Act should send samples to FGIS for final grade determination. Specialized tests, such as tests for vomitoxin, must be performed by a qualified laboratory. Language specifying that specialized tests must be performed by a laboratory approved by the insurer has been added to the provisions. Comment: One comment recommended clarifying the definition of ``local market price''. Response: FCIC agrees that the definition should be clarified and has done so. Comment: Two comments recommended changing the term ``final inspection'' under section 11, ``Statement of Claim'', to either: ``final settlement'' or ``the date the loss is adjusted.'' Response: The date of the final inspection is used to determine values used in quality adjustment. This is the date the claim is completed. Changing the term to either of the above suggestions does not significantly clarify the provision.
