FR941122-2-00071 FR941122-2-00057 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bob Gunther, RMP Team Leader, Coos Bay District Office; phone (503) 756&hyph;0100. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Public participation has occurred throughout the RMP process. A Notice of Intent was filed in the Federal Register on August 28,1986 (Volume 51, number 167, page 30718). Since that time, numerous public meetings, mailings, and briefings were conducted to solicit comments and ideas. The Draft RMP/EIS was available for public review and comment from August 21, 1992 to December 21, 1992. Written comments were received from agencies, organizations, and individuals. Oral comments were also received at public meetings held in North Bend, Reedsport, and Gold Beach Oregon. All comments presented throughout the process have been considered in preparation of the PRMP/FEIS. The PRMP/FEIS describes and analyzes seven alternatives to resolve the following issues: (1) Timber production practices; (2) Old-growth forests and habitat diversity; (3) Threatened and Endangered and other special status species habitat (including habitat for the northern spotted owl); (4) Special areas; (5) Visual resources; (6) Stream/riparian/water quality; (7) Recreation resources; (8) Wild and scenic rivers; (9) Land tenure; and (10) Rural interface areas. The issues are analyzed in seven distinct alternatives, with each alternative representing a complete management plan for the district. The Proposed Resource Management Plan responds to the need for a healthy forest ecosystem with habitat that will support populations of native species (particularly those associated with late-successional and old-growth forests). It also responds to the need for a sustainable supply of timber and other forest products that will help maintain the stability of local and regional economies, and contribute valuable resources to the national economy, on a predictable and long-term basis. BLM-administered lands are primarily allocated to Riparian Reserves, Late-Successional Reserves, General Forest Management Areas, and Connectivity/Diversity Blocks. An Aquatic Conservation Strategy would be applied to all lands and waters under BLM jurisdiction. Approximately 61,900 acres would be managed for timber production. The annual probable sale quantity would be 5.3 million cubic feet (32.1 million board feet). To contribute to biological diversity, standing trees, snags, and down, dead woody material would be retained. Management would provide for a wide variety of recreation opportunities, with particular emphasis on enhancement of opportunities for dispersed recreational use. Approximately 184 miles of river found eligible for designation and studied by BLM would be found not suitable for designation. Most BLM-administered lands would remain available for mineral leasing and location of mining claims, but 1,600 acres would be closed to leasing for oil and gas and geothermal resources, and 12,500 acres would be closed to location of claims. The PRMP/FEIS proposes continuation of designation of one Area of Critical Environmental Concern (ACEC), one Research Natural Area (RNA), and designation of nine new ACECs. The Proposed RMP would designate or redesignate the following ACECs and RNA with the noted restrictions.
