FR941205-0-00069 FR941205-0-00020 39 CFR Part 265 Release of Information AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule amends the Postal Service regulation which governs the disclosure to the public of information contained in Postal Service Form 1583, ``Application for Delivery of Mail Through Agent.'' The amendment authorizes the disclosure of information from Form 1583 for the purpose of identifying addresses as Commercial Mail Receiving Agencies. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 4, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mitchell J. Benowitz, Ethics and Information Law, (202) 268&hyph;2967. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The rule is substantially the same as the interim rule with request for comments published on May 3, 1994. Commercial Mail Receiving Agencies (CMRAs) are private entities which receive mail on behalf of other persons. An address provided by a CMRA often appears to be a typical residential or business address. Both CMRAs and their customers are required to sign Postal Service Form 1583, ``Application for Delivery of Mail Through Agent,'' a copy of which is filed with the postmaster responsible for the delivery address. The Postal Service has prohibited the disclosure to the public of any information contained on Form 1583. As amended, 39 CFR 265.6(d)(8) authorizes disclosure of information from Form 1583 for the sole purpose of identifying an address as belonging to a Commercial Mail Receiving Agency (CMRA). The regulation does not authorize the disclosure of any other information concerning CMRAs or their customers. Because the regulation does not authorize the disclosure of the identities of CMRA customers, disclosures under the regulation will not invade the legitimate privacy interests of persons who receive mail through CMRAs. The information will be disclosed primarily by means of annotations to the Postal Service's Delivery Sequence File (DSF). DSF data, the use of which is made available to the public through authorized licensees, contains delivery-point addresses, and it does not include the identities of individuals. Although disclosures will be made primarily by means of DSF annotations, the regulation permits disclosures by other means. Regardless of the means of disclosure, all disclosures are limited in scope to the identification of an address as a CMRA address. Copies of Form 1583 on file with the Postal Service are records protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and they are maintained in the Postal Service's Privacy Act system of records USPS 010.050, Collection and Delivery Records_Delivery of Mail Through Agents. The Postal Service has added a routine use to system of records USPS 010.050 which authorizes the disclosure of the information that may be released pursuant to this rule. See 59 FR 22874 (May 3, 1994). Analysis of Comments Received Two written comments were received. One commenter expressed support for the interim rule. The other commenter expressed concern that the interim rule did not define the information which may be disclosed with sufficient specificity, and also recommended that the rule be amended to authorize only disclosures by means of DSF annotations. An editorial change to the interim rule has been made in response to these comments. In response to the commenter's concern that the information which may be disclosed was not defined with sufficient specificity, the interim rule has been modified to emphasize that the only information which may be disclosed from PS Form 1583 is the fact that an address is a CMRA address. This modification does not alter the substance of the interim rule, which was never intended to authorize the disclosure of any other information. For the following reasons, the Postal Service has decided not to adopt the commenter's recommendation that disclosures be limited to DSF annotations. First, we think that a rule which limits the means, rather than the scope, of disclosure would not significantly add to the protection of legitimate privacy interests. Once the information has been disclosed through a DSF licensee, the Postal Service cannot prohibit or restrict the further disclosure of the information. A rule limiting disclosures to those made through the DSF might create the appearance that the information will be available only to persons who receive DSF data when, in fact, the information may be further disseminated by those who receive it. Second, as we explained in the introductory comments to the interim rule, we have concluded that the identification of CMRA addresses will be an effective tool in combatting credit card fraud and other types of consumer fraud. Limiting disclosures to DSF annotations might impair the effectiveness of this tool by making the information more difficult to obtain for persons, including law enforcement personnel, who may not have ready access to DSF data. Therefore, we are adopting a rule that permits disclosure by means other than the DSF.
