FR940503-1-00048 FR940503-1-00010 (m) Respondent means any person named in the field citation. §59.5 Determination of minor violation and maximum proposed penalty. (a) The following factors shall be considered in determining whether a violation is minor under the Act: (1) Whether the violation is readily recognizable; (2) Risk of environmental harm; (3) Time required to correct the violation; (4) Effort required to correct the violation; (5) Expense required to correct the violation; (6) Frequency of the violation; (7) Duration of the violation; (8) Importance of the violated requirement to the specific program; and (9) Other factors as appropriate. Criminal violations shall not be addressed through issuance of field citations. (b) The maximum civil penalty which may be proposed for each minor violation shall not exceed $5,000 per day for each violation. The total cumulative penalty proposed in a field citation is the sum of the proposed penalties corresponding to each minor violation alleged in the field citation. The maximum cumulative penalty which may be proposed in any single field citation is (insert dollar amount from $15,000 to $25,000). Subpart B_Rules Governing Hearings on Field Citations §59.6 Scope of these rules. This subpart sets forth procedures for the issuance of field citations and for the administration of administrative hearings on field citations under section 113(d)(3) of the Act. §59.7 Issuance and service of field citations. (a) A field citation may be issued by the complainant to any person for any minor violation of the Act or for any minor violation of any regulations promulgated under the Act. (b) A field citation shall list: (1) Each alleged minor violation; (2) The penalty amount proposed for each violation; (3) The total proposed penalty amount; and (4) The address of the Regional office issuing the field citation; the address of the Federal repository to which payment of the proposed penalty may be sent; and the address of the Hearing Clerk to whom a request for a hearing shall be submitted. (c) A field citation shall be served on the respondent personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested (or any other manner of service that is no less speedy and reliable), with an attached certificate of service. Service upon a corporation, partnership or other unincorporated association shall be made personally, or by certified mail, return receipt requested (or by any other manner of service that is no less speedy and reliable), directed to an officer, partner, managing or general agent, or to any person authorized by appointment or by federal or State law to receive service of process. Service upon a federal agency, State or municipal government, State or municipal agency or other instrumentality thereof shall be made in the manner prescribed by the applicable law for service of process. (d) Proof of service of the field citation shall be made by affidavit of the person making personal service, or by properly executed return receipt, and shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk. §59.8 Presiding officer. (a) The Presiding Officer shall have the authority to: (1) Issue subpoenas pursuant to §59.17 for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and for the production of relevant information and documents. (2) Issue or modify a prehearing order pursuant to §59.15(c); (3) Schedule and further limit the information exchange pursuant to §59.16; (4) Impose sanctions pursuant to §59.16 or to aid in the maintenance of order and the efficient and impartial administration of justice; and (5) Certify the administrative record and set forth and transmit a recommended decision pursuant to §59.22. (b) The Presiding Officer shall, in a timely fashion:
