FR941011-2-00132 FR941011-2-00086 After the executing broker reports a trade to DTC using a prime broker's CNS number, DTC will complete its usual ID confirmation and affirmation processing. Conformations will be issued by the morning of the next business day after the trade date. The prime broker will affirm the trade if their information matches the information received from the executing brokers. 5 The trades then will be submitted to NSCC through CCF 6 on the night of T+2 for clearance and settlement following normal CNS settlement procedures. 5 Trades affirmed on T+3 revert to trade-for-trade settlement. Trade-for-trade information appears on the ID system's cumulative eligible trade reports which are available to the executing and prime brokers. 6 CCF is DTC's acronym for ``Computer to Computer Facility.'' CCF is used for direct computer to computer communication between DTC and its participants' IBM mainframe computers. Trades entered into the CNS system will settle like routine CNS trades. NSCC will combine prime brokers' and executing brokers' positions with their other respective CNS positions in securities of the same issue to arrive at a net deliver or net receive obligation for each issue. After establishing such net deliver or net receive obligations for the prime brokers and executing brokers, NSCC will guarantee their respective obligations. Pursuant to NSCC's standard CNS procedures, money settlement for these trades will occur at NSCC while deliveries of securities will occur at DTC. The proposed rule change also includes procedures whereby prime brokers can disaffirm trades which they previously had affirmed. A disaffirming prime broker will notify both DTC and the executing broker within identified DTC established time frames through DTC's participants terminal system that a previously affirmed ID prime broker trade is being disaffirmed. The prime broker simultaneously must call a director or vice president of DTC's ID department to alert DTC of the disaffirmation. DTC will verify that each disaffirmation instruction matches an existing ID trade, and on a ``best effort'' basis, DTC will attempt to contact the executing broker by telephone to inform it of the disaffirmation. DTC then will determine the settlement mode of the trade to be disaffirmed ( e.g., trade-for-trade or CNS). If the trades to be disaffirmed are scheduled to settle trade-for-trade or outside DTC and NSCC, DTC is not required to take further action. For trade-for-trade settlement, prime brokers will not deliver on the sell side or will reclaim the transaction on the buy side. For trades settling outside DTC and NSCC, prime brokers will block settlement through their agents or correspondents. If the disaffirmed trades are scheduled to settle in CNS, DTC will fax disaffirmation information to the proper department at NSCC, and DTC will confirm the information with telephone calls to NSCC. NSCC will acknowledge disaffirmation instructions in writing to DTC, and NSCC will effect journal entries to reverse the settlement obligations of the prime brokers and will reestablish the settlement obligations of the executing brokers. On a best effort basis, NSCC will telephone the executing brokers to advise them of the disaffirmation. Prior to the June 1995 conversion to three business days as the standard settlement period, 7 DTC will develop an automated mechanism that prime brokers can utilize to disaffirm previously affirmed trades. 8 7 For a detailed description of the conversion to three business day settlement, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33023 (October 6, 1993) 58 FR 52891. (Order adopting Rule 15c6&hyph;1) 8 In early 1995, DTC expects to file a proposed rule change with the Commission under Section 19(b)(1) of the Act to implement as an optional enhancement to the ID system, an advice of correction feature, which will enable the prime broker to ``DK'' a trade ( i.e., to indicate to the executing broker that the prime broker does not intend to clear and settle the trade).
