FR940902-0-00112 FR940902-0-00010 (3) PIC conflict of interest . (i) A PIC member shall not cast a vote, nor participate in any decisionmaking capacity, on the provision of services by such member (or any organization which that member directly represents), nor on any matter which would provide any direct financial benefit to that member. (ii) Neither membership on the PIC nor the receipt of JTPA funds to provide training and related services shall be construed, by itself, to violate provisions of section 141(f) of the Act or ยง627.420. (4) A conflict of interest under paragraphs (c) (2) and (3) of this section would arise when: (i) The individual, (ii) Any member of the individual's immediate family, (iii) The individual's partner, or (iv) An organization which employs, or is about to employ, any of the above, has a financial or other interest in the firm or organization selected for award. (5) The officers, employees, or agents of the agency and PIC members making the award will neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from awardees, potential awardees, or parties to subagreements. States and subrecipients may set minimum rules where the financial interest is not substantial or the gift is an unsolicited item of nominal intrinsic value. (d) Methods of procurement . (1) Each State and subrecipient shall use one of the following methods of procurement, as appropriate for each procurement action: (i) Small purchase procedures _simple and informal procurement methods for securing services, supplies, or other property that do not cost more than $25,000 in the aggregate. Recipients and subrecipients shall not break down one purchase into several purchases merely to be able to use small purchase procedures. The Governor shall establish standards for small purchase procedures to ensure that price or rate quotations will be documented from an adequate number of qualified sources. (ii) Sealed bids (formal advertising) _bids are publicly solicited procurements for which a firm-fixed-price award (lump sum or unit price) or other fixed-price arrangement is awarded to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and conditions of the invitation for bids, is the lowest in price. The Governor shall establish standards for sealed bids which include requirements that invitations for bids be publicly advertised, and that bids be solicited from an adequate number of organizations. (iii) Competitive proposals _normally conducted with more than one source submitting an offer and either a fixed-price or cost-reimbursement type award is made. The Governor shall establish standards for competitive proposals which include requirements for the establishment of a documented methodology for technical evaluations and award to the responsible offeror whose proposals are most advantageous to the program with price, technical, and other factors considered. (iv) Noncompetitive proposals (sole source) _procurement through solicitation of a proposal from only one source, the funding of an unsolicited proposal, or when, after solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined inadequate. Each State and subrecipient shall minimize the use of sole source procurements to the extent practicable, but in every case the use of sole source procurements shall be justified and documented. On-the-job training (OJT) awards (except OJT brokering awards, which shall be selected competitively) and the enrollment of individual participants in classroom training may be sole sourced. For all other awards, procurement by noncompetitive proposals may be used only when the award is infeasible under small purchase procedures, sealed bids, or competitive proposals and one of the following circumstances applies: (A) The item or service is available only from a single source; (B) The public exigency or emergency need for the item or service does not permit a delay resulting from competitive solicitation;
