FR941230-2-00058 FR941230-2-00046 11. South Nassau Communities Hospital (South Nassau) is a 429 bed acute care voluntary hospital organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York and located in Oceanside, New York. South Nassau is a member of Classic Care and its CEO serves as a voting director of Classic Care. III Trade and Commerce 12. Each of the defendant hospitals provides both general acute care inpatient and outpatient medical services in connection with the diagnosis, care and treatment of patients. Various of the defendant hospitals compete with each other and other hospitals in Nassau and Suffolk Counties for patients who are members of health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and managed care plans. 13. General acute care hospitals compete for patients on the basis of price, quality, reputation and services. The defendant hospitals endeavor to maintain or increase their patient occupancy rates, admissions and the utilization of their outpatient services by seeking contracts with HMOs and managed care organizations pursuant to which those entities influence or direct their enrollees to use the facilities of defendant hospitals. 14. Third-party payers provide health insurance coverage including coverage for inpatient hospitalization and outpatient hospital services for patients who either individually, or through their employer, have subscribed for that coverage and who pay a fixed rate or premium for that coverage. Third-party payers include both HMOs and managed care payers. 15. An HMO in New York State must be licensed by the State in order to operate. HMOs provide reimbursement payments for inpatient services to the defendant hospitals at rates that are either determined by the state's Diagnosis Related Group (DRG) reimbursement system or, in accordance with New York State law, at discounted rates determined pursuant to a voluntary agreement between the HMO and the hospital. 16. Voluntary agreements for discounted rates between HMOs and hospitals for the delivery of hospital services can include the adoption and utilization of per diem-based inpatient hospital rates. A per diem-based inpatient hospital rate rewards third-party payers such as HMOs with lower overall hospital prices for their members who require hospitalization based on efficient patient management and shorter lengths of stays at hospitals. 17. Under New York State law both HMOs and managed care payers may enter into contracts with the defendant hospitals for discounted rates in connection with the provision of outpatient services to their subscribers or plan members. 18. HMOs and managed care payers compete between themselves to obtain employer contracts and enrollees on the basis of price, services, convenience and other factors including the reputations of contracted providers including hospitals. They frequently seek to minimize their costs while also arranging for the participation of a sufficient number of reputable hospitals and other providers to attract members. HMOs and managed care payers periodically direct their members away from higher cost hospitals in favor of lower cost providers of hospital services in order to minimize their costs. 19. In response to efforts by various HMOs to obtain discounts off inpatient hospitalization rates and to direct patients away from higher cost hospital providers in Nassau and Suffolk Counties to lower cost hospitals, the defendant hospitals formed Classic Care in the fall of 1991 and signed a memorandum of understanding pursuant to which each defendant agreed (1) that no member of Classic Care would enter into any contract with an HMO or managed care payer without the collective approval of the defendant hospitals; and (2) that Classic Care would be the exclusive bargaining agent for the defendant hospitals in connection with any negotiations relating to contracts with HMOs and managed care payers. 20. The defendant hospitals and Classic Care also entered into an understanding and agreement that no discounts would be permitted off any Classic Care member's inpatient hospital rates in contracts with HMOs or managed care payers and that discounts off any defendant hospital's outpatient rates would be limited to no more than 10% off those rates.
