FR941205-0-00116 FR941205-0-00026 B. Overutilization for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes. Unrestricted collecting for scientific or horticultural purposes and excessive visits by individuals interested in seeing rare plants could result from increased publicity. This is a potential threat to all three of the proposed species, none of which has more than a total of two populations or 10 known individuals. Collection of whole plants or reproductive parts of these species could cause an adverse impact on the gene pool and threaten the survival of the species. C. Disease or predation. The black twig borer is a small beetle about 1.6 mm (0.06 in) in length that burrows into branches, introduces a pathogenic fungus as food for its larvae, and lays its eggs. Twigs, branches, and even an entire plant can be killed from such an infestation. In the Hawaiian Islands, black twig borer has many hosts and is widespread. It is known to attack species of Melicope and is a potential threat to all three proposed species (Hara and Beardsley 1979). D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. Melicope ovalis occurs exclusively on Federal land (Haleakala National Park) but feral pigs still pose a threat in this area. Melicope adscendens is found exclusively on private land. One of the two known extant populations of M. balloui occurs on privately owned land within a State conservation district. Conservation district lands are regarded, among other purposes, as necessary for the protection of endemic biological resources and the maintenance or enhancement of the conservation of natural resources. Requests for amendments to district boundaries or variances within existing classifications can be made by government agencies and private landowners (HRS, sect. 205&hyph;4). The Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources is mandated to initiate changes in conservation district boundaries to include ``the habitat of rare native species of flora and fauna within the conservation district'' (HRS, sect. 195D&hyph;5.1). Hawaii environmental policy, and thus approval of land use, is required by law to safeguard ``*␣*␣* the State's unique natural environmental characteristics *␣*␣*'' (HRS, sect. 344&hyph;3(1)) and includes guidelines to ``Protect endangered species of individual plants and animals *␣*␣*'' (HRS, sect. 344&hyph;4(3)(A)). However, none of the three species in this rule is presently protected under the State's endangered species act, and, despite provisions for conserving endemic resources, individual rare species may be overlooked during consideration of other land use priorities. Even if all other threats were removed by virtue of occurrence and protection on Federal land or in conservation districts, these species are still in danger of extinction due to their low numbers. E. Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence. The small numbers of individuals and populations of these three species of Melicope increase the potential for extinction from stochastic events. The limited gene pool may depress reproductive vigor, or a single human-caused or natural environmental disturbance could destroy a significant percentage of the individuals or an entire population, potentially causing the extinction of the species. Only one individual of M. adscendens is known to exist, the two populations of M. balloui contain a total of less than 10 known individuals, and only one individual of M. ovalis has been definitely identified. The only known individual of Melicope adscendens is located directly adjacent to a water pipeline used in ranching activities. Maintenance performed on the pipeline in the vicinity of the plant could damage or destroy the plant. In addition, cattle walking along the pipeline could easily trample the plant (A. Medeiros, pers. comm., 1992).
