FR941202-2-00192 FR941202-2-00098 If a laboratory completes all of the requirements for accreditation except that of an on-site assessment because the accrediting authority is unable to schedule the assessment an interim accreditation shall be issued and will be in effect until the assessment requirements have been completed. Interim accreditation will allow a laboratory to perform analyses and report results of samples with the same status as a fully accredited laboratory until an on-site assessment has been completed. Accreditation will still be granted when performance evaluation samples are not available. 4.5.2␣Revocation of Interim Accreditation Revocation of interim accreditation may be initiated for due cause as described in 4.4.0 by order of the accrediting agency, without right to a hearing. 4.6␣Awarding of Accreditation When a participating laboratory has met the requirements specified for receiving accreditation, the laboratory will receive a single certificate awarded on behalf of the state accrediting authority. The certificate will provide the following information: the name of the laboratory, address of the laboratory, the specifications of the accreditation action (for example, the laboratory may be accredited for analysis of water or for use of a specific analytical methodology, etc.), the states in which the laboratory may operate. Even though a parent laboratory is accredited, the subfacilities (laboratories operating under the same parent organization, analytical procedures, and quality assurance system) are also required to become accredited. The subfacilities accredited will be listed on the certificate of the parent laboratory. 4.6.1␣The Certificate of Accreditation The certificate of accreditation will briefly define the rules of obtaining and maintaining accreditation. Finally, the certificate will be signed by a member of the accrediting authority. To address the concern that an individual state may revoke a laboratory's accreditation for work in that state, the certificate will explain that continued accredited status depends on successful ongoing participation in the program. The certificate will urge a customer to verify the laboratory's current accreditation standing within a particular state. The certificate must be returned to the accrediting agency upon loss of accreditation. 4.6.2␣Changes in Areas of Accreditation If an accredited laboratory increases its areas of accreditation, a new certificate will be awarded which details the spectrum of accreditations the laboratory has achieved. 4.7␣Enforcement The development of an enforcement component of the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program (NELAP) should be based on explicit values, or principles, with which all participants concur. The proposed basic principles are: (a) The program should be fair to all participants; (b) The rules should be well publicized; (c) The program needs of the participating agencies must be upheld; and (d) The due process rights of participating laboratories must be protected. The major components of the program shall include: (a) All enforcement actions are taken independently by EPA or state agencies and communicated to all other NELAP participating agencies.
