FR940406-0-00048 FR940406-0-00002 (4) The Board may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would: (i) Exclude individuals with a disability from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Board; or (ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives or a program or activity with respect to individuals with a disability. (5) The Board, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with a disability to discrimination on the basis of a disability. (6) The Board may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with a disability to discrimination on the basis of a disability, nor may the Board establish requirements for the programs and activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with a disability to discrimination on the basis of a disability. However, the programs and activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the Board are not, themselves, covered by this subpart G. (c) The exclusion of individuals who do not have a disability from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Board order to individuals with a disability or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with a disability from a program limited by Federal statute or Board order to a different class of individuals with a disability is not prohibited by this subpart G. (d) The Board shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with a disability. §268.704 Employment. No qualified individual with a disability shall, on the basis of a disability, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the Board. The requirements and procedures of §268.303 of this part shall apply to discrimination in employment under this subpart G. §268.705 Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited. Except as otherwise provided in §268.706 of this part, no qualified individual with a disability shall, because the Board's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with a disability, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Board. §268.706 Program accessibility: Existing facilities. (a) General. The Board shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with a disability. This paragraph (a) does not: (1) Necessarily require the Board to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with a disability; or (2) Require the Board to take any action that it can determine, based on a written record, would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where the Board believes that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Board shall establish a written record showing that compliance with this paragraph (a) would result in such alterations or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alterations or burdens shall be made by the Board of Governors or their designee after considering all Board resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Board shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with a disability receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
