FR941222-1-00068 FR941222-1-00008 9. Spent filter aids, diatomaceous earth, or adsorbents used in the production of azo, anthraquinone, or triarylmethane dyes, pigments, or FD&C colorants. Summary The Agency is proposing to defer a determination on whether to list spent filter aids, diatomaceous earth, or adsorbents used in the production of azo, anthraquinone, or triarylmethane dyes, pigments, or FD&C colorants as hazardous due to insufficient waste characterization data. The Agency is planning to collect additional information on this wastestream. EPA then will publish a supplemental notice with a proposed determination on whether to list this waste. III. Waste Minimization In the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 13101 et seq., Pub. L. 101&hyph;508, November 5, 1990), Congress declared pollution prevention the national policy of the United States. The act declares that pollution should be prevented or reduced whenever feasible; pollution that cannot be prevented should be recycled or reused in an environmentally safe manner wherever feasible; pollution that cannot be prevented/reduced or recycled should be treated; and disposal or release into the environment should be chosen only as a last resort. This section first provides a general discussion of some generic pollution prevention and waste minimization techniques that facilities may wish to explore and second discusses and requests comment on ways in which the hazardous waste listing determination program itself could be structured to better promote pollution prevention and waste minimization. A. Generic Approaches to Waste Minimization Waste minimization practices fall into three general groups: change in production practices, housekeeping practices, and practices that employ the use of equipment that by design promote waste minimization. Some of these practices/equipment listed below conserve water, others reduce the amount of product in the wastestream, while others may prevent the creation of the waste altogether. EPA acknowledges that some of these practices/equipment may lead to media transfers or increased energy consumption. This information is presented for general information, and is not being proposed as a regulatory requirement. Production practices include: •Triple-rinsing raw material shipping containers and returning the rinsate directly to the reactor; •Scheduling production to minimize changeover cleanouts; •Segregating equipment by individual product or product ``families;'' •Packaging products directly out of reactors; •Steam stripping wastewaters to recovery reactants or solvents for reuse; •Using raw material drums for packaging final products; and •Dedicating equipment for hard to clean products. Housekeeping practices include: •Performing preventive maintenance on all valves, fittings, and pumps; •Promptly correcting any leaky valves and fittings; •Placing drip pans under valves and fittings to contain leaks; and
