FR940523-2-00032 FR940523-2-00020 D. Public reporting burden for this collection is estimated to average 1 hour per response. How much time, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information, do you estimate it will require you to complete and submit the required form? E. What is the estimated cost of completing this form, including the direct and indirect costs associated with the data collection? Direct costs should include all costs, such as administrative costs, directly attributable to providing this information. F. How can the form be improved? G. Do you know of any other Federal, State, or local agency that collects similar data? If you do, specify the agency, the data element(s), and the means of collection. As a Potential User: A. Can you use data at the levels of detail indicated on the form? B. For what purpose would you use the data? Be specific. C. How could the form be improved to better meet your specific needs? D. Are there alternate sources of data and do you use them? What are their deficiencies and/or strengths? E. For the most part, information is published by EIA in U.S. customary units, e.g., cubic feet of natural gas, short tons of coal, and barrels of oil. Would you prefer to see EIA publish more information in metric units, e.g., cubic meters, metric tons, and kilograms? If yes, please specify what information (e.g., coal production, natural gas consumption, and crude oil imports), the metric unit(s) of measurement preferred, and in which EIA publication(s) you would like to see such information. EIA is also interested in receiving comments from persons regarding their views on the need for the information contained in the ``Alternate Fuel Vehicle Suppliers' Annual Report''. Comments submitted in response to this notice will be summarized and/or included in the request for OMB approval of the form; they also will become a matter of public record. Statutory Authorities: Section 2(a) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;511), which amended Chapter 35 of Title 44 of the United States Code [See 44 U.S.C. 3506(a) and (c)(1)]. Issued in Washington, DC, May 13, 1994. Yvonne M. Bishop, Director, Statistical Standards, Energy Information Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12537 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
