FR941122-2-00097 FR941122-2-00075 OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE Request for Public Comment: Deregulation Measures in Japan AGENCY: Office of the United States Trade Representative. ACTION: Request for written comments regarding deregulation measures in Japan. SUMMARY: The Government of Japan currently is in the process of preparing a five-year plan for deregulation measures in Japan, which it expects to finalize by the end of March, 1995. The United States Government has provided the Government of Japan with an initial list of comments and specific suggestions regarding the deregulation plan, and the United States Government intends to consult with the Government of Japan in various fora regarding the preparation and implementation of the plan and other deregulation issues. USTR solicits comments from interested parties regarding specific laws, regulations, or regulatory practices in Japan, the removal or modification of which would improve market access for United States products or services. DATES: Comments are due on or before noon on December 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Office of the United States Trade Representative, 600 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20506. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ira Wolf, Assistant United States Trade Representative, (202) 395&hyph;3900, or James Southwick, Assistant General Counsel, (202) 395&hyph;7203. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the course of the past year, the United States has held three rounds of consultations with Japan addressing deregulation and competition policy issues in a working group established under the Joint Statement on the United States-Japan Framework for a New Economic Partnership (the ``Framework''). In these consultations, the United States has proposed specific regulatory changes by the Government of Japan as well as more general changes in regulatory practices, administrative procedures, and competition policy enforcement. In addition, in other contexts the United States has held other consultations with Japan addressing deregulation issues in particular sectors or with respect to particular structural issues. In March and June, 1994, Japan announced specific, initial deregulatory measures that it would take in the areas of housing construction; information and telecommunications; import promotion, market access, and distribution; and finance, securities, and insurance. The Government of Japan currently is in the process of preparing a five-year plan to follow up on these initial measures. The Government of Japan invited interested foreign governments to submit specific deregulation requests and comments to be taken into consideration in preparing its five-year plan. On October 27, the European Union submitted a list of deregulation requests. In response to the Government of Japan's invitation, the United States Government, under the coordination of the Office of the United States Trade Representative, prepared and presented to the Government of Japan, on November 15, 1994, an initial list of deregulation requests and comments for consideration in connection with Japan's five-year deregulation plan. The list was based on information gathered in the preparation of the annual National Trade Estimates Report (required by section 181(b) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2241)), information brought to the attention of various agencies of the United States Government by U.S. industry, and information gathered by the United States Government. The list is available for public inspection and copying in the USTR Reading Room: Room 101, Office of the United States Trade Representative, 600 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20506. An appointment to review the list may be made by calling Brenda Webb (202) 395&hyph;6186. The USTR Reading Room is open to the public from 10 a.m. to 12 noon and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The United States Government intends to consult with the Government of Japan in various fora regarding the issues in the list and regarding the preparation and implementation of the five-year plan. The United States Government intends to submit to Japan, as appropriate, additional requests or comments regarding the action plan and other deregulation issues.
