FR940404-2-00122 FR940404-2-00082 [Release No. 34&hyph;33827; File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;4] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Its Listing Requirements March 28, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on February 25, 1994, the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. (``BSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The BSE proposes to amend its listing requirements to impose more stringent criteria for initial listing of securities on the Exchange. 2 2 The BSE proposes to amend Chapter XXVII_Listing Securities_Requirements ¶ 2260, Sec. 1, which outlines mandatory listing requirements for common stock. The Exchange generally proposes the following changes: A. The proposal would increase the company's tangible asset requirement to $2 million (up from $1.5 million) of $3 million in total assets. It would also specify that intangible assets shall include, inter alia, goodwill, patents, licenses, and trademarks and other assets as the Exchange shall deem intangible. B. The proposal would increase the required outstanding public float requirement to 750,000 shares (up from 500,000). It would also provide that the public float requirement shall be exclusive of shares held by directors, officers or other concentrated holdings of 5% (down from 10%) or more. C. The proposal would increase the minimum number of beneficial stock holders required for listing to 750 (up from 500) beneficial stockholders exclusive of the holdings of directors, officers or other concentrated holdings of 5% (down from 10%) or more. Currently, with respect to companies seeking to list following an initial public offering, the Exchange must receive assurances from the company or its representatives that the minimum beneficial stockholder requirement be met following the distribution of the shares. If not met within six months of listing, the Exchange shall take immediate action to suspend dealings until the stockholder requirement is met. The Exchange proposes to add the following sentence to this section: Should the company fail to meet the requirement within 90 days of suspension, the Exchange shall file an application for delisting. D. The proposal would increase the minimum bid price per share to $2.00 per share (up from $1.00 per share) at the time of listing in the case of an initial public offering. It would also require a bid price of $2.00 (up from $1.00) to be maintained for 45 days (up from 30) prior to listing in the case of a company not involved in an initial public offering. E. The proposal would increase the net tangible asset requirement to $2 million (up from $500,000). The proposal would, therefore, provide that the company must have either net income of $100,000 in two of the past three years or net tangible assets in the amount of $2 million. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to amend the listing requirements of the Exchange to establish minimum quantitative and qualitative requirements where practicable, to modernize and clarify the language of the rule, and to begin to respond to the Commission's concerns regarding certain issuers and promoters seeking listing solely as a means to avoid the requirements of SEC Rule 15c2&hyph;6. The statutory basis for the proposed rule change is Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received comments on the proposed rule change, except from the Stock List Committee. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the BSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;4 and should be submitted by April 25, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7968 Filed 4&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
