FR941013-1-00096 FR941013-1-00014 The following example illustrates the application of the statutory formula and the resulting fee a State would be required to pay. If the new loan volume for a State is $100 million and $40 million of Stafford and SLS loans entered repayment during the fiscal year used for the relevant cohort default rates, and the dollars associated with the default rates of the schools in the State with cohort default rates above 20 percent is $10 million entering repayment and $4 million entering default, the State would pay $625,000 as a default offset fee for fiscal year 1995. $100m × 12.5% × { [$4m ^ ($10m × .2)] $40m } = $625,000 A State may charge a fee to schools located in the State that participate in the FFEL Program to defray the fee assessed the State by the Secretary. As required by the statute, the State's fee structure must be approved by the Secretary and be based on the relationship of the school's cohort default rate to the default fee assessed the State by the Secretary. A State may not develop its fee structure so that a school is assessed a fee by a State that is greater than that school's contribution to the fee the State is required to pay the Secretary. The State's school fee payment structure must also include a procedure by which a school with a high cohort default rate may be exempted from payment of the fee if the school can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the State that exceptional mitigating circumstances contributed to its cohort default rate. A State must provide a school a reasonable amount of time from the date it notifies the school that it is being assessed a fee under this provision to either pay the fee or submit an appeal, with appropriate documentation that demonstrates that exceptional mitigating circumstances contributed to its cohort default rate. The Secretary is particularly interested in knowing if the public believes it would be appropriate for the Secretary to provide regulatory guidance with respect to the exceptional mitigating circumstances a State may select. The Secretary also is interested in knowing if the public believes the following criteria would assist the States in developing their exceptional mitigating circumstances: (1) The completion and job placement rates of Stafford and SLS loan borrowers at the school whose loans entered repayment during the fiscal year used for calculating the school's cohort default rate; (2) The regional or State unemployment rates during the fiscal year used for calculating the school's cohort default rate and during the subsequent fiscal year; (3) The income level of former Stafford and SLS loan borrowers at the school whose loans entered repayment during the fiscal year used for calculating the school's cohort default rate and during subsequent fiscal year; (4) The exceptional mitigating circumstances criteria currently reflected in 34 CFR 668.17(d)(ii) under which a school may appeal its loss of eligibility to participate in the FFEL Program; (5) The school's status as a Historically Black College and University, a Tribally Controlled Community College under section 2(a)(4) of the Tribally Controlled Community College Assistance Act of 1978, and a Navajo Community College under the Navajo Community College Act. The Secretary is particularly interested in receiving public comment on these criteria as well as other criteria the public believes may assist a State in developing its exceptional mitigating circumstances. A State may not attempt to collect a fee from a school under these regulations during the school's appeal of the fee to the State or if the school satisfactorily demonstrates to the State that exceptional mitigating circumstances contributed to its cohort default rate. The Secretary is interested to know if the public believes that the State should be responsible in whole, or in part, for the portion of the State's fee that is attributed to: (1) the fees that are attributed to a school that has closed or no longer participates in the FFEL Program; (2) the fees attributed to schools that meet the exceptional mitigating circumstances standards established by the State; and, (3) the fees attributed to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, tribally controlled community colleges, and Navajo Community Colleges that are exempt from losing eligibility to participate in the FFEL Program under section 435(a)(2) of the HEA, if it is determined that such schools are not responsible for their contribution to the State's fee. Executive Order 12866 1. Assessment of Costs and Benefits These proposed regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this proposed regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the proposed regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering the Title IV, HEA programs effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements, if any, are explained elsewhere in this preamble under the heading of Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980.
