FR940706-0-00028 FR940706-0-00001 (j) Decision of the Judicial Officer on review. (1) As soon as practicable after the receipt of the record from the Hearing Clerk, or, in case oral argument was had, as soon as practicable thereafter, the Judicial Officer, upon the basis of the record and any matter of which official notice is taken, shall rule on the review. (2) The Judicial Officer may adopt, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand or approve settlement of any claim initially decided by the ALJ under this part. (3) The Judicial Officer shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of the ruling of the Judicial Officer which shall be considered the final determination and contain a statement describing the right to seek judicial review. (4) Judicial review must be sought within 30 days of service of the final notice of determination by the Judicial Officer pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2023(a). ยง283.21 Ex parte communications. (a) ALJ; Judicial Officer. At no time prior to the issuance of the final decision shall the ALJ or Judicial Officer discuss ex parte the merits of the appeal or review with any person who is connected with the appeal or review in an advocative or in an investigative capacity, or with any representative of such person. However, procedural matters shall not be included within this limitation; and furthermore, the ALJ or Judicial Officer may discuss the merits of the case with such a person if all parties to the appeal or review, or their attorneys have been given notice and an opportunity to participate. A memorandum of such discussion shall be included in the record. (b) Parties; interested persons. No party or other interested person shall make or knowingly cause to be made to the ALJ or Judicial Officer an ex parte communication relevant to the merits of the appeal or review. (c) Procedure. If the ALJ or Judicial Officer receives an ex parte communication in violation of this section, the one who receives the communication shall place in the public record of the appeal or review: (1) All such written communications; (2) Memoranda stating the substance of all such oral communications; and (3) Copies of all written responses, and memoranda stating the substance of all oral responses thereto. (4) Upon receipt of a communication knowingly made or knowingly caused to be made by a party in violation of this section, the ALJ or Judicial Officer may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the policy of the underlying statute, require the party to show cause why its claim or interest in the appeal or review should not be dismissed, denied, disregarded or otherwise adversely affected on account of such violation.
