FR941212-0-00045 FR941212-0-00015 G. Section 214 Process 31. We now affirm our decision to require LECs to obtain approval pursuant to Section 214 of the Act before beginning construction of video dialtone facilities or offering video dialtone service. We reject arguments that we lack authority to require such approval or that we should refrain from exercising that authority at this time. Because video dialtone is based upon new and evolving technologies, the Section 214 process is critical to our ability to ensure that video dialtone is implemented in a manner that best serves the public interest. Nevertheless, we permit LECs to seek generic approval of those aspects of a video dialtone system that do not require case-by-case review. In addition, we anticipate that, over time, as the service evolves and precedents are established, it may no longer be necessary to require the same level of Section 214 scrutiny to future video dialtone offerings. We will consider, at that time, on our own motion or on petitions of parties, streamlining our Section 214 requirements for video dialtone offerings. 1. FCC Authority to Require Section 214 Certification 32. As an initial matter, we conclude that the Commission has jurisdiction to require LECs to obtain Section 214 certification to upgrade existing facilities to provide video dialtone. Section 214(a) requires a carrier to obtain certification before constructing or extending a line it will use for interstate communications. Even facilities that are wholly located within a state are interstate for Section 214 purposes, if a LEC uses those facilities at least in part for interstate communications. 33. We conclude further that an upgrade of LEC facilities to offer video dialtone service constitutes the establishment or extension of a ``line'' pursuant to Section 214. In 1944, Congress amended Section 214 to define ``line'' as a ``channel of communication established by appropriate equipment *␣*␣*.'' Because video dialtone systems create new channels of communication, the systems constitute the establishment of lines under Section 214. 34. We also conclude that video dialtone systems involve ``new construction.'' The exemption in Section 214 for ``any installation, replacement, or other changes in plant, operation, or equipment, other than new construction'' applies only if no new construction occurs, or any new construction or installation is minor. The upgrading of existing facilities to be used for video dialtone thus does not fall within this exemption. 35. Furthermore, we conclude that new construction occurs even when LECs upgrade existing facilities to provide video dialtone through the addition of small amounts of equipment, because such upgrades enable the LECs to offer a new and different type of interstate service. Section 214 requires a carrier to obtain certification before upgrading existing intrastate facilities for interstate service. Thus, upgrading customer loops, which are currently used primarily for intrastate local exchange service, to provide video dialtone service, constitutes ``new construction,'' and Section 214 certification is required. Moreover, because the construction of video dialtone systems does not constitute the construction of ``local, branch, or terminal lines not exceeding ten miles in length,'' we reject arguments that we should apply the statutory exemption contained in Section 214(a)(2) of the Communications Act to LEC video dialtone Section 214 applications. 2. Elimination or Streamlining of Section 214 Requirement for Video Dialtone 36. We decline to eliminate or streamline the Section 214 certification process at this time. We reject arguments that the tariff review process is at this time, by itself, an adequate mechanism for overseeing video dialtone deployment. Because video dialtone is an emerging technology, and because we anticipate and encourage variations in networks, architectures, technology, and services, many important policy issues would likely be raised only in connection with specific video dialtone proposals. Therefore, streamlining our Section 214 process could preclude us from properly overseeing video dialtone deployment. 37. For similar reasons, we also decline to limit the type of construction or deployment subject to full Section 214 review. Particularly during the early stages of video dialtone implementation, even those applications that propose previously approved architectures may pose other issues that warrant careful consideration in the context of that specific proposal. 38. While we do not streamline our Section 214 process at this time, we will consider generic applications for approval of those aspects of a Section 214 application that do not require case-by-case consideration. These generic applications can serve to narrow the range of issues to be considered in the Section 214 process. We also note that we anticipate that, as video dialtone evolves, and we develop a body of precedent governing its implementation, the Section 214 process may become a less critical vehicle for identifying and addressing policy issues, thereby making streamlining appropriate at that time. 39. Finally, as another possible means of expediting the Section 214 process, we direct the Bureau to consider whether it would serve the public interest to clarify in a Public Notice the basic information that the Commission requires in a video dialtone Section 214 application. We note that the Bureau has found it necessary to request additional information from LECs in connection with the Bureau's review of virtually every application that has been filed for Section 214 authorization to construct a commercial video dialtone system. Further clarification of the information required in a Section 214 application could help LECs avoid the delays that necessarily result when applications have to be supplemented.
