FR940705-2-00144 FR940705-2-00090 Reports to the NIH/ORDA shall be sent to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. Documentation of any such accident shall be prepared and maintained. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-c. Decontamination and Inactivation (BL3&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-c-(1). All experimental materials shall be sterilized in an autoclave or rendered biologically inactive by appropriate methods before disposal, except those that are to remain in a viable or intact state for experimental purposes; including water that comes in contact with experimental microorganisms or with material exposed to such microorganisms, and contaminated equipment and supplies. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-d. Control of Undesired Species and Motile Macroorganisms (BL3&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-d-(1). A program shall be implemented to control undesired species (e.g., weed, rodent, or arthropod pests and pathogens) by methods appropriate to the organisms and in accordance with applicable state and Federal laws. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-d-(2). Arthropods and other motile macroorganisms shall be housed in appropriate cages. When appropriate to the organism, experiments shall be conducted within cages designed to contain the motile organisms. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-e. Concurrent Experiments Conducted in the Greenhouse (BL3&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-e-(1). Experiments involving organisms that require a containment level lower than BL3&hyph;P may be conducted in the greenhouse concurrently with experiments that require BL3&hyph;P containment provided that all work is conducted in accordance with BL3&hyph;P greenhouse practices. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-f. Signs (BL3&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-f-(1). A sign shall be posted indicating that a restricted experiment is in progress. The sign shall indicate the following: (i) The name of the responsible individual, (ii) the plants in use, and (iii) any special requirements for using the area. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-f-(2). If organisms are used that have a recognized potential for causing serious detrimental impacts on managed or natural ecosystems, their presence should be indicated on a sign posted on the greenhouse access doors. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-f-(3). If there is a risk to human health, a sign shall be posted incorporating the universal biosafety symbol. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-g. Transfer of Materials (BL3&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-g-(1). Experimental materials that are brought into or removed from the greenhouse facility in a viable or intact state shall be transferred to a non-breakable sealed secondary container. At the time of transfer, if the same plant species, host, or vector are present within the effective dissemination distance of propagules of the experimental organism, the surface of the secondary container shall be decontaminated. Decontamination may be accomplished by passage through a chemical disinfectant or fumigation chamber or by an alternative procedure that has demonstrated effective inactivation of the experimental organism. Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-h. Greenhouse Practices Manual (BL3&hyph;P) Appendix P-II-C&hyph;1-h-(1). A greenhouse practices manual shall be prepared or adopted. This manual shall: (i) Advise personnel of the potential consequences if such practices are not followed, and (ii) outline contingency plans to be implemented in the event of the unintentional release of organisms with recognized potential for serious detrimental impact.
