FR941012-0-00057 FR941012-0-00011 1. Training. Comments on the proposed rule generally supported the need for training. Several commenters, however, raised specific questions about particular training issues. As a result, OSHA requested in the hearing notice further comment on the following training issues: Effective date of training, sufficiency of training, and portability of training. a. Effective date for training. In the proposed rule, OSHA would have required employers to be in compliance with all provisions of the final logging standard within 60 days of publication of the rule in the Federal Register . The proposed rule did not provide extended compliance time for employers to familiarize themselves with the standard and to develop and conduct training. Some commenters said additional time to meet the training requirements of the rule was unnecessary (Ex. 9&hyph;3, 9&hyph;13; Tr. OR 343). These commenters said that in many logging establishments training is already being provided and that employers would not require significant time to incorporate the proposed training requirements into their ongoing programs. However, other commenters argued that the effective date for training should be delayed because additional time was necessary to develop the required training program and to train employees (Ex. 5&hyph;2, 5&hyph;27, 9&hyph;1, 9&hyph;2; Tr. W2 243&hyph;44). Commenters proposed various effective dates for training. For example, the Northeastern Loggers Association, Inc., recommended a 2-year phase-in of the training requirements (Ex. 5&hyph;2). The American Pulpwood Association, Inc. (APA), however, supported a shorter six-month phase-in period: Safety training programs for loggers are largely specific to a function (for example, proper felling technique). A fully comprehensive training package will have to be developed to meet the training requirements. APA is attempting to develop training programs and have them available by the end of 1989.␣*␣*␣* APA will seek OSHA staff review of its training program as it is developed. We'd like a brief delay in enforcement, just long enough for us to have something available for employers (Ex. 5&hyph;27). At the hearing there was little testimony about delaying the effective date for training. Mr. Doug Domenech, testifying on behalf of APA, repeated APA's position that employers should be given some additional time to comply with training requirements: The training is a very needed thing and, unfortunately, we just don't have the infrastructure to provide that training. That's why *␣*␣* we *␣*␣* hope that OSHA will give some kind of variance on time before citations are delivered because it's just not out there. If loggers had to comply with a training requirement today, they'd all be cited (Tr. W2 243&hyph;44). At the same time, however, Mr. Alex Hansen, of Associated Oregon Loggers, Inc. (AOL), testified that Oregon loggers already were in compliance with the training provisions contained in the proposed rule: As far as we're concerned in Oregon, you could implement the training tomorrow. We already have it in place. We don't have a problem with it. We're advocates of safety training in the woods. I know some other states have some problems. They haven't been doing it or maybe not as strenuous as the Oregon rules, and I understand their problems, but as far as our association is concerned, if you pass it tomorrow, we're in compliance (Tr. OR 343).
