FR940524-1-00074 FR940524-1-00010 ยง84.151 Harness test; minimum requirements. (a) (1) Shoulder straps employed on Type A supplied-air respirators shall be tested for strength of material, joints, and seams and must separately withstand a pull of 113 kg. (250 pounds) for 30 minutes without failure. (2) Belts, rings, and attachments for life lines must withstand a pull of 136 kg. (300 pounds) for 30 minutes without failure. (3) The hose shall be firmly attached to the harness so as to withstand a pull of 113 kg. (250 pounds) for 30 minutes without separating, and the hose attachments shall be arranged so that the pull or drag of the hose behind an advancing wearer does not disarrange the harness or exert pull upon the facepiece. (4) The arrangement and suitability of all harness accessories and fittings will be considered. (b)(1) The harness employed on Type B supplied-air respirators shall not be uncomfortable, disturbing, or interfere with the movements of the wearer. (2) The harness shall be easily adjustable to various sizes. (3) The hose shall be attached to the harness in a manner that will withstand a pull of 45 kg. (100 pounds) for 30 minutes without separating or showing signs of failure. (4) The design of the harness and attachment of the line shall permit dragging the maximum length of hose considered for approval over a concrete floor without disarranging the harness or exerting a pull on the facepiece. (5) The arrangement and suitability of all harness accessories and fittings will be considered. (c) The harness employed on Type C respirators shall be similar to that required on the Type B respirator, or, it may consist of a simple arrangement for attaching the hose to a part of the wearer's clothing in a practical manner that prevents a pull equivalent to dragging the maximum length of the hose over a concrete floor from exerting pull upon the respiratory-inlet covering. (d) Where supplied-air respirators have a rigid or partly rigid head covering, a suitable harness shall be required to assist in holding this covering in place. ยง84.152 Breathing tube test; minimum requirements. (a)(1) Type A and Type B supplied-air respirators shall employ one or two flexible breathing tubes of the nonkinking type which extend from the facepiece to a connecting hose coupling attached to the belt or harness. (2) The breathing tubes employed shall permit free head movement, insure against closing off by kinking or by chin or arm pressure, and they shall not create a pull that will loosen the facepiece or disturb the wearer. (b) Breathing tubes employed on Type C supplied-air respirators of the continuous flow class shall meet the minimum requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, however, an extension of the connecting hose may be employed in lieu of the breathing tubes required. (c)(1) A flexible, nonkinking type breathing tube shall: (i) Be employed on Type C supplied-air respirators of the demand and pressure-demand class; and (ii) Extend from the facepiece to the demand or pressure-demand valve, except where the valve is attached directly to the facepiece. (2) The breathing tube shall permit free head movement, insure against closing off by kinking or by chin or arm pressure, and shall not create a pull that will loosen the facepiece or disturb the wearer. ยง84.153 Airflow resistance test, Type A and Type AE supplied-air respirators; minimum requirements. (a) Airflow resistance will be determined when the respirator is completely assembled with the respiratory-inlet covering, the air-supply device, and the maximum length of air-supply hose coiled for one-half its length in loops 1.5 to 2.1 m. (5 to 7 feet) in diameter.
