FR940317-2-00118 FR940317-2-00075 (4) The project does not constitute a direct partnership with the IFLNN. (5) The project does not provide for in-country presence of American faculty. Proposed Budget A comprehensive line item budget must be submitted with the proposal by the deadline. Funds requested from the Agency must not exceed $500,000 for a program not less than three years in duration. The Agency reserves the right to reduce, increase, or otherwise modify proposal budgets in accordance with the needs of the program. Specific guidelines for budget preparation are available in the application packet. Allowable Costs Program Costs _Travel: International and domestic (via American flag carriers). May include one planning trip with one American and one IFLNN participant. _Per diem and maintenance (one month minimum): Including lodging, meals and incidental expenses. _Salaries and benefits for U.S. participant(s) while in residence in Nizhniy Novgorod. _Honoraria or compensation for in-country work, not to exceed $100 per day per person. _Student exchanges (not to exceed 25% of all exchanges): Travel, per diem/maintenance, memberships and conferences (IFLNN students only), educational materials, medical insurance, and other direct program costs for post-graduate faculty-track student exchanges. Tuition fees are not an eligible cost under this program. _Membership in U.S. professional associations and fees for attendance at professional conferences in the U.S. for foreign participants. _Educational materials, including but not limited to: Translation and publication of instructional materials; collections to be placed in the IFLNN information center; electronic communications; other equipment as needed. These costs may not exceed 25% of the total requested grant amount. _Medical insurance for foreign participants during U.S. visits. Medical insurance is mandatory for all participants in J&hyph;1 visa exchange programs. Administrative Costs (Not to Exceed 20% of Requested Budget) _Salaries and benefits. _Communications (telephone, facsimile, postage, etc.) _Office supplies. _Other direct costs. Indirect costs or overhead costs are not eligible for funding under this program. Special Note on Cost-Sharing Cost-sharing may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. The recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as cost to be paid by the Federal government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A110, Attachment E. Cost-sharing and matching should be described in the proposal. In the event the recipient does not provide the minimum amount of cost sharing as stipulated in the recipient's budget, the USIA contribution will be reduced in proportion to the recipient's contribution. The recipient's proposal shall include the cost of an audit that: 1. Complies with the requirements of OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions;
