FR941130-1-00053 FR941130-1-00011 10. Section 21.10 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §21.10 Instructions for handling future changes in lamp design. * * * * * (a)(1) The manufacturer shall write to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059, requesting an extension of the original approval and stating the change or changes desired. With this letter the manufacturer should submit a revised drawing or drawings showing the changes in detail and one of each of the changed lamp parts. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. * * * * * PART 22_[AMENDED] 11. Section 22.4 is revised to read as follows: §22.4 Applications. (a) Before MSHA will undertake the active investigation leading to approval of any methane detector, the manufacturer shall make application by letter for an investigation leading to approval of the detector. This application in duplicate, accompanied by a check, bank draft, or money order, payable to the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration, to cover all the necessary fees, shall be sent to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059, together with the required drawings, one complete detector, and instructions for its operation. (b) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. (c) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under §6.20 of this chapter. 12. Section 22.11 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §22.11 Instructions on handling future changes in design. * * * * * (a)(1) The manufacturer should write to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059, requesting an extension of the original approval and stating the change or changes desired. With this request, the manufacturer should submit a revised drawing or drawings showing changes in detail, together with one of each of the parts affected. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for this part, the applicant shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. * * * * * PART 23_[AMENDED] 13. Section 23.3 is revised to read as follows: §23.3 Applications. (a) Before MSHA will undertake the active investigation leading to approval of any telephone or signaling device, the manufacturer shall make application by letter for an investigation leading to approval of the device. This application in duplicate, accompanied by a check, bank draft, or money order, payable to the U.S. Mine and Safety and Health Administration, to cover all the necessary fees, shall be sent to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059, together with the required drawings, one complete telephone or signaling device, and instructions for its operation. (b) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. (c) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under §6.20 of this chapter. 14. Section 23.14 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §23.14 Instructions for handling future changes in design. * * * * * (a)(1) The manufacturer shall write to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059, requesting an extension of the original approval and stating the change or changes desired. With this request, the manufacturer should submit a revised drawing or drawings showing the changes in detail, together with one of each of the parts affected. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the applicant shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL.
