FR940503-1-00005 FR940503-1-00001 Under the proposal, the OTS also would scrutinize the business plans of the applicant. Applicants must demonstrate that their plans for deployment of proceeds will help meet the credit and lending needs of the communities served by the applicant. Under the proposed convenience and needs standard, where an applicant's business plan does not adequately address this issue, the OTS may deny the application or impose additional conditions of approval. While commitments in an applicant's business plan to allocate resources to community development projects or credit-related programs generally indicate responsiveness to the convenience and needs of the community, the OTS will not necessarily view such commitments as remedying CRA-related deficiencies. Performance under those commitments, however, would be considered in evaluating the association's CRA record. The OTS also will consider other relevant factors relating to the association's performance in meeting the convenience and needs of the community. The proposal also would add a new ยง575.7(a)(7) to the OTS's mutual holding company regulations, and renumber current ยง575.7(a)(7) as 575.7(a)(8). The proposed new section would set forth an additional approval requirement for stock issuances by a savings association subsidiary of a mutual holding company, requiring that the transaction meet the convenience and needs standard of proposed ยง563b.11. Solicitation of Comments The OTS solicits comment on all aspects of the proposed regulations. The OTS particularly invites comments on whether the proceeds from conversions or MHC stock offerings should be directed to specific types of activities and, if so, what portion should be used for what types of activities. Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, it is certified that this proposal will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Accordingly, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Executive Order 12866 The OTS has determined that this rule does not constitute a ``significant regulatory action'' for purposes of Executive Order 12866. List of Subjects 12 CFR Part 563b Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations, Securities. 12 CFR Part 575 Capital, Holding companies, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations, Securities.
