FR940616-1-00007 FR940616-1-00002 Section 1607.6(a). There is no change in this waiver provision which was designed to cover those programs, primarily reservation-based Native-American programs, that existed prior to the creation of the Corporation and had nonattorney majorities on their boards. In lieu of attorneys, most of those programs include tribal advocates who practice in tribal courts. Section 1607.6(b). This new provision was added to permit the Corporation president the discretion to waive the requirement of one-third client membership when the president has determined that a recipient, like the National Clearinghouse for Legal Services or the Food Research & Action Center (``FRAC''), does not have as a primary purpose the provision of legal assistance to clients. The waiver provision requires a specific determination by the Corporation president, rather than a self-determination by the recipient, and does not permit waiver of the client board member requirement so long as the recipient has as a primary purpose the provision of legal assistance to clients. Such a waiver does not conflict with the statutory provision governing client membership because that provision applies only to those recipients that are organized ``solely for the provision of legal assistance to eligible clients.'' It is anticipated that this waiver will be used sparingly for exceptional circumstances. Section 1607.6(c). This provision was revised to clarify that the Corporation president could waive any provisions of the regulation, as long as the waiver conforms with applicable law. It also allows partial waivers to be granted. In addition, language was added to make it clear that the nature of the legal community could be considered as a basis for a waiver, as well as requirements of state law. The Committee recognized that there may be programs, especially in rural areas, where there are peculiar problems or situations within the legal community that may make it necessary or desirable to permit the recipient to have a governing board that varies from the normal. An example would be for those programs that serve native-American populations and practice in tribal courts. The president, through the waiver authority, could permit the recipient to substitute one or more tribal advocates for attorney board members. In addition, this provision could be used as authority for partial waiver of the compensation prohibition, to permit a recipient to adopt policies that would allow partners or associates of a board member to participate in compensated PAI activities supported by the recipient. Section 1607.6(d). The only change made in this subsection was a reference to the previous subsection. Section 1607.6(e). This new provision was added to permit the LSC president to require an organization that is not principally a legal assistance organization but gets an LSC grant for legal assistance activities, to set up a policy board, similar to those established for several of the Delivery Systems Study programs during the late 1970's, to govern the activities covered by the LSC grant. Deletion of Section 1607.7␣Compliance The compliance section of the current regulation is no longer applicable, since it refers to the changes that were made in the regulation in 1983. None of the proposed revisions would require programs to change anything about their board structures in order to come into compliance, although they would permit programs to make numerous changes and still remain in compliance with the regulation. Therefore the Committee proposal deletes the provisions on compliance. The Corporation should insure compliance with the new regulation in the same manner as it insures compliance with the other regulations. List of Subjects in 45 CFR Part 1607 Legal services. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, LSC proposes to amend 45 CFR part 1607 as follows: PART 1607_GOVERNING BODIES 1. The authority citation for part 1607 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 2996f(c). 2. Section 1607.1 is revised to read as follows: §1607.1 Purpose. This part is designed to insure that the governing body of a recipient will be well qualified to guide a recipient in its efforts to provide high-quality legal assistance to those who otherwise would be unable to obtain adequate legal counsel, and to insure that the recipient is accountable to its clients. 3. Section 1607.2 is revised to read as follows: §1607.2 Definitions.
