FR940204-1-00032 FR940204-1-00002 (iv) Interest rate sensitivity. (A) Briefly describe System asset and liability management practices, including interest rate risk measurement systems, and methods used to control interest rate risk, such as the use of investments, derivatives, and other off-balance-sheet transactions. (B) Provide an analysis of the System's exposure to interest rate risk and its ability to control such risk. (4) Capital resources. (i) Describe any material commitments to purchase capital assets and the anticipated sources of funding. (ii) Describe any material trends, favorable or unfavorable, in the System's capital resources, including any material changes in the mix of capital and debt, the relative cost of capital resources, and any off-balance-sheet financing arrangements. (iii) Provide a general discussion of any trends, commitments, contingencies, or events that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect upon System institutions' ability to comply with regulatory capital standards. (5) Insurance Fund. (i) Describe the purposes for which expenditures from the Insurance Fund may be made and the statutory requirements for making such expenditures. (ii) Provide a schedule itemizing the amount of Insurance Fund assets that have been specifically identified by the FCSIC for payment of estimated obligations of the FCSIC and the amount of the fund assets for which no specific use has been identified or designated by the FCSIC. (iii) Explain how FCSIC expenditures or designations of Insurance Fund assets for payment of future obligations affect the combined assets and capital of the System, and quantify the effect, if any. (6) Instructions for discussion and analysis. (i) The purpose of the discussion and analysis (D&A) shall be to provide to investors and other users information relevant to an assessment of the combined financial condition and results of operations of System institutions as determined by evaluating the amounts and certainty of cashflows from operations and from outside sources. The information provided pursuant to this section need only include that which is available to System institutions and which does not clearly appear in the combined financial statements. (ii) The D&A of the financial statements and other statistical data shall be presented in a manner designed to enhance a reader's understanding of the combined financial condition, results of operations, cashflows, and changes in capital of System institutions. Unless otherwise specified in ยง630.20(g), the discussion shall cover the 3-year period covered by the financial statements and shall use year-to year comparisons or any other understandable format. Where trend information is relevant, reference to the 5-year selected financial data required by paragraph (f) of this section may be necessary. (iii) The D&A shall focus specifically on material events and uncertainties known at the time of reporting that would cause reported financial information not to be necessarily indicative of future operating results or of future financial condition. This should include descriptions and amounts of: (A) Matters that would have an impact on future operations but that have not had an impact in the past; and (B) Matters that have had an impact on reported operations but are not expected to have an impact on future operations. (h) Directors and management _(1) Board of directors. Briefly describe the composition of boards of directors of the disclosure entities. List the name of each director of such entities, including the director's term of office and principal occupation during the past 5 years, or state that such information is available upon request pursuant to ยง630.3(f). (2) Management. List the names of chief executive officers and presidents of disclosure entities, including position title, length of service at current position, and positions held during the past 5 years. (i) Compensation of directors and senior officers. State that information on the compensation of directors and senior officers of System banks is contained in each bank's annual report to shareholders and that the annual report of each bank is available to investors upon request pursuant to ยง630.3(f). (j) Related party transactions. (1) Briefly describe how System institutions, in the ordinary course of business and subject to regulation by the FCA, may enter into loan transactions with related parties, including their directors, officers, and employees, the immediate family members (as defined in ยง620.1(e) of this chapter) of such persons, and any organizations with which such persons and their immediate family members are affiliated. (2) On a comparative basis for each of the fiscal years covered by the balance sheet, state the aggregate amount of the following:
