FR941116-2-00007 FR941116-2-00002 Fire Goals Within the Hells Canyon Wilderness, as nearly as possible, ensure that fire plays its natural role. In other parts of the HCNRA, manage natural and prescribed fire to emulate historic function of fire, where compatible with the Section 7 objectives of the HCNRA Act. Provide basic protection to human life and property. Objectives Develop a fire-related improvement project schedule. Standards and Guidelines Modify S&Gs to implement the prescribed natural fire program across the entire HCNRA in a manner compatible with the objectives of the HCNRA Act. HCNRA Act Section 7 (4) protection and maintenance of fish and wildlife habitat. Fish Habitat Goals Protect and maintain watersheds to be dynamic, resilient, and consistent with local climate, geology, land-forming processes, and potential natural vegetation. To ensure quality fish habitat, maintain excellent water quality and physical attributes which are complex, well distributed, and similar to those in healthy, unimpacted watershed ecosystems. Manage subwatersheds as interconnecting units, providing a diverse network of riparian and aquatic habitats throughout the overall watershed. Protect and manage fish habitat for the perpetuation and recovery of fish which are listed as threatened, endangered, or sensitive. Manage aquatic and riparian habitats so that fisheries may naturally produce at levels reflecting the potential productive capability. Objectives Develop fisheries habitat restoration/improvement needs. Develop an action plan for threatened, endangered, and sensitive fish species. Standards and Guidelines Modify S&Gs to provide higher levels of protection to reflect new management emphasis/direction, and to ensure consistency with the interim management direction establishing riparian, ecosystem, and wildlife standards for timber sales (Regional Forester's Forest Plan Amendment 1), and PACFISH Interim Strategies for Managing Anadromous Fisheries (anticipated to be finalized during this planning process). Develop and/or modify S&Gs for threatened and endangered species and their habitat to meet additional direction for listed anadromous species that may be a part of PACFISH and/or to meet recovery plan objectives and assist in recovering classified species to a point where they can be delisted. Develop S&Gs for sensitive, rare, and endemic species to meet conservation agreement goals and objectives of the HCNRA Act and/or to prevent sensitive species from reaching a point where they will become listed. Wildlife Habitat Goals Ensure the protection and maintenance of wildlife habitat in a manner compatible with the other primary objectives for which the HCNRA was established. Provide habitat for viable and functioning populations of all existing native and desired non-native vertebrate wildlife species and invertebrate organisms to maintain or enhance the overall quality of wildlife habitat. Protect and manage wildlife habitat for the perpetuation and recovery of animals and invertebrates which are listed as threatened, endangered, or sensitive. Objectives Develop wildlife habitat restoration/improvement needs. Develop an action plan for threatened, endangered, and sensitive wildlife species. Standards and Guidelines Develop and/or modify S&Gs that provide refined management direction to incorporate new information and research concerning late and old forest structure, snag habitat, and the species associated with that habitat. Modify S&Gs to reflect new management emphasis/direction to incorporate ecosystem management concepts and to allow for functioning levels of wildlife and other living organisms. Develop and/or refine S&Gs for threatened and endangered species and their habitat to meet recovery plan objectives and assist in recovering classified species to a point where they can be delisted. Develop S&Gs for sensitive, rare, and endemic species to meet conservation agreement goals and objectives of the HCNRA Act and/or to prevent sensitive species from reaching a point where they will become listed. HCNRA Act Section 7 (5) protection of archeological and paleontologic sites and interpretation of these sites for the public benefit and knowledge insofar as it is compatible with protection.
