FR941213-2-00085 FR941213-2-00054 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY Binational Teacher Training Project ACTION: Notice_request for proposals. SUMMARY: The Executive Office of the United States Information Service (USIS) at the American Embassy in Brasilia announces an open competition for an assistance award. Public or private non-profit organizations meeting the provisions described in IRS regulation 501(c)(3) may apply to plan and conduct a three-week seminar in English-language teaching and American culture for approximately 30 Brazilian Binational Center teachers selected by USIS. Overall grant making authority for this program is contained in the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, Public Law 87&hyph;256, as amended, also known as the Fulbright-Hays Act. The purpose of the Act is ``to enable the Government of the United States to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries *␣*␣*; to strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations *␣*␣* and thus to assist in the development of friendly, sympathetic and peaceful relations between the United States and the other countries of the world.'' The funding authority for the program cited above is provided through Reorganization Plan No. 2 of March 1978, E.O. 12048 dated March 27, 1978 and the Federal Grants and Cooperative Agreements Act of 1977 (P.L. 95&hyph;224). Programs and projects must conform with Agency requirements and guidelines outlined herein. USIS projects and programs are subject to the availability of funds. ANNOUNCEMENT NAME AND NUMBER: All communications with USIS concerning this announcement should refer to the above title and reference number USIS/BSB&hyph;94&hyph;001. DATES: Deadline for proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Service, American Embassy (Bsb), Unit 3500, APO AA 34030, by 5 p.m. Washington, D.C. time on 3rd day February, 1995. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on 3rd day of February but received at a later date. U.S. Postal Service can take up to ten days for mail to be delivered. Proposals received after February 3, 1995 will not be accepted. Is the responsibility of each grant applicant that proposals are received by the above deadline. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Executive Officer, USIS, American Embassy, Brasilia, Brazil at fax number 55&hyph;61&hyph;321&hyph;2833 or telephone 55&hyph;61&hyph;321&hyph;7272, Ext. 324 to request a Solicitation Package, which includes more detailed award criteria; all application forms; and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific criteria for preparation of the proposal budget. Please specify the Binational Teacher Training Project on all inquiries and correspondence. Interested applicants should read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the Executive Officer or submitting their proposals. Once the RFP deadline has passed, the Executive Office may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until after the proposal review process has been completed. ADDRESSES: Applicants must follow all instructions given in the Application Package and send only complete applications to: U.S. Information Service, American Embassy (Bsb), Unit 3500, APO AA 34030 Attn: Executive Officer Ref.: USIS/BSB&hyph;94&hyph;001. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the authorizing legislation, programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social, and cultural life. ``Diversity'' should be interpreted in the broadest sense and encompass differences including but not limited to race, gender, religion, geographic location, socio-economic status, and physical challenges. Applicants are strongly encouraged to adhere to the advancement of this principle. Overview Participants should receive advanced training in EFL: course and curriculum design, teacher training and management skills, evalution and testing, with an intensive American Studies component. Special emphasis should be placed on incorporating American Studies materials into an intercultural curriculum. Since this will be the first U.S. experience for many of the participants, the program should introduce the participants to U.S. life, institutions, values, and culture through classes, field trips, contacts with Americans, and community activities. The program should maintain a relative balance among discussion sessions, workshops, and practical experience and promote interaction among the participants. The project should also include an individual research project for each participant. Approximately 30 Brazilian nationals who are full time employees at a Binational Center in Brazil will participate in this program. Each participant is nominated by his/her institution for final selection by United States Information Service (USIS). Participants either teach English as a Foreign Language, administer English or American Studies programs, or provide teacher training in either English or American Studies. Participants will come on ``B1&hyph;B2'' visas issued by U.S. Consular Officers at American Embassy or Consulates in Brazil. USIS Brasilia will provide the university with biographical and professional data on each candidate. The proposal should specifically address the following technical requirements: U.S. Pre-Program Activities After receiving the final participant list, the university is expected to do the following: send USIS a pre-departure information packet containing welcome and general information with practical suggestions for preparing the participants for their stay at the university. The participants will arrive directly at the program site from their home cities. The university program staff will be expected to make arrangements to have participants met upon arrival at the airport nearest the university campus. A substantive orientation should be provided shortly after all the participants' arrival at the university. The purpose of the orientation is to provide detailed information concerning the program, university, community, etc. It should also acquaint participants with one another, the university program, and the administrative staff. During this orientation a brief needs assessment is to be conducted to determine individual learning needs and to identify the topic of the individual research project. The Institute Director should be prepared to adjust program content, emphasis, and schedule as necessary to respond to participants' concerns.
