FR940810-0-00253 FR940810-0-00021 6. A test blank is prepared in a third jar by adding 500 cc of odor free water. 7. The odor test and test blank jars shall be labelled 1 and 2 for jar identification. If the labels are put on the lids they can be periodically peeled, dried off and switched to maintain the integrity of the test. 8. The following instructions shall be typed on a card and placed on the table in front of the two test jars (i.e. 1 and 2): ``The purpose of this test is to determine if you can smell banana oil at a low concentration. The two bottles in front of you contain water. One of these bottles also contains a small amount of banana oil. Be sure the covers are on tight, then shake each bottle for two seconds. Unscrew the lid of each bottle, one at a time, and sniff at the mouth of the bottle. Indicate to the test conductor which bottle contains banana oil.'' 9. The mixtures used in the IAA odor detection test shall be prepared in an area separate from where the test is performed, in order to prevent olfactory fatigue in the subject. 10. If the test subject is unable to correctly identify the jar containing the odor test solution, the IAA qualitative fit test may not be used. 11. If the test subject correctly identifies the jar containing the odor test solution, the test subject may proceed to respirator selection and fit testing. B. Respirator Selection. 1. The test subject shall be allowed to pick the most comfortable respirator from a selection including respirators of various sizes from different manufacturers. The selection shall include at least five sizes of elastomeric half facepieces, from at least two manufacturers. 2. The selection process shall be conducted in a room separate from the fit-test chamber to prevent odor fatigue. Prior to the selection process, the test subject shall be shown how to put on a respirator, how it should be positioned on the face, how to set strap tension and how to determine a ``comfortable'' respirator. A mirror shall be available to assist the subject in evaluating the fit and positioning of the respirator. This instruction may not constitute the subject's formal training on respirator use, as it is only a review. 3. The test subject should understand that the employee is being asked to select the respirator which provides the most comfortable fit. Each respirator represents a different size and shape and, if fit properly and used properly will provide adequate protection. 4. The test subject holds each facepiece up to the face and eliminates those which obviously do not give a comfortable fit. Normally, selection will begin with a half-mask and if a good fit cannot be found, the subject will be asked to test the full facepiece respirators. (A small percentage of users will not be able to wear any half-mask.) 5. The more comfortable facepieces are noted; the most comfortable mask is donned and worn at least five minutes to assess comfort. All donning and adjustments of the facepiece shall be performed by the test subject without assistance from the test conductor or other person. Assistance in assessing comfort can be given by discussing the points in # 6 below. If the test subject is not familiar with using a particular respirator, the test subject shall be directed to don the mask several times and to adjust the straps each time to become adept at setting proper tension on the straps. 6. Assessment of comfort shall include reviewing the following points with the test subject and allowing the test subject adequate time to determine the comfort of the respirator: •Positioning of mask on nose. •Room for eye protection. •Room to talk. •Positioning mask on face and cheeks. 7. The following criteria shall be used to help determine the adequacy of the respirator fit: •Chin properly placed. •Strap tension. •Fit across nose bridge. •Distance from nose to chin. •Tendency to slip. •Self-observation in mirror.
