FR941003-1-00009 FR941003-1-00001 (c) Agreement to pay fees. The filing of a request under this subpart will be deemed to constitute an agreement by the requester to pay all applicable fees charged under subpart E of this part, up to $25.00, unless a waiver of fees is sought. The request may also specify a limit on the amount the requester is willing to spend, or may indicate a willingness to pay an amount greater than $25.00, if applicable. In cases where a requester has been notified that actual or estimated fees may amount to more that $25.00, the request will be deemed not to have been received until the requester has agreed to pay the anticipated total fee. (d) Requests for records relating to corrective actions. No record developed pursuant to the authority of 5 U.S.C. app. 402(f)(2) concerning the investigation of an employee for a possible violation of any provision relating to a conflict of interest shall be made available pursuant to this part unless the request for such information identifies the employee to whom the records relate and the subject matter of any alleged violation to which the records relate. Nothing in this subsection shall affect the application of subpart D of this part to any record so identified. §2604.302 Response to requests. (a) Response to initial request. The General Counsel is authorized to grant or deny any request for a record and to determine appropriate fees. (b) Referral to another agency. When a requester seeks records that originated in another Government agency, OGE will normally refer the request to the other agency for response. If OGE refers the request to another agency, it will notify the requester of the referral. If release of certain records may adversely affect United States relations with foreign governments, the Office will usually consult with the Department of State. A request for any records classified by some other agency will be referred to that agency for response. (c) Creating records. If a person seeks information from OGE in a format that does not currently exist, OGE will not ordinarily reformat the information for the purpose of responding to the request. OGE will advise the requester that it does not have the record in the format sought, but will provide whatever records in existing formats that would reasonably respond to the request. Additionally, OGE will not generally develop a new record of information to satisfy a request. (d) Record cannot be located. If a requested record cannot be located from the information supplied, the General Counsel will so notify the requester in writing. §2604.303 Form and content of responses. (a) Form of notice granting a request. After the General Counsel has made a determination to grant a request in whole or in part, the requester will be notified in writing. The notice shall describe the manner in which the record will be disclosed, whether by providing a copy of the record with the response or at a later date, or by making a copy of the record available to the requester for inspection at a reasonable time and place. The procedure for such an inspection may not unreasonably disrupt the operations of the Office. The response letter will also inform the requester with the provisions of subpart E of this part. (b) Form of notice denying a request. When the General Counsel denies a request in whole or in part, he will so notify the requester in writing. The response will be signed by the General Counsel and will include: (1) The name and title or position of the person making the denial; (2) A brief statement of the reason or reasons for the denial, including the FOIA exemption or exemptions which the General Counsel has relied upon in denying the request; and (3) A statement that the denial may be appealed under §2604.304 of this subpart, and a description of the requirements of that section. §2604.304 Appeal of denials. (a) Right of appeal. If a request has been denied in whole or in part, the requester may appeal the denial to the Deputy Director of the Office of Government Ethics, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Suite 500, Washington, DC 20005&hyph;3917. (b) Letter of appeal. The appeal must be in writing and must be sent within 30 days of receipt of the denial letter. An appeal should include a copy of the initial request, a copy of the letter denying the request in whole or in part, and a statement of the circumstances, reasons or arguments advanced in support of disclosure of the request for the record. Both the envelope and the letter of appeal must be clearly marked ``Freedom of Information Act Appeal.'' (c) Action on appeal. The disposition of an appeal will be in writing and will constitute the final action of the Office on a request. A decision affirming in whole or in part the denial of a request will include a brief statement of the reason or reasons for affirmance, including each FOIA exemption relied on. If the denial of a request is reversed in whole or in part on appeal, the request will be processed promptly in accordance with the decision on appeal. (d) Judicial review. If the denial of the request for records is upheld in whole or in part, the Office will notify the person making the request of his right to seek judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). §2604.305 Time limits.
