FR940826-2-00082 FR940826-2-00055 Section IV.A provides that, prior to its conversion to equal access, no McCaw Cellular System may alter its arrangements for the provision of interexchange service in ways that discriminate in favor of AT&T in the provision of exchange access. Pursuant to Section III.E, a McCaw Cellular System or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System may use the name ``AT&T'' or any trademark or trade name of AT&T in its corporate or service names only after it has completed conversion to equal access and balloted existing customers pursuant to Sections IV.B and IV.C. In addition, neither AT&T, McCaw nor McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems may use the name AT&T or any trademark or trade name of AT&T in marketing or advertising cellular service until 60% of the McCaw Cellular Systems, measured by subscribers (and not including Bell Company cellular systems that provide equal access pursuant to the MFJ) have completed conversion to equal access. Sections IV.B, IV.C and IV.D of the judgment prescribe the basic requirements of equal access. Section IV.B.1 requires each McCaw Cellular System to provide local cellular service under prices and terms that do not depend upon the customer obtaining interexchange service from AT&T or a McCaw affiliate, i.e., on an unbundled basis. Moreover, McCaw, McCaw Cellular Systems and their employees and agents (including AT&T when it acts as agent for a McCaw Cellular System pursuant to Section IV.F of the judgment) may not recommend, sell or otherwise market the interexchange service of any interexchange carriers, and are required to administer interexchange carrier selection procedures on a carrier-neutral and nondiscriminatory basis. Section IV.B also requires McCaw to ballot its existing customers to permit them to choose an interexchange carrier to which all of the customer's originating interexchange communications will be routed automatically, without the use of any access codes (i.e., on a 1+basis), as well as to permit the customer to access other interexchange carriers by dialing the appropriate carrier identification code (i.e., on a 10&hyph;XXX basis). Balloting will occur within 60 days of each McCaw Cellular System's conversion to equal access. If, in the balloting process, any McCaw customer fails to choose an interexchange carrier, those customers may be allocated to interexchange carriers in proportion to the number of customers subscribing to each carrier. 6 Thereafter, interexchange services will be blocked to any new customer that fails to choose a carrier and attempts to place calls without access codes. 6 The specific balloting process will be described in the equal access plans filed by defendants under Section VII.A of the proposed Final Judgment. It is anticipated that there might be more than one opportunity for each customer to select an interexchange carrier prior to any allocation. To permit all interexchange carriers to have a meaningful opportunity to market their services to customers of McCaw Cellular Systems, those systems will be required to provide interexchange carriers with the names and addresses of their existing customers at least 60 days prior to conversion to equal access, and at quarterly intervals thereafter. Similarly, under Section IV.C, any customer information provided to AT&T by a McCaw Cellular System must be provided to other interexchange carriers at the same time and under the same terms. A McCaw Cellular System may not provide AT&T with information about a customer's interexchange carrier or cellular or interexchange usage unless the customer is already a customer of AT&T's interexchange service and unless it provides the same information at the same time to other interexchange carriers concerning their own customers. The post-conversion equal access requirements contained in Section IV.D largely parallel the analogous requirements of the MFJ including requirements that each McCaw Cellular System provide interexchange carriers exchange access on an unbundled basis equal in type, quality and price to that provided to AT&T. That section also provides that if a McCaw Cellular System provides information to AT&T to allow AT&T to bill its interexchange customers for cellular service (subject to the restrictions of Section IV.F), it must at the option of any other interexchange carrier provide that carrier with sufficient information about the usage and charges for cellular service to allow it to make commercially reasonable arrangements to bill its interexchange customers for cellular service. The last sentence of Section IV.D.1 does not impose any additional obligation on AT&T or McCaw to bill for other interexchange carriers, but does require them to provide competing carriers with sufficient information so that they can make commercially reasonable arrangements to perform billing themselves or have billing done by third parties.
