FR940202-2-00105 FR940202-2-00071 Proper cleaning and sterilization or disinfection of reusable equipment are important components of a program to reduce infections associated with respiratory therapy and anesthesia equipment. 221&hyph;226,238,239 Respiratory therapy devices have been classified as semi-critical because they come into contact with mucous membranes but do not ordinarily penetrate body surfaces, and the associated infection risk following their use in patients is less than that associated with devices that penetrate normally sterile tissues (See Appendix A). 240 There is no evidence that low-level contamination of respiratory therapy device prior to use by a patient, as may occur following high-level disinfection of the device, presents a greater risk of respiratory infection than does sterile equipment. Thus, if after they are thoroughly cleaned, these devices cannot be sterilized by steam autoclave or ethylene oxide, 241 they can be subjected to high-level disinfection by pasteurization at 75 ○C for 30 min, 242&hyph;244 or by using liquid chemical disinfectants approved by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as sterilants/disinfectants. 214,245&hyph;247 When rinsing is needed after a respiratory device has been sterilized or disinfected, only sterile water is used because tap or locally-prepared distilled water may harbor microorganisms that can cause pneumonia. 233,234,248&hyph;250 1. Mechanical Ventilators and Anesthesia Machines The internal machinery of mechanical ventilators and anesthesia machines is not considered an important source of bacterial contamination of inhaled air.251 Thus, routine sterilization or high-level disinfection of the internal machinery is considered unnecessary. Using high-efficiency bacterial filters at various positions in the breathing circuit had been advocated previously. 252,253 Filters interposed between the machinery and the main breathing circuit can eliminate contaminants from the driving gas and prevent retrograde contamination of the machine by the patient but may also alter the functional specifications of the breathing device by impeding high gas flows. 252,253 In addition, when used with anesthesia equipment, filters placed between the inspiratory-phase circuit and the patient have not been shown to prevent infections. 254,255 Placement of a filter or condensate trap at the expiratory-phase tubing of the mechanical-ventilator circuit may help prevent cross-contamination of the ventilated patient's immediate environment, 231,256 but the importance of such filters in preventing nosocomial pneumonia needs further evaluation. 2. Humidifiers, Breathing Circuits, and Heat-Moisture Exchangers Most U.S. hospitals currently use ventilators with either bubble-through or wick humidifiers that produce either insignificant 125,257 or no aerosols, respectively, for humidification. Thus, they do not seem to pose an important risk for pneumonia in patients. In addition, bubble-through humidifiers are usually heated to temperatures that reduce or eliminate bacterial pathogens. 257,258 Sterile water, however, is still generally used to fill these humidifiers 259 because tap or distilled water may harbor Legionella spp. that are more heat-resistant than other bacteria. 236,250 The potential risk for pneumonia in patients using mechanical ventilators with heated bubble-through humidifiers stems primarily from the condensate that forms in the inspiratory-phase tubing of the ventilator circuit as a result of the difference in the temperatures of the inspiratory-phase gas and ambient air; condensate formation increases if the tubing is unheated. 260 The tubing and condensate can rapidly become contaminated, usually with bacteria that originate from the patient's oropharynx. 260 In the study by Craven et al, 33% of inspiratory circuits were colonized with bacteria from patients' oropharynx within 2 hours and 80% within 24 hours of use. 260 Spillage of the contaminated condensate into the patient's tracheobronchial tree, as can occur during procedures in which the tubing may be moved (e.g., suctioning, adjusting the ventilator setting, or feeding or caring for the patient), may increase the risk of pneumonia in the patient. 260 Thus, in many hospitals, healthcare workers are trained to prevent such spillage and to drain the fluid periodically. Microorganisms contaminating ventilator-circuit condensate can be transmitted to other patients via hands of the healthcare worker handling the fluid, especially if the healthcare worker fails to wash his or her hands after handling the condensate. The role of ventilator-tubing changes in preventing pneumonia in patients using mechanical ventilators with bubble-through humidifiers has been investigated. Initial studies of in-use contamination of mechanical ventilator circuits with humidifiers have shown that neither the rate of bacterial contamination of inspiratory-phase gas nor the incidence of pneumonia was significantly increased when tubings were changed every 24 hours rather than every 8 or 16 hours. 261 Craven et al later showed that changing the ventilator circuit every 48 hours rather than 24 hours did not result in an increase in contamination of the inspiratory-phase gas or tubing of the ventilator circuits.262 In addition, the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia was not significantly higher when circuits were changed every 48 hours than when changes were done every 24 hours.262 More recent reports suggest that the risk of pneumonia may not increase when the interval for circuit change is prolonged beyond 48 hours. Dreyfuss and others showed that the risk of pneumonia (8 [29%] of 28) was not significantly higher when the circuits were never changed for the duration of use by the patient, than (11 [31%] of 35) when the circuits were changed every 48 hours.263 These findings indicate that the recommended daily change in ventilator circuits may be extended to "48 hours. This change in recommendation is expected to result in large savings in device use and personnel time for U.S. hospitals. 259,262 The maximum time, however, that a circuit can be safely left unchanged on a patient has yet to be determined. Condensate formation in the inspiratory-phase tubing of a ventilator breathing circuit can be decreased by elevating the temperature of the inspiratory-phase gas with a heated wire in the inspiratory-phase tubing. However, in one report, three cases of endotracheal- or tracheostomy-tube blockage by dried-up patient secretions were attributed to the decrease in the relative humidity of inspired gas that results from the elevation of the gas temperature.264 Until further data are available about the frequency of the occurrence of such cases, users of heated ventilator tubing should be aware of the advantages and potential complications of using heated tubing.
