FR941202-0-00079 FR941202-0-00010 (7) Each cleaning machine that uses a lip exhaust shall be designed and operated to route all collected solvent vapors through a properly operated and maintained carbon adsorber that meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section. (b) Except as provided in §63.464, each owner or operator of an existing or new batch vapor cleaning machine shall comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. (1) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor cleaning machine with a solvent/air interface area of 1.21 square meters (13 square feet) or less shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section. (i) Employ one of the control combinations listed in table 1 of this subpart or other equivalent methods of control as determined using the procedure in §63.469, equivalent methods of control. Table 1._ Control Combinations for Batch Vapor Solvent Cleaning Machines With a Solvent/Air Interface Area of 1.21 Square Meters (13 Square Feet ) or Less 1Option 1Control combinations ␣1 Working-mode cover, freeboard ratio of 1.0, superheated vapor. ␣2 Freeboard refrigeration device, superheated vapor. ␣3 Working-mode cover, freeboard refrigeration device. ␣4 Reduced room draft, freeboard ratio of 1.0, superheated vapor. ␣5 Freeboard refrigeration device, reduced room draft. ␣6 Freeboard refrigeration device, freeboard ratio of 1.0. ␣7 Freeboard refrigeration device, dwell. ␣8 Reduced room draft, dwell, freeboard ratio of 1.0. ␣9 Freeboard refrigeration device, carbon adsorber. ␣10 Freeboard ratio of 1.0, superheated vapor, carbon adsorber. Note: Unlike most of the control techniques available for complying with this rule, carbon adsorbers are not considered to be a pollution prevention measure. Use of such units may impose additional cost and burden for a number of reasons. First, carbon adsorption units are generally more expensive than other controls listed in the options. Second, these units may present cross-media impacts such as effluent discharges if not properly operated and maintained, and spent carbon beds have to be disposed of as hazardous waste. When making decisions about what controls to install on halogenated solvent cleaning machines to meet the requirements of this rule, all of these factors should be weighed and pollution prevention measures are encouraged wherever possible.
