FR940526-2-00109 FR940526-2-00063 a. If data problems occurred at one income level only, the average rate of change at the other two income levels was used to adjust the previous prices for the affected income level. b. If data problems occurred in two income levels, the rate of change observed at the non-problem income level was used to adjust the previous prices for the two affected income levels. c. If data problems occurred at all income levels, the average rate of change observed at all three income levels was used to adjust the previous prices at all income levels. 3. If fewer than three observations were available at any income and/or the data quality was questionable at all levels, all three levels of current and previous survey data were merged. These data were then analyzed by applying the procedures described in section 4.4.1.1 above to each set of merged data, and the average cost per square foot was computed for each set of data and compared to estimate the overall change in the area. This overall change was applied to the previous average costs by income level to determine the current costs at each income level for the area. The areas for which these procedures were applied and the calculations used are found in Appendix 9A. 4.4.2␣Rental Data Analysis Runzheimer assigned each rental quote data point to a single income level, based on these criteria: •Assign one bedroom apartments to the lower income level. •Assign two bedroom apartments to the middle income level. •Assign townhouses and detached houses with a minimum of two bedrooms to the upper income level. 4.4.2.1␣Data Trimming and Special Analyses In the analysis of rental data, Runzheimer applied the same procedures used to trim the home sales data (see section 4.4.1.1) except that data were ranked on the basis of monthly rental rates, not cost per square foot. Also, as with home sales analyses, special analyses were applied to rental data when the data where sparse or highly divergent trends were observed among income levels. These analyses were the same as those applied to home sales data (see section 4.4.1.2) except that if data were merged, overall estimates were based on monthly rental rates, not the cost per square foot. (See Appendix 9B for these analyses.) 4.4.3␣Analysis of Housing-Related Expenses Because section 4.2.4 covers the identification and quantification of housing-related expenses, these topics are not repeated here. However, it should be noted that Runzheimer incorporated home sale prices from this study into the calculations of real estate taxes and homeowner's insurance, which depend upon the value of the home. 4.5␣Housing Survey Results In the above sections, Runzheimer describes how it measured the costs for maintenance, insurance, utilities, real estate taxes, rents, and homeowner mortgages. Appendix 7 shows the cost of each of these items, for renters and homeowners separately, in each allowance area and in the Washington, D.C., area. For Hawaii County, Hawaii; Puerto Rico; and the Virgin Islands, these costs are shown separately for each of the survey areas within the allowance area. Appendix 8 compares the total cost of these items in each allowance area with the total cost of the same items in the Washington, D.C., area. Again, there are separate comparisons for renters and homeowners. The final housing-cost comparisons take the form of indexes that are used in Appendix 14 to derive the total, overall index for owners and renters. (Refer to section 2.2 for a discussion of the general formulae and how the component indexes are combined.)
