FR940805-2-00092 FR940805-2-00054 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 040&hyph;08724] Environmental Assessment Finding of No Significant Impact Related to Amendment of Materials License No. SUB&hyph;1357, Chemetron Corporation, Inc., Cuyahoga Heights, OH The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission is considering issuing an amendment of Materials License No. SUB&hyph;1357, held by Chemetron Corporation, Inc., to authorize the remediation of the McGean-Rohco Complex buildings and equipment located at 2910 Harvard Avenue in Cuyahoga Heights, Ohio. Environmental Assessment Background By the letter of March 24, 1994, Chemetron Corporation, Inc. (Chemetron) requested that NRC amend their license to authorize them to perform the remediation of the Harvard Avenue and Bert Avenue sites in accordance with their remediation plan entitled, ``Site Remediation Plan Chemetron Remediation Project Harvard and Bert Avenue Sites Chemetron Corporation, Inc. Newburgh Heights, Ohio,'' dated October 1, 1993, November 1, 1993, and November 11, 1993. By letter of April 4, 1994, Chemetron requested that the NRC separately review the sections of the remediation plan pertaining to the McGean-Rohco buildings, located at 2910 Harvard Avenue, in Cuyahoga Heights, Ohio. Chemetron indicated that they wished to initiate the remediation of these buildings as quickly as possible. Proposed Action The proposed action is the issuance of a license amendment authorizing Chemetron to perform remediation of the McGean-Rohco Complex buildings located at 2910 Harvard Avenue in Cuyahoga Heights, Ohio. Need for Proposed Action The purpose of the proposed action is to decommission the McGean-Rohco Complex buildings, by removing depleted uranium contamination on building surfaces and in equipment, so that the buildings and equipment can be released for unrestricted use. These buildings are currently in use by McGean-Rohco, Inc. personnel. Remediating the buildings will allow McGean-Rohco to utilize the buildings and equipment without the radiological controls and training requirements that are currently required. Environmental Assessment The NRC staff reviewed the levels of contamination, the proposed remediation methods, and radiological and environmental controls that will be used during the remediation. These controls include worker dosimetry, the As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) program, area air monitoring, routine surveys, a bioassay program for workers, and routine monitoring of both airborne and liquid effluent releases to meet 10 CFR Part 20 requirements. Worker and public doses will be limited so that exposures will not exceed 10 CFR Part 20 requirements. Chemetron proposed to remediate building surfaces and equipment to the levels in ``Guidelines for Decontamination of Facilities and Equipment Prior to Release for Unrestricted Use of Termination of Licenses for Byproduct, Source, or Special Nuclear Material,'' dated August 1987. In Chemetron's remediation plan, Chemetron proposed to dispose of protective clothing, equipment, and roofing wastes, generated in the McGean-Rohco remediation, by disposing them either at a licensed low-level radioactive waste disposal site. Contaminated building materials, such as bricks, blocks, and concrete, would be disposed of in the disposal cell being proposed for the Harvard Avenue site. By letter of July 8, 1994, Chemetron proposed to store wastes, generated in the McGean-Rohco Complex remediation, in Building 16. On July 29, 1994, Chemetron proposed to also use Building 14 for waste storage. While wastes are in storage, Buildings 14 and 16 will be secured and monitored. Expected release to airborne and liquid pathways, as well as other environmental impacts will be small and acceptable. The NRC requested a review by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office (OHPO) of the McGean-Rohco Complex. In the OHPO letter of June 14, 1994, they concluded that the project, if completed as proposed, would have no effect on properties listed on or eligible for the National Register of Historical Places. Conclusions The proposed remediation of the McGean-Rohco Complex buildings will enable Chemetron to release buildings and equipment, currently being used by McGean-Rohco, Inc., for unrestricted use, and enable McGean-Rohco, Inc. personnel access to these areas without having radiological controls or training requirements. On the basis of the NRC staff's evaluation of Chemetron's proposed remediation approach for the McGean-Rohco Complex, and analysis of the environmental impacts of the proposed action, the staff concludes that the proposed remediation activities will not result in any significant environmental or radiologic impact. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Leaving the depleted uranium contamination in place is the only alternative to the proposed action. This alternative would result in the necessity of keeping radiological controls and training requirements. Without remediation of the contamination, industrial incidents, such as the chemical explosion that occurred in December 1993, could cause releases of radioactive material and increased costs to remediate the contaminated areas. Alternative use of Resources The activities leading to the proposed action would result in the irreversible use of energy resources in the conduct of the proposed McGean-Rohco Complex remediation. A small amount of land at the waste disposal sites would be irreversibly committed for waste disposal. There are no reasonable alternatives to these resource uses, and the proposed activities do not involve any unresolved conflicts concerning uses of available resources. Agencies and Persons Consulted, and Sources Used The EA was prepared by NRC staff. The Cuyahoga County Board of Health, and the Ohio Department of Health reviewed the proposed remediation plan. Neither of these agencies had comments applicable to the McGean-Rohco Complex decommissioning activities. The OHPO reviewed applicable documents and photographs to assess eligibility for the National Register of Historical Places, and concluded that the proposed action would have no effect on properties listed on or eligible for the National Register of Historical Places. Finding of No Significant Impact The NRC staff prepared this EA evaluating the environmental impacts related to the license amendment requested from Chemetron Corporation, Inc., to authorize the remediation of the McGean-Rohco Complex buildings and equipment. This EA examines the radiological impacts associated with these proposed activities. As indicated above the EA did not identify any significant environmental impact associated with these proposed license amendment actions, the staff concluded that a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) is justified and appropriate. Opportunity for a Hearing On April 11, 1994, the NRC published in the Federal Register a notice of Consideration of Amendment to Chemetron Corporation License and Opportunity for Hearing. In response to this notice, the Earth Day Coalition submitted a petition for hearing. The proceeding is currently before the Presiding Officer. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 1st day of August 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John H. Austin, Chief, Low-Level Waste and Decommissioning Projects Branch, Division of Waste Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. References 1. ``Site Remediation Plan Chemetron Remediation Project Harvard and Bert Avenue Sites Chemetron Corporation, Inc. Newburgh Heights, Ohio,'' dated October 1, 1993, November 1, 1993, and November 11, 1993, with supplemental correspondence dated February 7, 1994, April 15, 1994, July 8, 1994, and July 27, 1994. 2. ``Radiological Control Plan,'' Revision 1, December 1993. 3. ``Radiological Worker Handbook and Training Manual,'' Revision 1, January 1994. 4. ``Guidelines for Decontamination of Facilities and Equipment Prior to Release for Unrestricted Use or Termination of Licenses for Byproduct, Source, or Special Nuclear Material,'' dated August 1987. 5. Letter from M. Raymond, Ohio Historic Preservation Office, to T.C. Johnson, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, June 14, 1994. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19112 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
