FR940620-0-00035 FR940620-0-00011 To promote consistency in disclosure standards, the Circular 230 disclosure rules are patterned after the section 6694 rules and, therefore, a signing preparer must actually disclose (rather than merely advise disclosure of) nonfrivolous return positions that do not satisfy the realistic possibility standard. Because Treasury believes the realistic possibility standard is distinct from the not frivolous standard, these amendments to Circular 230 also distinguish between these two standards. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the OBRA '93) made certain changes to the accuracy-related penalty in section 6662 of the Code. The OBRA '93 raised the disclosure standard for purposes of the penalties for disregarding rules or regulations or a substantial understatement of income tax from ``not frivolous'' to ``reasonable basis''. Also, the OBRA '93 eliminated the disclosure exception for the negligence penalty. The IRS published temporary regulations ยง1.6662&hyph;7T in the Federal Register to implement these changes. See 59 FR 12547 (March 17, 1994) and 59 FR 14749 (March 30, 1994). These changes narrow the opportunities to avoid an accuracy-related penalty by disclosing a return position. In view of these changes, these final regulations require non-signing practitioners to advise their clients of any opportunity to avoid such a penalty by disclosing a position (rather than to disclose the position). Under ยง10.34(a)(2) of the proposed regulations, a practitioner who advises a client on a position to be taken on a return, or who signs or prepares a return, must inform the client of the penalties reasonably likely to apply to the client with respect to the position. One commentator contended that the requirement that a practitioner apprise its client of penalties reasonably likely to apply intrudes on the practitioner-client relationship and should be deleted. Another commentator stated that the requirement was too lenient and should be strengthened by requiring practitioners to give their clients written notice of penalties reasonably likely to apply. Treasury believes that informing clients of penalties reasonably likely to apply with respect to return positions is an important component of a practitioner's duty to his or her client. Accordingly, these final regulations retain this requirement. The final regulations, however, do not require practitioners to give the penalty advice in writing. Treasury believes that preserving flexibility as to the form in which practitioners advise their clients promotes client understanding of the advice and discourages the use of possibly confusing boilerplate language. Under the proposed regulations, a position satisfies the realistic possibility standard if a reasonable and well-informed analysis by a person knowledgeable in the tax law would lead such a person to conclude that the position has approximately a one in three, or greater, likelihood of being sustained on its merits. Several commentators stated that the one-in-three formulation of the realistic possibility standard should not be used for purposes of Circular 230. A common criticism was that the test is inherently difficult to administer. The one-in-three test has been adopted for preparers under section 6694. Adopting a different formulation of the realistic possibility standard in Circular 230 would lead to unnecessary confusion. In addition, quantification of the realistic possibility standard helps to prevent its erosion. For these reasons, the suggestion of some commentators to eliminate the one-in-three test was not adopted. For purposes of determining whether the realistic possibility standard is satisfied, the proposed regulations provide that the authorities that may be taken into account under 26 CFR 1.6662&hyph;4(d)(3)(iii) for purposes of the substantial understatement penalty also may be taken into account for purposes of Circular 230. Some commentators suggested expanding the permissible authorities to include well-reasoned treatises, articles in recognized professional tax publications, and other reference tools commonly used by practitioners. Treasury believes that the determination of whether the realistic possibility standard is satisfied for purposes of Circular 230 (as well as section 6694) should be grounded in laws enacted by politically authorized decisionmakers, not in interpretations of those laws in secondary source materials. Thus, the suggestion was not adopted. Even though secondary sources are not authorities for Circular 230 purposes, practitioners may rely in preparing returns on applicable authorities underlying the conclusions in those sources.
