FR940513-1-00086 FR940513-1-00017 2. Ballasting Emissions In preparing today's proposed rule the Agency has assumed that the prohibition of ballasting emissions does not contain any impacts for industry because of the U.S. Coast Guard regulations requiring segregated ballasting tanks. The Administrator is soliciting comments and data that might indicate that there are potential impacts to certain classes of vessels, particularly those carrying noncrude oil product. In addition, the Administrator encourages comment on how a prohibition of ballasting emissions could be implemented most effectively. 3. Alternative Concentration-Based Compliance Determination For terminals that use recovery devices for control of gasoline VOC and/or HAP emissions, the EPA is proposing an alternative means of compliance to the proposed standards. The EPA is soliciting data and comments regarding a ppmv limit for controlling non-gasoline VOC and HAP emissions and whether carbon adsorption would be used to control emissions from crude oil and other commodities. 4. Vessel Tightness Testing The proposed standards require vessels to undergo one of three tightness tests at least every 12 months. The Administrator is soliciting data on the frequency of leaks on marine vessels to determine whether the interval between tests is appropriate. The Administrator is also requesting data on the effectiveness of requiring vessels to undergo one of these three tightness tests. 5. Procedures to Estimate HAP Emissions The TSD describes the limited data regarding marine vessel loading emission factors available to the Administrator to use in estimating HAP (or VOC) emissions from marine vessel loading operations. While these data are sufficient to estimate emissions as part of regulatory impact analyses, they may not be sufficient for the Administrator to require the use of specific emission factors in the emission estimation alternative allowed under the proposed part 63 standards for existing sources. For this reason, facilities wanting to take advantage of this alternative will develop and submit documentation of emission estimates on a case-by-case basis. The Administrator requests that commenters submit data on possible emission factors and/or alternative emission estimation procedures for consideration in the final rule. 6. RACT Standard of 93 Percent Reduction As discussed above, for those sources regulated under section 183(f) of the Act, the EPA is requiring that such sources reduce emissions at their facility overall by 95 percent if using a recovery device or by 98 percent if using a destruction device. Nevertheless, the Agency specifically decided not to increase the stringency of its MACT standard, for those existing sources regulated under section 112, beyond a reduction level of 93 percent because the cost effectiveness level of such an increase would not be reasonable. The Agency believes that it is reasonable, given the associated cost effectiveness values, to require the facilities regulated under section 183(f) (the largest terminals of their kind in the U.S.) to reduce emissions by 95 or 98 percent, despite the fact that the Agency is requiring only 93 percent reduction for the terminals regulated under section 112. However, the EPA understands that it is unusual for a RACT standard for any single source to be more stringent than a MACT standard for that source, as it may be for certain sources regulated under both sections 112 and 183(f). The Agency requests comment on whether the analysis performed for regulation of sources under the MACT standard of section 112 is equally valid under the RACT standard of section 183(f). That is, given the cost effectiveness values associated with decreasing the stringency of the RACT standard from 95 or 98 percent control to 93 percent control, would it be reasonable, ``considering costs, any nonair-quality benefits, environmental impacts, energy requirements and safety factors,'' for the Agency to promulgate a standard of 93 percent control for those sources regulated under section 183(f), in addition to those sources regulated solely under section 112? 7. Carbon Bed Regeneration Emissions In the proposed regulation, the Agency is prohibiting HAP emissions from the regeneration of a carbon bed when a carbon bed adsorber is used to control HAP emissions. The Agency is requesting comment on this requirement.
