FR941110-1-00032 FR941110-1-00006 NSR Conclusion The EPA is proposing to grant a limited approval and limited disapproval to New Jersey's rule for NSR in nonattainment areas (NJAC 7:27&hyph;18). EPA cannot grant full approval under section 110(k)(3) of the Act because the rule does not fully meet the requirements of part D of the Act. In addition, because the provisions are not composed of separable parts, EPA cannot grant partial approval as provided under section 110(k)(3). However, the rule does contain the major new requirements under the Act for new offset requirements, lower emission thresholds, and new provisions for NO X in ozone nonattainment areas. Consequently, this rule strengthens New Jersey's SIP. In light of EPA's rulemaking authority under section 301(a), EPA is granting a limited approval of the rule in order to further progress in air quality in the state. At the same time, EPA is also proposing a limited disapproval of New Jersey's nonattainment NSR rule because the rule lacks provisions that will: 1. Revise offset provisions such that permit changes in existing permits providing offsets must be in effect by the time of permit issuance. 2. Supply information from nonattainment NSR permits to EPA's control technology clearinghouse; 3. Revise the definition of ``stationary source'' to exclude the new category of ``nonroad engines;'' 4. Add provisions for modifications in serious and severe ozone nonattainment areas required under sections 182(c)(6), (7) and (8); 5. Provide a net air quality benefit test; and 6. Provide a methodology for calculating net emissions increase that adheres to EPA guidance and policy. 7. Provide definitions for ``initiation of construction'' and ``initiation of operation.'' If finalized, this disapproval would constitute a disapproval under section 179(a)(2) of the Act (see generally 57 FR 13566&hyph;13567). It should be noted that EPA's limited disapproval does not prevent EPA and the State of New Jersey from enforcing the NSR rule. Summary EPA is proposing approval of New Jersey's vehicle miles travelled forecast, emission inventory, Subchapter 25_oxygenated fuels rule, and the employee commute option and transportation control measures as contingency measures, and the multi-state coordination as revisions to its carbon monoxide SIP. EPA is also proposing a limited approval and a limited disapproval of New Jersey's Subchapter 18_new source review regulation. EPA is proposing a disapproval of New Jersey's enhanced inspection and maintenance program since it has not been adopted. In addition, since the attainment demonstration relies on the enhanced inspection and maintenance program, the attainment demonstration is also being proposed for disapproval. For those elements for which EPA is proposing disapproval, under section 179(a) of the Act, the State of New Jersey would have up to 18 months after final disapproval to correct the deficiencies responsible for the disapproval before EPA would be required to impose sanctions. Section 179(b) describes the sanctions available to the Administrator. Any final disapproval also would trigger the section 110(c)(1) Federal Implementation Plan provision of the Act. To obtain full approval of this carbon monoxide SIP, New Jersey must correct the identified deficiencies in the new source review regulation, and an enhanced inspection and maintenance program must be submitted and approved. Nothing in this rulemaking should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. Each request for revision to any SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. This proposed rule has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. A future document will inform the general public of these tables. On January 6, 1989, the Office of Management and Budget waived Table 2 and 3 SIP revisions (54 FR 2222) from the requirements of section 3 of Executive Order 12291 for two years. The EPA has submitted a request for a permanent waiver for Table 2 and 3 SIP revisions. The Office of Management and Budget has agreed to continue the temporary wavier until such time as it rules on EPA's request. This request continues in effect under Executive Order 12866 which superseded Executive Order 12291 on September 30, 1993. Under 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Administrator certifies that SIP approvals under sections 107, 110 and 172 will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. SIP approvals do not create any new requirements but simply approve requirements that are already state law. SIP approvals, therefore, do not add any additional requirements for small entities. Moreover, due to the nature of the federal-state relationship under the Act, preparation of a flexibility analysis for a SIP approval would constitute federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of the state actions. The Act forbids EPA to base its actions concerning SIPs on such grounds. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Air pollution control, Carbon monoxide, Hydrocarbons, Intergovernmental relations, Nitrogen dioxide, Particulate matter, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Sulfur dioxide, Volatile organic compounds. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: October 3, 1994. William J. Muszynski, Deputy Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27876; Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
