FR940119-1-00061 FR940119-1-00014 * * * * * (6) Retention of salmon._ (i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(v) of this section, the operator of a vessel and the manager of a shoreside processing operation must not discard any Pacific salmon species taken incidental to any directed fishery for groundfish using trawl gear until all salmon have been counted by a NMFS-certified observer and the collection of any scientific data or biological samples from the salmon has been completed. (ii) Operators of vessels carrying observers onboard and whose fishing operations allow for sorting of groundfish catch for salmon must retain all salmon bycatch in a separate bin or other location that allows an observer free and unobstructed physical access to the salmon to count each fish and collect any scientific data or biological samples. (iii) Operators of vessels not carrying observers onboard or whose fishing operations do not allow for sorting of groundfish catch for salmon must ice, freeze, or store in a refrigerated saltwater tank all salmon taken as bycatch in trawl operations for delivery to the processor receiving the vessel's groundfish catch. (iv) Processors receiving groundfish harvested in a directed fishery for groundfish using trawl gear must retain all salmon delivered by each trawl vessel during a weekly reporting period in separate bins marked with the vessel's name and ADF&G fish ticket number(s) for each delivery until a NMFS-certified observer has counted each salmon and collected any scientific data or biological samples from the salmon delivered to the processor by that vessel. Processors without an observer present must store whole salmon in an iced or frozen state until an observer is available to count each fish. Salmon must be stored at a location that allows an observer free and unobstructed physical access to each salmon. (v) Mothership processor vessels and shoreside processing facilities that are exempt from obtaining observer coverage during a month under §675.25 of this part or 50 CFR part 672.27 are exempt from mandatory retention of salmon under this paragraph (c)(6). (vi) Operators of vessels and managers of shoreside processing operations that are required to retain salmon under paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section must designate and identify to the NMFS-certified observer onboard the vessel or at the shoreside operation a crew person or employee to be responsible for sorting, retention, and storage of salmon consistent with this paragraph (c)(6). Upon the request of the NMFS-certified observer, the designated crew person or employee also is responsible for counting salmon and taking biological samples from retained salmon under the direction of the observer. (vii) Salmon must be returned to Federal waters immediately with a minimum of injury regardless of condition, following notice by a NMFS-certified observer that salmon have been counted and the collection of any scientific data or biological samples has been completed. 8. In §675.21, paragraphs (a)(4) and (c)(1)(iii) are removed; paragraphs (a)(5) through (a)(7) are redesignated paragraphs (a)(4) through (a)(6), respectively; paragraph (c)(1)(iv) is redesignated as paragraph (c)(1)(iii); and paragraphs (b)(1) introductory text, (b)(2)(i) and newly redesignated paragraphs (a)(4) and (c)(1)(iii) are revised to read as follows: §675.21 Prohibited species catch (PSC) limitations. (a) *␣*␣* (4) The PSC limit of Pacific halibut caught while conducting any trawl fishery for groundfish in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area during any fishing year is an amount of Pacific halibut equivalent to 3,775 mt of halibut mortality. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (1) Apportionment to trawl fishery categories. NMFS, after consultation with the Council, will apportion each PSC limit set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section into bycatch allowances for fishery categories specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, based on each category's proportional share of the anticipated incidental catch during a fishing year of prohibited species for which a PSC limit is specified and the need to optimize the amount of total groundfish harvested under established PSC limits. The sum of all bycatch allowances of any prohibited species will equal its PSC limit. * * * * * (2) *␣*␣* (i) The Secretary, after consultation with the Council, may apportion the halibut PSC limit for non-trawl gear set forth in paragraph (a)(6) of this section into bycatch allowances for fishery categories specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, based on each category's proportional share of the anticipated bycatch mortality of halibut during a fishing year and the need to optimize the amount of total groundfish harvested under the non-trawl halibut PSC limit. The sum of all halibut bycatch allowances will equal the halibut PSC limit specified at paragraph (a)(6) of this section. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (iii) Halibut bycatch allowance. If, during the fishing year, the Regional Director determines that U.S. fishing vessels participating in any of the trawl fishery categories listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) through (F) of this section in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area will catch the halibut bycatch allowance, or seasonal apportionment thereof, specified for that fishery category under paragraph (b) of this section, NMFS will publish in the Federal Register the closure of the entire Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area to directed fishing for the species and/or species group that comprises that fishery category (which together constitute a species or species group for purposes of the directed fishing standards) for the remainder of the year or for the remainder of the season, except that when a bycatch allowance, or seasonal apportionment thereof, specified for the pollock/Atka mackerel/``other species'' fishery category is reached, only directed fishing for pollock is closed to trawl vessels using non-pelagic trawl gear. * * * * * 9. In §675.25, a new paragraph (g) is added to read as follows: §675.25 Observers. * * * * * (g) Release of observer data to the public. (1) The following information collected by observers for each catcher processor and catcher vessel may be made available to the public: (i) Vessel name and Federal permit number; (ii) Number of salmon observed during a weekly reporting period;
