FR940610-0-00005 FR940610-0-00004 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;ANE&hyph;19] Update of Class D and Class E Airspace in the New England Region AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; technical amendment. SUMMARY: This action amends certain Class D and Class E airspace published in a final rule in the Federal Register on March 11, 1994. That final rule updated Class D and Class E airspace areas in the New England Region based on a region-wide review of Class D and Class E airspace for conformity with the requirements of the United States Standards for Terminal Procedures (TERPS). This action amends technical errors in the classification and description of certain airspace areas contained in FAA Order 7400.9A, Airspace Designations and Reporting Points. EFFECTIVE DATE: 0901 u.t.c., June 23, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Karl D. Anderson, System Management Specialist, System Management Branch, ANE&hyph;530, Federal Aviation Administration, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299; Telephone: (617) 238&hyph;7530; Facsimile: (617) 238&hyph;7560. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: History On July 26, 1993, the FAA published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to amend part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) to update certain control zones and transition areas in the New England Region (58 FR 39693). That NPRM was prompted by a region-wide review of control zones and transition areas for conformity with the United States Standards for Terminal Procedures (TERPS). That review revealed a need to make revisions to many of those airspace areas in the New England region. After publication of that NPRM, all airspace areas in the United States were reclassified according to the standards adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). (See, Airspace Reclassification final rule, 56 FR 65638.) Airspace Reclassification, effective on September 16, 1993, discontinued the use of the terms ``control zone'' and ``transition area,'' and reclassified those areas respectively as either Class D or Class E airspace. The FAA published the final rule to revise airspace areas in the vicinity of airports in the New England region on March 11, 1994 (59 FR 11535). That final rule contained airspace descriptions of the former ``control zones'' and ``transition areas'' translated into Class D and Class E classifications. The Amendment The final rule, however, contained minor errors introduced during the process of translating the descriptions into Class D and Class E classifications. Specifically, three airspace areas with no operating airport traffic control tower (ATCT) were listed Class D instead of Class E; Augusta, ME, Houlton, ME and Presque Isle, ME. One area was listed as Class D instead of as a Class E extension to a Class D area; Brunswick, ME. Two Class E areas, listed as extensions to Class D areas, require correction because of the changes made to those Class D areas; Hartford, CT, Portsmouth, NH. In addition, this action makes three general revisions to the descriptions of certain airspace areas, which delete language introduced into the descriptions during the translation process. Some descriptions of former transition areas, now Class E airspace, contained language that excluded from those areas airspace defined as higher class airspace. This language is no longer needed because of the general rule of airspace classification under the ICAO standards that higher class airspace always takes precedence. Further, when modified to fit the new airspace classifications and to meet the TERPS requirements, certain descriptions no longer used some airway facilities, therefore, the definition and location of those unused facilities is no longer needed in the airspace description. Lastly, this action corrects the description of Class E airspace defined as extensions to higher class airspace by deleting altitude limits, not needed because of the general rule that Class E airspace extends upward to the base of the overlying airspace. Finally, this action makes minor typographical changes. This document reprints the entire airspace description for those areas needing correction. This action is necessary to correct errors in the descriptions of certain Class D and Class E airspace areas in the New England region. The FAA has determined that this regulation only involves an established body of technical regulations for which frequent and routine amendments are necessary to keep them operationally current. It, therefore_(1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979); and (3) does not warrant preparation of a regulatory evaluation as the anticipated impact is so minimal. Since this is a routine matter that will only affect air traffic procedures and air navigation, it is certified that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
