FR940407-2-00017 FR940407-2-00011 [A&hyph;100&hyph;002] Price Determination; Uranium From Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan AGENCY: International Trade Administration, Import Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Pursuant to section IV.C.1. of the antidumping suspension agreements on uranium from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan, the Department calculated an observed market price for uranium of $11.37/lb. On the basis of this price, the export quota from uranium pursuant to Section IV.A. of each of the agreements is zero. Exports pursuant to other provisions of the agreements are not affected by this price. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Melissa Skinner or Beth Chalecki, Office of Agreements Compliance, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street & Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20230; telephone: (202) 482&hyph;0159 or (202) 482&hyph;2312. Price Calculation Background Section IV.C.1. of each agreement specifies that the Department will issue the DOC observed market price on April 1, 1994, and use it to determine the quota applicable to imports from the various republics during the period April 1, 1994 to September 30, 1994. Calculation Summary Section IV.C.1. of each agreement specifies how the components of the market price are reached. In order to determine the spot market price, the Department utilized the monthly average of the Uranium Price Information System Spot Price Indicator (UPIS SPI) and the weekly average of the Uranium Exchange Spot Price (Ux Spot). In order to determine the long-term market price, the Department utilized the weighted average long-term price as determined by the Department on the basis of information provided by market participants and a simple average of the UPIS Base Price for the months in which there were new contracts reported. Our letters to market participants provided a contract summary sheet and directions requesting the submitter to report his/her best estimate of the future price of merchandise to be delivered in accordance with the contract delivery schedules (in U.S. dollars per pound U 3 O 8 equivalent). Using the information reported in the proprietary summary sheets, the Department calculated the present value of the prices reported for any future deliveries assuming an annual inflation rate of 4.2 percent, which was derived from a rolling average of the annual GNP Implicit Price Deflator index from the past four years. The Department used the base quantities reported on the summary sheet for the purpose of weight-averaging the prices of the long-term contracts submitted by market participants. We then calculated a simple average of the UPIS Base Price and the long-term price determined by the Department.
