FR941125-2-00119 FR941125-2-00078 HUD/DEPT&hyph;2 System name: Accounting Records. * * * * * Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, other routine uses are as follows: (a) To the U.S. Treasury_for disbursements and adjustments thereof. (b) To the Internal Revenue Service_for reporting of sales commissions and for reporting of discharge indebtedness; (c) To the General Accounting Office, General Service Administration, Department of Labor, Labor housing authorities, and taxing authorities_for audit, accounting and financial reference purposes. (d) To mortgage lenders_for accounting and financial reference purposes, for verifying information provided by new loan applicants and evaluating creditworthiness. (e) To HUD contractors_for debt and/or mortgage note servicing. (f) To financial institutions that originated or serviced loans_to give notice of disposition of claims. (g) To title insurance companies_for payment of liens. (h) To local recording offices_for filing assignments of legal documents, satisfactions, etc. (i) To the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) of the Department of Defense and the U.S. Postal Service to conduct computer matching programs for the purpose of identifying and locating individuals who are receiving Federal salaries or benefit payments and are delinquent in their repayment of debts owed to the U.S. Government under certain programs administered by HUD in order to collect the debts under the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97&hyph;365) by voluntary repayment, or by administrative or salary offset procedures. (j) To any other Federal agency for the purpose of effecting administrative or salary offset procedures against a person employed by that agency or receiving or eligible to receive some benefit payments from the agency when HUD as a creditor has a claim against that person. (k) With other agencies; such as, Departments of Agriculture, Education, Justice and Veteran Affairs, and the Small Business Administration_for use of HUD's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) to prescreen applicants for loans or loans guaranteed by the Federal Government to ascertain if the applicant is delinquent in paying a debt owed to or insured by the Government. (l) To the Internal Revenue Service by computer matching to obtain the mailing address of a taxpayer for the purpose of locating such taxpayer to collect or to compromise a Federal claim by HUD against the taxpayer pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6103(m)(2) and in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711, 3217, and 3718. (m) To a credit reporting agency for the purpose of either adding to a credit history file or obtaining a credit history file on an individual for use in the administration of debt collection. (n) To the U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO), Department of Justice, United States Attorney, or other Federal agencies for further collection action on any delinquent account when circumstances warrant. (o) To a debt collection agency for the purpose of collection services to recover monies owed to the U.S. Government under certain programs or services administered by HUD. (p) To any other Federal agency including, but not limited to, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3720A, for the purpose of effecting an administrative offset against the debtor for a delinquent debt owed to the U.S. Government by the debtor. (q) To the Resolution Trust Corporation_to prescreen potential contractors for bad debts prior to acquiring their services. Disclosure to consumer reporting agencies: Disclosures pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(12). Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(12), disclosures may be made from the record system to consumer reporting agencies as defined in the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(f) or the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3)). The disclosure is limited to information necessary to establish the identity of the individual, including name, address and taxpayer identification number (Social Security Number); the amount, status, and history of the claim, and the agency or program under which the claim arose for the sole purpose of allowing the consumer reporting agency to prepare a credit report. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28999 Filed 11&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;01&hyph;M
