FR940930-0-00108 FR940930-0-00017 (2) Each employer or public entity that has offered enrollment in the HMO in accordance with subpart E of this part. (3) Each lawfully recognized collective bargaining representative or other representative of the employees of the employer or public entity. (f) Reimbursement of enrollees for services improperly denied, or for charges improperly imposed. (1) If HCFA determines, under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, that an HMO is out of compliance, HCFA may require the HMO to reimburse its enrollees for the following_ (i) Expenses for basic or supplemental health services that the enrollee obtained from other sources because the HMO failed to provide or arrange for them in accordance with its assurances. (ii) Any amounts the HMO charged the enrollee that are inconsistent with its assurances. (Rules applicable to charges for all enrollees are set forth in §§417.104 and 417.105. The additional rules applicable to Medicare enrollees are in §415.454.) (2) This paragraph applies regardless of when the HMO failed to comply with the appropriate assurances. (g) Remedy: Civil suit _(1) Applicability. This paragraph applies to any HMO or other entity to which a grant, loan, or loan guarantee was awarded, as set forth in subpart V of this part, on the basis of its assurances regarding the furnishing of basic and supplemental services or its operation and organization, as the case may be. (2) Basis for action. If HCFA determines that the HMO or other entity has failed to initiate or refuses to carry out corrective action in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, HCFA may bring civil action in the U.S. district court for the district in which the HMO or other entity is located, to enforce compliance with the assurances it gave in applying for the grant, loan, or loan guarantee. 4. Section 417.164 is revised to read as follows: §417.164 Effect of revocation of qualifiers on inclusion in employee's health benefit plans. When an HMO's qualification is revoked under §417.163(d), the following rules apply: (a) The HMO may not seek inclusion in employees health benefits plans under subpart E of this part. (b) Inclusion of the HMO in an employer's health benefits plan_ (1) Is disregarded in determining whether the employer is subject to the requirements of subpart E of this part; and (2) Does not constitute compliance with subpart E of this part by the employer. 5. Section 417.166 is revised to read as follows:
