FR940804-0-00095 FR940804-0-00023 (iii) Any complaint referred to the EEOC pursuant to this section shall be processed by the EEOC under its title I procedures. (d) Retention by the agency for investigation_ (1) Retention by a section 504 agency. A section 504 agency shall retain a complaint for investigation when the agency determines that it has jurisdiction over the complaint under section 504, and one or more of the following conditions are met: (i) The EEOC does not have jurisdiction over the complaint under title I; or (ii) The EEOC has jurisdiction over the complaint, but the complainant elects to have the section 504 agency process the complaint and the section 504 agency receives a written request from the complainant for section 504 agency processing within twenty days of the date of the notice letter required to be sent pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section; or (iii) The complaint alleges discrimination in both employment and in other practices or services of the respondent that are covered by section 504; or (iv) The complaint alleges a pattern or practice of employment discrimination. (2) Retention by a designated agency. A designated agency that does not have jurisdiction over the complaint under section 504 shall retain a complaint for investigation when the agency determines that it has jurisdiction over the complaint under title II of the ADA and that the EEOC does not have jurisdiction over the complaint under title I. (3) Processing of complaints retained by an agency. Any complaint retained for investigation and processing by an agency pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section will be investigated and processed under section 504, title II, or both, as applicable, and will not be considered to be dual filed under title I. ยง XX .7 Processing of charges of employment discrimination filed with the EEOC. (a) EEOC determination of jurisdiction. Upon receipt of a charge of employment discrimination, the EEOC shall: (1) Determine whether it has jurisdiction over the charge under title I of the ADA. If it has jurisdiction, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the EEOC shall process the charge pursuant to title I procedures. (2) If the EEOC determines that it does not have jurisdiction under title I, the EEOC shall promptly refer the charge to the Civil Rights Division. The Civil Rights Division shall determine if a Federal agency may have jurisdiction over the charge under section 504 or title II, and, if so, shall refer the charge to a section 504 agency or to a designated agency with jurisdiction over the complaint.
