FR940505-1-00252 FR940505-1-00012 (iv) Control Device Efficiency Testing and Monitoring. (A) Control Efficiency Test. The control device efficiency shall be determined by simultaneously measuring the inlet and outlet gas phase VOC concentrations and gas volumetric flow rates in accordance with the gas phase test methods specified in paragraph (a)(4)(vi) of this section. (B) Continuous Monitoring. Any owner or operator that uses an afterburner or carbon adsorber to comply with any requirement of this section shall use continuous monitoring equipment which is installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to vendor specifications and which meets EPA-approved performance specifications at all times when the afterburner or carbon adsorber is in use. The continuous monitoring equipment must automatically monitor and record the following parameters: ( 1 ) Combustion chamber temperature of each afterburner. ( 2 ) Temperature rise across each catalytic afterburner bed or VOC concentration exhaust. ( 3 ) The VOC concentration of each carbon adsorption bed exhaust. (C) Recordkeeping and Reporting. (1 ) All affected facilities must maintain a copy of all control efficiency test protocols for a period of five (5) years. All control test results must be reported to EPA within sixty (60) days of the test date. A copy of the results must be kept on file with the source for a period of five (5) years. ( 2 ) All affected facilities must maintain copies of all required continuous monitoring records for a period of five (5) years. ( 3 ) If any changes are made to control equipment, affected facilities must notify EPA of these changes and a new control efficiency test may be required by EPA. ( 4 ) All affected facilities must notify the Administrator 30 days prior to performing any control efficiency test. At that time, the source must notify the Administrator which test methods will be used. (v) Overall Efficiency. (A) The overall efficiency of each emission control system shall be determined as the product of the capture system efficiency and the control device efficiency or by the liquid/liquid test protocol as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(A)(2) of this section for each solvent recovery system. (B) The overall efficiency of the capture system and control device used to control VOC emissions from a paper, fabric, film, can, coil, or miscellaneous metal parts and products coating line, as determined by the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(iii), (a)(4)(iv), and (a)(4)(v)(A) of this section, shall be no less than the equivalent overall efficiency which shall be calculated by the following equation: E = ([VOC a &hyph;VOC 1 ]/VOC a ) x 100 where: E = Equivalent overall efficiency of the capture system and control device as a percentage, VOC a = Actual VOC content of a coating, or the daily-weighted average VOC content of two or more coatings (if more than one coating is used), as applied to the subject coating line as determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section in units of kg VOC/l (lb VOC/gal) of coating solids as applied, and VOC 1 = The VOC emission limit specified in units of kg VOC/liter (lb VOC/gal) of coating solids as applied. (vi) Volatile Organic Compound Gas Phase Source Test Methods. The methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, delineated below shall be used to determine control device efficiencies. (A) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Methods 18, 25, 25A, or 25B, as appropriate to the conditions at the site, shall be used to determine VOC concentration. Method selection shall be based on consideration of the diversity of organic species present and their total concentration and on consideration of the potential presence of interfering gases. Except as indicated in paragraphs (a)(4)(vi)(A) ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of this section, the test shall consist of three separate runs, each lasting a minimum of 60 min., unless the Administrator determines that process variables dictate shorter sampling times. ( 1 ) When the method is to be used to determine the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with a common exhaust stack for all the individual adsorber vessels, the test shall consist of three separate runs, each coinciding with one or more complete sequences through the adsorption cycles of all the individual adsorber vessels. ( 2 ) When the method is to be used to determine the efficiency of a carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each adsorber vessel, each adsorber vessel shall be tested individually. The test for each adsorber vessel shall consist of three separate runs. Each run shall coincide with one or more complete adsorption cycles. (B) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 1 or 1A shall be used for sample and velocity traverses. (C) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D shall be used for velocity and volumetric flow rates. (D) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 3, 3A or 3B shall be used for gas analysis. (E) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 4 shall be used for stack gas moisture. (F) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Methods 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D; 3, 3A, or 3B; and 4 shall be performed, as applicable, at least twice during each test run.
