FR940324-1-00035 FR940324-1-00009 EPA is concerned with granting, or with the need for granting, precertification exemptions when the ICI has failed to complete the certification process and obtain certificates of conformity for other prototype vehicles previously entered under this exemption. EPA is also concerned about the technical capability of some ICIs, that the ICIs successfully modify the pending precertification vehicles, and that the ICIs continue to comply with all requirements of the Imports regulations. Therefore, EPA is proposing limits to precertification exemptions. EPA is proposing an automatic limit of no more than three precertification exemptions to an ICI at any one time except upon a case-by-case determination that the ICI has demonstrated an ability to meet the EPA technical and time requirements for the additional prototype vehicle as well as for all other vehicles it has already imported. Absent such approval, the ICI will not be granted another precertification exemption until a certificate for the existing prototype vehicle(s) is obtained or the vehicle(s) unable to be brought into conformity with Federal emission requirements has been exported. Secondly, regardless of the number of outstanding precertification exemptions, EPA also would not grant another precertification exemption if the ICI is in noncompliance with the Imports regulations for any other vehicle already imported until the noncompliance situation is resolved. When determining whether to grant approval of additional exemptions, EPA will consider such factors as an ICI's previously demonstrated success in obtaining certificates of conformity in a timely manner, accurate and efficient compliance with all certification procedures, extent of progress on other outstanding precertification exemptions, and whether the ICI is and will likely be in compliance with all requirements of the Imports regulations for other vehicles it has already imported. EPA is also proposing the following clarifications to the precertification process to eliminate confusion associated with the final admission of prototype vehicles. The prototype vehicle is the first vehicle imported and tested under the certificate of conformity for the purposes of testing every third (or fifth) vehicle under 40 CFR 85.1505. Under current regulations, an ICI must obtain a certificate of conformity within 180 days of the date of entry of the prototype vehicle. If not, then either the total amount of the bond is forfeited or the vehicle is exported. EPA recognizes there are limited instances when it is not possible to obtain a certificate of conformity within 180 days. Therefore, EPA is proposing that an extension of the 180 day requirement may be granted by the Administrator. The length of the extension will be determined by EPA on a case-by-case basis considering the needs of each ICI. The ICI must request such an extension prior to the expiration of the 180 days. EPA expects to grant such requests only under unique circumstances. For example, EPA would expect to grant an extension to an ICI who has completed all modifications for the vehicle and certification testing is pending, but circumstances beyond the ICI's control have led to failure to obtain the certificate of conformity within the required 180 days. EPA specifically will not grant an extension for situations such as (but not limited to) when an ICI allows a significant amount of time to elapse in which significant progress was not made on the vehicle, or when an ICI fails to submit in a timely manner the application for certification (or applicable parts, thereof) to EPA. The ICI must comply with all requirements of Subpart P once the certification process is complete, including the submittal of final admission forms as stated in 40 CFR 85.1505, the recordkeeping requirements and labeling requirements of 40 CFR 85.1706 and any other requirements of 40 CFR 85.1501 et seq.
