FR941230-1-00014 FR941230-1-00004 2. Proceeds. The proposed regulations define proceeds as including sale proceeds, disposition proceeds, and any replaced amounts. Further, proceeds include earnings on nonpurpose investments that accrue during the project period but generally exclude sale proceeds used to retire the issue. 3. Replaced amounts. The industrial development bond regulations do not specifically address when amounts that are replaced by bond proceeds are treated as proceeds under section 141. The proposed regulations provide that certain replacement proceeds (as defined for arbitrage purposes) are treated as proceeds for purposes of section 141. 4. Disposition proceeds. The industrial development bond regulations also do not specifically address the application of the provisions of section 141 after the issue date. The proposed regulations provide that disposition proceeds, defined as amounts derived from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property financed with the proceeds of an issue, are treated as proceeds of the issue. Under this approach, the property transferred generally ceases to be allocable to proceeds of the bonds and is no longer taken into account under section 141. Instead, the amounts received from the transfer of the property are treated as proceeds of the issue for purposes of analyzing continuing compliance with the private activity bond limitations. In order to provide administrative simplicity for issuers of large, multiproject financings, the proposed regulations provide a special exception for property financed with certain general obligation issues. 5. Partnerships. Under the private business tests, use of proceeds by any person other than a natural person is treated as trade or business use. The proposed regulations provide rules for determining under which circumstances use by a partnership is disregarded and, instead, treated as use by the partners of that partnership. C. Section 1.141&hyph;2␣Private activity bond tests 1. In general. An issue must satisfy both the private business use test and the private security or payment test for the bonds of the issue to be private activity bonds under the private business tests of section 141(b). Alternatively, bonds are private activity bonds if the private loan financing test of section 141(c) is satisfied. 2. Reasonable expectations and deliberate actions. The industrial development bond regulations do not specifically address the effect of actions taken after the issue date. The proposed regulations generally provide that whether bonds are private activity bonds is determined on the basis of the issuer's reasonable expectations on the issue date. An issuer's reasonable expectations are determined in the same manner as under the arbitrage regulations. The proposed regulations also provide that a deliberate action by the issuer occurring subsequent to the issue date and resulting in satisfaction of the private activity bond tests causes the bonds to be private activity bonds. Importantly, many post-issuance transfers will not result in private activity bond characterization if the issuer does not use the disposition proceeds in an impermissible manner. D. Section 1.141&hyph;3␣Definition of private business use 1. General rules. Under the private business tests, a bond is a private activity bond only if the issue of which it is a part satisfies the private business use test of section 141(b)(1). The private business use test of section 141(b)(1) is met if more than 10 percent of the proceeds of the issue is used in a trade or business carried on by a nongovernmental person. Any use by a person other than a natural person is treated as use in a trade or business. The industrial development bond regulations relating to the private business use test do not provide specific guidance for many common situations that arise in municipal financings. 2. General definition of private business use. A principal goal of the proposed regulations is to provide more complete rules to identify whether proceeds, or the facilities financed with those proceeds, are used for a private business use. The proposed regulations provide that use of proceeds generally results from ownership or leasing of financed property, a loan of proceeds, or other actual or beneficial use of financed property under a management or incentive payment contract, output contract, or other arrangement. As under the industrial development bond regulations, private business use can result from either direct or indirect use of the proceeds as well as from either the ultimate use of the proceeds or an intermediate use of the proceeds. 3. Discharge of primary legal obligation. The proposed regulations provide that a bond-financed facility is indirectly used by a nongovernmental person if the provision of that facility discharges a primary and unconditional obligation of the nongovernmental person. 4. Management contracts. For management and other incentive payment contracts, the proposed regulations implement the directive of section 1301(e) of the 1986 Act and liberalize the safe harbors contained in Rev. Proc. 93&hyph;19. The proposed regulations provide that management contracts other than qualified management contracts result in private business use of the related facility. The proposed regulations expand the categories of qualified management contracts to include the following: (a) Contracts with terms not exceeding the lesser of 15 years or 50 percent of the useful life of the property if all the compensation is based on a periodic fixed fee; (b) contracts with terms not exceeding the lesser of 10 years or 80 percent of the useful life of the property if at least 80 percent of the annual compensation is based on a periodic fixed fee; (c) contracts with terms not exceeding 5 years if at least 50 percent of the compensation is based on a periodic fixed fee; and (d) contracts with terms not exceeding 3 years if all of the compensation is based on a per-unit fee. The proposed regulations make a number of other changes in the qualified management contract rules in response to comments received with respect to Rev. Proc. 93&hyph;19.
