FR940505-2-00035 FR940505-2-00027 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION [DA 94&hyph;371] Provision of Direct Telex Service Between the United States and Cuba AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Commission has authorized IDB WorldCom Services, Inc. to provide direct telex service between the United States and Cuba pursuant to the Executive Branch's general policy guidelines for implementation of the telecommunications provisions of the Cuban Democracy Act, which provides that ``telecommunication services between the United States and Cuba shall be permitted.'' EFFECTIVE DATE: April 22, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John M. Coles, Attorney, Common Carrier Bureau, (202) 632&hyph;7265. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the Matter of: IDB WorldCom Services, Inc. Application for authority to lease and operate facilities for the provision of direct telex service between the United States and Cuba. File No. I&hyph;T&hyph;C&hyph;94&hyph;211 Order and Authorization Adopted: April 14, 1994 Released: April 22, 1994 By the Chief, International Facilities Division: 1. The Commission has under consideration the above-captioned application filed by the IDB WorldCom Services, Inc. (IDB) requesting authority pursuant to Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, to establish channels of communication between the United States and Cuba for the provision of direct telex service. The application was placed on the Commission's public notice and no comments were received. 2. IDB proposes to provide international telex service between the U.S. and Cuba via the INTELSAT satellite located at 325.5 ○ E.L. using appropriately licensed existing earth station facilities owned or leased by it or its affiliates. Specifically, IDB requests authority to lease from Comsat and operate one 9.6 kbps analog SCPC circuit to be used together with matching facilities provided by INTERTEL S.A. (INTERTEL) of Cuba to derive up to 46 telex circuits with the use of TDM equipment. IDB states that it has already entered into an operating agreement with INTERTEL for the establishment of direct telex service between the U.S. and Cuba. Under the terms of its agreement with INTERTEL, there will be a 50/50 split of the prevailing $3.00 per minute accounting rate for telex services. 1 IDB states that it will initiate service within one year. 1 IDB notes that the prevailing accounting rate for telex services is $3.00 per minute which is typical for most Caribbean, Central American and Latin American countries. In comparison, the prevailing accounting rate for switched voice services between the U.S. and Cuba is $1.20 per minute. IDB explains that it is common for the telex accounting rate between two countries to be much higher than the switched voice accounting rate. 3. IDB states that the public interest would be served by a grant of its application since it will result in the rapid introduction of new lines of telecommunications between the United States and Cuba. IDB notes that it is virtually impossible to make a telephone call from the U.S. to Cuba. Because of the continuing dispute over the appropriate switched voice accounting rate and the disposition of blocked funds, U.S. carriers have been unable to expand direct telephone service between the U.S. and Cuba. IDB proposes to offer direct telex service as a means to satisfy a small portion of the enormous demand for telecommunications between the U.S. and Cuba. 4. In a letter dated July 22, 1993, the U.S. Department of State informed the Commission of the Executive Branch's general policy guidelines for implementation of the telecommunications provisions of the Cuban Democracy Act, which provides that ``telecommunication services between the United States and Cuba shall be permitted.'' 2 Among the policy guidelines are the following requirements: (1) The proposals must have the potential to be operational within a year; (2) settlements must not be more favorable to Cuba than the current 50/50 split of the $1.20 per minute accounting rate; (3) proposals must be limited to equipment and services necessary to deliver a signal to Cuba; (4) proposals must utilize modes of communications already in place between the U.S. and Cuba; and (5) carriers shall report the number of circuits activated by facility on June 30 and December 31 of each year and on the one-year anniversary of the notification by the FCC in the Federal Register. 2 Letter dated July 22, 1993, from Richard C. Beaird, Acting U.S. Coordinator and Director, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, U.S. Department of State to FCC Chairman James H. Quello. 5. Upon consideration of IDB's application, we find that a grant of its application will serve the public interest subject to the conditions set forth below. IDB's application is consistent with the Executive Branch's general guidelines set forth in the Department of State's letter. IDB states that it will initiate service within one year, and expects to initiate service shortly after all requisite regulatory approvals have been obtained. IDB's proposed use of INTELSAT facilities and appropriately licensed existing earth station facilities satisfies the requirements that facilities already be in existence and be limited to equipment and services necessary to deliver a signal to Cuba. With respect to IDB's proposed 50/50 split of a $3.00 per minute accounting rate, the Department of State in a follow-up letter dated March 14, 1994 found a $3.00 per minute accounting rate for telex service to be consistent with the guidelines contained in its July 22, 1993 letter. Furthermore, the Department of State states that it has no objection to our approval of the application. 3 3 Letter dated March 14, 1994, from Richard C. Beaird, Acting U.S. Coordinator and Director, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, U.S. Department of State, to FCC Chairman Reed Hundt.
