FR940603-1-00049 FR940603-1-00009 When purchased in this manner, the requirements of subpart C of this part, Substation and Transmission Facilities, will apply. If obtained under a contract for only a power line carrier system, the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section apply. (b) Load control systems, communications systems, and SCADA systems. _(1) Contract forms. The borrower must use REA Form 786, Electric System Communication and Control Equipment Contract. (2) Procurement procedures. It is the responsibility of each borrower to determine the procurement method that best meets its needs to award contracts not requiring REA approval for up to a cumulative total of $250,000 or one percent of NUP (not to exceed $2,000,000), whichever is greater, per calendar year of communications and control facilities construction, exclusive of the cost of owner furnished materials and equipment. The borrower must use multiparty negotiation for all other communications and control facilities contract construction, including all contracts requiring REA approval. (3) Contract approval. Individual contracts in excess of $250,000 or one percent of NUP (not to exceed $500,000), whichever is greater, are subject to REA approval. §§1726.176&hyph;1726.199 [Reserved] Subpart G_Procurement Procedures §1726.200 General requirements. The borrower must use the procedures described in this subpart where such procedures are required under subparts B through F of this part. The borrower must ensure that arrangements prior to announcement of the award of the contract are such that all bidders are treated fairly and no bidder is given an unfair advantage over other bidders. §1726.201 Formal competitive bidding. The borrower must use the following procedure for Formal Competitive Bidding: (a) Selection of qualified bidders. The borrower, on advice of the engineer, will compile a list of qualified bidders for each proposed contract. The borrower will send invitations to bid only to persons or organizations on its QBL for the specific project (see §1726.23). (b) Invitations to bid. The borrower, acting through its engineer, is responsible for sending out invitations to prospective bidders, informing them of scheduled bid openings and taking any other action necessary to procure full, free and competitive bidding. The borrower should send out a sufficient number of invitations in order to assure adequate competition and so that at least three bids will be received. Subject to the foregoing criteria, the determination of how many and which bidders will be permitted to bid will be the responsibility of the borrower. (c) Evaluation basis. Any factors, other than lowest dollar amount of the bid, which are to be considered in evaluating the proposals of qualified bidders ( e.g., power consumption, losses, etc.) must be stated in the ``Notice and Instructions to Bidders.'' The borrower will, if applicable, include the relative weight assigned to each such factor and the way in which each factor will be applied. (d) Handling of bids received. The borrower or the engineer, as applicable, will indicate, in writing, the date and time of receipt by the borrower or the engineer on the outside envelope of each bid and all letters and other transmittals amending or modifying the bids. Any bid received at the designated location after the time specified must be returned to the bidder unopened. (e) Bid openings. Bid openings are generally conducted by the engineer in the presence of bidders and a representative of the borrower and the borrower's attorney. Each bona fide bid must be opened publicly and reviewed for any irregularities, errors, or exceptions. It must be verified that any addendum or supplement to the specification has been acknowledged by the bidder. The adequacy of bid bonds or certified checks must be verified at this time. (f) Conditions affecting acceptability of bids. The borrower must take the following specified action if any of the following exist: (1) Fewer than three bona fide bids received. If fewer than three bona fide bids are received for the contract project, the borrower must obtain REA concurrence prior to awarding the contract. The borrower may, however, elect to return all bids unopened, make changes in the specification or the qualified bidders list or both and invite new bids. (2) Significant error or ambiguity in the specification. If a significant error or ambiguity in the specification is found which could result in the bidders having varying interpretations of the requirements of the bid, the borrower must either issue an addendum to each prospective bidder correcting the error or ambiguity before bids are received, or reject all bids and correct the specification. If a significant error or ambiguity in the specification is discovered after the bids are opened, the borrower must reject all bids, correct the specification and invite new bids. (3) Minor errors or omissions in the specification. If minor errors or omissions in the specification are found, the borrower must issue an addendum to each prospective bidder correcting the error or omission prior to opening any bids. After bid opening, the error or omission must be corrected following the award of the contract. (4) Minor errors or irregularities in bid. The borrower may waive minor errors or irregularities in any bid, if the borrower determines that such minor errors or irregularities were made through inadvertence. Any such minor errors or irregularities so waived must be corrected on the bid in which they occur prior to the acceptance thereof by the borrower. (5) Non-minor error or irregularity in bid. If a bid contains a non-minor error or irregularity, the bid must be rejected and the bid price must not be disclosed. (6) Unbalanced bid. If a bid contains disproportionate prices between labor and materials or between various construction units, the borrower may reject the bid.
