FR940513-1-00041 FR940513-1-00010 The individual making written requests for information or records ordinarily will not be required to verify that person's identity. The signature upon such requests shall be deemed to be a certification by the requester that he or she is the individual to whom the record pertains, or the parent of a minor, or the duly appointed legal guardian of the individual to whom the record pertains. The Privacy Act Officer, however, may require such additional verification of identity in any instance in which the Privacy Act Officer deems it advisable. §1403.5 Disclosure of requested information to individuals. (a) The Privacy Act Officer shall, within a reasonable period of time after the date of receipt of a request for information of records: (1) Determine whether or not such request shall be granted; (2) Notify the requester of the determination, and, if the request is denied, of the reasons therefor; and (3) Notify the requester that fees for reproducing copies of records may be charged as provided in §1403.10. (b) If access to a record is denied because the information therein has been compiled by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation in reasonable anticipation of a civil or criminal action proceeding, the Privacy Act Officer shall notify the requester of that person's right to judicial appeal under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g). (c)(1) If access to a record is granted, the requester shall notify the Privacy Act Officer whether the requested record is to be copied and mailed to the requester or whether the record is to be made available for personal inspection. (2) A requester who is an individual may be accompanied by an individual selected by the requester when the record is disclosed, in which case the requester may be required to furnish a written statement authorizing the discussion of the record in the presence of the accompanying person. (d) If the record is to be made available for personal inspection, the requester shall arrange with the Privacy Act Officer a mutually agreeable time in the offices of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation for inspection of the record. §1403.6 Special procedures for medical records. Medical records in the custody of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation which are not subject to Office of Personnel Management regulations shall be disclosed either to the individual to whom they pertain or that person's authorized or legal representative or to a licensed physician named by the individual. §1403.7 Request for amendment to record. (a) If, after disclosure of the requested information, an individual believes that the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete, that person may request in writing that the record be amended. Such a request shall be submitted to the Privacy Act Officer and shall identify the system of records and the record or information therein, a brief description of the material requested to be changed, the requested change or changes, and the reason for such change or changes. (b) The Privacy Act Officer shall acknowledge receipt of the request within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) and, if a determination has not been made, advise the individual when that person may expect to be advised of action taken on the request. The acknowledgment may contain a request for additional information needed to make a determination. §1403.8 Agency review of request for amendment of record. Upon receipt of a request for amendment of a record, the Privacy Act Officer shall: (a) Correct any portion of a record which the individual making the request believes is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete and thereafter inform the individual in writing of such correction, or (b) Inform the individual in writing of the refusal to amend the record and of the reasons therefor, and advise that the individual may appeal such determination as provided in §1403.9. §1403.9 Appeal of an initial adverse determination of a request to amend a record. (a) Not more than 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) after receipt by an individual of an adverse determination on the individual's request to amend a record or otherwise, the individual may appeal to the Chief Operating Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. (b) The appeal shall be by letter, mailed or delivered to the Chief Operating Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. The letter shall identify the records involved in the same manner they were identified to the Privacy Act Officer, shall specify the dates of the request and adverse determination, and shall indicate the expressed basis for that determination. Also, the letter shall state briefly and succinctly the reasons why the adverse determination should be reversed. (c) The review shall be completed and a final determination made by the Chief Operating Officer not later than 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) from receipt of the request for such review, unless the Chief Operating Officer extends such 30-day period for good cause. If the 30-day period is extended, the individual shall be notified of the reasons therefor.
