FR941025-2-00100 FR941025-2-00064 [NAFTA&hyph;00160] Philips Lighting Company, Philips Electronics North American, Washington, PA; Notice of Negative Determination on Reconsideration On September 6, 1994, the Department issued an Affirmative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration for workers and former workers of the subject firm. This notice was published in the Federal Register on September 23, 1994 (59 FR 48914). Counsel for the workers claim that the worker group eligibility test is met for the Washington workers because the workers had a reduced demand for their warehousing services from Philips's Fairmont plant which was certified for TAA. Workers providing a service are certifiable only in very limited circumstances which were explained in the Department's initial negative determination. The certification circumstances are that the worker separations must be caused by a reduced demand for their services from a parent or controlling firm whose workers produce an article and who are currently under a certification for TAA. Findings on reconsideration show that Washington is not a source distribution center that warehouses finished products from a certain plant but is a field service distribution center (emphasis supplied) which warehouses inventory based on forecasted customer orders. Accordingly, the Fairmont certification (TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,343) which was based on company imports would not have adversely affected workers at the Washington facility since the products warehoused at Washington were based on forecasted customer orders. The reconsideration findings also show that only a very small amount of Washington's inventory originated from Fairmont. Other findings show that the product previously warehoused in Washington is being stocked at Mountaintop, Pennsylvania; Roselle, Illinois and Atlanta, Georgia. Conclusion After reconsideration, I affirm the original notice of negative determination of eligibility to apply for transitional adjustment assistance to workers and former workers of Philips Lighting Company, Philips, Electronics North American in Washington, Pennsylvania. Signed at Washington, D.C, this 17th day of October, 1994. Victor J. Trunzo, Program Manager, Policy, and Reemployment Services, Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26409 Filed 10&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
