FR940916-1-00149 FR940916-1-00016 (5) The railroad uses the brake system sensors and controlling computer to conduct an automated initial terminal inspection of the train. See §232.113(f). (6) The automated tests are supplemented with human inspection to do spot check verification of the results of the automated tests. (7) The onboard computer controlling the brake system continuously monitors and reports the status of the train brake system. (e) A railroad that opts to operate a train up to 1,500 miles, 2,500 miles, or 3,500 miles between required Class 1 train brake system tests shall maintain adequate test records on each such train to demonstrate that the conditions specified in paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section have been met. These records shall be retained for a period of no less than one year and shall be made available to FRA upon request. §232.313 Events requiring the performance of a Class 2 train brake system test. Class 2 brake tests shall be performed to test the train brake system of trains that have changed configuration. Class 2 tests shall be performed under any of the following conditions: (a) Where a locomotive or a caboose is changed, or where a block of cars is cut off from the rear end or head end of a train and the configuration of the train is otherwise unchanged; (b) After the Class 1 test when one or more blocks of cars are added to a train; (c) Where blocks of cars that are eligible for further travel since receiving their last Class 1 test and have not been off air for more than four hours are added to a train otherwise eligible for further travel since its last Class 1 test; or (d) Where a train, providing repetitive service, otherwise eligible for further travel before requiring a Class 1 test, completes a cycle of that repetitive service. §232.315 Required tasks of Class 2 train brake system test. (a) Class 2 train brake system tests shall be performed at locations described in §232.313 and shall, at a minimum, include the following: (1) The train brake system shall be charged to within 15 psi of the feed-valve setting on the locomotive, but not less than 75 psi, as indicated at the rear of the train by gauge or telemetry device. (2) A 20-psi brake pipe reduction shall be made. (3) An inspection shall be made to determine that the brakes on the rear car apply and release. (4) As an alternative to the rear car brake application and release test, it shall be determined that brake pipe pressure of the train is being reduced (as indicated by a rear car gauge or end-of-train device) and then that brake pipe pressure of the train is being restored (as indicated by a rear car gauge or end-of-train device). When a device is used to comply with any test requirement in this section, the phrase ``brake pipe pressure of the train is being reduced'' means a pressure reduction of at least 5 psi, and the phrase ``brake pipe pressure of the train is being restored'' means a pressure increase of at least 5 psi. (5) The train shall not proceed until communication of brake pipe pressure changes is verified at the end of the train. (b) Class 2 tests of new brake system technology shall be conducted in accordance with the Class 2 test procedures developed for that technology in accordance with the procedures given in subpart J of this part. §232.317 Transfer train brake system test. (a) Transfer train movements of less than 20 miles shall receive a test that, at a minimum, includes the following: (1) The air brake hoses shall be coupled between all cars. (2) After the brake system is charged to not less than 60 psi, a 20-psi service brake pipe reduction shall be made.
