FR940817-2-00005 FR940817-2-00003 Cooperative State Research Service Solicitation of Recommendation for Nominees to the National Sustainable Agriculture Advisory Committee agency: Cooperative State Research Service, USDA. action: Solicitation of recommendations for nominees for the private sector members of the National Sustainable Agriculture Advisory Committee. summary: The U.S. Department of Agriculture is soliciting recommendations for nominees to the National Sustainable Agriculture Advisory Committee (NSAAC), NSAAC will be appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture and will advise the Secretary in matters related to the Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education Program, consistent with Section 1622 of Public Law 101&hyph;624 (7 U.S.C. 5812). dates: Recommendations for nominees must be received on or before September 15, 1994. send nominations to: A.J. Jones, Suite 342, Aerospace Building; U.S. Department of Agriculture/CSRS/SARE; 14th & Independence Ave., SW.; Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2260. documentation required: Kindly submit a resume addressing one or more of the NSAAC membership categories listed below. Special reference should be given to knowledge and experience in sustainable agriculture. As defined in 7 U.S.C. 3103, sustainable agriculture is_``an integrated system of plant and animal production practices having a site-specific application that will, over the long-term_(A) satisfy human food and fiber needs; (B) enhance environmental quality and the natural resource base upon which the agriculture economy depends; (C) make the most efficient use of nonrenewable resources and on-farm resources and integrate, where appropriate, natural biological cycles and controls; (D) sustain the economic viability of farm operations; and (E) enhance the quality of life for farmers and society as a whole''_ Membership: As described in U.S. Department of Agriculture Regulation 1043&hyph;34, NSAAC shall consist of 14 public sector and 14 private sector members. The private sector members shall be composed of: 1. Four farmers/ranchers with knowledge and expertise in sustainable agriculture practices and systems_two representing best utilization of biological applications and one each representing integrated resource management and integrated crop management; 2. One farm/ranch family member (other than a farmer or rancher) having demonstrable expertise in sustainable agriculture, with special reference to the farm/ranch family and quality of rural life. 3. One human nutrition specialist with interest or expertise in sustainable agriculture; 4. Four private nonprofit organizations with demonstrable expertise in sustainable agriculture_two representing research or demonstration in the area of best utilization biological application and one each representing integrated resource management and integrated crop management and 5. Four representatives of agribusiness with knowledge and expertise in sustainable agriculture_two representing production system inputs, one representing independent consultants, and one representing post-harvest enterprises. responsibilities: NSAAC is responsible to the Secretary of Agriculture through the Cooperative State Research Service and Extension Service. The Specific responsibilities are to: 1. Make recommendations to the Secretary of Agriculture concerning research and extension projects that should receive funding under Subtitle B of Title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990; 2. Promote sustainable agriculture research and education programs at the national level; 3. Coordinate research and extension activities funded under Subtitle B of Title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990; 4. Establish general procedures for awarding and administering resources; 5. Consider recommendations for improving the program; 6. Facilities cooperation and integration between sustainable agriculture, national water quality, integrated pest management, food safety, and other related programs; and 7. Prepare and submit an annual report of the activities of NSAAC to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. compensation: Members of NSAAC shall serve without compensation, but with reimbursement of travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence, as is authorized in 5 U.S.C. 5703. restrcitions: Nominees selected for further consideration will be required to submit financial and organizational affiliation disclosure statements. additional information: The U.S. Department of Agriculture has special interest in assuring that women, minority groups and the physically handicapped are adequately represented on NSAAC; and therefore, extends particular encouragement for recommendations for nominees that are appropriately qualified female, minority, or physically handicapped candidates. Dated: August 12, 1994. John Patrick Jordan, Administrator, Cooperative State Research Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20183 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;22&hyph;M
