FR940202-0-00072 FR940202-0-00006 (ii) Restrictions on adjustments . If, due to significant restrictions on variations in a qualified floating rate or the use of certain formulae pursuant to ยง1.1275&hyph;5(b)(2) (e.g., 15 percent of 1-year LIBOR, plus 800 basis points), the rate in substance resembles a fixed rate, the applicable Federal rate is determined by reference to the term of the debt instrument. (3) Counting of either the issue date or the maturity date. The term of a debt instrument includes either the issue date or the maturity date, but not both dates. (4) Certain debt instruments that provide for principal payments uncertain as to time . If a debt instrument provides for principal payments that are fixed in total amount but uncertain as to time, the term of the instrument is determined by reference to the latest possible date on which a principal payment can be made or, in the case of an installment obligation, by reference to the longest weighted average maturity under any possible payment schedule. (d) Foreign currency loans . If all of the payments of a debt instrument are denominated in, or determined by reference to, a currency other than the U.S. dollar, the applicable Federal rate for the debt instrument is a foreign currency rate of interest that is analogous to the applicable Federal rate described in this section. For this purpose, an analogous rate of interest is a rate based on yields (with the appropriate compounding period) of the highest grade of outstanding marketable obligations denominated in such currency (excluding any obligations that benefit from special tax exemptions or preferential tax rates not available to debt instruments generally) with due consideration given to the maturities of the obligations. (e) Examples . The following examples illustrate the rules of this section. Example 1. Variable rate debt instrument that limits the amount of increase and decrease in the rate _(i) Facts . On July 1, 1996, A sells nonpublicly traded property to B in return for a 5-year debt instrument that provides for interest to be paid on July 1 of each year, beginning on July 1, 1997, based on the prime rate of a local bank on that date. However, the interest rate cannot increase or decrease from one year to the next by more than .25 percentage points (25 basis points). (ii) Significant restriction . The debt instrument is a variable rate debt instrument (as defined in ยง1.1275&hyph;5) that provides for stated interest at a qualified floating rate. Assume that based on all the facts and circumstances, the restriction is a significant restriction on the variations in the rate of interest. Under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the applicable Federal rate is determined by reference to the term of the debt instrument, and the applicable Federal rate is the Federal mid-term rate. Example 2. Installment obligation _(i) Facts . On January 1, 1996, A sells nonpublicly traded property to B in exchange for a debt instrument that calls for a payment of $500,000 on January 1, 2001, and a payment of $1,000,000 on January 1, 2006. The debt instrument does not provide for any stated interest. (ii) Determination of term . The debt instrument is an installment obligation. Under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the term of the debt instrument is its weighted average maturity (as defined in ยง1.1273&hyph;1(e)(3)). The debt instrument's weighted average maturity is 8.33 years, which is the sum of (A) the ratio of the first payment to total payments (500,000/1,500,000), multiplied by the number of complete years from the issue date until the payment is due (5 years), and (B) the ratio of the second payment to total payments (1,000,000/1,500,000), multiplied by the number of complete years from the issue date until the second payment is due (10 years). (iii) Applicable Federal rate . Based on the calculation in paragraph (ii) of this example, the term of the debt instrument is treated as 8.33 years. Consequently, the applicable Federal rate is the Federal mid-term rate. ยง1.1274&hyph;5 Assumptions. (a) In general . Section 1274 does not apply to a debt instrument if the debt instrument is assumed, or property is taken subject to the debt instrument, in connection with a sale or exchange of property, unless the terms of the debt instrument, as part of the sale or exchange, are modified in a manner that would constitute an exchange under section 1001. (b) Modifications of debt instruments _(1) In general . Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if a debt instrument is assumed, or property is taken subject to a debt instrument, in connection with a sale or exchange of property, the terms of the debt instrument are modified as part of the sale or exchange, and the modification triggers an exchange under section 1001, the modification is treated as a separate transaction taking place immediately before the sale or exchange and is attributed to the seller of the property. For purposes of this paragraph (b), a debt instrument is not considered to be modified as part of the sale or exchange unless the seller knew or had reason to know about the modification. (2) Election to treat buyer as modifying the debt instrument _(i) In general . Rather than having the rules in paragraph (b)(1) of this section apply, the seller and buyer may jointly elect to treat the transaction as one in which the buyer first assumed the original (unmodified) debt instrument and then subsequently modified the debt instrument. For this purpose, the modification is treated as a separate transaction taking place immediately after the sale or exchange. (ii) Time and manner of making the election . The buyer and seller make the election under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section by jointly signing a statement that includes the names, addresses, and taxpayer identification numbers of the seller and buyer, and a clear indication that the election is being made under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. Both the buyer and the seller must sign this statement not later than the earlier of the last day (including extensions) for filing the Federal income tax return of the buyer or seller for the taxable year in which the sale or exchange of the property occurs. The buyer and seller should attach this signed statement (or a copy thereof) to their timely filed Federal income tax returns.
