FR941013-1-00095 FR941013-1-00014 The proposed regulations would add a new paragraph to the regulations that would limit the amount of collection charges and late fees a guaranty agency may guarantee when a defaulted loan is consolidated. Under the proposed regulations, a guaranty agency may not guarantee a consolidation loan that includes a defaulted loan if the collection fees and late charges assessed the borrower on the defaulted loan being consolidated exceeds 18.5 percent of the outstanding principal and interest on the defaulted loan at the time the pay-off amount of the loan is certified to the consolidating lender. The Secretary is proposing this provision to limit the amount of collection fees and late charges that a borrower may be liable for on a defaulted FFEL Program loan if such loan is consolidated. Because collection charges and late fees may be as high as 42 percent of the outstanding principal and interest of a defaulted loan, the Secretary is proposing this limitation to encourage a borrower to pay off a defaulted loan through loan consolidation and bring the loan out of default for purposes of title IV eligibility. Section 682.404␣Federal reinsurance agreement. The proposed regulations would amend this section of the regulations to reflect a change made by OBRA to section 428(c)(1) of the HEA that reduces the percentages the Secretary will reinsure on a guaranty agency's default claims on loans made on or after October 1, 1993 from 100, 90, and 80 percent to 98, 88, and 78 percent, respectively, with two exceptions. First, the Secretary will reinsure loans at 100, 90, or 80 percent that are transferred from an insolvent guaranty agency or from an agency that withdraws its participation in the FFEL Program, under a plan approved by the Secretary. Second, the Secretary will provide 100 percent reinsurance for loans made under an approved lender-of-last-resort program. Section 682.418␣State share of default costs. This proposed rule would add a new §682.418 to the FFEL Program regulations to implement a change made by OBRA to section 428(n) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA). This provision requires a State to pay a fee to the Secretary if a school located in that State has a cohort default rate that exceeds 20 percent. The purpose of this fee is to partially offset the cost to the Federal government of paying default claims on FFEL Program loans by requiring a State to share the cost of defaults by student borrowers attending schools in the State. A State will be required to pay the fee to the Secretary within 60 days after the date it is notified by the Secretary of the fee it must pay. Section 428(n) mandates a formula for the Secretary to use to determine the amount of the State's fee. The State's fee is calculated by multiplying the State's new loan volume for FFEL Program loans for all schools in the State for the current fiscal year by 12.5 percent, and multiplying that result by the sum of the amounts calculated as explained in the following paragraph for each school in the State with a cohort default rate that exceeds 20 percent. That result is then divided by the amount of loan volume attributable to current and former students of schools in that State who entered repayment during the fiscal year used in calculating the cohort default rates. Under section 428(n), the amount by which the State's new loan volume is multiplied increases from 12.5 percent to 20 percent in fiscal year 1996 and to 50 percent in fiscal year 1997 and succeeding fiscal years. The amount by which a school exceeds the 20 percent default standard for this calculation is the amount of loan volume in default for the cohort default rate for the school minus 20 percent of the loans attributable to current and former students of the school who entered repayment during the fiscal year used in calculating the cohort default rate. The statutory requirements are more clearly represented using the following formula: New Loan Volume×0.125 × { [A^(B × .2)] ’ C } A=Dollars in default attributed to the cohort default rate for all schools in the State that have rates that exceed 20 percent. B=Dollars entering repayment attributed to the cohort default rate for all schools in the State that have rates that exceed 20 percent. C=Dollars entering repayment attributed to the cohort default rate for all schools in the State. The Secretary is considering the following approaches to implement the formula and is interested in public comment as to which approach would best implement the statute. The language in the statute indicates that the fee structure should be calculated using the new loan volume attributable to all institutions in the State for the current fiscal year. However, the Secretary will not know the final new loan volume data for a fiscal year until after the fiscal year has ended. The Secretary has identified the following two options to implement the statute: (1) to use the new loan volume for the fiscal year that precedes the fiscal year in which the fee is determined; or (2) to estimate the new loan volume for the fiscal year during which the State is assessed a fee. Also, because the time of the year the Secretary will be determining the fee coincides with the time of the year cohort default rates are generally determined, the Secretary may be presented with the opportunity to use either the cohort default rates that are currently being issued, or the rates that were issued the previous year. Schools would have had the chance to appeal the rates that were issued in the previous year based on inaccurate data, while the newer rates will more likely reflect the school's current situation. The Secretary is interested in comments regarding which rate should be used if this situation arises.
