FR941230-2-00127 FR941230-2-00072 Overview OJJDP was established by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93&hyph;415), as amended, to provide a comprehensive, coordinated approach to prevent and control juvenile crime and improve the juvenile justice system. OJJDP administers a State Formula Grants Program in 57 States and territories, funds more than 100 projects through its Special Emphasis Discretionary Grant Program and its National Institute for Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, and coordinates all Federal activities related to juvenile justice and delinquency prevention. OJJDP serves as the staff agency for the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, coordinates the Concentration of Federal Efforts Program, and administers the Title VI Missing and Exploited Children's Program, the Title V Prevention Incentive Grants Program, and programs under the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, as amended (42 U.S.C. 13001 et seq. ). 1992 JJDP Act Amendments The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Amendments of 1992 (Public Law 92&hyph;586) expanded the role of OJJDP in Federal efforts to prevent and treat juvenile delinquency and improve the juvenile justice system by including three new priorities: strengthening the families of delinquents, improving State and local administration of justice and services to juveniles, and assisting States and local communities in preventing youth from entering the justice system. The Amendments encourage coordination of services, interagency cooperation, and parental involvement in treatment and services for juveniles. Seven new studies were mandated. The Comptroller General is in the process of completing five of these studies: (1) juveniles waived, certified, or transferred to adult court, (2) admissions of juveniles with behavior disorders to private psychiatric hospitals, (3) gender bias in State juvenile justice systems, (4) Native American pass-through under the Formula Grants Program, and (5) access to counsel in juvenile court proceedings. OJJDP is conducting the other two studies: one on the incidence, nature, and causes of violence committed by or against juveniles in urban and rural areas, and a second on the extent and characteristics of juvenile hate crimes. The JJDP Act Amendments of 1992 authorize OJJDP to administer several new grant programs. •Part E, State Challenge Activities, authorizes grants to States participating in the Part B Formula Grants Program that provide up to 10 percent of a State's Formula Grants Program allocation for each of 10 challenge activities in which the State participates. •Part F, Treatment for Juvenile Offenders Who Are Victims of Child Abuse or Neglect, authorizes grants to public and nonprofit private organizations for treatment of juvenile offenders who are victims of child abuse or neglect, transitional services, and related research. •Part G, Mentoring, authorizes three-year grants to local education agencies, or to private nonprofit organizations working in partnership with such agencies, for mentoring programs designed to link at-risk youth with responsible adults to discourage youth involvement in criminal and violent activity. •Part H, Boot Camps, authorizes grants to establish up to 10 military-style boot camps for delinquent juveniles. •Title V, Incentive Grants for Local Delinquency Prevention Programs, authorizes grants to local governments for a broad range of delinquency prevention activities targeting youth who have had contact with, or are at-risk of contact with, the juvenile justice system. In fiscal year 1995, funds were appropriated for three of the five programs cited above: Part G Mentoring ($4 million), Title V Incentive Grants ($20 million), and Part E State Challenge Activities ($10 million). These programs are not included in this plan, nor are programs authorized and funded under TItle IV Missing Children's Assistance Act and the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, as amended. Fiscal Year 1995 Program Planning Activities The OJJDP program planning process for fiscal year 1995 is coordinated with the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs (OJP), and the four other OJP Program Bureaus: the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA); the Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS); the National Institute of Justice (NIJ); and the Office for Victims of Crime (OVC). The program planning process involves the following steps: •Internal review of existing programs by OJJDP staff. •Internal review of proposed programs by OJP bureaus and selected Department of Justice components. •Review of information and data from OJJDP grantees and contractors. •Review of information contained in State comprehensive plans. •Review of comments made by youth services providers, juvenile justice practitioners, and researchers.
