FR940112-0-00126 FR940112-0-00024 In addition, the Commission has taken further action to reduce any costs of transition for firms which may have been unaware of the pending metric disclosure requirements of the amended FPLA. As discussed in section V. infra, the Commission, in order to harmonize with state enforcement policy adopted by NCWM, has stated it will avoid taking law enforcement action under the new metric amendments to the FPLA rules until November 8, 1994. V. Enforcement Policy Statement The effective date of these regulations is February 14, 1994. In crafting the FPLA statute, Congress acknowledged the need for businesses to have time within which to learn about the existence of the requirements to use metric measurement and to come into compliance. Section 13 of the FPLA states that the metric amendments ``shall have no effect on the sale or distribution of products whose labels have been printed before'' February 14, 1994. (15 U.S.C. 1451(13).) The Commission expects that the states, as in the past, will adopt uniform state laws that mirror the Commission's new FPLA metric requirements. The National Conference on Weights and Measures, 60 which represents state enforcers of such laws, already has adopted an enforcement policy designed to avoid undue hardship to those firms who may have been unaware of the pending metric requirements. In its ``Resolution on Enforcement of SI Metric Labeling Requirements,'' NCWM has stated that it is advisable ``to allow ample time for industry to become aware of the metric labeling requirements, and to reduce the burden on industry and thus reduce the cost of updating of package labels.'' 61 To achieve these goals, the National Conference has resolved to enforce its metric labeling requirements until November 8, 1994 by sending to non-complying businesses letters which state ``not only the area of noncompliance, but also the correct way to be in compliance.'' 62 60 The National Conference on Weights and Measures is a voluntary standards-writing body whose members are State and local weights and measures officials and which has Federal Government, business, industry and consumer representatives. NCWM, 19, 1. 61 Id. at 6. 62 Id. Commission law enforcement actions during this period against non-complying firms could undercut the objectives stated in the NCWM resolution. While states enforce independent laws, these laws for the most part mirror the Commission's FPLA rules. Thus, fear of enforcement by the Commission of the federal version of the new state metric requirements could lead some firms immediately to incur costs of re-labeling, despite assurances of no state law enforcement actions. In the interest of promoting harmonization with state enforcement, the Commission therefore has determined to avoid taking law enforcement actions against companies not in compliance with the metric amendments to the final FPLA regulations until November 8, 1994. 63 63 Further, the delay of enforcement gives companies time to learn about these amendments without subjecting them to the burden of litigation. All other aspects of the Commission's regulations issued under the FPLA will not be affected by the postponement of enforcement of the SI metric amendments.
