FR941110-0-00146 FR941110-0-00016 •It correlates, to a greater extent than in the proposed rule, specific enforcement categories from which an enforcement response must be selected with specified degrees of noncompliance. •It can be applied to physical environment deficiencies, as well as to all others, and it should relieve commenters' fears that resident rights violations and physical environment deficiencies could not be considered as serious deficiencies. •Providers will have a clearer idea of the enforcement consequences they could be subject to for specific degrees of noncompliance because, in §488.408, we have correlated enforcement categories with levels of noncompliance. The establishment of these remedy categories will provide regulatory guidance to HCFA and the States in selecting remedies and will necessitate that States and HCFA clearly define the seriousness of cited deficiencies in order to select an appropriate remedy. We have not accepted any of the commenters' proposed revisions to the scope and severity scales for inclusion in the modified enforcement scheme in this final rule. After reviewing the proposals, we concluded that, while the terminology may have been different, all of the proposals were conceptually the same as the scales that were published in the proposed rule. In addition, those commenting provided no evidence (for example, success data) to indicate that their respective proposed enforcement systems would be more effective than the scales we published in the proposed rule. We, therefore, have not adopted any of the commenters' proposals in place of the enforcement model we are presenting in this final rule. In addition and equally noteworthy, we spent considerable time meeting with various groups representing the nursing home industry, State agencies and consumer organizations to discuss and seek input on the various approaches to restructure and refocus the survey and enforcement processes. The resulting approach was presented in the notice of proposed rulemaking as well as in what has been carried over into this final rule. In response to concerns that repeated 1&hyph;1 deficiencies (now referred to as isolated deficiencies that HCFA or the State determines constitute no actual harm with a potential for minimum harm) would be hard to monitor on subsequent surveys, we note that, while such deficiencies are not cited on the official deficiency statement and are not sanctioned, their existence is maintained in the official provider file along with the official deficiency statement. The separate listing of these deficiencies is also accessible to the surveying agency and disclosable to the public. While we intend that the enforcement scheme provide internal guidance to States and to HCFA, we are including it in the regulations to provide the public, and particularly regulated facilities and facility residents, with full disclosure as to how enforcing agencies will determine appropriate remedies for providers that have been found out of compliance with Federal participation requirements. Comment: One commenter wanted a remedy to be imposed for insufficient nurse staffing. Response: The law requires that nursing homes meet all participation requirements. Should noncompliance with nurse staffing requirements be identified, either during an extended survey or when a waiver of RN and/or licensed nursing staffing has been requested or granted, the facility would be subject to an enforcement response from HCFA or the State, just as it would be for other instances of noncompliance. Comment: Some commenters wanted to remove the distinction between initial and secondary factors in §488.404 (proposed at §488.208) believing that the secondary criteria are equally important as the initial assessment.
