FR940304-2-00104 FR940304-2-00042 [WY&hyph;060&hyph;04&hyph;4210&hyph;05; WYW125255] Realty Action; Modified Competitive Sale of Public Lands; Wyoming AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of realty action, modified competitive sale of public lands in Crook County. SUMMARY: The following public surface estate has been determined to be suitable for disposal by modified competitive sale under Section 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act (FLPMA) of 1976, (90 STAT. 2750; 43 U.S.C. 1713). The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) is required to receive fair market value for the land sold and any bid for less than fair market value will be rejected. The BLM may accept or reject any and all offers, or withdraw any land or interest in the land for sale if the sale would not be consistent with FLPMA or other applicable law. Sixth Principal Meridian T. 57 N., R. 66 W., Sec. 27, lots 2, 3, 8, SW1/4NW1/4. 111.31 acres. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Floyd Ewing, Area Manager, Bureau of Land Management, Newcastle Resource Area, 1101 Washington Blvd., Newcastle, Wyoming 82701, 307&hyph;746&hyph;4453. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This sale is consistent with Bureau of Land Management policies and the Newcastle Management Framework Plan. The purpose of this sale is to dispose of an isolated parcel of public land. The fair market values, planning document, and environmental assessment covering the proposed sale will be available for review at the Bureau of Land Management, Newcastle Resource Area, Newcastle, Wyoming. The parcel will be offered by modified competitive sale to the adjoining landowners. The adjoining landowners will be required to submit proof of adjoining land ownership before a bid can be accepted. The publication of this Notice of Realty Action in the Federal Register shall segregate the above public lands from appropriation under the public land laws, including the mining laws. Any subsequent application shall not be accepted, shall not be considered as filed and shall be returned to the applicant if the notice segregates the land from the use applied for in the application. The segregative effect of this notice will terminate upon issuance of a conveyance document, 270 days, or when a cancellation Notice is published, whichever occurs first. Sale Procedures 1. All bidders must be U.S. citizens, 18 years of age or older, corporations authorized to own real estate in the State of Wyoming, a state, state instrumentality of political subdivision authorized to hold property, or an entity legally capable of conveying and holding land or interests in Wyoming. 2. Sealed bidding is the only acceptable method of bidding. All bids must be received in the Newcastle Resource Area Office by 11:00 a.m., May 25, 1994, at which time the sealed bid envelopes will be opened and the high bid announced. The high bidder will be notified in writing within 30 days whether or not the BLM can accept the bid. The sealed bid envelope must be marked on the front lower left-hand corner with the words ``Public Land Sale, (WYW125255), Sale held May 25, 1994.'' 3. All sealed bids must be accompanied by a payment of not less than 10 percent of the total bid. Each bid and final payment must be accompanied by certified check, money order, bank draft, or cashier's check made payable to: Department of the Interior-BLM. 4. Failure to pay the remainder of the full bid price within 180 days of the sale will disqualify the apparent high bidder and the deposit shall be forfeited and disposed of as other receipts of the sale. If the apparent high bidder is disqualified, the next highest qualified bid will be honored or the land will be reoffered under competitive procedures. If two or more envelopes containing valid bids of the same amount are received, supplemental sealed bidding will be used to determine the high bid. Additional sealed bids will be submitted to resolve all ties. 5. If the parcel fails to sell, it will be reoffered for sale under competitive procedures. For reoffered land, bids must be received in the Newcastle Resource Area Office by 11 a.m. on the fourth Wednesday of each month beginning June 22, 1994. Reoffered land will remain available for sale until sold or until the sale action is canceled or terminated. Reappraisals of the parcel will be made periodically to reflect the current fair market value. If the fair market value of the parcel changes, the land will remain open for competitive bidding according to the procedures and conditions of this notice. Patent Terms and Conditions Any patent issued will be subject to all valid existing rights. Specific patent reservations include: 1. A right-of-way thereon for ditches or canals constructed by the authority of the United States pursuant to the Act of August 30, 1890 (43 U.S.C. 945). 2. All minerals will be reserved to the United States, together with the right to prospect for, mine, and remove the minerals. A more detailed description of this reservation, which will be incorporated into the patent document, is available for review at the BLM Newcastle Resource Area Office. 3. F.A. Bush, Inc. is the grazing lessee (GR&hyph;8412) and owner of the following authorized permanent range improvement: Project No. 4338, a fence. If any party, other than F.A. Bush, Inc., is the successful bidder on the land being offered for sale, that party shall be required to reimburse F.A. Bush, Inc. for the adjusted value of the range improvement and furnish proof to the Authorized Officer, Bureau of Land Management, Newcastle Resource Area, before conveyance can be made. If the bidder and grazing lessee are unable to agree on compensation for the range improvement, the authorized officer shall determine the adjusted value. For a period of 45 days from the date of this notice published in the Federal Register , interested parties may submit comments to the BLM, District Manager, Casper District Office, 1701 East ``E'' Street, Casper, Wyoming 82601. Any adverse comments will be evaluated by the State Director, who may vacate or modify this realty action and issue a final determination. In the absence of any action by the State Director, this realty action will become final. Dated: February 25, 1994. Donald Hinrichsen, District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4969 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;22&hyph;M
