FR940217-2-00117 FR940217-2-00065 NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION Privacy Act of 1974: Revision to Two Systems of Records AGENCY: National Science Foundation. ACTION: Notice of revised systems of records. SUMMARY: Pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), the National Science Foundation is providing notice of a revision to two systems of records_NSF&hyph;50, ``Principal Investigator/Proposal File and Associated Records,'' and NSF&hyph;51, ``Reviewer/Proposal File and Associated Records.'' Both systems include investigatory records maintained by NSF when proposals are submitted to the agency and subsequent evaluations of the applicants and their proposals are obtained. These systems are being revised to include altered routine uses, and are reprinted in their entirety. In accordance with the requirements of the Privacy Act, NSF has provided a report on the proposed systems of records to the Director of OMB, the Chairman, Committee on Governmental Affairs, and the Chairman, Committee on Government Operations. EFFECTIVE DATE: Sections 552a(e) (4) and (11) of Title 5 of the U.S. Code require that the public have thirty days to comment on the routine uses of systems of records. The new routine uses that are the subject of this notice will take effect on March 21, 1994, unless modified by a subsequent notice to incorporate comments received from the public. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be submitted to the NSF Privacy Act Officer, National Science Foundation, Division of Contracts, Policy and Oversight, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, room 485, Arlington, Virginia 22230. Dated: February 10, 1994. Herman G. Fleming, NSF Privacy Act Officer. NSF&hyph;50 System name: Principal Investigator/Proposal File and Associated Records. System location: Decentralized. There are numerous separate files maintained by individual NSF offices and programs. National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22230. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Each person that requests support from the National Science Foundation, either individually or through an academic institution. Categories of records in the system: The name of the principal investigator, the proposal and its identifying number, supporting data from the academic institution or other applicant, proposal evaluations from peer reviewers, a review record, financial data, and other related material. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101; 42 U.S.C. 1870. Purposes: This system enables program offices to maintain appropriate files and investigatory material in evaluating applications for grants or other support. NSF employees may access the system to make decisions regarding which proposals to fund, and to carry out other authorized internal duties. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Disclosure of information may be made: 1. To qualified reviewers for their opinion and evaluation of applicants and their proposals as part of the application review process. 2. To Federal government agencies in order to coordinate grant programs. 3. To contractors, grantees, volunteers and other individuals who perform a service or work on a contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or job for the Federal Government. 4. To the Department of Justice or the Office of Management and Budget for the purpose of obtaining advice on the application of the Freedom of Information Act or Privacy Act to the records. 5. To another Federal agency, a court, or a party in litigation before a court or in an administrative proceeding being conducted by a Federal agency when the Government is a party to the judicial or administrative proceeding. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system:
