FR940208-0-00098 FR940208-0-00031 Net Economic Effect to U.S. Treasury The U.S. Treasury's portion of grazing fees collected by the BLM in fiscal year 1989 was insufficient to cover the direct costs of administering grazing programs in eight BLM districts in the hot deserts of the southwest. According to a 1991 report from the U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO), the BLM collected grazing fees totaling $3.97 million from the eight BLM desert districts. Half of this amount ($1.98 million) was returned to the grazing programs for range improvements, the U.S. Treasury received a maximum 37.5 percent ($1.49 million) of the fees, and local governments received a minimum of 12.5 percent ($496,000). The U.S. Treasury thus received no more than $1.49 million, 53 percent of the $2.79 million expense for grazing management in the eight BLM districts. According to GAO: ``Critics of livestock grazing could argue that the costs of managing livestock grazing *␣*␣* exceeded the funds available to the Treasury to offset these management costs. Proponents could counter that *␣*␣* grazing fees more than offset *␣*␣* management costs and provided funds for State and county projects as well as for range improvements. No matter how costs are analyzed, the resources currently being spent on range management *␣*␣* are insufficient to perform all essential tasks. [I]nsufficient funding and staffing have been instrumental in the BLM's inability to restore degraded riparian areas, deal with overstocked grazing allotments, and detect livestock grazing trespass. Consistent with our findings, the BLM has concluded that its current budget is inadequate to perform all needed land management tasks throughout the public lands'' (U.S. General Accounting Office 1991). Based on the GAO's findings, the U.S. Treasury may realize a net financial gain from discontinuing or reducing Federal grazing programs in the hot desert (assuming administrative costs were reduced accordingly and not reassigned). Although the potential savings to the U.S. Treasury was not evaluated in the Draft Economic Analysis, it is reasonable to assume that discontinuation of grazing on the public lands designated as critical habitat for the desert tortoise may contribute to those savings. Employment Effects Designation of critical habitat for the desert tortoise is expected to result in the loss of no more than 425 jobs in the seven-county region (Table 5). This estimate includes 340 jobs lost directly in ranching and 85 jobs lost indirectly in other industries. This job loss, due to the reduction of Federal grazing permits in CHUs, is an insignificant proportion of the 1,535,100 workers employed in the seven counties in 1990. Specific employment losses cannot be estimated for each county until the BLM decides on how to handle partially affected grazing allotments. This total job loss will be reduced if there is replacement of affected permits by permits on unaffected lands (Federal or private) or if those laborers transfer to jobs on unaffected ranch lands. These estimated employment losses will not be permanent for most laborers, as it is anticipated that over 85 percent will be reemployed within 2 years. Critical habitat designation is not expected to result in lost jobs in the mining sector because current mining operations will not be affected by designation. The impact on future employment in the mining sector cannot be calculated reliably because of the uncertainty of future expansion and development of claims.
