FR940114-1-00030 FR940114-1-00008 V. Motorcycle Operation Under the Influence of Alcohol or Other Drugs Each State should ensure that programs addressing drunk and drugged driving include a focus on motorcycles. The following programs should include an emphasis on impaired motorcyclists. Community traffic safety programs; Public information and education campaigns; Youth impaired driving programs; Law enforcement programs; Judge and prosecutor training programs; Anti-drunk and drugged driving organizations; and College and school programs. VI. Motorcycle Conspicuity and Motorist Awareness Programs State motorcycle safety programs should emphasize the issues of rider conspicuity and motorist awareness of motorcycles. These programs should address: Daytime use of motorcycle lights; Brightly colored clothing and reflective materials for motorcycle riders; Lane positioning of motorcycles to increase vehicle visibility; Reasons why motorists do not see motorcycles; and Ways that other motorists can increase their awareness of motorcyclists. * * * * * Highway Safety Program Guideline No. 8 Impaired Driving Each State, in cooperation with its political subdivisions, should have a comprehensive program to combat impaired driving. This guideline describes the areas that each State's program should address. Throughout this guideline, ``impaired driving'' means operating any motor vehicle while one's faculties are affected by alcohol or other drugs, medications, or other substances. ``Impaired driving'' includes, but is not limited to, impairment as defined in State statutes. I. Prevention Each State should have prevention programs to reduce impaired driving through approaches commonly associated with public health_altering social norms, changing risky or dangerous behaviors, and creating protective environments. Prevention and public health programs promote activities to educate the public on the effects of alcohol and other drugs, limit alcohol and drug availability, and prevent those impaired by alcohol and drugs from driving. Prevention programs are typically carried out in schools, work sites, medical and health care facilities, and community groups. Each State should implement a system of impaired driving prevention activities and to work with the public health community to foster health and reduce traffic-related injuries. A. Public Information and Education for Prevention States should develop and implement public information and education (PI&E) programs directed at impaired driving. Programs should start at the State level and extend to communities through State assistance, model programs, and public encouragement. States should: Have a statewide plan, program, and coordinator for all impaired driving PI&E activities; Develop their own PI&E campaigns and materials, either by adapting materials from the Federal government or other States, or by creating new campaigns and materials; Encourage and support communities to implement awareness programs at the local level; Encourage businesses and private organizations to participate in impaired driving PI&E campaigns; and Encourage media to support impaired driving highway safety issues by reporting on programs, activities (including enforcement campaigns), alcohol-related arrests, and alcohol-related crashes.
