FR940627-0-00221 FR940627-0-00019 (4) Any applicable information pursuant to the grouping provisions in §79.56, as follows: (i) If the manufacturer has enrolled or intends to enroll the product in a fuel/additive group, the relevant group and the person(s) or entity expected to submit information on behalf of the group must be identified. (ii) If the manufacturer intends to rely on registration information previously submitted by another manufacturer (or group) for registration of other product(s) in the same fuel/additive group, then the original submitter and its product (or product group) shall be identified. In such cases, the manufacturer shall provide evidence that the original submitter has been notified of the use of its registration data and that the manufacturer has complied or intends to comply with the proportional reimbursement required under §79.56(c) of this rule. (5) Any applicable information pursuant to the special provisions in §79.58, as follows: (i) If the manufacturer claims applicability of the special provisions for relabeled additives, pursuant to §79.58(a), then the manufacturer and brand name of the original product shall be given. (ii) If the manufacturer claims applicability of any small business provisions pursuant to §79.58(d), the average of the manufacturer's total annual sales revenue for the previous three years shall be given. (iii) If the manufacturer claims applicability of the special provisions for aerosol products, pursuant to §79.58(e), then the purpose and recommended frequency of use shall be given. (c) Tier 1 and Tier 2 Reports. If the results of Tiers 1 and 2 are reported to EPA at the same time, then the report shall include the following documents in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section. If Tier 1 and Tier 2 results are submitted to EPA separately, then the separate Tier 1 report shall include only documents in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4), (c)(6), and associated appendices in paragraphs (c)(7) of this section, and the separate Tier 2 report shall include only documents in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and associated appendices in paragrpah (c)(7) of this section. In addition, pursuant to the requirements in §79.51(c)(1)(ii)(B), if the Tier 2 report for registered fuels and fuel additives is not submitted prior to May 27, 1997, then evidence of a suitable arrangement for completion of Tier 2 (e.g., a copy of a signed contract with a qualified laboratory for applicable Tier 2 services) must be submitted to EPA prior to that date. (1) Cover page. (i) Identification of test substance, (ii) Name and address of the manufacturer of the test substance, (iii) Name and phone number of a designated contact person, (iv) Group information, if applicable, including: (A) Group name or grouping criteria, (B) Name and address of responsible organization or entity reporting for the group, (C) Product trade name and manufacturer of each member fuel and additive to which the report pertains. (2) Executive Summary. Text overview of the significant results and conclusions obtained as a result of completing the requirements of Tier 1 and/or Tier 2, including references if used to support such results and conclusions. (3) Test Substance Information. Test substance description, including, as applicable, (i) Base fuel parameter values (including types and concentrations of base fuel additives) or test fuel composition (if a fuel other than the base fuel is used in testing). These values must be provided for each of the fuel parameters specified in §79.55 for the applicable fuel family. (ii) Test additive composition and concentration (4) Summary of Tier 1 (i) Literature Search. Pursuant to §79.52(d), the literature search shall include a text summary of the methods and results of the literature search, including the following: (A) Identification of person(s) performing the literature search, (B) Description of data sources accessed, search strategy used, search period, and terms included in literature search, (C) Documentation of all unpublished in-house and other privately-conducted studies, (D) Tables summarizing the protocols and results of all cited studies, (E) Summary of significant results and conclusions with respect to the effects of the emissions of the subject fuel or fuel additive on the public health and welfare, including references if used to support such results and conclusions.
