FR940819-2-00027 FR940819-2-00011 Department's Position: We agree with the petitioners. Minasligas reported the replacement cost of monthly electricity for the month in which the bill was received. Each month's bill reflects the cost of electricity purchased in the prior month. Therefore, the reported replacement cost of electricity is understated since it lags the actual cost by one month. We have corrected for this understatement by matching each month's bill with the month that it covered. Comment 19: Petitioners contend that Minasligas's allocation of G&A expenses is incorrect. (Minasligas allocated monthly G&A expenses to individual products based upon the number of furnaces used in the production of each product.) Petitioners contend that the Department should allocate G&A expenses to total COGS as was done in the preliminary results. Minasligas contends that a larger portion of its operation is devoted to ferrosilicon than to silicon metal. Minasligas contends that allocating G&A expenses to total COGS overstates the amount of G&A expenses relating to silicon metal. Department's Position: We agree with petitioners. G&A expenses are period expenses which relate to the operation of the company as a whole and are not customarily associated with a particular product or process. Therefore, we recalculated G&A expenses on a company-wide annual historical basis and, in order to avoid overstating G&A expenses and to neutralize hyperinflationary effects, we applied the G&A ratio to each month's COM calculated on a historical basis. Comment 20: Petitioners contend that the Department should calculate Minasligas's interest expense as the consolidated expenses of Minasligas and Delp Engenharia S.A. (Delp). Petitioners note that Delp controls over 93 percent of Minasligas's common stock and thus has a controlling interest in Minasligas. Petitioners suggest that the Department use Delp's 1991 and 1992 financial statements to perform this calculation. Minasligas contends that Delp and Minasligas are separate entities, maintain separate financial statements, and have their own interest expense and income. Therefore, Minasligas asserts that it would be improper to calculate interest expense on a consolidated basis. Department's Position: We agree with petitioners that Minasligas should report interest expense on a consolidated basis. See our response to comment 2. In the case of Minasligas, Delp does not consolidate its accounts with Minasligas. In addition, because there are no significant intercompany transactions between the two companies, we combined the financial expenses of the two companies and calculated an interest expense as a ratio to cost of sales, effectively creating consolidated accounts. The Department only allows income generated from investments of working capital, which the company documents as short-term in nature, to offset interest expense (see, e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, Cellular Mobile Telephones from Japan, 54 FR 45447, 45455 (October 31, 1985), and Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, Mechanical Transfer Presses from Japan, 55 FR 335, 342 (January 4, 1990)). Minasligas was able to substantiate only a portion of the investments to be short-term; consequently, we have allowed only the documented portion of interest income as an offset. We did not allow an offset to Minasligas's parent, Delp, for interest expense because the information required to substantiate such an adjustment is not contained in the record of this review. In order to avoid overstating financing charges, we applied the interest expense ratio ( i.e., the ratio of net interest expense to cost of goods sold) to each month's COM calculated on a historical basis rather than to amounts computed under the replacement cost basis. This is consistent with the methodology used in the remand determination in the underlying investigation. Comment 21: Petitioners contend that Minasligas did not submit information regarding short-term interest income at the consolidated, parent company level. Accordingly, the petitioners contend that it is not feasible to ``compute interest expense using the sum of Minasligas's and Delp's financial expenses adjusted for intercompany interest transactions'', as suggested by the Department's cost verification report. Finally, petitioners assert that the Department should apply this allocation to COM to properly account for Brazilian hyperinflation. Department's Position: We agree with petitioners that the record does not contain information regarding short-term interest income at Minasligas's parent company, Delp. Accordingly, we have not allowed any such offset for Delp's interest income in our calculation of combined interest expense. Consistent with our practice in the Final Determination of Sales At Less Than Fair Value; Ferrosilicon from Brazil, 59 FR 732, 736&hyph;737, January 6, 1994, we have applied the calculated interest expense ratio to the monthly COMs calculated on a historical basis rather than amounts computed under the replacement cost basis. Comment 22: Petitioners contend that Minasligas's calculation of inventory holding gains/losses is flawed because Minasligas failed to properly ``layer'' inventory according to the month that the merchandise was placed in inventory. Petitioners contend that Minasligas's calculation reflects one level of inventory even though Minasligas held merchandise in inventory for at least two preceding months. Petitioners contend that this flaw makes Minasligas's calculation unusable. Accordingly, petitioners contend that the Department should disregard Minasligas's calculation, and make no adjustment for inventory holding gain or loss in the final COP calculations. Department's Position: We agree with petitioners. Minasligas's calculation of inventory holding gains/losses did not account for merchandise that spent multiple months in inventory. Accordingly, we have rejected Minasligas's claimed inventory holding gain.
