FR940513-0-00130 FR940513-0-00034 (9) Mark Perlis, Counsel, NEMA. NEMA is a trade association that includes manufacturers of lamp products. (10) Meredith Miller, NEPS. NEPS is a service company for three retail electric power companies in New England, Rhode Island, and Massachusetts, and New Hampshire. NEPS provides incentives to residential customers to encourage compact fluorescent lamp purchases. (11) Peter Bleasby, Director of Industry Relations and Standards, Osram. Osram manufactures most types of lamp products. (12) Al Rousseau, Manager of Technical Relations, Philips. Philips manufactures most types of lamp products. (13) Bob Davis, Research Assistant Professor, LRC. LRC conducts an efficient lighting research and development program. (14) Bruce Siegal, President, Supreme. Supreme is a small family-owned lamp manufacturer, specializing in the manufacture of long-life lamps specifically designed for vibration service and rough surface applications. (15) William VonNeida, US EPA. US EPA conducts a ``Green Lights'' program as its flagship voluntary pollution prevention program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the program, US EPA encourages businesses, government, and other organizations to use energy-efficient lighting. In addition to the participants listed above, Larry Galowin, Laboratory Accreditation Program, National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program, National Institute of Standards and Technology (``NIST'') , U.S. Department of Commerce, also attended and made oral presentations during the Workshop. The following parties who made oral presentations during the Workshop also filed supplemental written comments after the Workshop: ACEEE (GG&hyph;21); Angelo (G&hyph;8); GE (G&hyph;9); LBL (GG&hyph;22); NEMA (G&hyph;10); Osram (G&hyph;11); Philips (G&hyph;12); Supreme (G&hyph;13); MA AG (GG&hyph;24); and NIST (GG&hyph;23). III. Disclosures and Other Requirements Proposed in NPR In informal communications with the Commission's staff during the period after EPA 92 was enacted and before the Commission published the NPR, representatives of several industry members and environmental interest groups suggested various labeling requirements for lamps. Two of the more specific suggestions were described in the NPR, along with the Commission's proposals. 23 23 58 FR at 60152&hyph;60. A. NEMA's Proposals NEMA suggested that the Commission adopt particularized disclosure requirements for different types of lamp products. 24 For general service fluorescent lamps and incandescent reflector lamps, for which EPCA establishes energy conservation standards, NEMA suggested disclosure only of the encircled capital letter ``E,'' similar to the current requirement for fluorescent lamp ballasts. 25 This symbol would designate that the product meets the established energy conservation standards. In support of this proposal, NEMA stated that the performance of all the interchangeable general service fluorescent lamps that will remain on the market after the energy conservation standards established by EPA 92 become effective 26 will vary only slightly. 24 NEMA, C&hyph;41, C&hyph;42. 25 See Part II.A, above. 26 The effective dates are April 30, 1995, for some lamp products, and October 31, 1995 for other lamp products. 42 U.S.C.A. 6295(i)(1) (West Supp. 1993). NEMA suggested that the designation be indicated in the manufacturer's catalogs and other printed material, and that the encircled ``E'' be etched on the product itself, no smaller than the lamp designation information for wattage. NEMA suggested that, if the Commission cannot require etching on the product, it should require that the packing carton containing one or more lamps be marked with the encircled ``E,'' in color contrasting ink and no smaller than the manufacturer's name or logo. For general service incandescent lamps (other than reflector lamps) and medium base compact fluorescent lamps, NEMA suggested that ``light output'' (in lumens), watts, life, design volts, and bulb quantity contents ( i.e., number of bulbs in the package) be disclosed according to specified format requirements on at least one panel of the outer sleeve of the package. One or more of these items also could be disclosed on the remaining panels. For general service incandescent lamps (other than reflector lamps), the term ``lumens,'' in the specified format, would follow beside or below the numerical value for light output. For medium base compact fluorescent lamps, the term ``lumens (base-up)'' would be used instead of ``lumens.'' 27 27 See note 136, below. NEMA also suggested that the labeling rules require an ``energy efficiency index'' (consisting of ``lumens per watt,'' rounded to the next highest number, and ``yearly energy cost'' of operating the lamp) on packages of general service incandescent lamps (other than reflector lamps) and medium base compact fluorescent lamps. 28 The energy efficiency index would include the disclosure: ``Lumens per watt.'' The yearly energy cost would include the disclosure: ``At 4 hours per day at $.10 per kilowatt-hour.'' 28 The ``energy efficiency index'' would be a square, at least one inch by one inch, divided in the middle by a horizontal line. The lumens per watt would appear in the top portion of the square, and the yearly energy cost in the bottom. The letters and numbers would be printed in black (or whatever dark color is used in creating the Universal Product Code symbol). See Illustration 1, 58 FR at 60153. NEMA further suggested that, if the manufacturer elects to place the energy efficiency label on a panel other than the primary display panel of the package, it should be required to provide an additional ``energy flag'' on the primary display panel. The energy flag would include only the ``energy index'' value ( i.e., lumens per watt). 29 The designation ``Energy Index'' would be printed with the energy index value inside the flag, and a reference to ``See package back'' would be printed immediately below the flag. 29 The ``energy flag'' would be a right triangle one inch in height and resting on a perpendicular side one and one-half inches in length. See Illustration 2, 58 FR at 60154.
