FR940511-1-00052 FR940511-1-00012 Payments for Higher Quality Child Care Both the Federal government and the States have an interest in assuring that the increasing number of the Nation's children who receive child care services benefit from high quality care. This interest applies to all children, whether or not in subsidized care. High quality care provides parents a necessary support service to enable them to participate in work, education, or training. High quality care also provides sound developmental support for the children who comprise our future work force. Balancing the Federal government's interest in an adequate supply of child care to meet the needs of family self-sufficiency programs with the States' responsibility for regulating the quality of that care is a delicate exercise. We have learned from administering the title IV&hyph;A and CCDBG programs that States wish to have more opportunities to recognize higher quality care by compensating providers appropriately. As a result, ACF proposes to amend the payment regulations for both title IV&hyph;A and CCDBG child care programs. Along with other amendments described in this proposed rule, these payment amendments will enable States to provide recipients of child care under these programs greater access to higher quality care. As described more fully below, we propose to eliminate the regulation for the CCDBG that limits payment differentials within categories of care to no more than 10 percent. We also propose to amend the title IV&hyph;A child care regulations to allow States to pay the actual cost of care, subject only to the statewide limit, for care that meets the State's definition of higher quality care. Payments Under CCDBG We propose to revise §§98.16(a)(12)(ii) and 98.43(e) to remove the 10 percent cap on payment differentials within a category of care. In addition, we propose to revise §98.43(b) (1) and (2) to clarify that the cost of subsidized child care services must be no more than the actual amount billed or charged for non-subsidized care. The Block Grant Act requires that payment rates take into account the variations in cost of providing child care in different categories, as defined in §98.2(h), and to children of different age groups, as well as the additional costs of providing child care for children with special needs. Grantees have been required to differentiate among center-based, group home, family, and in-home child care providers. The existing regulations permit grantees to differentiate payment rates within categories of care, if certain conditions are met.
