FR940922-2-00038 FR940922-2-00015 •Are there less categorical approaches that would better serve the needs of children with disabilities and their families? •Should all resources for personnel development be consolidated into a single program to permit greater flexibility in meeting changing personnel training needs? Professional Development Qualified personnel are key to the provision of appropriate educational and early intervention services and to school reform. States are responsible for developing and implementing comprehensive systems of personnel development (CSPD) to ensure that the personnel working with children with disabilities have the knowledge and skills necessary to provide a high quality education. IDEA funding for professional development includes: (1) Part B formula funds that go to the States and LEAs and may be used for a variety of purposes, of which professional development is only one of many competing uses; (2) Part D discretionary funds, which, by law, go primarily to institutions of higher education to support pre-service training of special education teachers; and (3) discretionary funds awarded under other parts such as Part C. The Department is interested in determining how to improve professional development of all teachers working with children with disabilities. •Are there any changes to the current law that would help to ensure that all teachers working with children with disabilities, including regular education teachers, have the training they need to help children with disabilities achieve to high standards? •Are there any changes that would help States to better design and implement their CSPDs? •Are there any changes that would help ensure that pre-service and in-service training meets the needs of States and LEAs and supports local school reform efforts? Part H_Infants and Toddlers With Disabilities The current formula for the Grants for Infants and Toddlers with Disabilities Program allocates funds based on the number of birth-through-two-year-olds in a State's general population. The percentage of infants and toddlers in the general population served under this program varies widely among States. Some States advocate retaining the current formula, at least in the near term, while other States have suggested that funds be distributed based on a count of children actually served rather than population. In addition, some practitioners have suggested that the formula for allocating funds should take into consideration other factors in addition to population, including the fiscal capacity of States. The Department is interested in receiving comments on whether the current Part H formula should be retained or changed, and, if so, how. •Should the number of children in poverty be a factor in allocating funds so that high-poverty areas receive a greater share of the funds? •How can States be encouraged to identify and serve more at-risk infants and toddlers? •Should States be given the discretion to provide, as appropriate, a limited (as opposed to the full) array of services to at-risk children and their families? •What statutory and regulatory barriers exist that impede successful Part H implementation, including identifying eligible infants and toddlers, providing services, and obtaining financing for services? •What statutory changes are needed to improve coordination of services and resources at the Federal, State, and local levels? •Should current law, which allows States, at their discretion, to charge sliding fees for early intervention services, be re-examined? Format for Comments This request for comments is designed to elicit views of interested parties on whether and how the IDEA can be strengthened to improve services and results. It is not intended to express views on any issues or to indicate the intention of the Secretary to propose any particular changes in the provisions of the Act. The Secretary requests that each respondent identify her or his involvement in the area of special education, regular education, or early intervention (e.g., parent, teacher, service provider, researcher), if any. The respondent may address the issues raised in this notice, as well as raise any other issue relating to the reauthorization of IDEA. If appropriate, also please identify the relevant IDEA provision that is the subject of the comment and specify why the statute requires amendment. The Secretary urges each commenter to be specific regarding her or his suggestions and to include, if possible, actual wording changes that the commenter proposes in the IDEA. Invitation to Comment The Secretary intends to submit the Department's bill to reauthorize the IDEA to Congress early in 1995. To ensure an opportunity for public participation in the development of the Administration's proposal, the Secretary invites public comment concerning possible improvements to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. All comments submitted in response to this notice will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in Room 3090, Switzer Building, 300 C Street, S.W., Washington, D.C., between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq. Dated: September 16, 1994. Judith E. Heumann, Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23392 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
