FR940214-0-00023 FR940214-0-00004 FmHA response: Community and congregate dining room furniture is the responsibility of the borrower and its expense should be covered by the initial O&M funds. Outdoor recreation facilities for family projects are allowable loan expenses and are intended to substitute for community room facilities allowed in elderly projects. The Agency considers community rooms to be an essential part of the daily living requirement for those elderly projects which can support the additional expense of the facilities. The obvious reason for not allowing community rooms in family projects is that family activities are not necessarily curtailed by age or climate and they are more mobile than elderly residents, which means their choice of entertainment can extend beyond their living accommodations. FmHA does not feel that garbage disposals are necessary and has recommended against financing them in the past. In addition to the initial cost of the disposal units, too often problems develop because of lack of care in what is processed through them, resulting in additional expense of the repairs. FmHA does not agree that sliding glass doors are necessary even when patios/balconies are customary for the area. FmHA contends that if a developmentally disabled person requires whirlpool therapy, then it should fall within the responsibility of a professional to provide the service at a therapist's facility. Some of the States which were previously allowing bay/box/picture windows have discontinued this practice in accordance with the efforts to contain costs, an action which we support. 30. Section 1944.215(a)(11) Comment: One respondent supported the inclusion of individual patios for the elderly as a means for increasing socialization. Two respondents supported washer and dryer hookups for all types of units. FmHA response: FmHA views the community room as instrumental in encouraging elderly tenant socialization. In a recent survey conducted by the National Association of Home Builders, tenants were asked to list amenities in order of their desirability. This survey showed that balconies were ranked by the tenants at number 15 out of a list of 16 amenities. We place individual patios in the same category with balconies. See discussion of washer and dryer hookups under ยง1944.212(g), above. 31. Section 1944.215(a)(12) Comment: One respondent voiced support for allowing outdoor recreation for elderly projects for those occasions where there are minor children in the unit and where grandchildren come to visit. There was support expressed for the allowance for garbage disposals and community rooms for family projects. FmHA response: Playground equipment would either stand idle in the case where there were no minors living with the elderly or would attract children from outside the project. The noise generated as a result of playgrounds would not be viewed as a welcome addition by some of the elderly residents who enjoy peaceful surroundings. FmHA response to community rooms for family projects and garbage disposals has already been discussed under ยง1944.215(a)(10) above. 32. Section 1944.215(a)(13) Comment: Several respondents objected to the number of parking spaces for elderly since more persons now keep their cars for a longer period of time, particularly since those persons reside in rural areas with no other means of transportation. One respondent recommended that spaces for visitors and health care workers not be included in the calculation. One respondent suggested that this limit be recommended and not mandated. One respondent recommended the limit be set at 1.5 to 2 for family and .5 to 1.25 for elderly; another respondent recommended .75 to 1.25 for elderly. One respondent supported this section. FmHA response: A 1990 congregate housing study revealed that only 21 percent of congregate tenants owned cars. The proposed allowance for congregate parking spaces is based on that percentage. In order to accommodate the additional cars owned by persons in elderly projects, we have changed the language of this section to allow for additional spaces for visitors and staff. 33. Section 1944.215(a)(14) Comment: A number of respondents objected to establishing a range of acceptable allowances for earthwork. A couple of respondents mistakenly interpreted this section to mean that the allowance cover the combination of landscaping and earthwork. FmHA response: FmHA's cost tracking system will allow us to capture landscaping and earthwork costs; therefore, the section has been amended to delete the requirement that ranges be established.
