FR940318-2-00027 FR940318-2-00025 Unsolicited Financial Assistance Award; Pittsburgh Energy Technology Center AGENCY: U.S. Department of Energy, Pittsburgh Energy Technology Center. ACTION: Acceptance of an unsolicited proposal application of a grant award with the University of North Dakota, Energy and Environmental Research Center. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy, Pittsburgh Energy Technology Center announces that pursuant to 10 CFR 600.14 (D) and (E), it intends to make a Non-Competitive Financial Assistance Grant Award through the Pittsburgh Energy Technology Center of the University of North Dakota, Energy and Environmental Research Center for ``Direct Liquefaction of Low-Rank Coal.'' ADDRESSES: Department of Energy, Pittsburgh Energy Technology Center, Acquisition and Assistance Division, P.O. Box10940, MS 921&hyph;118, Pittsburgh, PA 15236. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary S. Price, Contract Specialist (412) 892&hyph;6179. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Grant No.: DE&hyph;FG22&hyph;94PC94050 Title of Research Effort: ``Direct Liquefaction of Low-Rank Coal'' Awardee: University of North Dakota, Energy and Environmental Research Center Term of Assistance Effort: 12 months Cost of Assistance Effort: Total estimate cost is $200,000. There will be cost-sharing involved in this transaction; financial assistance will be provided by the Federal Government to the University of North Dakota. Objective This project will develop a direct liquefaction process that specifically will convert Low-Rank Coals to transportation fuels. An advantage of using Low-Rank Coals are that they contain less sulfur and nitrogen and would be more environmentally acceptable. The Energy and Environmental Research Center at the University of North Dakota has an extensive background in research of Low-Rank Coals, and their recent process for the direct liquefaction of these coals has potential for being developed into a commercial process. The Multistep process being developed by the Energy and Environmental Research Center for the direct liquefaction of Low-Rank Coals consists of: (1) A preconversion treatment to prepare the coal for solubilization, (2) solubilization of the coal in the solvent, and (3) polishing using cresylic acid to complete solubilization of the remaining material. The product of these three steps can be upgraded using conventional hydrotreating. The objective of this research is to optimize the above process via the following two tasks: (1) Determination of the recyclability of the solvent used during solubilization, and (2) Determination of the minimum severity required for effective hydrotreatment of the liquid product. In accordance with 10 CFR 600.14, the University of North Dakota, Energy and Environmental Research Center, has been selected as the grant recipient. The Department of Energy support of the activity would enhance the public benefits to be derived by the usage of Low-Rank Coals in producing a product that can be easily upgraded to useful high quality fuels. This activity represents a unique idea and a method which would not be eligible for financial assistance under solicitation. The Department of Energy has determined that a competitive solicitation would be inappropriate. Dated: March 1, 1994. Debra E. Ball, Contracting Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6442 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
