FR940630-0-00114 FR940630-0-00036 (b) Eligibility for preference. A section 3 resident seeking the preference in training and employment provided by this part shall certify, or submit evidence to the recipient contractor or subcontractor, if requested, that the person is a section 3 resident, as defined in ยง135.5. (An example of evidence of eligibility for the preference is evidence of receipt of public assistance, or evidence of participation in a public assistance program.) (c) Eligibility for employment. Nothing in this part shall be construed to require the employment of a section 3 resident who does not meet the qualifications of the position to be filled. ยง135.36 Preference for section 3 business concerns in contracting opportunities. (a) Order of providing preference. Recipients, contractors and subcontractors shall direct their efforts to award section 3 covered contracts, to the greatest extent feasible, to section 3 business concerns in the order of priority provided in paragraph (a) of this section. (1) Public and Indian housing programs. In public and Indian housing programs, efforts shall be directed to award contracts to section 3 business concerns in the following order of priority: (i) Business concerns that are 51 percent or more owned by residents of the housing development or developments for which the section 3 covered assistance is expended, or whose full-time, permanent workforce includes 30 percent of these persons as employees (category 1 businesses); (ii) Business concerns that are 51 percent or more owned by residents of other housing developments or developments managed by the HA that is expending the section 3 covered assistance, or whose full-time, permanent workforce includes 30 percent of these persons as employees (category 2 businesses); or (iii) HUD Youthbuild programs being carried out in the metropolitan area (or nonmetropolitan county) in which the section 3 covered assistance is expended (category 3 businesses). (iv) Business concerns that are 51 percent or more owned by section 3 residents, or whose permanent, full-time workforce includes no less than 30 percent section 3 residents (category 4 businesses), or that subcontract in excess of 25 percent of the total amount of subcontracts to business concerns identified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section. (2) Housing and community development programs. In housing and community development programs, priority consideration shall be given, where feasible, to: (i) Section 3 business concerns that provide economic opportunities for section 3 residents in the service area or neighborhood in which the section 3 covered project is located (category 1 businesses); and (ii) Applicants (as this term is defined in 42 U.S.C. 12899) selected to carry out HUD Youthbuild programs (category 2 businesses); (iii) Other section 3 business concerns. (b) Eligibility for preference. A business concern seeking to qualify for a section 3 contracting preference shall certify or submit evidence, if requested, that the business concern is a section 3 business concern as defined in ยง135.5. (c) Ability to complete contract. A section 3 business concern seeking a contract or a subcontract shall submit evidence to the recipient, contractor, or subcontractor (as applicable), if requested, sufficient to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the party awarding the contract that the business concern is responsible and has the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of the proposed contract. (The ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of the proposed contract is required of all contractors and subcontractors subject to the procurement standards of 24 CFR 85.36 (see 24 CFR 85.36(b)(8)).) This regulation requires consideration of, among other factors, the potential contractor's record in complying with public policy requirements. Section 3 compliance is a matter properly considered as part of this determination.
