FR940819-0-00044 FR940819-0-00016 This appendix contains the standards and components that must be included in an antidrug program required by this chapter. I. DOT Procedures. Each employer shall ensure that drug testing programs conducted pursuant to 14 CFR parts 65, 121, and 135 complies with the requirements of this appendix and the ``Procedures for Transportation Workplace Drug Testing Programs'' published by the Department of Transportation (DOT) (49 CFR part 40). An employer may not use or contract with any drug testing laboratory that is not certified by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) pursuant to the DHHS ``Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs'' (53 FR 11970; April 11, 1988 as amended by 59 FR 29908; June 9, 1994). II. Definitions. For the purpose of this appendix, the following definitions apply: Accident means an occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight and all such persons have disembarked, and in which any person suffers death or serious injury, or in which the aircraft receives substantial damage. Annualized rate for the purposes of unannounced testing of employees based on random selection means the percentage of specimen collection and testing of employees performing a safety-sensitive function during a calendar year. The employer shall determine the annualized rate by referring to the total number of employees performing a safety-sensitive function for the employer at the beginning of the calendar year. Employee is a person who performs, either directly or by contract, a safety-sensitive function for an employer, as defined below. Provided, however, that an employee who works for an employer who holds a part 135 certificate and who holds a part 121 certificate is considered to be an employee of the part 121 certificate holder for the purposes of this appendix. Employer is a part 121 certificate holder, a part 135 certificate holder, an operator as defined in ยง135.1(c) of this chapter, or an air traffic control facility not operated by the FAA or by or under contract to the U.S. military. Provided, however, that an employer may use a person who is not included under that employer's drug program to perform a safety-sensitive function, if that person is subject to the requirements of another employer's FAA-approved antidrug program. Performing (a safety-sensitive function): an employee is considered to be performing a safety-sensitive function during any period in which he or she is actually performing, ready to perform, or immediately available to perform such function. Prohibited drug means marijuana, cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP), amphetamines, or a substance specified in Schedule I or Schedule II of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 811, 812, unless the drug is being used as authorized by a legal prescription or other exemption under Federal, state, or local law. Refusal to submit means that an individual failed to provide a urine sample as required in 49 CFR part 40, without a valid medical explanation, after he or she has received notice of the requirement to be tested in accordance with this appendix or engaged in conduct that clearly obstructed the testing process. Safety-sensitive function means a function listed in section III of this appendix. Substance abuse professional means a licensed physician (Medical Doctor or Doctor of Osteopathy), or a licensed or certified psychologist, social worker, employee assistance professional, or addiction counselor (certified by the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Commission), with knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders related to drug use and abuse. Verified negative drug test result means that the test result of a urine sample collected and tested under this appendix has been verified by a Medical Review Officer as negative in accordance with 49 CFR part 40. Verified positive drug test result means that the test result of a urine sample collected and tested under this appendix has been verified by a Medical Review Officer as positive in accordance with 49 CFR part 40. III. Employees Who Must Be Tested. Each person who performs a safety-sensitive function directly or by contract for an employer must be tested pursuant to an FAA-approved antidrug program conducted in accordance with this appendix: A. Flight crewmember duties. B. Flight attendant duties. C. Flight instruction duties. D. Aircraft dispatcher duties. E. Aircraft maintenance or preventive maintenance duties. F. Ground security coordinator duties. G. Aviation screening duties. H. Air traffic control duties.
