FR941028-0-00068 FR941028-0-00009 Paragraph (c) of proposed §773.24 has been adopted as proposed. This provision requires OSM to make a written determination with respect to the ownership or control link and/or with respect to the status of the violation. The provision of the rule requires that, if an ownership or control link is challenged, OSM then determines whether the link has been shown to be erroneous or has been rebutted. While no change has been made to the proposed rule, OSM believes that the following explanation will be helpful in clarifying the operation of the rule. Under the rule, a determination that a link is ``erroneous'' means that the facts in the case show that no ownership or control relationship set forth in 30 CFR 773.5 ever existed. Thus, if an individual is shown on AVS as being linked to a corporation by virtue of his or her position as an officer of such corporation, see 30 CFR 773.5(b)(1), evidence demonstrating that such individual is not and has never been an officer of the corporation would support a determination that an ownership or control link based upon such a relationship is erroneous. A determination that a link has been ``rebutted'' means that, while the facts in the case show that a presumed ownership or control relationship as set forth in 30 CFR 773.5(b) exists or existed, sufficient evidence has been presented to demonstrate that the ``person subject to the presumption [did] *␣*␣* not in fact have the authority directly or indirectly to determine the manner in which the relevant surface coal mining operation [was] conducted *␣*␣*.'' See 30 CFR 773.5(b). Accordingly, if the individual in the preceding example was, in fact, an officer of the corporation, but did not have authority or demonstrated control over the conduct of the surface coal mining operation, the presumption of ownership or control would be rebutted. The provisions of paragraph (d) of the proposed rule have been adopted as proposed. Paragraph (d)(2)(i) of §773.24 provides that OSM is required to serve a copy of its decision with respect to a challenge upon the applicant or other challenger by U.S. certified mail or by any other means consistent with the rules governing service of a summons and complaint under Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The date of service of the decision will set a date certain from which the time for appeals will begin to run. The regulation provides that service is complete upon tender of the notice or of the mail and is not deemed incomplete by virtue of a challenger's refusal to accept the notice or mail. The theory of this provision is to assure that a challenger is not able to delay the running of the time for appeal by avoiding or refusing service of OSM's decision and then claiming that he or she was never served. Paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of §773.24 has been adopted as proposed. As provided in the proposed rule, the final version of this paragraph provides that the applicant or other challenger can appeal OSM's decision to OHA within 30 days of such decision in accordance with OHA regulations at 43 CFR 4.1380 et seq . As provided in the proposed rule, paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of the final regulation provides all challengers to an OSM decision in these matters with the opportunity to appeal the decision to OHA. The preamble to the ownership or control rules published in 1988 provided that appeals by individuals from OSM decisions with respect to information contained in AVS were made to the Department's Assistant Secretary_Policy, Management, and Budget under procedures developed under the Privacy Act of 1974. Appeals by entities other than individuals were made to OHA. See Preamble to Requirements for Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Permit Approval; Ownership and Control; Final Rule, 53 FR 38868 at page 38879 (``Procedures to Amend Applicant Violator System Information'') (October 3, 1988). In 1993, pursuant to a delegation from the Department's Assistant Secretary_Policy, Management and Budget, the authority to decide appeals with respect to information contained in AVS was delegated to OHA. Consistent with such delegation, OSM believes that a single process of appeal for both individuals and entities will promote consistency for both the public and the regulated community and that such appeal process should be explicitly contained in the final rule. As provided in the proposed rule, paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of the final rule provides that OSM's decision would remain in effect unless temporary relief were granted in accordance with OHA regulations at 43 CFR 4.1386. Paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of §773.24 provides for temporary relief from OSM's decision, if OHA grants such relief in accordance with OHA regulations at 43 CFR part 4. Under the final regulation, the period during which a person may file a notice of appeal or the actual filing of an appeal will not automatically suspend the use of the information in AVS during the pendency of such appeal. The challenger will have to explicitly seek such relief in appeal proceedings before OHA and be granted such relief. See also 43 CFR 4.21(a). In considering a request for temporary relief, OHA will apply the criteria of Section 525(c) of the Act, 30 U.S.C. 1275(c), to determine whether such relief is warranted. See OHA regulations at 43 CFR 4.1386. To grant temporary relief under such criteria, OHA will have to find that the challenger has a substantial likelihood of prevailing in his appeal of the OSM decision and that temporary relief, if granted, will not adversely affect the health or safety of the public or cause significant, imminent environmental harm to land, air, or water resources. In determining whether the granting of temporary relief would cause significant, imminent environmental harm, OHA will not attempt to decide whether a denial of temporary relief will compel the applicant or other challenger to abate a violation posing such harm. It is not the intent of these rules to force a person to abate a violation even if he or she is able to show a substantial likelihood that he or she had no ownership or control over the operation that is in violation. Instead, OHA will focus its attention upon the compliance history of those persons who do appear to have had ownership or control over operations in violation, to determine whether the granting of temporary relief would pose a risk of significant, imminent environmental harm at sites for which new permits could be issued during the pendency of the appeal process. In accordance with the above discussion, the provisions of the proposed rule are adopted with the modifications noted.
