FR940202-2-00128 FR940202-2-00071 Table 3._ Risk Factors and Suggested Infection Control Measures for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia 1Risk factors 1Infection control measures suggested to prevent nosocomial pneumonia Bacterial Pneumonia: Host-Related Age (>65 years) Underlying illness: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Good chest physiotherapy: incentive spirometry; positive end expiratory pressure or continuous positive airway pressure by face mask. Immunosuppression Avoid exposure to potential nosocomial pathogens; decrease duration of immunosuppression, such as by administration of granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GMCSF). Depressed consciousness Caution on prescribing central nervous system depressants. Surgery (thoracic/abdominal) Chest physiotherapy if with COPD; proper positioning; early ambulation. Device-Related Proper cleaning, sterilization or disinfection, and handling of devices; remove devices as soon as indication for their use ceases. Endotracheal intubation and Mechanical ventilation Gentle suctioning of secretions; place patient in semirecumbent position, i.e., 30 ○ head-elevation; use nonalkalinizing gastric cytoprotective agent on patients at risk for stress bleeding; changing ventilator circuits not more often than every 48 hours; draining and discarding inspiratory-tubing condensate, or using heat-moisture exchanger if indicated. Nasogastric-tube (NGT) placement and Enteral feeding Use small-bore NGT; routinely verify appropriate tube placement; promptly remove NGT. Avoid large-bolus feeding; drain residual. Personnel- or Procedure-Related: Cross-contamination by hands Educate and train personnel; adequate handwashing and appropriate gloving; surveillance for cases of pneumonia, and feedback to personnel. Antibiotic administration Prudent antibiotic use, especially on high-risk intensive-care unit (ICU) patients. Legionnaires' Disease: Host-Related Immunosuppression Decrease duration of immunosuppression, such as by administration of GMCSF. Device-Related Contaminated aerosol from devices Sterilize/disinfect aerosol-producing devices before use; use only sterile water for respiratory humidifying devices; not using cool-mist room-air ``humidifiers''. Environment-Related Aerosols from contaminated water supply Hyperchlorinate or superheat hospital water system; routine maintenance of water-supply system; consider use of sterile water for drinking by immunosuppressed patients. Cooling-tower draft Proper design, placement, and maintenance of cooling towers. Aspergillosis: Host-Related Severe granulocytopenia Decrease duration of immunosuppression, such as by administration of GMCSF; consider placing severely granulocytopenic patients in protected environment. Environment-Related Construction activity Remove granulocytopenic patients from vicinity of construction; if not already done, placing severely granulocytopenic patients in protected environment; mask severely granulocytopenic patients when they leave protected environment. Other environmental sources of aspergilli Routine maintenance of hospital air-handling system and rooms of immunosuppressed patients. Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection: Host-Related Age (<2 years) Congenital pulmonary/cardiac disease, Immunosuppression Consider routine pre-admission screening of high-risk patients for severe RSV infection, followed by cohorting of patients and nursing personnel during hospital outbreaks of RSV infection. Personnel- or Procedure-Related Cross-contamination by hands Personnel education; handwashing; gloving; gowning; during outbreaks, use private rooms or cohort patients and nursing personnel, and limit visitors. Influenza: ␣ Use private room or cohort infected patients. Host-Related Age (>65 years) Immunosuppression Vaccinate high-risk patients before the influenza season each year; use amantadine or rimantadine for chemoprophylaxis during an outbreak. Personnel-Related Infected personnel Vaccinate personnel caring for high-risk patients, before the influenza season each year; use amantadine or rimantadine for prophylaxis during an outbreak. BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;18&hyph;P E:graphicsEN02FE94.004 BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;18&hyph;C Appendix A_Semicritical Items Used on the Respiratory Tract Air-pressure monitors Anesthesia breathing circuits including: inspiratory and expiratory tubings y connectors right-angle connectors face mask reservoir bags Breathing circuits of mechanical ventilators Bronchoscopes and their accessories CO 2 analyzers Endotracheal and endobronchial tubes Laryngoscope blades Mouthpieces and tubings of pulmonary-function testing equipment Oral and nasal airways Resuscitation bags Spirometers Suction catheters
