FR940505-1-00034 FR940505-1-00012 The solution to these air quality problems will require the participation of all sectors that can contribute. There are several ways that these FIP proposals embody the federal government's contribution to the solution. First, EPA is meeting its legal obligations to provide plans for attainment in the FIP areas. EPA has proposed plans which, building upon existing state emission control strategies, will meet the ultimate goal of attainment. EPA hopes that this federal effort will, by actually providing a complete plan, leverage state and local efforts to complete their 1994 ozone attainment SIPs. Second, some of the federal rules proposed today would achieve reductions from emission sources over which the federal government has sole jurisdiction. Emissions from sources such as new locomotives, ship engines, aircraft engines, and some farm and construction equipment have not been previously included in state and local efforts to develop comprehensive and complete attainment plans. While EPA believes that these sources are appropriate for regulation, there remain unresolved legal and policy issues regarding the extent to which, if at all, EPA can or should continue to regulate them indefinitely. In other words, should SIPs, such as those due in November 1994, be allowed to take credit for federally-mandated reductions from these types of sources? EPA is requesting comment on this issue. Third, the FIPs proposed today include reductions from federal facilities such as military bases. EPA intends to continue working with other federal agencies to reduce emissions from their operations in these FIP areas as well as other nonattainment areas. Finally, as we have stated earlier, EPA views these FIPs as an opportunity to contribute much more than a comprehensive set of regulations. The ultimate goal of clean air requires public support and education, development of new clean technologies, use of environmentally sound modes of transportation, and a fundamental shift to include pollution prevention into our everyday decision making both at home and at work. Along with these proposed FIP rules, EPA as an agency is pursuing a set of initiatives which will contribute to these pieces of the clean air solution. These efforts include implementation of the President's Climate Change Action Plan; an increasing emphasis by the agency on public awareness of environmental issues and solutions and implementation of the National Environmental Education Act; participation in the development and funding of a government-wide Environmental Technology Initiative; and a direct, agency-wide focus on pollution prevention in every rulemaking we undertake. Over time, these efforts will provide significant emissions reductions not only for California, but across America as well. C. Summary of the FIP Contents Under the Clean Air Act, nonattainment areas are classified according to the severity of their pollution problem. The attainment deadlines that are then assigned reflect the classification. The current classifications for the three FIP ozone nonattainment areas are set forth below. Also depicted are the attainment deadlines, which are as expeditious as practicable, but not later than the following dates: ␣ 1Area 1Classification 1Attainment date South Coast Extreme 2010 Ventura Severe 2005 Sacramento Serious 1999 For a number of reasons, EPA believes that the control strategies available to the Agency to attain the ozone standard in the Sacramento area by 1999 could result in unacceptable socioeconomic hardship. For example, nitrogen oxides (NO X ) emissions within the Sacramento area are overwhelmingly from mobile sources. And, while significant reductions of mobile source NO X emissions will result from the scheduled phasing in of cleaner engines and fuels, this changeover to cleaner engines and fuels will take some time (e.g. manufacturing changes, replacement costs, infrastructure changes). This is especially true since owners legitimately want to continue to receive the benefits of a full useful life from their present vehicles and engines. Therefore, in order to get the planned emissions reductions earlier, i.e., before 1999, EPA must either restrict the use of current, dirtier vehicles and engines, or somehow force turnover in the current vehicle and engine fleet. That means considering options like no-drive days, and/or dramatically increasing the costs associated with operating vehicles and engines currently in use. Moreover, in order to attain by 1999, stationary sources in the Sacramento area would be required to reduce their volatile organic compounds (VOC) emissions by 20% by 1999, which because of the magnitude of reductions could lead to potential production cutbacks or shutdowns. As a result of these negative socioeconomic impacts, EPA is proposing, in addition to the 1999 attainment option, the option of reclassifying the Sacramento area to severe. EPA's reclassification proposal would move the attainment deadline to 2005, and would allow the Sacramento area, for purposes of attainment, to benefit from substantial emissions reductions without the use of more disruptive emissions reduction options. Even with the additional requirements associated with a severe designation (e.g. the Employee Commute Option program, and more stringent New Source Review requirements) the Agency believes that this 2005 deadline can result in attainment without the onerous consequences associated with Sacramento's current classification.
