FR940504-1-00010 FR940504-1-00002 Subpart J_Technical Assistance and Training Grants 14. Section 1942.457 is amended by adding paragraph (d) to read as follows: §1942.457 Eligibility. * * * * * (d) The applicant must not be delinquent on a Federal debt. (1) The District Office will check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), following the Forms Manual Insert for Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3, ``Record of Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) Inquiry,'' to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny assistance can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the District Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (2) An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. FmHA loan funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment. Questions about whether or not a judgment is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel. If the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive the rejection upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. Subpart K_Emergency Community Water Assistance Grants 15. Section 1942.506 is amended by adding paragraph (c) to read as follows: §1942.506 Eligibility. * * * * * (c) The applicant must not be delinquent on a Federal debt. (1) The District Office will check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), following the Forms Manual Insert for Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3, ``Record of Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) Inquiry,'' to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny assistance can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the District Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (2) An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. FmHA loan funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment. Questions about whether or not a judgment is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel. If the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive the rejection upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. PART 1943_FARM OWNERSHIP, SOIL AND WATER AND RECREATION 16. The authority citation for part 1943 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70. Subpart A_Insured Farm Ownership Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations 17. Section 1943.12 is amended in paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(4)(i) in the fourth sentence by changing the reference from ``INS Form G&hyph;641, `Application for Verification of Information from Immigration and Naturalization Records,''' to ``INS Form G&hyph;639, `Verification Request Form,''' and in the last sentence by changing the reference from ``INS Form G&hyph;641'' to ``INS Form G&hyph;639,'' by revising the introductory text and paragraphs (a)(4) and (b)(4)(iii), and by adding paragraph (d) to read as follows: §1943.12 Farm ownership loan eligibility requirements. Subject to the restrictions listed in paragraph (d) of this section, an applicant is eligible for loan assistance if the following requirements are met: (a) *␣*␣* (4) Have the character (emphasizing credit history, past record of debt repayment, and reliability) and industry to carry out the proposed operation. Past record of debt repayment will not be cause for a determination that the applicant/borrower is not eligible if an honest attempt has been made to make the payment(s). If an applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt, in accordance with §1941.14 of subpart A of part 1941 of this chapter), it is automatically ineligible for loan assistance.
