FR940228-1-00129 FR940228-1-00010 (3) If the Secretary or the institution terminates a program participation agreement under paragraph (g) of this section, the Secretary establishes the termination date. (h) An institution's program participation agreement automatically expires on the date that_ (1) The institution changes ownership that results in a change in control as determined by the Secretary under 34 CFR part 600; or (2) The institution's participation ends under the provisions of ยง668.26(a) (1), (2), (4), or (7). (i) An institution's program participation agreement no longer applies to or covers a location of the institution as of the date on which that location ceases to be a part of the participating institution. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1085, 1088, 1091, 1092, 1094, 1099a&hyph;3, 1099c, and 1141) 9. Newly redesignated ยง668.15, is revised to read as follows: ยง668.15 Factors of financial responsibility. (a) General. To begin and to continue to participate in any Title IV, HEA program, an institution must demonstrate to the Secretary that the institution is financially responsible under the requirements established in this section. (b) General standards of financial responsibility. In general, the Secretary considers an institution to be financially responsible only if it_ (1) Is able to provide the services described in its official publications and statements; (2) Is able to provide the administrative resources necessary to comply with the requirements of this subpart; (3) Is able to meet all of its financial obligations, including but not limited to_ (i) Refunds that it is required to make; and (ii) Repayments to the Secretary for liabilities and debts incurred in programs administered by the Secretary; (4) Is current on any debt service payments; (5) Maintains, at all times, a minimum cash reserve equal to at least 10 percent of the institution's total deferred tuition income at the end of the institution's most recent fiscal year for repayment of refunds. The cash reserve must be maintained in a cash reserve account, consisting of cash or cash equivalents as defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; (6) Has not had, as part of the audit report for the institution's most recently completed fiscal year_ (i) A statement by the accountant acknowledging substantial doubt about the institution's ability to continue operation as a going concern; (ii) A finding of unauthorized use of donor restricted net assets to meet current operating expenses; and (iii) A disclaimed or adverse opinion by the accountant; (7) For a for-profit institution_(i) Demonstrates at the end of its latest fiscal year, a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of at least 1.25:1. For purposes of this section, the calculation of this ratio must exclude uncollateralized loans receivable from owners and related parties. Should application of paragraph (b)(5) of this section cause a portion of the institution's cash reserves to be classified as a restricted asset, those cash reserves may be included in current assets in calculating the institution's current ratio; (ii) Has not had operating losses over both of its two latest fiscal years that causes an operating loss exceeding 10 percent of the institution's previous year's tangible net worth for its latest fiscal year. For purposes of this subsection, an operating loss will be calculated by subtracting from total net income: extraordinary gains or losses; income or losses from discontinued operations; prior period adjustments; and, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, estimate or reporting entity. The calculation of tangible net worth must exclude all assets defined as intangible in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; and (iii) Had, for its latest fiscal year, a positive tangible net worth. For purposes of this section, a positive tangible net worth occurs if the institution's tangible assets exceed its liabilities. The calculation of tangible net worth must exclude all assets defined as intangible in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In applying this standard, the Secretary may consider the effect of extraordinary gains or losses resulting from unusual and infrequent events, and may take into consideration the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, estimate or reporting entity to the extent that such a change results in a more accurate representation of the institution's financial position in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; (8) For a nonprofit institution_(i) Prepares a classified statement of financial position in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or provides the required information as footnotes to the audit; (ii) Demonstrates at the end of its latest fiscal year, a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of at least 1:1; (iii) Has not had, at the end of its latest fiscal year, a decrease in total net assets of such significance that, if continued, would result in a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of less than 1:1. The Secretary may consider the effect of extraordinary gains or losses resulting from unusual and infrequent events, and may take into consideration the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, estimate or reporting entity to the extent that such a change results in a more accurate representation of the institution's financial position in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For purposes of this analysis, the Secretary may exclude unrealized gains and losses on investments that have been reported as changes in unrestricted net assets; and (9) For a public institution, has its liabilities backed by the full faith and credit of a State, or by an equivalent governmental entity.
