FR940721-1-00030 FR940721-1-00010 40 CFR Part 300 [FRL&hyph;5017&hyph;2] National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan; National Priorities List Agency: Environmental Protection Agency. Action: Notice of intent to delete the C&J Disposal site from the National Priorities List: request for comments. Summary: The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region II announces its intent to delete the C&J Disposal site from the National Priorities List (NPL) and requests public comment on this action. The NPL is Appendix B of the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (NCP), which EPA promulgated pursuant to Section 105 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), as amended. EPA and the State of New York have determined that no further cleanup by responsible parties is appropriate under CERCLA. Moreover, EPA and the State have determined that CERCLA activities conducted at the C&J Disposal site to date have been protective of public health, welfare, and the environment. Dates: Comments concerning the deletion of the C&J Disposal site from the NPL may be submitted on or before August 19, 1994. Addresses: Comments concerning the deletion of the C&J Disposal site from the NPL may be submitted to: Jack O'Dell, Remedial Project Manager, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region II, 26 Federal Plaza, Room 29&hyph;102, New York, NY 10278. Comprehensive information on the C&J Disposal site is contained in the EPA Region II public docket, which is located at EPA's Region II office (room 2900), and is available for viewing, by appointment only, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. For further information, or to request an appointment to review the public docket, please contact Mr. O'Dell at (212) 264&hyph;1263. Background information from the Regional public docket is also available for viewing at the C&J Disposal site's Administrative Record repository located at: Hamilton Village Public Library, 13 Broad Street, Hamilton, NY 13346. Supplementary Information Table of Contents: I. Introduction II. NPL Deletion Criteria III. Deletion Procedures IV. Basis for Intended Site Deletion I. Introduction EPA Region II announces its intent to delete the C&J Disposal site from the NPL and requests public comment on this action. The NPL is Appendix B to the NCP, which EPA promulgated pursuant to Section 105 of CERCLA, as amended. EPA identifies sites that appear to present a significant risk to public health, welfare, or the environment and maintains the NPL as the list of those sites. Sites on the NPL may be the subject of remedial actions financed by the Hazardous Substances Superfund Response Trust Fund (the ``Fund''). Pursuant to Section 300.425 (e)(3) of the NCP, any site deleted from the NPL remains eligible for Fund-financed remedial actions, if conditions at such site warrant action. EPA will accept comments concerning the C&J Disposal site for thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Federal Register (until August 19, 1994). Section II of this notice explains the criteria for deleting sites from the NPL. Section III discusses procedures that EPA is using for this action. Section IV discusses how the C&J Disposal site meets the deletion criteria. II. NPL Deletion Criteria The NCP establishes the criteria that the Agency uses to delete sites from the NPL. In accordance with 40 CFR Section 300.425 (e), sites may be deleted from the NPL where no further response is appropriate. In making this determination, EPA will consider whether any of the following criteria have been met: 1. That responsible or other persons have implemented all appropriate response actions required; or 2. All appropriate Fund-financed responses under CERCLA have been implemented, and no further cleanup by responsible parties is appropriate; or 3. The remedial investigation has shown that the release poses no significant threat to public health or the environment and, therefore, taking remedial measures is not appropriate.
