FR941110-0-00058 FR941110-0-00016 Section 442.40␣Availability of FFP During Appeals We proposed deleting §442.40, which presently provides for continuing FFP for up to 120 days after the effective date of termination of a Medicaid provider agreement if an appeal is pending. (See the discussion of comments on part 431 above.) Comment: Several commenters wanted to retain the current provisions which allow for up to 120 days of FFP during a State's appeal process. A few wanted Federal funding to continue until a final decision is issued after a hearing. A few stated that elimination of the current rule would provide no benefit to the overall process. Response: As we stated in the proposed rule, it is our belief that the needs of individual residents are best served by the availability of prompt and effective remedial action that will motivate the fastest efforts by providers to comply with Federal program requirements. The Congress has already set the maximum time for a termination at 6 months. Because a State could be paid for perhaps as long as 4 months after the effective date of provider termination, the State would have no incentive to challenge NFs to promptly comply with all program requirements. This is because, in all likelihood, the State would continue funding the Medicaid facility while receiving Federal payments. If we eliminate Federal funding to the State on a more accelerated schedule, States are likely to stop funding the NF once we stop Federal payments to the State. Thus, a greater incentive will exist for NFs to promptly comply with program requirements. Moreover, because the 120-day provision would significantly delay the imposition of certain remedies, it would not be consistent with section 1919(h)(2) of the Act, which calls for States to minimize the period of time between the identification of deficiencies and the imposition of remedies. In our opinion, the residents will benefit because the facilities in which they reside will come into substantial compliance faster. However, for the reasons previously explained, we have decided to continue FFP to ICFs/MR whose agreements have been terminated for up to 120 days after termination while we work on the publication of a separate rulemaking on ICF/MR policy. Comment: A few commenters stated that if pre-hearings were provided, the 120 day regulation would not be necessary for SNFs and NFs, but that if pre-hearings were not provided, the 120 regulation should be retained in order to give a facility time to present its side of the story before suffering irreparable harm. Response: As discussed elsewhere in this preamble, we are providing for dispute resolution beginning with the provider's receipt of the official Statement of Deficiencies, in order to give facilities an opportunity to rebut survey findings early in the process. By adding this feature to the enforcement process, we are balancing the needs of facilities to avoid unnecessary disputes and protracted litigation, on one hand, with the interests of facility residents, which we believe to be paramount, in assuring the most rapid correction of deficiencies. In so doing, we believe that the continued application of the 120- day rule would upset this balance of interests that we believe the Congress intended us to have. Comment: A few commenters predicted that the courts would be clogged with pretermination or presanction hearings if FFP were denied during the State appeal procedures. Response: Post-termination hearings have been upheld by all the circuit courts that have analyzed the issue of whether post-termination hearings satisfy the due process clause of the Constitution (see discussion titled, ``Hearings: Medicare and Medicaid Consistency''). Moreover, we do not believe that the courts will be eager to entertain legal challenges from providers that have failed to exhaust their administrative remedies. We note that the Federal courts are not clogged with pre-termination challenges when Medicare agreements are terminated and Federal funding ceases on the effective date of termination. Under both Medicare and Medicaid, 30 days of funding will be available, as it is now, to provide a period of time for orderly transfer of residents.
