FR940314-2-00026 FR940314-2-00011 [A&hyph;301&hyph;801 and A&hyph;331&hyph;801] Initiation of Antidumping Duty Investigations: Fresh Cut Roses From Colombia and Ecuador AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 14, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kimberly Hardin, Office of Antidumping Investigations, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, D.C. 20230; telephone (202) 482&hyph;0371. Initiation of Investigations The Petitions On February 14, 1994, we received petitions filed in proper form by the Floral Trade Council. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.12, the petitioner alleges that imports of fresh cut roses from Colombia and Ecuador are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value within the meaning of section 731 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act), and that these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry. The petitioner has stated that it has standing to file the petitions because it is an interested party, as defined under section 771(9)(C) of the Act, and because the petitions were filed on behalf of the U.S. industry producing the product subject to these investigations. If any interested party, as described under paragraphs (C), (D), (E), or (F) of section 771(9) of the Act, wishes to register support for, or opposition to, these petitions, it should file a written notification with the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. Scope of Investigations The products covered by these investigations are fresh cut roses, including sweethearts or miniatures, intermediates, and hybrid teas, whether imported as individual blooms (stems) or in bouquets or bunches. Roses are classifiable under subheadings 0603.10.6010 and 0603.10.6090 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS). The HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes. Our written description of the scope of these investigations is dispositive. United States Price and Foreign Market Value Colombia Petitioner based United States price (USP) on offers for sale by Colombian importers and distributors of the subject merchandise to U.S. customers. Petitioner deducted from USP amounts for air freight, insurance, customs duties and handling charges. Petitioner also deducted an amount for commissions paid to the grower on sales of subject merchandise. Petitioner calculated foreign market value (FMV) using two methodologies. First, petitioner based FMV on import statistics for fresh cut roses in various third countries. Second, petitioner based FMV on constructed value (CV). For FMV based on import statistics, petitioner used third country import statistics obtained from Statistics Canada and Eurostat. Petitioner deducted amounts for air freight and insurance and, where appropriate, duty charges. Since the import statistics were in foreign currencies, petitioner made currency conversions using monthly exchange rates published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. Petitioner alleged home market sales below the cost of production (COP) with respect to the subject merchandise for all Colombian producers and exporters named in the petition. However, petitioner did not provide any company-specific sales data in its COP allegation. Because it is the Department's practice to require COP allegations to be company-specific, we have not initiated a COP investigation. Regarding FMV based on CV, because the Department is not initiating a COP investigation, and because the information submitted concerning price-to-price comparisons was deemed to be adequate, we did not review the CV data contained in the petition, nor have we accepted it for purposes of initiation. Comparison of FMV based on import statistics and net USP for sales of fresh cut roses from Colombia results in a range of alleged dumping margins from .4 percent to 256.7 percent. Ecuador Petitioner based USP on offers for sale by Ecuadorean importers and distributors of the subject merchandise to U.S. customers. Petitioner deducted from USP amounts for air freight, insurance, customs duties and handling charges. Petitioner also deducted an amount for commissions paid to the grower on sales of subject merchandise. Petitioner calculated FMV using the two methodologies discussed above for Colombia. Petitioner alleged home market sales below COP with respect to the subject merchandise for all Ecuadorean producers and exporters named in the petition. However, because petitioner did not provide any company-specific sales data in its COP allegation, we have not initiated a COP investigation. Regarding FMV based on CV, because the Department is not initiating a COP investigation, and because the information submitted concerning price-to-price comparisons was deemed to be adequate, we did not review the CV data contained in the petition, nor have we accepted it for purposes of initiation. Comparison of FMV based on import statistics and net USP for sales of fresh cut roses from Ecuador results in a range of alleged dumping margins from .2 percent to 316.7 percent. Initiation of Investigations Under 19 CFR 353.13(a), the Department must determine, within 20 days after a petition is filed, whether the petition properly alleges the basis on which an antidumping duty may be imposed under section 731 of the Act, and whether the petition contains information reasonably available to the petitioners supporting the allegations. We have examined the petitions on fresh cut roses from Colombia and Ecuador and have found that the petitions meet the requirements of 19 CFR 353.13(a). Therefore, we are initiating antidumping duty investigations to determine whether imports of fresh cut roses from Colombia and Ecuador are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value. If these investigations proceed normally, we will make our preliminary determinations by July 25, 1994. International Trade Commission (ITC) Notification Section 732(d) of the Act requires us to notify the ITC of these actions and we have done so. Preliminary Determination by the ITC The ITC will determine by March 31, 1994, whether there is a reasonable indication that imports of fresh cut roses from Colombia and Ecuador are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry. A negative ITC determination in any of these investigations will result in its termination; otherwise, the investigations will proceed according to statutory and regulatory time limits. This notice is published pursuant to section 732(c)(2) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.13(b). Dated: March 7, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5879 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
