FR940603-2-00104 FR940603-2-00063 Notice of Availability of the Agency Draft Recovery Plan for Leafy Prairie Clover for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of an agency draft recovery plan for the leafy prairie clover ( Dalea foliosa ). This rare perennial herb has declined by over 45 percent from historic occurrences. Currently there are 21 known populations in three States_Alabama (2), Illinois (3), and Tennessee (16). The species grows on cedar glades or shallow-soiled prairies. The Service solicits review and comments from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the agency draft recovery plan must be received on or before August 2, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the agency draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the Asheville Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 330 Ridgefield Court, Asheville, North Carolina 28806 (Telephone 704/665&hyph;1195). Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the Field Supervisor at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Robert Currie at the address and telephone number shown above (Ext. 224). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring endangered or threatened animals or plants to the point where they are again secure, self-sustaining members of their ecosystems is a primary goal of the Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for recognizing the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) (Act), requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that a public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The primary species considered in this draft recovery plan is leafy prairie clover ( Dalea foliosa ). Recovery actions for the species will occur on limestone cedar glades in Bedford, Davidson, Marshall, Maury, Rutherford, Williamson, and Wilson Counties, Tennessee; Lawrence and Morgan Counties, Alabama; and shallow-soiled prairies in Will County, Illinois. Specific recovery actions that need to be implemented include: (1) The identification and prioritization of protection, management, and restoration needs; (2) the development of preserve designs and implementation of protection plans for significant sties; (3) the development and implementation of management plans, enhancement of existing populations, and establishment of new populations; and (4) the development and implementation of population monitoring, demographic, and life history studies. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: May 26, 1994. Brian P. Cole, Field Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13534 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
