FR940610-0-00144 FR940610-0-00025 These regulations affect the following types of entities which are eligible, depending on the individual program, to apply for discretionary grants: State and local governments, nonprofit institutions, institutions of higher education, for profit organizations, and individuals. The Department needs the information in the performance reports to enable the Secretary to determine if the recipient meets the criteria for an additional year of funding. The performance report enables the Secretary to determine if the recipient has made substantial progress toward meeting the objectives in its approved application. Substantial progress is one of the requirements for a recipient to be eligible for continuation funds. Other requirements for continuation are described earlier in this preamble in the discussion regarding 34 CFR 75.253. The annual reporting burden for these collections of information is estimated to vary from 13 to 22 hours per response, with an average of 17.5 hours per response for 30,000 respondents, for a total annual burden of 525,000 hours, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collections of information. (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)). The revisions to §§75.118 and 75.590, have not been approved by OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. The Department of Education will submit a collection submission to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review of these sections under the law. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. Intergovernmental Review Programs receiving multi-year continuation awards are subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79. However, for discretionary grants, the non-competing continuations referred to in 34 CFR 79.8 will no longer be required. Therefore, the Secretary will notify the recipient that the performance reports must be submitted for intergovernmental review. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for programs subject to 34 CFR part 75. Waiver of Proposed Rulemaking Under 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(A) the Secretary may waive proposed rulemaking for rules of agency procedure. These procedural regulations do not affect the substantive rights of recipients to receive new or continuation awards. The procedures established in these regulations merely reduce and shift burden regarding budget submissions and financial and performance reports. Therefore, the Secretary has decided to waive proposed rulemaking for these procedural regulations so that they may be used in the upcoming funding cycle to inform applicants for new awards what must be included in the application for a new award. Regarding the amendment to 34 CFR 75.253(c), this amendment merely restates the longstanding current regulation in clearer language. The Department has interpreted the current 34 CFR 75.253 consistent with the language contained in the revised paragraph 75.253(c). 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(A) also provides that an agency may waive proposed rulemaking for interpretative rules. Because the amendment to 34 CFR 75.253(c) is consistent with current interpretation of the existing 34 CFR 75.253(c), the Secretary has decided to waive proposed rulemaking regarding this provision as well. Accordingly, the Secretary waives proposed rulemaking for the amendments to 34 CFR part 75 made in this final rulemaking document. Invitation To Comment The amendments to these regulations are procedural in nature and intended to streamline discretionary grants administration. However, interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these final regulations because the Department is always interested in ways it can further improve its discretionary grant management practices. All comments submitted will be considered in further streamlining and refining procedures for processing non-competing continuation awards and requests for the use of funds that remain unobligated by the recipient and are carried over to the next budget period. All comments submitted in response to these final regulations will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in room 3636, Regional Office Building No. 3, Seventh and D Streets SW., Washington, DC, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Assessment of Educational Impact The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether the final regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 75 Education Department, discretionary grant programs, continuation funding, grant administration, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, performance reports, unobligated funds. Dated: May 10, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number does not apply.)
