FR941110-0-00032 FR941110-0-00016 DATES: These regulations are effective July 1, 1995. ADDRESSES: Copies: To order copies of the Federal Register containing this document, send your request to: New Orders, Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250&hyph;7954. Specify the date of the issue requested and enclose a check or money order payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or enclose your Visa or Master Card number and expiration date. Credit card orders can also be placed by calling the order desk at (202) 512&hyph;1800 or by faxing to (202) 512&hyph;2250. The cost for each copy is $8.00. As an alternative, you can view and photocopy the Federal Register document at most libraries designated as Federal Depository Libraries and at many other public and academic libraries throughout the country that receive the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Deborah Kaplan Schoenemann, (410) 966&hyph;6771. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background To participate in the Medicare or Medicaid programs, long-term care facilities must be certified as meeting Federal participation requirements. Long-term care facilities include skilled nursing facilities (SNFs) for Medicare and nursing facilities (NFs) for Medicaid. The Federal participation requirements for these facilities are specified in HCFA regulations at 42 CFR part 483, subparts A through C. Section 1864(a) of the Social Security Act (the Act) authorizes the Secretary to enter into agreements with State survey agencies to determine whether SNFs meet the Federal participation requirements for Medicare. Section 1902(a)(33)(B) of the Act provides for State survey agencies to perform the same survey tasks for facilities participating or seeking to participate in the Medicaid program. The results of Medicare and Medicaid related surveys are used by HCFA and the Medicaid State agency, respectively, as the basis for a decision to enter into, deny, or terminate a provider agreement with the facility. To assess compliance with Federal participation requirements, surveyors conduct onsite inspections (surveys) of facilities. In the survey process surveyors directly observe the actual provision of care and services to residents and the effect or possible effects of that care to assess whether the care provided meets the assessed needs of individual residents. SNFs that are approved for participation in the Medicare program also meet the participation requirements for the Medicaid program. However, the Medicaid State agency is not obligated to enter into a Medicaid provider agreement with a facility just because the Secretary has entered into a Medicare provider agreement with the facility. Additionally, if a State imposes Medicaid requirements that exceed those of Medicare, section 1863 of the Act provides that the higher requirements must be met by the Medicare SNFs in that State. Before the 1987 legislation, the only adverse actions available to HCFA and the States against facilities that were determined to be out of compliance with Federal participation requirements included termination, nonrenewal, or automatic cancellation of provider agreements; denial of participation for prospective facilities; and denial of payment for new admissions in lieu of termination when the facilities had deficiencies that did not pose an immediate and serious threat to the health and safety of residents. (The denial of payment action has been considered an ``alternative'' sanction because it is an alternative to termination.)
