FR941130-0-00097 FR941130-0-00015 (ii) Publicizing the availability of the academic counseling and other support services; (iii) Establishing procedures to identify academically high-risk students and schedule those students for immediate counseling services; and (iv) Maintaining records identifying those students who receive academic counseling. (3) Attempt to reduce its withdrawal rate by conforming with that accrediting agency's standards of satisfactory progress and with those described in 34 CFR 668.14, and improving its curricula, facilities, materials, equipment, qualifications and size of faculty, and other aspects of its educational program in consultation with its academic accrediting agency. (4) Increase the frequency of reviews of in-school status of borrowers to ensure the institution's prompt recognition of instances in which borrowers withdraw without notice to the institution. Reviews must be conducted each month. (5) Expand its job placement program for its students by_ (i) (A) Increasing contacts with local employers, counseling students in job search skills, and (B) Exploring with local employers the feasibility of establishing internship and cooperative education programs; (ii) Attempting to improve its job placement rate and licensing examination pass rate by improving its curricula, facilities, materials, equipment, qualifications and size of faculty, and other aspects of its educational program in consultation with the cognizant accrediting body; and (iii) Establishing a liaison for job information and placement assistance with the local office of the United States Employment Service and the Private Industry Council supported by the U.S. Department of Labor. (6) Remind the borrower of the importance of the repayment obligation and of the consequences of default and update the institution's records regarding the borrower's employer and employer's address as part of the contacts with the borrower under §674.42(b). (7) Obtain from the borrower at the time of a borrower's admission to the institution information regarding references and family members beyond those provided on the loan application to provide the institution or its agent with a variety of ways to locate a borrower who later relocates without notifying the institution. (8) Explain to a prospective student that the student's dissatisfaction with, or nonreceipt of, the educational services being offered by the institution does not excuse the borrower from repayment of any Federal Perkins Loan. (9) Use a written test and intensive additional counseling for those borrowers who fail the test to ensure the borrower's comprehension of the terms and conditions of the loan including those described in §§674.16 and 674.42(a) as part of the initial loan counseling and the exit interview. (10) During the exit interview provided to a Federal Perkins Loan borrower_ (i) Explain the use by institutions of outside contractors to service and collect loans; (ii) Provide general information on budgeting of living expenses and other aspects of personal financial management; and (iii) Provide guidance on the preparation of correspondence to the borrower's institution or agent and completion of deferment and cancellation forms. (11) Use available audio-visual materials such as videos and films to enhance the effectiveness of the initial and exit counseling. (12) Conduct an annual comprehensive self-evaluation of its administration of the title IV programs to identify institutional practices that should be modified to reduce defaults, and then implement those modifications. (13) Delay loan disbursements to first-time borrowers for 30 days after enrollment. (14) Require first-time borrowers to endorse their loan check at the institution and to pick up at the institution any loan proceeds remaining after deduction of institutional charges. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1840&hyph;0535) (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087bb) 6. A new §674.7 is added to read as follows: §674.7 Expanded lending option (ELO). (a) To participate in the expanded lending option in any award year, an eligible institution shall enter into a special ELO participation agreement with the Secretary. The agreement provides that the institution shall_ (1) Deposit ICC equal to 100 percent of the FCC described in §674.8(a)(1) for that award year into the Fund; (2) Maintain a cohort default rate that is equal to or less than 15 percent; and (3) Have participated in the Federal Perkins Loan program for at least two years. (b) The maximum annual amount of Federal Perkins Loans and Direct Loans an eligible student who attends an institution that participates in the ELO may borrow in any academic year is_ (1) $4,000 for a student who has not successfully completed a program of undergraduate education; and (2) $6,000 for a graduate or professional student. (c) The aggregate maximum amount of Federal Perkins and Direct Loans an eligible student who attends an institution that participates in the ELO may borrow is_ (1) $8,000 for a student who has not successfully completed two years of a program leading to a bachelor's degree; (2) $20,000 for a student who has successfully completed two years of a program leading to a bachelor's degree but who has not received the degree; and (3) $40,000 for a graduate or professional student. (d) The maximum annual amounts described in paragraph (b) of this section and the aggregate maximum amounts described in paragraph (c) of this section may be exceeded by 20 percent if the student is engaged in a program of study abroad that is approved for credit by the home institution at which the student is enrolled and that has reasonable costs in excess of the home institution's cost of attendance. (e) For each student, the maximum annual amounts described in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section and the aggregate maximum amounts listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section include any amount borrowed previously by that student under title IV, part E of the HEA at any institution, including any amounts that may have been repaid to the Fund at any institution. (f) The institution shall deposit into its Fund an amount required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section whether or not the institution makes loans in the amount authorized under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087cc, 1087dd) 7. Section 674.8 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(2); by redesignating paragraphs (a)(3) through (a)(6) as paragraphs (a)(4) through (a)(7) respectively; by adding a new paragraph (a)(3); by revising paragraph (c); and by republishing the OMB control number to read as follows: §674.8 Program participation agreement. * * * * * (a) *␣*␣*
