FR940610-1-00061 FR940610-1-00008 Nutrition Disclosure Since information on the nutritional composition of the menu is readily available as a result of NSMP/ANSMP, the Department is proposing to amend ยง210.10(n) to encourage school food authorities to make public disclosure of the nutrients contained in their meals. Many school food authorities, recognizing the benefits of nutrition disclosure, already make this information available in the classroom, on menus or by notifying local media. These benefits include: (1) An increased awareness on the part of students and parents on the nutritional quality of school meals; (2) depending on how the information is disclosed, an enhanced ability for students and parents to make healthful choices, and; (3) increased support for the school meal programs through recognition of the improved quality of school meals. The Department recognizes the differing needs of school food authorities, and, therefore, is not proposing to mandate nutrition disclosure. The Department believes this information should be readily available to students and parents without their having to request it. In providing this information, school food authorities would take into account local factors such as nutrition analysis capabilities and student/parent requests. For example, the school may disclose information either: (1) Developed through the weekly nutrient analysis of meals; (2) based on sample meals offered each day, or; (3) provided along with food item(s) offered in the cafeteria. The Department also wishes to emphasize that school food authorities that make this disclosure would not experience an additional administrative burden. The information being disclosed is a product of NSMP/ANSMP, and the school food authority can determine, for itself, the most efficient means of disclosure. Although nutrition disclosure will not be required, the Department recognizes that many school food authorities are already providing this information to students and parents, and strongly encourages others to make public such information. The Department would also like to solicit comments regarding nutrition disclosure, particularly effective nutrition disclosure approaches; which nutrition information to disclose; and disclosure's value as a tool to help children choose nutritious meals. Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning As stated above, the Department recognizes that some school food authorities may not have the resources or capacity to independently conduct NSMP. For these school food authorities, the optional method of ANSMP is an alternative approach to NSMP which is proposed in ยง210.10(l) for the NSLP and ยง220.8(k) for the SBP. School food authorities would draw on the expertise of others to provide menu cycles, adjusted for local needs and preferences. The provided menu would be analyzed to ensure that it meets the required nutrition standards. The menu analysis must be consistent with the local preferences, production records, preparation techniques and food procurement specifications. The provided menu cycles could be developed in a variety of ways_by States, consortiums of school food authorities, by consultants or even by the Federal government. To ensure consistency with the nutrient analysis of the provided menu, the following components must be standardized: Recipes, food product specifications, and preparation techniques. To accurately reflect the nutrient analysis of the menu as offered, the provided menu must be analyzed and adjusted to the quantities of food prepared and served. In addition, the school, in conjunction with the entity providing the menu cycle, must periodically review their application of ANSMP to ensure the suitability of the selected menu cycle and the accuracy with which it is being managed. (i.e., Are the prescribed procurement specifications and preparation techniques being followed and are on-going production adjustments made to reflect student choices, thereby resulting in reanalysis of the menu?) It is also possible that standard menus, recipes and procurement specifications could be provided by the Federal government, then adjusted and reanalyzed at the State or local level as necessary. The Department is most interested in receiving comments regarding the usefulness of this approach. Reimbursable Meals Schools currently receive reimbursement for each meal served to children that meets the requirements of the lunch or breakfast meal pattern and, if applicable, the offer versus serve option. Basically, the required components (meat/meat alternate, two or more servings of a vegetable and/or fruit, bread/bread alternate and milk) must be offered and a minimum number of items must be selected. In order to determine if the meal chosen by the child is reimbursable, the cashier observes, at the point of service, if the proper number of components are taken. Under NSMP and ANSMP, a meal will be reimbursable if at least three menu items (one must be an entree and one fluid milk) are being offered, and if at least three menu items are selected. For reimbursable lunches, one of the menu items selected must be an entree. If the school participates in offer versus serve, a meal will be reimbursable if at least three menu items are offered and two menu items are selected. Again, for reimbursable lunches, one of these two menu items must be an entree. For the purpose of point of service counts, this proposal will not change the basic concept of a reimbursable meal. Cashiers will continue to determine if the proper number of menu items was selected and, for the lunch service, that one of the menu items is an entree. The reason for requiring that one of the selected items for lunch be an entree stems from the Department's concern that the school lunches children consume provide an adequate amount of calories and other essential nutrients. Traditionally, the most significant nutrition contribution in a school lunch comes from the entree. Therefore, this proposal is being offered as a way of assuring that children (particularly those children that participate in offer versus serve) select and, hopefully, consume the most nutritious lunch possible. The Department recognizes that this proposal deviates from current requirements which do not stipulate that the child must select an entree for lunch. The Department would be concerned if commenters believe this restriction inhibits the flexibility that this proposed rule was designed to promote. For example, if children were inhibited from selecting lunches that were consistent with ethnic or vegetarian preferences, or if plate waste was a potential by-product. Therefore, the Department is particularly interested in receiving comments on and alternatives to this proposed requirement, including comments on whether the minimum number of menu items, both in terms of the standard meal and the offer versus serve option, is adequate even with requiring selection of an entree for lunch. The Department is not proposing to extend the requirement that a reimbursable meal contain an entree to the SBP. This decision was made due to the nature of the breakfast meal and the possible confusion that may result by trying to define an ``entree'' for the breakfast program. Point of Service While implementation of the updated nutrition standards affects the content of meals, it will not affect basic counting methodology. Cashiers will continue to take counts at the point of service on the basis of the number of menu items selected. Consequently, food service personnel will be able to recognize individual reimbursable meals, as they will not differ substantially from current practice. In fact, under NSMP/ANSMP, point of service identification of a reimbursable meal may be easier as cashiers would no longer need to determine which of the required components discussed above have been meet by a particular food item, such as a pot pie, which contains a number of different ingredients. Under NSMP/ANSMP, a pot pie would be the entree which is simply a required one menu item for claiming purposes.
