FR940505-1-00145 FR940505-1-00012 (ii) Baseline reports. As described above, EPA requests comment on requiring airlines to submit baseline reports that provide emissions data for the baseline year of 1990, or some alternative baseline reporting period as discussed in section III.D.4.e.(2)(b) above. Baseline reports would provide EPA with additional detail and precision for the purpose of establishing the baseline emissions inventory, the seasonal emission limits, and, ultimately, the seasonal environmental performance targets. Any revisions to the emission limits and environmental performance targets would be made after notice and opportunity for public comment. One alternative for implementing a baseline reporting requirement, is to require commercial airline operators to report data concerning aircraft operations into or out of the basin for their particular airline in the baseline year of 1990 (or for 1989 and 1990 for the purpose of calculating a two-year average). Airlines would submit this data to EPA no later than 180 days following finalization of this rule. These reports could also provide information on ground access vehicles under the direct control of airlines for incorporation into the control strategy. More specifically, the baseline reports could include the following information to be provided by airlines: •Aircraft type and model, engine type and model, and number of landing/take-off operations (LTOs). •Taxi/idle time by engine for each flight. •Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) operating time. •Ground Support Equipment (GSE) population by type. •GSE activity by fuel type, engine size, and annual use hours. EPA recognizes that detailed information may not be available in each of these categories for 1990. In these instances affected airlines could report estimated data; such estimates would be accompanied by a description of the estimation methodology used, including any supporting data. Alternatively, EPA could establish a set of default values for use in the absence of detailed data, as described above. The Agency requests comment on these and other baseline report alternatives. (iii) Annual compliance determination reports. Beginning with a report describing activity during the 1999 ozone season, the FIP will require commercial airlines to submit annual reports within 60 days of the close of each calendar year. These reports will include information on aircraft-related emissions and airline activity for the previous year's ozone season. Commercial airline operators will be required to submit annual reports describing regulated aircraft-related activities and emissions in each control area for their airline during the preceeding year's ozone season beginning in 1999. These annual emissions/activity reports will be submitted to EPA within 60 days of the close of each calendar year; the first report thus would be due by March 1, 2000. Initiating these annual reports in 1999 will provide airlines and EPA with an opportunity to assess data-gathering and -analysis requirements well in advance of the first emission targets in 2001, as well as providing airlines with important information on their performance needs prior to the first round of required reductions. Subsequent annual reports will be used to determine compliance with the seasonal emission targets. Failure to submit an annual emissions/activity report will subject an airline to EPA enforcement. Affected airlines will be required to maintain appropriate data collection equipment and procedures necessary to complete the annual report in a satisfactory manner. Failure to maintain such equipment and procedures also will subject an airline to EPA enforcement. Annual emissions/activity reports will include the following information for aircraft and aircraft-related operations during the seasonal control period: •Flight number for each flight. •Aircraft type and model for each flight. •Engine type and model for each flight. •Taxi/idle time by engine for each flight. •Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) operating time. •Number of passengers carried for each flight. •Weight of non-passenger cargo for each flight. •Ground Support Equipment (GSE) population by type. •GSE activity by fuel type, engine size, emission control level, and number of hours used. Airlines will be required to track and report actual data for the above information categories. Default values will not be accepted for the purposes of determining compliance with the environmental performance target. Reporting airlines will be required to calculate their VOC and NO X emissions for the ozone season using the above data and enter these emissions on the report form. The Agency anticipates using existing EPA documents for the emission calculation methodology. Comments are requested on the desirability of issuing additional specific technical guidance concerning emissions calculations for aircraft and aircraft-related operations. Reporting airlines also will be required to calculate their total PEUs using passenger and cargo data, as well as their pounds/PEU emission rate for VOC and NO X , and enter these results on the report form.
