FR940617-2-00064 FR940617-2-00041 SCE has significant previous experience in PV systems, and has the necessary facilities to perform design and monitoring functions. SCE has been involved with PV since 1978, and has been one of the most active utilities in the field of renewable energy. By assigning a Manager of PV Applications, SCE has increased its commitment to PV development and implementation. SCE has proposed a two-phase program, including a project feasibility assessment and project implementation. The feasibility assessment will identify all technical, regulatory, budget/schedule, and environmental issues related to the program in combination with the installation and monitoring of several small, pilot PV systems. The results of this initial project phase will be used by SCE and DOE to determine the merits of proceeding to the second phase. Phase II will include PV system final design, installation, and performance monitoring, and will proceed only after completion of Phase I and after approval from DOE. The team proposed by SCE has sufficient experience in the development and deployment of PV systems, and should be capable of successfully implementing the proposed on-grid PV program. As noted above, SCE has appointed a Manager of PV Applications to strengthen the emphasis on PV implementation. The proposed multi-disciplinary team includes personnel with experience in project management, cost/schedule development and control, project engineering, PV applications, system planning, environmental affairs, and customer service. As a major electric utility which has successfully completed complex energy generation projects, SCE has the expertise required to perform all functions associated with PV implementation and monitoring in the proposed application. In addition, a Project Review Committee (PRC) will be established during the initial project phase to assist in technical, analysis, data collection, and information dissemination issues. The PRC will have members from SCE, DOE, UPVG, and national laboratories. The proposal has been found to be meritorious as stated above in the evaluation. The SCE program represents a unique approach to utility applications of PV which has potential for near-term cost effectiveness. SCE has the capabilities and commitment to renewable energy sources which should provide a basis for successful PV implementation in the proposed application. The proposed project is not eligible for financial assistance under a recent, current, or planned solicitation. The program cost is estimated to be $5,000,000 total, with the DOE share being $2,500,000 and the SCE share being $2,500,000. John W. Meeker, Chief, Procurement, GO. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14833 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
