FR940617-0-00025 FR940617-0-00005 Response: (i) REA feels the language in the first paragraph offers sufficient protection to the Bidder as written. This language has not been changed. (ii) As previously responded to, Article I, Section 1, and the Contract in general, regard a central office, including all associated remote switching terminals, to be an indivisible unit. However, in the interest of brevity, this language has been replaced with the word ``Project.'' (iii) REA agrees and has revised Article II, section 4, paragraph 4 to include the suggested language. Section 4: One commenter remarked that the fourth paragraph of this Section imposes an artificial thirty (30) day requirement for correction of deficiencies. They suggest the Section be amended to require corrections within thirty (30) days of receipt of the REA Form 517 from the Borrower or by the scheduled date for Completion of the Project, whichever is longer. Response: REA feels this Section offers the Bidder and the Borrower equal protection by imposing specific time limits for the Borrower's tests and the Bidder's corrections. This language has not been changed. Section 7: One commenter remarked that the first paragraph of this Section should be modified to permit the Bidder either to correct the defect within 30 days or to agree with the Borrower during such 30 days on a course of correction reasonably designed to cure the defect. Response: REA agrees. This Section has been revised to allow an extension of time if agreed upon by the Owner and REA. Section 7: One commenter remarked that refund and credit options should be included in the event a defect cannot reasonably be corrected. Response: Such a provision would give the Bidder the right to simply ``buy back'' equipment or software when a problem is encountered. To the Borrower, this means that essential features or capability could be lost and would remain unavailable for the entire useful life of new switching equipment. The resulting reduction in value of the Contract to the borrower cannot be predicted. This option has not been added to Form 525. Section 7: One commenter remarked that minor ``bugs'' are inherent in all software and should not rise to the level of warranty defects. Another commenter remarked that the Form 522 Specifications and not other technical material provided by the Bidder should be the standard for software warranty. Response: REA feels the performance of the software must be in accordance with the Form 522 Specifications and Bidder documentation. The Bidder documentation is furnished to assist the borrower in the operation, administration and maintenance of the switch. Section 7: Three commenters remarked that this Section should be rewritten to add disclaimers and exclusive remedies and to limit the Bidder's liabilities and limit the Owner's remedies. Response: REA believes that the language as stated divides the risks equitably. Section 7(a): One commenter remarked that the reference to ``a central office and its associated remote switching terminals'' be deleted and replaced with the words ``each Project.'' Response: As previously responded to, this language has been replaced with the word ``Project.'' Section 7(b): Three commenters remarked that the warranty period for software should be shortened. Response: REA requires a five (5) year warranty period because software is information based and defects in seldom used programs would not be detected until the program is used. REA believes that over a 5 year period even seldom used programs would be used and any defects corrected. Section 7(e): One commenter remarked that exceptions to the warranty in the subsection should also include fire, explosions, power failures, force majeure, and equipment which is normally consumed in operation, such as fuses. Response: The warranty must cover losses of whatever nature, resulting from causes covered by the warranty provided for in the formal Contract. Section 7(f): One commenter requested that the period after the word ``Owner'' in the last line in the subsection be deleted and the words ``during the warranty period, thereafter, all such costs and risk of shipping shall be borne by the Owner.'' be added. Response: The first paragraph of the Section specifically defines these conditions as applying ``Throughout the warranty period *␣*␣*.'' REA does not feel additional language is required to further define this. Article III, Payments and Releases of Lien Section 1(a),(b): One commenter remarked that these subsections are unfair as written. Each central office and its associated remotes should be treated separately for payment purposes to allow the Bidder to get paid for his investment in a timely manner. Response: Article I, Section 1, and the Contract in general, regard a central office, including all associated remote switching terminals, to be an indivisible unit for delivery, payment, turnover, closeout, liquidated damages, and other purposes. A host office and its remotes are interdependent and alterations to one may affect the others. Therefore, REA regards a host office and all associated remotes as one item under the Contract. Section 1(c): One commenter remarked that the phrase ``Completion of the Contract'' in this subsection should be changed to read ``Completion of the Project.'' This would enable the Bidder to receive the final ten percent (10%) for each Project as it is satisfactorily completed. Response: These have been the standard REA Contract terms for many years. REA feels it offers sufficient protection to the Borrower that the Contract will be completed in a satisfactory manner, while allowing the Bidder a return on its investment prior to satisfactory completion of the Contract. Also, the Bidder can receive the final ten percent (10%) of a Project if the partial closeout procedure is allowed.
