FR941031-2-00080 FR941031-2-00060 In the Matter of: Notations, Inc., a corporation, and Kurt Erman, individually and as an officer of said corporation; File No. 932 3163. Agreement containing consent order to cease and desist. The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of Notations, Inc., a corporation and Kurt Erman, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and it now appearing that Notations, Inc., a corporation, and Kurt Erman, individually and as an officer of said corporation, hereinafter sometimes referred to as proposed respondents, are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated. It is hereby agreed by and between Notations, Inc., by its duly authorized officer, and Kurt Erman, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and their attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Notations, Inc., is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, with its office and principal place of business located at 109 Pike Circle, Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania 19062. 2. Proposed respondent Kurt Erman is the sole shareholder and president of Notations, Inc. He formulates, directs and controls the policies, acts and practices of said corporation and his office and principal place of business are the same as Notations, Inc. 3. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 4. Proposed respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 5. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 6. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondents of facts, other than jurisdictional facts, or of violations of law an alleged in the draft of complaint here attached. 7. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondents, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondents' address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order.
