FR941013-1-00062 FR941013-1-00010 B. Listing of Source Category On the EPA's initial list of HAP emission source categories published in the Federal Register on July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576), the EPA included one source category which the Agency intended to represent those off-site waste and recovery operations that are not specifically listed as a separate, distinct NESHAP source category such as hazardous waste incineration or municipal solid waste landfills. This source category was titled on the initial list as ``solid waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities.'' Since the initial source category list was published, the EPA decided that it is appropriate to change the title of this NESHAP source category. Effective by this notice, the EPA is changing the title of the NESHAP source category subject to today's proposed rule to ``off-site waste and recovery operations.'' This change is appropriate for two reasons: (1) To avoid confusion with the terms ``solid waste'' and ``treatment, storage, and disposal facilities'' which have specific meanings within the context of statutory and regulatory requirements in existing rules established by the EPA under authority of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and (2) to better distinguish the types of air emission sources addressed by this NESHAP source category from other NESHAP source categories. C. Summary of Public Participation in Development of Proposed Rule The EPA published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) in the Federal Register on December 20, 1993 (58 FR 66336) announcing the EPA's intent to develop a NESHAP for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category. The purpose of the ANPR was to inform owners and operators of affected industries and the general public of the planned scope of the NESHAP rulemaking for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category, and to solicit information that would aid in the development of the rule. To supplement the Agency's information regarding the off-site waste and recovery operations source category, the EPA requested comments from the public on the ANPR. The EPA specifically requested more information on wastes and recoverable materials characteristics (types, quantities, organic composition), waste management practices, and waste and recoverable material operations emission points and air emission data. A 30-day comment period, from December 20, 1993 to January 19, 1994, was provided for interested parties to submit comments on the ANPR. The EPA received written comments from 16 commenters concerning the ANPR. These comments were considered by the EPA in the development of the proposed off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP. D. Relationship of Proposed Rule to Other EPA Regulatory Actions 1. Clean Air Act a. Other NESHAP Rulemakings. Many industrial sectors that manage wastes or recoverable materials containing HAP are listed as specific NESHAP source categories on the initial EPA source category list (57 FR 31576, July 16, 1992). For example, plants and facilities in the NESHAP source categories representing the synthetic organic chemical manufacturing industry, the petroleum refining industry, the pesticide manufacturing industry, and the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry frequently manage some, if not all, of the wastes and recoverable materials generated by the manufacturing processes operated at the facilities at the same location where the materials are generated (i.e, on-site). For NESHAP source categories in which operations to manage waste or recoverable material may occur at the same facility where the material is generated, the EPA is addressing HAP emissions from the management operations as part of the NESHAP being developed for that particular source category. The NESHAP rule proposed today under 40 CFR 63 subpart DD would apply only to those operations used to manage, convey, or handle waste or recoverable material containing organic HAP which have been generated at other facilities but are not specifically listed as a NESHAP source category. On EPA's initial list of HAP emission source categories, the following operations are listed as separate NESHAP source categories: municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills; publicly-owned treatment works (POTW); sewage sludge incinerators; hazardous waste incineration units; boilers and industrial furnaces; and hazardous waste remediation activities. For these source categories, separate NESHAP under 40 CFR part 63 are being developed by EPA.
