FR940527-0-00075 FR940527-0-00024 11. We conclude that the resulting market structure will enhance competition, thereby increasing the availability of new services at lower prices for Alaska telecommunication consumers. We conclude that more of the benefits that consumers have derived from competition in the Lower 48 should be available to Alaskans. Competitive markets encourage carriers to adopt new technologies, develop new and innovative services, reduce costs by eliminating waste, provide service more efficiently, and improve customer service. Increased competition should ensure that there is continuing investment in the telecommunication infrastructure for Alaska both for existing and new services. 12. Although the Alaska MTS market was open to competition in 1982, 9 we believe that because of limitations created by the JSA the present market structure does not produce all the benefits available from a competitive market. 10 AT&T, a major competitor in the MTS market, is unable to build facilities in Alaska or serve Alaska independently because of the requirements of the JSA. AT&T may not take advantage of offerings of other carriers and must instead purchase all of its Alaska switching and transport services from Alascom. Alascom gains a competitive advantage because it has an assured revenue source, AT&T, that must pay all of Alascom's interstate costs, plus AT&T's own rate of return (under price cap regulation) regardless of Alascom's efficiency or market conditions. 11 Thus, the JSA makes it more difficult for carriers other than Alascom to compete effectively in Alaska. 12 The JSA also diminishes some of the rigor of a competitive market that would otherwise encourage Alascom to eliminate any potential waste and service inefficiencies. We conclude that the market structure in Alaska should be restructured to promote more competition, open entry, and improve efficiency subject to transition mechanisms that will enable the new market structure to develop without causing significant rate increases in Alaska. Accordingly, in this order, pursuant to Sections 1, 4(i)&hyph;(j), 201&hyph;203, 214, and 220 of the Communications Act, 13 we adopt the Board's Final Recommended Decision with clarifications and minor modifications and establish dates for some of the implementation requirements. 14 9 MTS and WATS Market Structure Inquiry, (Phase II), 92 FCC 2d 787 (1982), recon. denied, FCC 83&hyph;213 (released May 9, 1983). 10 In opening the Alaska market to competition we concluded that the benefits of competition achieved by eliminating barriers to entry in other markets, including ``the provision of service at the lowest possible cost, the reduction or elimination of waste, making carriers more responsive to the needs and desires of consumers, and making carriers respond more rapidly and efficiently to technological change and innovation,'' were also applicable to Alaska. Id . 11 AT&T estimates that the current shortfall of revenues for service under the JSA is approximately $80 million. Final Recommended Decision. FCC 93J&hyph;2 at para. 24, n. 25. 12 We note that at present General Communications, Inc. (GCI) is the only other facilities-based MTS provider in Alaska. 13 47 U.S.C. 151, 154(i)&hyph;(j), 201&hyph;203, 214, and 220. 14 Because we adopt the Alaska market recommendation of the Final Recommended Decision, we dismiss as moot the GCI petition, filed January 29, 1992, requesting a new proceeding to establish a new Alaska market structure. We also dismiss as moot AT&T's Petition for a Lawful Interim Division of Charges, filed November 5, 1987. The AT&T petition requested that the Commission find the existing settlement agreement under the JSA between AT&T and Alascom unlawful under Section 201 of the Communications Act. In this order we conclude that it is in the public interest to adopt the recommendation in the Final Recommended Decision that the JSA be terminated after a suitable transition period. We concur with the analyses in the Final Recommended Decision that it is within our authority to establish transition mechanisms to ensure the availability of universal service. The continuation of the JSA for the first phase of the transition period is an integral part of the overall plan for a new market structure in Alaska, which includes terminating the JSA, and important to achieving the objectives of revenue neutrality and universal service recommended by the Alaska Joint Board. Ultimately, the termination of the JSA is also important to achieving these objectives. Thus, we conclude that it is unnecessary for us to evaluate the lawfulness of the JSA as requested by AT&T in its petition.
