FR940606-1-00055 FR940606-1-00008 In order to demonstrate compliance with the organic HAP-containing chemical stripper usage limitation for spot stripping and decal removal, the source must calculate an average annual usage per aircraft. Since there is only one method to calculate this average (i.e., dividing the total gallons of organic HAP-containing chemical stripper used for spot stripping and decal removal by the number of aircraft stripped), the EPA is proposing to use this method to determine compliance. The information needed for this calculation would be obtained from company records. Particulate inorganic HAP emissions are generated by blast depainting methods. Therefore, the EPA is proposing that Method 5 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, be used to determine the control efficiency of particulate filtration systems used on this process. d. Chemical milling maskant application operation. The proposed standards for chemical milling maskants limits the organic HAP content to the equivalent of 160 grams per liter (1.3 pounds/gallon) less water as applied and limits the VOC content to the equivalent of 160 grams per liter (1.3 pounds per gallon) less water and exempt solvents as applied. In determining compliance with the organic HAP and VOC content levels, an owner or operator would have the flexibility to use compliant chemical milling maskants or averaging uncontrolled compliant and non-compliant maskants. As for primers and topcoats, averaging uncontrolled and controlled chemical milling maskants together would be prohibited. Test methods and procedures are, therefore, necessary to determine the organic HAP and VOC content of each chemical milling maskant as applied. If control devices are used, it is also necessary to determine the overall control efficiency of the control device. The test methods selected and the rationale for the selection are identical to those presented above for primers and topcoats. e. Handling and Storage of Waste. For those wastes subject to the proposed rule, no test methods or procedures are required to demonstrate compliance with the proposed housekeeping measures. 2. Monitoring Requirements In accordance with paragraph (a)(3) to section 114 of the Act, enhanced monitoring of stationary sources is required to determine the compliance status of the sources, and whether compliance is continuous or intermittent. For affected sources complying with the proposed standards through the use of control devices, initial compliance is determined through the initial compliance test, and ongoing compliance through continuous monitoring. The EPA has proposed the parameters to be monitored for certain types of control devices now used in the industry. The values of these parameters that correspond to compliance with the proposed standards are set by the owner or operator during the initial compliance test. If future monitoring indicates that control equipment is operating outside of the range of values established during the initial performance test, then the owner or operator is out of compliance with the proposed standards, except as specified for malfunctions in ยง63.6(e)(3) of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. 10 10 Ibid. a. Cleaning operation. For cleaning operations, the only portion of the standards for which monitoring requirements are being proposed is for enclosed spray gun cleaner systems. These systems are stationary sources that have the potential to emit organic HAP from around ill-fitting or worn seals or from leaking pumps or piping connections. The effectiveness of these systems thus depends on their being ``vapor-tight'' and that there are no leaks from the pumps or piping of these systems. Therefore, the EPA is proposing that such systems be visually inspected for leaks. Since most of the systems are used to clean paint spray guns, leaks would be easily spotted by visual inspection as the result of solvent or paint residue escaping around the source of the leak. The EPA does not believe that monitoring with leak detection equipment would provide a significant increase, if any, in the detection of leaks from these systems. Therefore, the EPA is proposing to require visual inspection only. The EPA then considered how frequently the enclosed cleaners should be inspected. The EPA considered daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly frequencies. The nature of the systems being inspected is not expected to result in sudden failure, but rather failure due to wear and tear. Thus, the EPA considered it unnecessary to require daily or even weekly inspection. On the other hand, one year was considered too long for a leak to go unrepaired. Therefore, the proposed standards would require a monthly inspection of the systems. The EPA believes that this is a reasonable period between inspections, without overburdening the industry and not allowing leaks to go unrepaired for an extended period of time. Similarly, the proposed work practice and equipment standards require that containers used to store solvents and solvent laden cloth and paper be closed when not in operation. The EPA could not identify any operating parameter that would monitor whether this was being done. Nor could the EPA identify a parameter to monitor when atomized cleaning is used. The proposed standards require the use of a device designed to capture the atomized solvent emissions. No monitoring parameters were identified to indicate periods when the device may not be functioning or when it may have been removed. Rather, the determination would be made during enforcement inspections as to whether the proper procedures were being followed. b. Primer, topcoat, and chemical milling maskant application operations. The proposed monitoring requirements for primer, topcoat, and chemical milling maskant application operations concern the operation of control devices that may be used in demonstrating compliance with the organic HAP content levels. For control devices, the parameters to be monitored are those that have been typically used in other standards. For example, where catalytic incinerators are used to control organic HAP and VOC emissions, the proposed standards require that the temperature of the air stream be monitored immediately before and after the catalyst bed. The rationale for selecting the various control device parameters in this proposed rule is long standing, and for more information see the proposal notice for the SOCMI reactor processes NSPS (55 FR 26966 through 26969, June 29, 1990). The EPA is, therefore, simply proposing to adopt the same monitoring parameters as have been required for previous standards. For inorganic HAP emissions from primers and topcoats, the proposed standards would require the use of particulate filters or waterwash systems. Two parameters were identified that could be monitored that directly relate to the performance of the system_air flow and pressure drop. The proposed rule, however, would require monitoring of only the pressure drop across the filter or waterwash since the air flow is directly related to the pressure drop. Monitoring of both parameters was considered to be redundant. c. Depainting operation. The nature of the proposed standards for depainting operations is such that no meaningful monitoring requirement was identified for the proposed organic HAP emission standards. The organic HAP content (less water as applied) of the chemical strippers used must be calculated or determined. But once identified, there are no requirements concerning their application.
