FR940429-2-00023 FR940429-2-00018 B. Process to Date BPA and BIA have assumed the co-lead agency role for the NPTH EIS. The NPT Department of Fisheries Resource Management will act as the primary Cooperating Agency. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and U.S. Forest Service (USFS), Nez Perce National Forest, will also participate as Cooperating Agencies in the NEPA process. The Council's Master Plan process involved close coordination among the NPT, BPA, Idaho Department of Fish and Game, USFWS, and USFS. Several meetings were held by these parties to focus on technical issues that needed resolution and clarification so that preparation of the Master Plan could proceed. Other meetings between the NPT and the State involved discussions of harvest and production issues. Discussions in January 1992, led to a Memorandum of Agreement between the parties on a process for discussing management issues and developing common positions to present in different forums. The NPT has also met numerous times with field staffs of the USFS and others to review technical elements of the Master Plan as it developed. Of particular interest to the land managers is the location of the proposed tributary facilities and constraints that might be needed on current management practices. C. Alternatives Proposed for Consideration Alternatives thus far identified for evaluation in the EIS are: (1) the proposed action to construct, operate, and maintain the NPTH Project; and (2) no action (to not undertake action to develop the NPTH Project). Intermediate alternatives that will feature scaled-down versions of the total project will also be evaluated. Other alternatives will be identified through the scoping process and will be considered, if appropriate, in the EIS. Those reasonable alternatives that meet both the stated need and purposes for action will be evaluated in greatest detail. D. Identification of Environmental Issues BPA and BIA will prepare a DEIS that addresses and fully discloses the potential environmental effects of the proposed facility and associated operations as well as reasonable alternatives to the proposed action. The principal environmental issues identified through the Council's Master Plan scoping process for the NPTH include the following: (1) Assessment of genetic and ecological risks; (2) direct and cumulative effects of hatchery fish on wild fish, particularly Snake River salmon stocks currently listed as threatened or endangered under the Federal Endangered Species Act; (3) effectiveness of supplementation as a fishery management tool to rebuild weak stocks; (4) effects on non-target resident fish species; (5) water quality effects; (6) effects on cultural resources; and (7) monitoring and evaluation concerns. These, together with any additional issues identified through the scoping process, will be examined in the NPTH EIS. Issued in Portland, Oregon, on April 19, 1994 John Robertson, Deputy Asst. Administrator, Bonneville Power Admin. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10323 Filed 4&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
