FR940817-2-00259 FR940817-2-00113 In general, chemical effects lead to two types of primary cellular alteration: (l) the accumulation, proliferation, or rearrangement of structural elements (e.g., intermediate filaments, microtubules) or organelles (mitochondria) and (2) the breakdown of cells, in whole or in part. The latter can be associated with regenerative processes that may occur during chemical exposure. Such changes are considered to be neurotoxic. While most neurotoxic damage is evident at the microscopic level, gross changes in morphology can be reflected by a significant change in the weight of the brain. Weight changes (absolute or relative to body weight), discoloration, discrete or massive cerebral hemorrhage, or obvious lesions in nerve tissue are generally considered neurotoxic effects. Chemical-induced injury to the central nervous system is associated with astrocytic hypertrophy at the site of damage. Assays of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), the major intermediate filament protein of astrocytes, has been proposed as a biomarker of this response (O'Callaghan, 1988). A number of chemicals known to injure the central nervous system, including trimethyltin, methylmercury, cadmium, 3-acetylpyridine, and MPTP, have been shown to increase GFAP. In addition, increases in GFAP may be seen at dosages below those necessary to produce cytopathology as determined by Nissl-based stains used in standard neuropathological examinations. Because increases in GFAP may be an early indicator of neuronal injury in the adult, exposure level-dependent increases in GFAP should be viewed with concern. Chemical-induced alterations in the structure of the nervous system are generally considered neurotoxic effects. To ensure reliable data, it is important that neuropathological studies minimize fixation artifacts and potential differences in the section(s) of the nervous system sampled and control for variability due to the age, sex, and body weight of the subject (WHO, 1986). 4.3.6. Developmental Neurotoxicity Exposure to chemicals during development can result in effects other than death, gross structural abnormality, or altered growth. There are several instances in which functional alterations have resulted from exposure during the period between conception and sexual maturity (Riley and Vorhees, 1986; Vorhees, 1987). Table 4&hyph;6 lists several examples of chemicals known to produce developmental neurotoxicity in experimental animals. Animal models of developmental neurotoxicity have been shown to be sensitive to several environmental chemicals known to produce developmental toxicity in humans, including lead, ethanol, methylmercury, and PCBs (Kimmel et al., 1990). Table 4&hyph;6._ Partial List of Agents Believed to Have Developmental Neurotoxicity 1␣ 1␣ Alcohols Methanol, ethanol Antimitotics X-radiation, azacytidine Insecticides DDT, kepone, organophosphates Metals Lead, methylmercury, cadmium Polyhalogenated hydrocarbons PCB, PBB Psychoactive drugs Cocaine, phenytoin Solvents Carbon disulfide, toluene Vitamins Vitamin A
