FR940607-2-00143 FR940607-2-00090 Exhibit B March 11, 1994. Mr. Kenneth A. Markison, Assistant General Counsel for Administrative Law, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Room 10252, 451 Seventh St. SW., Washington, DC 20410. Re: Supplemental Information Regarding Confidentiality of Certain Data Submitted March 1, 1994 by Fannie Mae. Dear Mr. Markison: This letter summarizes Fannie Mae's views on the issue of proprietary information contained in its March 1 submission to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, which contained tapes of loan level detail relating to our purchase of single-family and multifamily mortgages. We believe that all the information contained in the tapes submitted on March 1 is entitled to receive confidential treatment, because it is the product of a substantial investment by Fannie Mae. Such information is not available publicly and is treated as extremely confidential information and closely held within the corporation. However, in the spirit of providing HUD our fullest cooperation as it administers the new public disclosure provisions of 12 U.S.C. 4543, Fannie Mae is requesting ``proprietary'' and ``confidential'' designations for only the elements in the database that would advantage competitors or customers at our expense. These elements (only 23 of the 108 we are providing) would, if disclosed, compromise our efficiency and competitive position in the market where we compete day-to-day throughout the country with both Freddie Mac and highly innovative Wall Street firms. Disclosure of such information would also hurt our bargaining position with companies with whom we conduct business. The specific elements for which confidentiality is requested are listed and discussed in detail below. We also request that HUD extend proprietary treatment reciprocally both to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, so that any element specifically deemed proprietary or confidential for one corporation would be deemed proprietary or confidential also for the other, regardless of whether both firms specifically requested such treatment. Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 4546(c), governing disclosure of proprietary information, we believe that HUD is required to issue a final written decision regarding classification of our data submission as ``proprietary'' prior to releasing any such information. This decision requirement is an express predicate for data disclosure under 12 U.S.C. 4543. We believe that it also should govern any release under the Freedom of Information Act (``FOIA''), 5 U.S.C. 552, by virtue of the enactment of 12 U.S.C. 4546 after FOIA, its greater specificity, and Congress' decision not to establish any exception regarding FOIA requests. Further, it is our understanding that independent of its obligations under 12 U.S.C. 4546, HUD will observe the provisions of Executive Order No. 12,600 (52 FR 23,781 (1987)) for all data that Fannie Mae classifies as proprietary and confidential commercial or financial information. That Order recognizes the procedural rights of submitters of confidential commercial data to the government, and mandates that a recipient agency provide notice and a reasonable response time whenever the agency determines that it may be required to disclose the requested data. The Order further mandates that if an agency overrules a submitter's objection, it must notify the submitter in writing and provide an explanation of its decision. The agency must provide such an explanation a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date, to afford the submitter an opportunity to seek judicial relief if necessary. Adherence to the procedures set forth in Executive Order No. 12,600 accords with existing arrangements between HUD and Fannie Mae for treatment of confidential business information submitted by Fannie Mae as required by HUD regulations (see letter dated February 15, 1979 from Irving Margulies, Acting HUD Deputy General Counsel, to Bernard Carl, Fannie Mae's outside counsel). These arrangements have been in place for over 15 years and have provided a reasonable framework for us to submit very sensitive business information to HUD. Last year, in response to a FOIA request, HUD had the opportunity to implement the agreed-upon procedures for notification, and we were able to provide HUD with the reasons that certain of the business information previously provided to HUD should continue to remain confidential. Finally, we request that HUD observe certain additional safeguards for requests from Congress regarding data identified by Fannie Mae to be proprietary or confidential commercial information. In such cases, we request that HUD also provide Fannie Mae with notice upon receipt of a congressional request for proprietary or confidential data, as well as notice prior to HUD's delivery of requested data to Congress, to give us the opportunity to explain to Congress the need to protect such data. We also request that HUD provide requested confidential data only when accompanied by a legend stating that HUD has determined that the material is proprietary and exempt from public disclosure under both 5 U.S.C. 552 and 12 U.S.C. 4546, and that public disclosure would result in substantial competitive harm. Basis for Non-Disclosure to Public We have listed below specific data elements contained in the Fannie Mae Multifamily Acquisitions, Multifamily Units, and Single-Family Acquisitions Files that have been submitted to HUD. We are requesting HUD's designation of these data elements as both ``proprietary'' within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 4543, 4546, 1 and confidential commercial or financial information pursuant to Exemption 4 of FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4). Specifically, the following data elements are entitled to such designation: 1 Sections 1323 and 1326 of Pub. L. 102&hyph;550 (1992). Multifamily Acquisitions 1. Zip code (Ref. 3) 2. Acquisition UPB (Ref. 17) 3. Date of mortgage note (Ref. 19) 4. Coop flag (Ref. 22) 5. Term at origination (Ref. 26) 6. Loan type (more properly amortization) (Ref. 27) 7. Acquisition type (Ref. 31) 8. Total number of units (Ref. 34) 9. Purpose of loan (Ref. 21) Multifamily Units 1. Average reported rent per bedroom type (Ref. 4) 2. Average reported rent plus utilities per bedroom type (Ref. 5)
