FR940405-0-00037 FR940405-0-00004 Applicability 6. Two comments noted the apparent overlap of §830.120 and DOE Order 5700.6C, ``Quality Assurance.'' Response: Section 830.120 is intended to supersede the existing requirements in DOE 5700.6C, ``Quality Assurance,'' for nuclear facilities. If any quality assurance program is implemented on a site-wide basis, non-nuclear facilities at that site will continue to be covered by the DOE Order while nuclear facilities will be covered by §830.120. DOE 5700.6C is being revised to reflect these changes in scope. Grading 7. Four comments addressed the need to consider nuclear safety significance in determining the rigor with which the requirements of the rule are applied. Several other comments expressed concern that applying the rule, without distinguishing between the relative importance of the work to which it applies, was impracticable. In addition, there were two comments regarding the rule's use of the term risk. Both comments proposed that the term ``hazard'' was more appropriate and better reflected the concept of grading. Response: The Department agrees that the use of the term ``risk'' was inappropriate, but rather than using the term ``hazard,'' a new sentence regarding grading was added to paragraph (b)(1). Standards 8. There were three comments relating to standards. One comment expressed the need for a uniform set of quality assurance guidelines and standards for use by the Department. Response: The Department agrees that there is a need for a uniform set of standards for all activities, including quality assurance. The Department strongly supports the development of standards and guidelines. Accordingly, DOE will develop and issue quality assurance standards and guidance to support promulgation of QAPs. 9. Two comments suggested that the rule's ``generalized'' reference to the use of standards was not sufficient to ensure acceptable work. Response: The rule in paragraph (b)(1) of §830.120 provides for the use of standards to develop and implement QAPs. Because there are numerous quality assurance standards and they are continuously changing, it would be unnecessarily limiting to mandate in the rule a particular standard or set of standards that must be used by contractors. Any number of standards can be proposed, justified, and approved. DOE 5700.6C 10. There was one comment addressing a perceived reduction in quality assurance requirements. The comment stated that the rule ``has reduced the level of requirements for the application of material control, process control and calibration control from the level of requirements specified in DOE Order 5700.6C.'' The comment further stated that ``the rule fails to adequately address the following 10 CFR part 50, appendix B, requirements: Calibration of measuring and test equipment, special process controls, control of design input and design analysis, procurement planning and selection of suppliers, qualification of inspection and test personnel, inspection planning and in-process inspection, test records and procedure content, identification and control of inspection or test status, identification, retrieval and retention of records.'' Response: First, the Department disagrees that the rule has ``reduced the level of requirements for the application of material control, process control, and calibration control from the level of requirement[s] specified in DOE Order 5700.6C.'' The basic requirements of DOE 5700.6C and §830.120 are identical; therefore, there can be no reduction in requirements. Secondly, regarding the rule's purported failure to address certain requirements from 10 CFR part 50, appendix B, they are addressed in the following sections of §830.120: (1) Calibration of measuring and test equipment_paragraph (c)(2)(iv), (2) special process controls_paragraphs (c)(2) (i) and (iv), (3) control of design input and design analysis_paragraph (c)(2)(ii), (4) procurement planning and selection of suppliers_paragraph (c)(2)(iii), (5) qualification of inspection and test personnel_paragraph (c)(1)(ii), (6) inspection planning and in-process inspection_paragraph (c)(2)(iv), (7) test records and procedure content_paragraph (c)(1)(iv), (8) identification and control of inspection or test status_paragraph (c)(2)(iv), and (9) identification, retrieval, and storage of records_paragraph (c)(1)(iv). Program (Criterion 1) 11. There were three comments regarding the inclusion of planning, schedule, and cost-control as part of the quality assurance program. All three organizations asserted that planning, scheduling, and cost-control were not directly pertinent to nuclear safety and, therefore, should not be addressed in the rule. Response: The inclusion of these considerations is a departure from the traditional approach to quality assurance. DOE disagrees that they are not directly pertinent to nuclear safety. Because the quality assurance program described by the rule is a management system involving all organizational components, including management and the line organization, these considerations must be taken into account. Contemporary practice has shown that quality, costs, schedule, resources, and planning are inseparable and integral parts of the quality system and cannot be separated as they have been in the past. Personnel Training and Qualification (Criterion 2) 12. There were two comments regarding perceived conflicts between Parts 830.120, ``Quality Assurance Requirements,'' 830.330, ``Training and Certification,'' and 830.110, ``Safety Analysis Reports'' (SARs). Response: DOE disagrees that there is a conflict between the requirements of §§830.120, 830.330, and 830.110. Section 830.120, ``Quality Assurance Requirements,'' provides generic training and qualification requirements that pertain to all contractor personnel performing work at a DOE facility. Section 830.330, ``Training and Certification,'' elaborates on these generic requirements by providing specific training and certification requirements for specific categories of employees, such as reactor operators, nuclear facility operators, senior reactor operators, and nuclear facility supervisors. Section 830.110, ``Safety Analysis Reports,'' sets forth the topic areas, including training, to be addressed in each facility's SAR. The details of training to be included in the SAR will be based on the generic requirements of Section 830.120 and the specific requirements of Section 830.330. Quality Improvement (Criterion 3)
