FR941103-0-00088 FR941103-0-00013 Transportation is to be provided by Second Harvest to ensure timely collection and distribution of donated swordfish. Upon pickup of swordfish, Second Harvest, its affiliate or agent must provide dealers with bills of lading that include, or have attached, the names and permit numbers of fishing vessels and dealers involved in donating the swordfish, date of pickup, and tag number with individual carcass weight of each swordfish received. Second Harvest, its affiliates, or agents must provide copies of bills of lading with attachments to Second Harvest headquarters, which will provide duplicate copies to NMFS. Second Harvest's affiliates or agents are responsible for distributing donated swordfish to local charities, which will process and prepare the swordfish for consumption by needy individuals. During discussions with Second Harvest representatives on processing and preparation, the matter of liability was considered. No modification was necessary in this final rule because the Good Samaritan laws in each state adequately cover the issue. Implementation The pilot program could continue for 2 years, subject to review and evaluation. NMFS will monitor the program and prepare an annual report evaluating the results. Results from this study will be presented to ICCAT. If the program is achieving its purposes, and there is concurrence from ICCAT, the program could be continued beyond 2 years. If the program is not achieving its purpose or is no longer in conformance with the recommendations of ICCAT, NMFS will terminate the program. Comments and Responses Comment 1: This program would provide the industry and NMFS data on the real numbers of live and dead fish caught, which are needed to manage the fishery. At the same time, the program would feed the hungry children of our Nation while not changing the catch or the quota. Response: NMFS agrees. Current estimates of the mortality for fish hooked on longline are from observation data that 70 percent of hooked fish are dead when brought alongside the vessel. This pilot program provides that all small swordfish brought alongside must either be tagged and released alive, landed dead as part of the 15 percent tolerance, or tagged dead for transfer to Second Harvest. This ensures that accurate information will be collected on live and dead small swordfish, with accurate length frequency data on all swordfish less than the minimum size. In addition, this program will increase the number of tagged and released small fish that potentially can provide more information on the growth and movement of small swordfish. Comment 2: This program would provide much-needed protein to the needy. Food banks are always short of nutritious, high-protein foods. While this small pilot program would only supply a small amount against a tremendous need, it would make a difference. Response: If current estimates of catch, tolerance, number of discards, and average weights are correct, the pilot program in full operation could supply the Second Harvest network about 42,000 lbs. (19.05 metric tons) landed weight per year. Comment 3: This is a good, small-scale program to be closely monitored by NMFS that would deal with the problem of dead bycatch. It would serve as an excellent pilot, because if it is abused NMFS has the authority to terminate the program. Response: NMFS agrees. Comment 4: This project would promote understanding of the benefits of fish to the needy, who currently underutilize fish as a protein source. At the same time, it would not change the number of swordfish caught or killed, only the number of dead swordfish thrown overboard. Response: Second Harvest is working closely with NMFS on this program; every opportunity will be taken to promote the benefits of seafood consumption. Further, every effort has been made in the final rule to ensure that only those fish already dead will be retained for contribution to the Second Harvest. Comment 5: Placing requirements on times and locations of landings will reduce the number of volunteers who are willing to participate in the pilot program. Response: The landing requirements will be examined in the pilot program along with other aspects of the process. Provisions in the final rule allow the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries to modify landing requirements after consultation with the industry and law enforcement officials.
