FR940613-0-00080 FR940613-0-00015 (1) Actual operations as compared with those forecast by the plan submitted earlier, with particular attention to changes in or deviations from the operations proposed. (2) Impacts of the process as actually applied, in terms of changes in the number of oversize and/or overweight vehicles. (3) Measures of activity _(i) Vehicles weighed. Separate totals shall be reported for the annual number of vehicles weighed on fixed scales, on semiportable scales, on portable scales, and on WIM when used for enforcement. (ii) Penalties. Penalties reported shall include citations issued, civil assessments, and incidences of load shifting or off-loading of excess weight categorized as follows: violations of axle and/or gross vehicle weights, or violations resulting from application of the bridge formula. (iii) Permits. The number of permits issued for overweight loads shall be reported. The reported numbers shall specify permits for divisible and nondivisible loads and whether issued on a trip or annual basis. Permits issued for excess height, length, or width need not be reported except where issued for the overwidth movement of a divisible load. 5. Section 657.17 is revised to read as follows: ยง657.17 Certification submittal. (a) The Governor, or an official designated by the Governor, shall submit the certification to the Office of Motor Carriers in the FHWA division office prior to January 1 of each year. (b) The Office of Motor Carriers in the FHWA division office shall forward the original certification to the Associate Administrator for Motor Carriers and one copy to the Office of Chief Counsel. Copies of appropriate evaluations and/or comments shall accompany any transmittal. PART 658_TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS_LENGTH, WIDTH, AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS 6. The authority citation for 23 CFR part 658 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 23 U.S.C. 127 and 315; 49 U.S.C. app. 2311, 2312, and 2316; 49 CFR 1.48(b)(19) and (c)(19). 7. Section 658.1 is revised to read as follows: ยง658.1 Purpose. The purpose of this part is to identify a National Network of highways available to vehicles authorized by provisions of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (STAA) as amended, and to prescribe national policies that govern truck and bus size and weight. 8. Section 658.5 is amended by removing the arabic letter paragraph designations from all definitions, placing the definitions in alphabetical order, revising two existing definitions, and adding six new definitions in appropriate order. The added and revised definitions read as follows: ยง658.5 Definitions. * * * * * Beverage semitrailer. A van-type, drop-frame semitrailer designed and used specifically for the transport and delivery of bottled or canned beverages (i.e., liquids for drinking, including water) which has side-only access for loading and unloading this commodity. Semitrailer has the same meaning as in 49 CFR 390.5. * * * * * Cargo-carrying unit. As used in this part, cargo-carrying unit means any portion of a commercial motor vehicle (CMV) combination (other than a truck tractor) used for the carrying of cargo, including a trailer, semitrailer, or the cargo-carrying section of a single-unit truck. * * * * * Federal-aid Primary System. The Federal-aid Highway System of rural arterials and their extensions into or through urban areas in existence on June 1, 1991, as described in 23 U.S.C. 103(b) in effect at that time. * * * * * Longer combination vehicle (LCV). As used in this part, longer combination vehicle means any combination of a truck tractor and two or more trailers or semitrailers which operates on the Interstate System at a gross vehicle weight greater than 80,000 pounds. * * * * * Maxi-cube vehicle. A maxi-cube vehicle is a combination vehicle consisting of a power unit and a trailing unit, both of which are designed to carry cargo. The power unit is a nonarticulated truck with one or more drive axles that carries either a detachable or a permanently attached cargo box. The trailing unit is a trailer or semitrailer with a cargo box so designed that the power unit may be loaded and unloaded through the trailing unit. Neither cargo box shall exceed 34 feet in length, excluding drawbar or hitching device; the distance from the front of the first to the rear of the second cargo box shall not exceed 60 feet, including the space between the cargo boxes; and the overall length of the combination vehicle shall not exceed 65 feet, including the space between the cargo boxes. * * * * * Motor carrier of passengers. As used in this part, a motor carrier of passengers is a common, contract, or private carrier using a bus to provide commercial transportation of passengers. Bus has the same meaning as in 49 CFR 390.5.
