FR941128-2-00015 FR941128-2-00010 Equityworthiness Petitioner has alleged that Dalmine was unequityworthy in 1989, the year it received an indirect equity infusion from the GOI, through ILVA S.p.A. (``ILVA''), and that the equity infusion was, therefore, inconsistent with commercial considerations. In its questionnaire response, Dalmine has provided evidence that private investors, unrelated to Dalmine or the GOI, purchased a significant percentage of the 1989 equity offering, on the same terms as ILVA. Therefore, the Department preliminarily determines that ILVA's purchase of Dalmine's shares was consistent with commercial considerations. ( See section 355.44(e)(1)(i) of the Proposed Regulations .) Creditworthiness Petitioner has alleged that Dalmine was uncreditworthy in every year between 1979 and 1993. In accordance with section 355.44 of the Proposed Regulations , we examined Dalmine's current, quick, times interest earned, and debt-to-equity ratios, in addition to its profit margin. Based on this analysis, we preliminarily determine that Dalmine was creditworthy from 1979 through 1993. ( See Creditworthy Memorandum, November 18, 1994). Specifically, although a number of the financial indicators are weak for certain years, none of the indicators are weak over the medium or long term, and when examined together on a yearly basis, the indicators support the determination that Dalmine was creditworthy in every year examined. In addition, Dalmine received comparable long-term, commercial loans from private lenders in several of the years examined. While we have based our preliminary creditworthiness determination on the company's financial indicators, the fact that Dalmine received a number of long-term commercial loans during this period supports our finding. Benchmarks and Discount Rates Dalmine did not take out any long-term fixed rate lira denominated loans or other debt obligations in any of the years of the government loans under investigation. Therefore, in accordance with section 355.44(b)(4) of the Proposed Regulations, we used, as the benchmark interest rate, the Bank of Italy reference rate. We have determined that this rate constitutes the best approximation of the cost of long-term borrowing in Italy and the only long-term fixed interest rate commonly available in Italy. ( See Final Affirmative Countervailing Duty Determinations: Certain Steel Products from Italy (`` Certain Steel from Italy ''), 58 FR, 37327 (July 9, 1993).) We have also used this rate as the discount rate for allocating over time the benefit from non-recurring grants for the same reasons as explained in Final Affirmative Countervailing Duty Determination: Certain Steel Products from Spain , 58 FR 37374, 37376 (July 9, 1993). For long-term loans denominated in other currencies, we used, as the benchmark interest rate, the average long-term fixed interest rate denominated in the same currency. (See section E_Article 54 Loans below.) Calculation Methodology For purposes of this preliminary determination, the period for which we are measuring subsidies (the POI) is calendar year 1993. In determining the benefits received under the various programs described below, we used the following calculation methodology. We first calculated the benefit attributable to the POI for each countervailable program, using the methodologies described in each program section below. For each program, we then divided the benefit attributable to Dalmine in the POI by Dalmine's total sales revenue, as none of the programs was limited to either certain subsidiaries or products of Dalmine. Next, we added the benefits for all programs, including the benefits for programs which were not allocated over time, to arrive at Dalmine's total subsidy rate. Because Dalmine is the only respondent company in this investigation, this rate is also the country-wide rate. Consistent with our practice in preliminary determinations, when a response to an allegation denies the existence of a program, receipt of benefits under a program, or eligibility of a company or industry under a program, and the Department has no persuasive evidence showing that the response is incorrect, we accept the response for purposes of the preliminary determination. All such responses, however, are subject to verification. If the response cannot be supported at verification, and the program is otherwise countervailable, the program will be considered a subsidy in the final determination.
