FR940111-0-00094 FR940111-0-00019 (1) Represent that funeral goods or funeral services will delay the natural decomposition of human remains for a long-term or indefinite time; (2) Represent that funeral goods have protective features or will protect the body from gravesite substances, when such is not the case. (f) Cash advance provisions_ (1) Deceptive acts or practices. In selling or offering to sell funeral goods or funeral services to the public, it is a deceptive act or practice for a funeral provider to: (i) Represent that the price charged for a cash advance item is the same as the cost to the funeral provider for the item when such is not the case; (ii) Fail to disclose to persons arranging funerals that the price being charged for a cash advance item is not the same as the cost to the funeral provider for the item when such is the case. (2) Preventive requirements. To prevent these deceptive acts or practices, funeral providers must place the following sentence in the itemized statement of funeral goods and services selected, in immediate conjunction with the list of itemized cash advance items required by §453.2(b)(5)(i)(B): ``We charge you for our services in obtaining: (specify cash advance items),'' if the funeral provider makes a charge upon, or receives and retains a rebate, commission or trade or volume discount upon a cash advance item. §453.4 Required purchase of funeral goods or funeral services. (a) Casket for cremation provisions_ (1) Unfair or deceptive acts or practices. In selling or offering to sell funeral goods or funeral services to the public, it is an unfair or deceptive act or practice for a funeral provider, or a crematory, to require that a casket be purchased for direct cremation. (2) Preventive requirement. To prevent this unfair or deceptive act or practice, funeral providers must make an alternative container available for direct cremations, if they arrange direct cremations. (b) Other required purchases of funeral goods or funeral services_ (1) Unfair or deceptive acts or practices. In selling or offering to sell funeral goods or funeral services, it is an unfair or deceptive act or practice for a funeral provider to: (i) Condition the furnishing of any funeral good or funeral service to a person arranging a funeral upon the purchase of any other funeral good or funeral service, except as required by law or as otherwise permitted by this part; (ii) Charge any fee as a condition to furnishing any funeral goods or funeral services to a person arranging a funeral, other than the fees for: (1) Services of funeral director and staff, permitted by §453.2(b)(4)(iii)(C); (2) other funeral services and funeral goods selected by the purchaser; and (3) other funeral goods or services required to be purchased, as explained on the itemized statement in accordance with §453.3(d)(2). (2) Preventive requirements. (i) To prevent these unfair or deceptive acts or practices, funeral providers must: (A) Place the following disclosure in the general price list, immediately above the prices required by §453.2(b)(4) (ii) and (iii): ``The goods and services shown below are those we can provide to our customers. You may choose only the items you desire. If legal or other requirements mean you must buy any items you did not specifically ask for, we will explain the reason in writing on the statement we provide describing the funeral goods and services you selected.'' Provided, however, that if the charge for ``services of funeral director and staff'' cannot be declined by the purchaser, the statement shall include the sentence: ``However, any funeral arrangements you select will include a charge for our basic services'' between the second and third sentences of the statement specified above herein. The statement may include the phrase ``and overhead'' after the word ``services'' if the fee includes a charge for the recovery of unallocated funeral provider overhead; (B) Place the following disclosure in the statement of funeral goods and services selected, required by §453.2(b)(5)(i): ``Charges are only for those items that you selected or that are required. If we are required by law or by a cemetery or crematory to use any items, we will explain the reasons in writing below.'' (ii) A funeral provider shall not violate this section by failing to comply with a request for a combination of goods or services which would be impossible, impractical, or excessively burdensome to provide. §453.5 Services provided without prior approval. (a) Unfair or deceptive acts or practices. In selling or offering to sell funeral goods or funeral services to the public, it is an unfair or deceptive act or practice for any provider to embalm a deceased human body for a fee unless: (1) State or local law or regulation requires embalming in the particular circumstances regardless of any funeral choice which the family might make; or (2) Prior approval for embalming (expressly so described) has been obtained from a family member or other authorized person; or (3) The funeral provider is unable to contact a family member or other authorized person after exercising due diligence, has no reason to believe the family does not want embalming performed, and obtains subsequent approval for embalming already performed (expressly so described). In seeking approval, the funeral provider must disclose that a fee will be charged if the family selects a funeral which requires embalming, such as a funeral with viewing, and that no fee will be charged if the family selects a service which does not require embalming, such as direct cremation or immediate burial.
