FR940106-1-00091 FR940106-1-00011 Recommendations At this time, the most appropriate basis for setting salinity standards for the portion of the estuary on which this report concentrates is the position of the near-bottom 2 U isohaline alone, unless it can be shown either that another variable is the controlling variable or that incorporation of additional variables improves the predictive capability. Further research should be conducted to improve prediction of the responses of important estuarine resources to variations in the position of the near-bottom 2 U isohaline. That research should incorporate other variables where they can be shown to contribute significantly. (8) Conclusion A number of key species are subject not only to the biological effects of the location of the near-bottom 2 U isohaline, and therefore the effects of freshwater inflow to the estuary, but also to the physical effects of entrainment and diversion by the various water projects. Recommendations Salinity standards should be keyed to the existing city, county, regional, state, and federal water diversion and distribution system. Proposed changes to that system should trigger a re-evaluation of the salinity standards to ensure that they will continue to provide the desired level of environmental protection while retaining as much flexibility as possible in meeting the state's other needs for water. Since a broad class of models can be constructed, including mechanistic and statistical models that incorporate both biological and physical parameters and other factors such as diversions, exports, and antecedent conditions, efforts should be enhanced to ensure a consistent, long-term accurate measurement program to enhance these models and to decrease the uncertainties in their application. The ultimate goal is to have a predictive model that incorporates the position of the 2 U isohaline and other appropriate physical and biological variables. (9) Conclusion Salinity standards should be based upon the best scientific and technical knowledge. A method is needed to summarize and to advance the state of scientific and technical knowledge of the complex relationships between variations in the position of the near-bottom 2 U isohaline during different periods of the year (and associated Delta outflow) and a variety of diagnostic ecosystem responses. Recommendation Salinity and flow-response matrices should be developed for different biologically important periods of the year. The matrices should summarize the existing state of knowledge of the responses of a rich variety of estuarine organisms and communities as well as estuarine properties and processes, to the location of the near-bottom 2 U isohaline and associated freshwater discharge to the estuary. The estuarine properties and biological responses initially identified for inclusion in these matrices are summarized in Exhibit A. A Matrix Manager should be appointed to oversee the development of the summary matrices and to ensure quality control. The Matrix Manager should orchestrate the analyses of relevant data and ensure that the results of the analyses are cast into forms appropriate for the intended uses. Because estuarine habitat suitability and, therefore, estuarine ecosystem health are not simply a function of the instantaneous salinity distribution, the entry in each response cell of the matrix, whenever possible, should be based upon the development of functional relationships of estuarine properties to isohaline positions (and freshwater input to the estuary) that incorporate lagged terms, seasonal variability, and other water management variables. Ideally, the input to each matrix cell would include a directory of the appropriate model, or models, that could be used for prediction. The proposed matrices are shorthand methods for keeping track of advances in the state of scientific knowledge and for ensuring that the most up-to-date scientific knowledge is used in decision-making. They are not intended to be used as isolated regulatory tools. They are a summary of the state of development of those tools, a guide to which tools to use during different times of the year, and an index of where to find them. The responsibility for development of the matrices and for periodically updating them should be institutionalized. One appropriate agency might be the Interagency Ecological Studies Program. Justification The proposed matrices are an effective shorthand way of summarizing in a convenient format the status of a large amount of data and information relating the responses of the estuary to fluctuations in freshwater inflow and to other water management variables. The matrices are a useful vehicle for summarizing the biological benefits_using a broad array of response indicators_of positioning the near-bottom 2 U salinity isohaline at various distances upstream (inland) from the Golden Gate Bridge during different periods of the year. The proposed matrices would provide the first quantitative and comprehensive summary of how the San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta estuary ecosystem responds to fluctuations in freshwater inflow to the estuary (Delta outflow) and to the estuary's changing salinity regime. The matrices have further advantages. They will provide managers, policy-makers and the public with: (1) a clear statement by the scientific community of the current status of understanding of the effects of different freshwater discharge-diversion scenarios on the estuarine ecosystem; (2) an identification of critical gaps in scientific knowledge that can be used to guide future research and monitoring activities; and (3) a summary that is easily updated on a cell-by-cell basis as new knowledge is developed. The models upon which the matrices are based can serve as tools for regulatory agencies to use in incorporating the environmental needs of the estuary into a set of management prescriptions for storing, releasing, and diverting water for consumptive uses. Section of the level or degree of biological response to be achieved_the level of environmental protection_is the responsibility of regulatory bodies acting in response to society's priorities. (10) Conclusion The actual setting of salinity standards_specifying the upstream locations of the near-bottom 2 U isohaline for different periods of the year_should be keyed to environmental goals: to achieving and sustaining some desired biological response level specified in terms of habitat protection or abundance and survival rates of important and diagnostic estuarine and wetland species. Recommendations Goals should be expressed in terms of desired conditions for some future time. Progress toward those goals should be monitored and reported widely. Environmental goals for the estuary will be most effective if they are expressed in terms of restoring conditions to those that existed at specific historical times such as those summarized in Exhibit B. (11) Conclusion At prevailing patterns of the position of the near-bottom 2 U isohaline, the biological resources of the low salinity portion of the estuary, including the Delta, have been seriously depleted. Data from the Interagency Ecological Studies Program and the University of California at Davis indicate clearly that species at every trophic level are now at, or near, record low levels in the Delta and in Suisun Bay. This is not surprising considering the recent drought, the introduction of exotic species, and the increased diversion of water.
