FR940919-2-00142 FR940919-2-00059 AT&T Corporation (AT&T), and AT&T Investment Corporation (ATTIMCO), Located in New York, New York [Application Nos. D&hyph;9716 and D&hyph;9717] Proposed Exemption The Department is considering granting an exemption under the authority of section 408(a) of the Act and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 C.F.R. Part 2570, Subpart B (55 F.R. 32836, 32847, August 10, 1990). Part I_Exemption for Payment of Certain Fees to Asset Managers The restrictions of section 406(b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the taxes imposed by section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1)(E) of the Code, shall not apply to the payment of Performance Fees by an AT&T Investment Fund to an Asset Manager in exchange for real estate management or advisory services rendered pursuant to an Agreement, provided that the conditions set forth in Parts II and III are satisfied. Part II_General Conditions (a) The Asset Manager is not an affiliate of AT&T and the terms of any Performance Fee are approved in writing by AT&T. (b) The terms of any Performance Fee shall be at least as favorable to the AT&T Investment Fund as those obtainable in arm's-length transactions between unrelated parties. (c) No AT&T Trust shall allocate, in the aggregate, more than twenty percent of its total assets to Arrangements which are the subject of this exemption, determined at the time any such Arrangement is established and at the time of any subsequent allocation of additional assets (including the reinvestment of assets) to such an Arrangement. The foregoing limitation shall not apply to an AT&T Plan Assets Entity. However, that percentage of the Assets of an AT&T Plan Assets Entity which is deemed to be ``plan assets'' of an AT&T Trust invested therein shall be treated as assets of such AT&T Trust for the purpose of applying the foregoing limitation to the AT&T Trust. (d) AT&T shall receive the following written information with respect to assets subject to this exemption (Assets): (1) annual audited financial statements prepared by independent certified public accountants approved by AT&T; (2) quarterly and annual reports prepared by the Asset Manager relating to the overall financial position of the Assets (Each such report shall include a statement regarding the amount of fees paid to the Asset Manager during the period covered by such report); and (3) annual reports indicating the fair market value of the Assets determined on the basis of the most recently available Independent Valuations. (e) The total fees paid to an Asset Manager shall constitute no more than reasonable compensation. (f) The Performance Fee shall be payable after Net Proceeds with respect to the Assets exceed the Threshold Amount. The Threshold Amount and the amount of the Performance Fee, expressed as a percentage (or percentages) of the Net Proceeds in excess of the Threshold Amount (or Threshold Amounts), shall be established by the Agreement. The Threshold Amount for any Performance Fee shall include at least a minimum rate of return to the AT&T Investment Fund, as described in Part III, Section (q). (g) The provisions of this paragraph (g) shall apply only where an Asset Manager has discretion to sell Assets without prior approval of AT&T. For any sale of an Asset which gives rise to the payment of a Performance Fee to an Asset Manager prior to the Termination Date, the sales price of the Asset shall be at least equal to a Target Amount in order for the Asset Manager to sell the Asset and receive its Performance Fee without further approval. If the proposed sales price of the Asset is less than the applicable Target Amount, the proposed sale shall be disclosed to and subject to the approval of AT&T, in which event the Asset Manager shall be entitled to sell the Asset and receive its Performance Fee. If the proposed sales price is less than the applicable Target Amount and AT&T's approval is not obtained, the Asset Manager shall retain the authority to sell the Asset, provided that the Performance Fee that would have been payable to the Asset Manager by reason of the sale of the Asset shall be paid only at the termination of the Arrangement. (h) In the event of termination of the Arrangement upon its Termination Date, the Asset Manager shall be entitled to receive a Performance Fee payable on the Termination Date. The amount of the Performance Fee upon termination shall be determined by assuming a sale for cash of the remaining Assets at their fair market value (determined on the basis of Independent Valuations) and no reinvestment of such cash in Assets subject to the Arrangement. (i) In the event of the removal or resignation of an Asset Manager prior to the Termination Date, the Asset Manager shall be entitled to receive a Performance Fee payable on the Termination Date pursuant to this paragraph (i). The Performance Fee shall be calculated on a preliminary basis at the time of such removal or resignation by assuming a sale for cash of the remaining Assets at their fair market value (determined on the basis of Independent Valuations) and no reinvestment of such cash in Assets subject to the Arrangements. As of the Termination Date, the amount so determined on a preliminary basis shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the sum of (1) the actual sales prices received by the AT&T Investment Fund on disposition of all Assets sold after the date of the Asset Manager's removal or resignation and prior to the Termination Date, and (2) in the case of Assets which have not been sold prior to the Termination Date, the value of the Assets as of the Termination Date (determined on the basis of Independent Valuations), and the denominator of which is the aggregate value of the Assets which was used in connection with the preliminary determination of the Performance Fee at the time of removal or resignation, provided that this fraction shall never exceed 1.0. The resulting amount shall be the Performance Fee payable to the Asset Manager upon the Termination Date. (j) AT&T shall maintain or cause to be maintained with respect to the Assets, for a period of six years, the records necessary to enable the persons described in paragraph (k) of this Part II to determine whether the conditions of this exemption have been met, except that (1) a prohibited transaction will not be considered to have occurred if, due to circumstances beyond the control of AT&T, the records are lost or destroyed prior to the end of the six-year period, and (2) no party in interest, other than AT&T, shall be subject to the civil penalty that may be assessed under section 502(i) of the Act or to the taxes imposed by section 4975 (a) and (b) of the Code if the records are not maintained or are not available for examination as required by Part III, Section (k) below. (k) Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 504(a)(2) and 504(b) of the Act, the records referred to in Section (j) of this Part II shall be unconditionally available at their customary location for examination during normal business hours by: (1) any duly authorized employee or representative of the Department or the Internal Revenue Service;
