FR940831-2-00026 FR940831-2-00020 Energy Information Administration Form EIA&hyph;846A/C, ``Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey'' AGENCY: Energy Information Administration, Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of the proposed revision of forms EIA&hyph;846A/C, ``Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey,'' and solicitation of comments. SUMMARY: The Energy Information Administration (EIA), as part of its continuing effort to reduce paperwork and respondent burden (required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), conducts a presurvey consultation program to provide the general public and other Federal agencies with an opportunity to comment on proposed and/or continuing reporting forms. This program helps to ensure that requested data can be provided in the desired format, reporting burden is minimized, reporting forms are clearly understood, and the impact of collection requirements on respondents can be properly assessed. Currently, EIA is soliciting comments concerning the proposed revision to forms EIA&hyph;846A/C, ``Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey.'' DATES: Written comments must be submitted on or before September 30, 1994. If you anticipate that you will be submitting comments, but find it difficult to do so within the period of time allowed by this notice, you should advise the contact listed below of your intention to do so as soon as possible. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Mr. Robert K. Adler, Energy End Use Division, Energy Information Administration, EI&hyph;632, Forrestal Building, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. 20585. Mr. Adler's telephone number is (202) 586&hyph;1134, FAX number (202) 586&hyph;0018. His Internet address is BADLER@EIA.DOE.GOV. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION OR TO OBTAIN COPIES OF THE PROPOSED FORMS AND INSTRUCTIONS: Requests for additional information or copies of the forms and instructions should be directed to Robert K. Adler at the address listed above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background. II. Current Actions. III. Request for Comments I. Background In order to fulfill its responsibilities under the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 (Pub. L. No. 93&hyph;275) and the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. No. 95&hyph;91), the Energy Information Administration is obliged to carry out a central, comprehensive, and unified energy data and information program. As part of this program, EIA collects, evaluates, assembles, analyzes, and disseminates data and information related to energy resource reserves, production, demand, and technology, and related economic and statistical information relevant to the adequacy of energy resources to meet demands in the near and longer term future for the Nation's economic and social needs. The Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS) has been conducted three times previously, covering the years 1985, 1988, and 1991. The MECS has collected basic data on energy consumption, fuel-switching, and in 1991, end-uses, energy management activities, and energy-saving technologies. The MECS forms the basis for major publications on energy consumption and energy intensity (e.g., Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey: Consumption of Energy, 1988 and Changes in Energy Intensity in the Manufacturing Sector, 1980&hyph;1988.) The proposed 1994 MECS design utilizes experience gained from the administration and processing of the three previous surveys and consultations with respondents, trade association representatives, and data users. EIA conducted user needs assessment meetings with frequent customers of the MECS data both inside and outside the Department of Energy. When meetings were not feasible, outside customers especially were given a chance to present their requests through mail or phone conversation. This notice can serve as another chance for customers to express their manufacturing energy data needs. Additionally, a formal survey of 1991 MECS respondents about their experiences in completing that questionnaire was done during the conduct of the MECS to determine other enhancements and redesign directions for the 1994 survey. II. Current Actions EIA proposes to make the changes described below to the 1991 MECS survey forms for use in 1994. These changes are being made to better serve the needs of data users, streamline the administration and processing of the survey, and reduce respondent burden where possible. The frequency of the MECS is also changing. In accordance with Section 171 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPACT), the MECS, beginning in 1994, will be conducted biennially. The sample size for the 1994 MECS has been increased to •Permit more extensive coverage of industries consuming wood and biomass (approximately 5 additional four-digit Standard Industrial Classification codes)
