FR941019-1-00059 FR941019-1-00008 40 CFR Part 300 [FRL&hyph;5090&hyph;1] National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan; National Priorities List AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of Intent to Delete the Northwestern States Portland Cement Company (NWSPCC) Site, Mason City, Iowa from the National Priorities List: Request for Comments. SUMMARY: The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Region VII announces its intent to delete the NWSPCC Site, Mason City, Iowa from the National Priorities List (NPL) and requests public comment on this action. The NPL constitutes appendix B of 40 CFR part 300 which is the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (NCP), which the EPA promulgated pursuant to section 105 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended. The reason this action is being taken is that Superfund Remedial Activities have been completed and no further response is appropriate. DATES: Comments concerning this site may be submitted on or before November 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to: Michael J. Sanderson, Acting Director, Waste Management Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region VII, 726 Minnesota Avenue, Kansas City, Kansas 66101. Comprehensive information on this site is available through the EPA Region VII public docket, which is located in the EPA's Region VII office and is available for viewing by appointment only from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. Requests for appointments or copies of the background information from the Regional public docket should be directed formally to the EPA Region VII docket office. The address for the Regional docket office is: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region VII 726 Minnesota Avenue, Kansas City, Kansas 66101. Background information from the Regional public docket is also available for viewing at the NWSPCC Site information repository which is located with: Mason City Public Library, 225 2nd SE., Mason City, IA 50401. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paul Roemerman, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region VII 726 Minnesota Avenue, Kansas City, Kansas 66101 (913) 551&hyph;7694. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Table of Contents: I. Introduction II. NPL Deletion Criteria III. Deletion Procedures IV. Basis for Intended Site Deletions I. Introduction The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Region VII announces its intent to delete the NWSPCC Site, Mason City, Iowa, from the National Priorities List (NPL), which constitutes appendix B of the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (NCP), and requests comments on this proposed deletion. The EPA identifies sites that appear to present a significant risk to public health, welfare, or the environment and maintains the NPL as the list of those sites. Sites on the NPL may be the subject of remedial actions financed by the Hazardous Substance Response Fund (Fund). Pursuant to ยง300.425(e)(3) of the National Contingency Plan (NCP), any site deleted from the NPL remains eligible for Fund-financed remedial actions if conditions at the site warrant such action. The EPA will accept comments on this site for thirty days after the publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Section II of this notice explains the criteria for deleting sites from the NPL. Section III discusses the procedures that the EPA is using for this action. Section IV discusses how the site meets the deletion criteria. II. NPL Deletion Criteria The NCP establishes the criteria that EPA uses to delete sites from the NPL. In accordance with 40 CFR 300.425(e), sites may be deleted from the NPL where no further response is appropriate. In making this determination, EPA, in consultation with the State, will consider whether any of the following criteria have been met: (i) That responsible parties or other persons have implemented all appropriate response actions required; or (ii) All appropriate Fund-financed responses under CERCLA have been implemented and no further response action by responsible parties is appropriate; or (iii) The remedial investigation has shown that the release poses no significant threat to public health or the environment and, therefore, taking of remedial measures is not appropriate. Section 300.425(e)(2) of the NCP requires State concurrence before deleting a site from the NPL. Deletion of sites from the NPL does not itself create, alter, or revoke any individuals rights or obligations. The NPL is designed primarily for informational purposes and to assist Agency management. As is mentioned in Section II of this document, ยง300.425(e)(3) of the NCP makes clear that deletion of a site from the NPL does not preclude eligibility for future Fund-financed response actions. III. Deletion Procedures The EPA Region VII will accept and evaluate public comments before making the final decision to delete the site from the NPL. The Agency believes that deletion procedures should focus on notice and comment at the local level. Comments from the local community are likely to be the most pertinent to deletion decisions. The following procedures were used for the intended deletion of the site. 1. The EPA Region VII has recommended the deletion and prepared the relevant documents. 2. The State of Iowa has concurred with the deletion decision. 3. Concurrent with this National Notice of Intent to Delete a notice has been published in local and community newspapers and has been distributed to appropriate federal, state, and local officials and other interested parties. This notice announces a thirty (30) day public comment period on the deletion package, which starts November 3, 1994, and which will conclude on December 5, 1994. 4. The Region has made all relevant documents available in the Regional Office and local site information repository. The comments received during the notice and comment period will be evaluated before the final decision to delete is made. The Region will prepare a Responsiveness Summary, if necessary, which will address any comments received during the public comment period.
