FR940426-1-00070 FR940426-1-00007 (3) That the member's response will either consent to the involuntary allotment or contest it. (4) That the member may contest the application for the following reasons: (a) The member's rights under the SSCRA were not complied with during the judicial proceeding upon which the involuntary allotment application is sought. (b) Exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member from appearance in a judicial proceeding forming the basis for the judgment upon which the application is sought. (c) Information contained in the application is false or erroneous in material part. (d) The judgment has been fully satisfied, or has been superseded or set aside. (e) The judgment has been materially amended, or partially satisfied. When asserting this defense, the member shall include evidence of the amount of the judgment that remains in effect and is unsatisfied. (f) There is a legal impediment to the establishment of the involuntary allotment (for example, the judgment debt has been discharged in bankruptcy, or the judgment debtor has filed for protection from the creditors under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, or the applicant is not the judgment creditor nor a proper successor in interest to that creditor). (g) Either now or at the time the debt was incurred that forms the basis for the court judgment, the applicant (and the judgment creditor, if different from the applicant) was (were) in an ``off-limits'' status, or had been determined to be practicing unfair consumer or commercial practices detrimental to the morale and welfare of service members, pursuant to applicable directives of the military services, to include the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board and Off-Installation Liaison and Operations regulation. (h) Either now or at the time the debt was incurred that forms the basis for the court judgment, the applicant (and the judgment creditor, if different from the applicant) was (were) acting in a manner that violated the Standards of Fairness promulgated as Appendix C to this part. (i) Or other appropriate reasons which must be clearly specified and explained by the member. (5) That, if the member contests the involuntary allotment, the member shall provide evidence (documentary or otherwise) in support thereof. The evidence provided must enable the decisional authority to decide whether to approve the application for an involuntary allotment. Furthermore, that any evidence submitted by the member may be disclosed to the applicant for the involuntary allotment. (6) That the member may consult with a legal assistance attorney, or a civilian attorney at no expense to the government. That if a legal assistance attorney is available, the member should immediately arrange for an appointment. That if a legal assistance attorney is not available, the member may request form the commander an appropriate delay until such time as a legal assistance attorney becomes available for consultation (in cases where a response will not be submitted back to DFAS within 90 days from the date DFAS mailed the copies of the application package, the commander must immediately notify the designated DFAS official of the delay, the date for an expected response, and the reason for the delay_e.g., unavailability of a legal assistance attorney for counseling). Additionally, that requests for extensions of time based on the need for legal assistance may be denied to members who fail to exercise due diligence in seeking such assistance. (7) That if the member contests the involuntary allotment on the grounds that exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member from the judicial proceeding at which the judgment was rendered, then the member's commander will review and make the final determination on this contention, and notify the designated DFAS official of the commander's decision by completing Part III of DD Form bb and forwarding the form to DFAS. (8) That if the member contests the involuntary allotment on any basis other than exigencies of military duty, the application package, DD Form bb, and the member's response, if any, will be returned to the designated DFAS official for appropriate action. (9) That if the member fails to respond to the commander within the time period specified (including any extensions authorized by the commander), the commander shall notify the designated DFAS official of the member's failure to respond by completing Part III of DD Form bb and forwarding the form to DFAS. c. After counseling the member (as noted in paragraph B.2.a.(1) of this appendix) the commander shall: (1) Date and sign Part I of DD Form bb; (2) Obtain the member's acknowledgment of counseling by having the member sign in the appropriate space on Part I of DD Form bb; (3) Determine if the member consents to the involuntary allotment or needs the time authorized under this part to review the application package and take appropriate action. If the member consents to the voluntary allotment, the commander will direct the member to appropriately complete Part II of DD Form bb. The commander will then forward the DD Form bb to the designated DFAS official. (4) As soon as possible, but not later than the end of the authorized time period for the member to submit his or her response, the commander will forward by mail the DD Form bb and any response received from member to DFAS. (5) If the member fails to respond within the time authorized for a response, or asserts that exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member from an appearance in the judicial proceeding upon which the Involuntary Allotment Application is sought, then the commander will complete Part III of DD Form bb prior to forwarding of the form and the member's response, if any, to the designated DFAS official.
