FR941221-1-00013 FR941221-1-00004 26 CFR Part 31 [EE&hyph;45&hyph;93] RIN 1545&hyph;AR67 Electronic Filing of Form W&hyph;4 AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Withdrawal of notice of proposed rulemaking; notice of proposed rulemaking by cross-reference to temporary regulations. SUMMARY: This document withdraws proposed regulations published in the Federal Register at 59 FR 18057 on April 15, 1994. In the Rules and Regulations section of this issue of the Federal Register , the IRS is issuing temporary regulations relating to Form W&hyph;4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate. The temporary regulations authorize employers to establish systems to permit employees to make certain changes to their Forms W&hyph;4 electronically. The temporary regulations provide employers and employees with guidance necessary to comply with the law and affect employers who choose to establish authorized systems and employees who use them. The text of those temporary regulations also serves as the text of these proposed regulations. DATES: Written comments and requests for a public hearing must be received by February 21, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send submissions to: CC:DOM:CORP:T:R (EE&hyph;45&hyph;93), room 5228, Internal Revenue Service, POB 7604, Ben Franklin Station, Washington, DC 20044. In the alternative, submissions may be hand delivered between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. to: CC:DOM:CORP:T:R (EE&hyph;45&hyph;93), Courier's Desk, Internal Revenue Service, room 5228, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Concerning submissions, Michael Slaughter, 202&hyph;622&hyph;7190; concerning the regulations, Russ Weinheimer, 202&hyph;622&hyph;6060. These are not toll-free numbers. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Paperwork Reduction Act The collection of information contained in this notice of proposed rulemaking has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)). Comments on the collection of information should be sent to the Office of Management and Budget, Attn: Desk Officer for the Department of the Treasury, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503, with copies to the Internal Revenue Service, Attn: IRS Reports Clearance Officer, PC:FP, Washington, DC 20224. The collection of information is in ยง31.3402(f)(5)&hyph;2T. This information is required by the IRS to ensure that, if the IRS requests it, employers will be able to furnish a hard copy of the electronic Form W&hyph;4. This information will be used to verify that the employer used the electronic Form W&hyph;4 data properly. The likely respondents are state and local governments, business or other for-profit institutions, federal agencies or employees, nonprofit institutions, and small businesses or organizations. Estimated total annual reporting burden: 40,000 hours. The estimated annual burden per respondent varies from 10 minutes to 20 minutes, depending on individual circumstances, with an estimated average of 15 minutes. Estimated number of respondents: 2,000. Estimated annual frequency of responses: on occasion. Background The temporary regulations published in the Rules and Regulations section of this issue of the Federal Register add ยง31.3402(f)(5)&hyph;2T to the Employment Tax Regulations. The text of those temporary regulations also serves as the text of these proposed regulations. The preamble to the temporary regulations explains the temporary regulations. Comments are specifically requested on whether electronic systems should be allowed for additional categories of Forms W&hyph;4 and the extent to which employers should be allowed to mandate the use of an electronic system, to assist the IRS in determining the appropriate balance between the advantages to employers of fully electronic systems, ensuring adequate employee access, and the IRS's concerns relating to enforcement. Special Analyses It has been determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in Executive Order 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, this notice of proposed rulemaking will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Comments and Requests for a Public Hearing Before these proposed regulations are adopted as final regulations, consideration will be given to any written comments (a signed original and eight (8) copies) that are submitted timely to the IRS. All comments will be available for public inspection and copying. A public hearing may be scheduled if requested in any writing by any person that timely submits written comments. If a public hearing is scheduled, notice of the date, time, and place for the hearing will be published in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal author of these proposed regulations is Russ Weinheimer, Office of the Associate Chief Counsel (Employee Benefits and Exempt Organizations), IRS. However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development.
