FR940504-1-00011 FR940504-1-00002 (i) The County Office will use Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3, ``Record of Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) Inquiry,'' to check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's CAIVRS to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny credit can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the County Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (ii) If the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt), and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive this restriction upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (4) *␣*␣* (iii) Have the character (emphasizing credit history, past record of debt repayment, and reliability) and industry to carry out the proposed operation. This requirement must be met by the individual members, stockholders, partners, or joint operators. Past record of debt repayment will not be cause for a determination that the applicant/borrower is not eligible if an honest attempt has been made to make the payment(s). If the entity or any of its members is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt, in accordance with §1941.14 of subpart A of part 1941 of this chapter), the entity is automatically ineligible for loan assistance. (A) The County Office will use Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3 to check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's CAIVRS to determine if the entity or any of its members is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny credit can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the County Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (B) If the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt) and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive this restriction upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. * * * * * (d) Restrictions. An Applicant will be considered ineligible for loan assistance under any of the following circumstances. A decision to deny a loan for any of these reasons is not appealable.
