FR940304-2-00153 FR940304-2-00080 NUREG&hyph;0554, ``Single Failure Proof Cranes for Nuclear Power Plants,'' provides guidance for the design, fabrication, installation, and testing of highly reliable new cranes. NUREG&hyph;0612, Appendix C, ``Modification of Existing Cranes,'' provides guidance for the implementation of NUREG&hyph;0554 at operating plants. We have evaluated anticipated fuel handling crane movements for compliance with the guidelines specified in alternative (1) of Appendix C, and determined that alternative (1) was satisfied based on the extremely small probability of a storage rack drop. The maximum weight of any storage rack and its associated handling tool is 17 tons. The fuel handling crane will be upgraded to a 20 ton lifting capacity and a design safety factor, with respect to ultimate strength, of five times the lifting capacity (i.e., 100 tons). The uprated fuel handling crane has ample safety factor margin for storage rack movement. This applies to non-redundant load-bearing components. Special redundant lifting devices, which have a rated capacity sufficient to maintain safety factors, will be utilized for storage rack movements. Per NUREG&hyph;0612, Appendix B, the substantial safety factor margin ensures that the probability of a load drop is extremely low. Additionally, a load drop analysis was performed to ensure the integrity of the pool structure. The analysis results were acceptable. Based on the actions discussed above, the proposed modification does not increase the probability of an installation accident. PSE&G evaluated the consequences of a spent fuel assembly drop in the SFP and determined that the criticality acceptance criterion, Keff less than or equal to 0.95, was not exceeded. The radiological consequences of a fuel assembly drop did not change significantly from those previously analyzed. The calculated doses are well within 10 CFR 100 requirements. A spent fuel assembly dropped on the racks, will not cause rack distortion that would prevent the performance of their safety function. Thus, the consequences of this postulated accident are not significantly changed from those previously evaluated. The consequences of a loss of SFP cooling were evaluated. The evaluation concluded that sufficient time is available to establish an alternate means of cooling following a complete failure of the normal SFP cooling system. Calculations show that under a normal discharge scenario, if all indirect forced cooling paths (i.e., heat removal by heat exchangers) are lost at the instant the pool water reaches its maximum value, the pool will not begin bulk boiling for at least 4.61 hours. This time interval is sufficient to allow plant personnel to establish alternate heat removal methods. A piped cross-connection exists between Unit 1 and Unit 2's SFP heat exchangers. This allows for use of the opposite Unit's heat exchanger during emergencies, or when a given Unit's Service Water header or Component Cooling System are out-of-service. Thus, the consequences of this postulated accident are not significantly changed from those previously evaluated. The new racks are designed and fabricated to meet applicable NRC requirements and industry standards. Seismic analyses were performed on the new racks and the existing racks using 3&hyph;D single rack (opposed phase motion) and Whole Pool Multi-Rack (WPMR) models. Kinematic and shear analyses conclude the existence of large margins of safety. The kinematic margin against rack-to-rack or rack-to-wall impact is at least 1.5 for all SFP racks. Maximum rack primary stresses, under [Safe Shutdown Earthquake] SSE conditions, are less than 50% of the allowable ASME Code value. Maximum supporting pool structure bending moments and thru-thickness shear, under factored load conditions, are less than 80% of the allowables. All racks (new and existing) are designed as free-standing racks, to ensure that rack and pool structure integrity is maintained during and after a seismic event. Thus, the consequences of a postulated seismic event are not increased from previously evaluated events. The consequences of an installation accident were considered. All fuel in the SFP will have decayed for a minimum of (3) months prior to any heavy load movement in the SFP area. This allows sufficient time for decay of gaseous radionuclides in the fuel (gap activity). A postulated accidental gaseous release from all stored fuel assemblies would result in a potential offsite dose less than 10% of 10CFR100 limit. No equipment essential to safe reactor shutdown or employed to mitigate the consequences of an accident is located beneath, adjacent to, or within the area of influence of any load handling to support the SFP modification. Thus, the consequences of a postulated installation accident are not significantly increased from those previously evaluated. The only postulated accident affected by decay time is a Loss of SFP cooling. The proposed increase in decay time prior to refueling operations is conservative and decreases the decay heat removal requirements. All thermal-hydraulic calculations used 168 hours as the assumed decay time and concluded that adequate heat removal capability existed. Thus, the probability and consequences of a loss of SFP cooling accident are not significantly increased from those previously evaluated. Therefore, it may be concluded that the proposed changes do not increase the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. Do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. The proposed modification has been reviewed and analyzed for possible accidents. The criteria used in the analyses, design, and installation of the new spent fuel racks account for anticipated loadings and postulated conditions that may be imposed upon the structure during its lifetime, and is in conformance with established codes, standards, and specifications acceptable to the NRC. Factors that could affect the SFP neutron multiplication factor have been addressed conservatively. PSE&G concluded that the maximum SFP neutron multiplication, with the addition of the maximum density racks, will not exceed the subcritically limit of Keff less than or equal to 0.95. The increase in decay time prior to refueling operations reduces the initial heat load and SFP cooling equipments. The addition of new racks and associated spent fuel will produce an incremental heat load in the SFP. However, analysis has shown that the existing SFP cooling system is sufficient to absorb this incremental heat load. The peak bulk pool temperature will be maintained below the threshold value to preclude bulk boiling. The incremental heat load does not alter SFP cooling safety considerations from those previously reviewed and found acceptable. Rack impact analysis was performed to investigate possible impact during seismic events (i.e., rack-to-rack and rack-to-wall impacts). The analysis concluded that the proposed SFP modification does not result in rack-to-rack impact in the cellular region or rack-to-wall impact during postulated seismic events. The basic SFP reracking technology has been reviewed and approved by the NRC in numerous applications for spent fuel capacity increases. The safety function and operation of the SFP cooling system, makeup, and structural systems are unchanged by the modification. No new failure modes are created. Therefore, it may be concluded that the proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. 3. Do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The safety function of the SFP and the racks is to preclude inadvertent criticality in a safe, specifically designed, underwater storage location for spent fuel assemblies that require shielding and cooling during storage and handling. The NRC Staff has established that the issue of margin of safety, when applied to reracking modifications, should address the following areas: 1. Nuclear criticality considerations. 2. Thermal-hydraulic considerations. 3. Mechanical, material, and structural considerations. Assessment in these areas assures that the SFP and racks will withstand specified design conditions, without impairment of the structural integrity or performance of required safety functions. The criticality analysis confirms that the new and existing rack designs meet the NRC acceptance criterion of Keff less than or equal to 0.95 under all conditions. The criticality analysis methods conform to applicable industry codes, standards, specifications and NRC guidance.
