FR940805-1-00139 FR940805-1-00014 (f) Governmental coordination. With respect to the public entities involved, the plan must describe the means of cooperation and coordination among the State and any units of general local government in the metropolitan area in the development and submission of its plan. §91.215 Strategies, priority needs, and objectives. (a) General. The Consolidated Plan must state for each of the jurisdiction's priority needs identified in the priority needs table prescribed by HUD and in local consultation: (1) The reasons for the jurisdiction's choice of priority need, describing its choice in terms of housing need (e.g., income, tenure, and housing problems), and identifying obstacles to addressing underserved needs; (2) The specific objectives. Each objective shall identify the key goals in quantitative terms along with numeric or other measurable indicators of progress and a target date for completion (in subsequent years, the plan may incorporate the objectives from a prior year's plan if they have not changed); and (3) A description of the jurisdiction's resource allocation geographically within the jurisdiction (or within the metropolitan area for the HOPWA program) and among different activities. (b) Resources. (1) Federal resources. The plan must describe the expected Federal resources to be available to address the needs identified in accordance with §91.205. (2) Other resources. The plan must indicate resources from private and non-Federal public sources that are reasonably expected to be made available to address the needs identified in the plan. The plan must explain how Federal funds will leverage those additional resources, including a description of how matching requirements of the HUD programs will be satisfied. Where the jurisdiction deems it appropriate, it may indicate publicly owned land or property located within the jurisdiction that may be used to carry out the purposes stated in §91.1. (c) Affordable housing. The plan must include the number of families to whom the jurisdiction will provide affordable housing, as defined in §92.252 of this chapter for rental housing and §92.254 of this chapter for homeownership, and must include the priority housing needs table prescribed by HUD. In addition, the strategy should cover any other types of affordable housing that would meet needs in the priority needs table. The plan shall describe the basis for assigning the relative priority given to a particular group's needs and indicate how the characteristics of the housing market will influence the use of funds made available for rental assistance, production of new units, rehabilitation of old units, or acquisition of existing units. (d) Homelessness. The plan must include the priority homeless needs table prescribed by HUD and must describe the jurisdiction's strategy identifying resources used for the following: (1) Helping low-income families avoid becoming homeless; (2) Reaching out to homeless persons and assessing their individual needs; (3) Addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons; and (4) Helping homeless persons make the transition to permanent housing and independent living. (e) Community development. If the jurisdiction seeks assistance under the Community Development Block Grant program, the plan must describe the jurisdiction's priority non-housing community development needs eligible for assistance under HUD's community development programs by CDBG eligibility category, reflecting needs of persons or households, as appropriate, in terms of dollar amounts estimated to meet the priority need for the type of activity, in accordance with a table prescribed by HUD. This community development component of the plan must state the jurisdiction's long-term and short-term community development objectives, which must be developed in accordance with the statutory goals described in §91.1. The jurisdiction shall describe the public housing Comprehensive Grant program strategies undertaken jointly with consolidated plan activities described in §91.210(b), such as joint or coordinated neighborhood revitalization, improved public service, anti-drug or crime activities, related to the public housing developments concerned. (f) Barriers to affordable housing. The plan must describe the jurisdiction's strategy to remove or ameliorate negative effects of public policies that serve as barriers to affordable housing, as identified in accordance with §91.210(d), except that, if a State requires a unit of general local government to submit a regulatory barrier assessment that is substantially equivalent to the information required under this paragraph, as determined by the Secretary, the unit of general local government may submit its assessment submitted to the State to the Secretary and shall be considered to have complied with this requirement. (g) Public housing resident initiatives. The plan must describe the jurisdiction's activities to encourage public housing residents to become more involved in management and participate in homeownership. (h) Lead-based paint hazards. The plan must outline the actions proposed or being taken to evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards, and describe how the lead-based paint hazard reduction will be integrated into housing policies and programs.
