FR941222-1-00027 FR941222-1-00008 (3) Coverage by Other Regulatory Programs Listing decisions can be strongly influenced by the effect of other regulatory requirements on the wastestreams involved. Where another Federal or State program or other RCRA requirements clearly will provide the type of control needed to eliminate the risk associated with a certain type of waste management, a RCRA listing may be considered unnecessary or redundant. •Other Federal or State programs. If other Federal or State programs clearly regulate risk associated with the wastestream, listing may not be necessary to eliminate risk. For example, if the Office of Air and Radiation within EPA has issued an NESHAP to control emissions of a constituent, it may be unnecessary to consider risk from inhalation of that constituent in making listing determinations. In some cases, another regulatory program may be in the process of developing such regulatory requirements. If this program is under statutory requirements or Court Order, EPA may consider these regulatory requirements to be forthcoming and, in some cases, may defer to them in listing determinations, even where such regulatory coverage is several years away. If this program is under no statutory or legal deadline, no deference typically will be given to projected future regulatory coverage from other programs. (4) Waste Volume Waste volume is, in fact, part of a risk-level calculation. Risk is projected based on the volume of waste involved. However, volume of waste is also a factor EPA may consider when the projected risk falls in a marginal risk range. (5) Evidence of Co-occurrence Virtually all wastestreams EPA assesses are complex mixtures of constituents. Where possible, the Agency calculates potential risk for all measured pollutants. Where more than one risk value for carcinogenicity is calculated, concern about overall wastestream effects increases and the Agency will consider that risk additive. However, where sampling and analysis data show compelling evidence that the constituents cannot or do not occur together in the wastestream or at the receptor, the Agency generally will only consider the risk associated with individual constituents. (6) Damage Cases For each listing determination, EPA seeks data on damage cases. These are cases in which some prior waste management practice has resulted in environmental harm. Where there has been a clear case of harm, the data suggest the management of that waste has already damaged human health or the environment in some way, and that such damage could occur again. Depending on the number and severity of the damage cases and the potential for these damages to happen again, adverse damage cases may provide a ``stand alone'' reason for listing the waste. Where damage cases appear to contradict the risk analysis, EPA will try to determine the reason and use that assessment in the overall listing decision. (7) Unknown or Unquantified Risk Not all constituents in a complex wastestream can be analyzed for risk. Hazard data may not be available either directly or through mechanisms such as structure/activity relationships, or they may be in a form which is not considered usable by EPA. In the cases where some constituents are present but no risk levels can be assigned to them, the Agency considers the potential for these constituents to be hazardous. As stated above, use of these additional factors is not limited to cases in which the risk levels fall between 10 ^4 and 10 ^6 . Pursuant to EPA's listing determination policy ``weight-of-evidence'' approach, the Agency will consider these factors, as appropriate, even where risk levels fall in the presumptive list or presumptive no-list levels. II. Today's Action A. Summary of Today's Action 1. Confidentiality Claims The hazardous waste listings proposed here are based in part upon data claimed as confidential by certain dye and pigment manufacturers. Although EPA intends to publish information derived from these data claimed as confidential (to the extent relevant to the proposed listing), the Agency is unable to do so at the present time. Therefore, this proposed rule is being published without some of the information that supports the Agency's proposal. Where that information is missing from text, it is noted in the text. Whenever EPA is unable to include pertinent data in a table, the following statement appears in a footnote: ``Relevant data are not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns.'' EPA is pursuing avenues to allow publication of the information, and intends to supplement the public record prior to issuing a final listing. 2. Summary of Proposed Listing Determinations and Deferrals
