FR940725-1-00004 FR940725-1-00001 Recommended Approach Based on the information gathered at the various public meetings and from written comments, the NRC staff has developed the following recommended approach. The major features of the recommended approach are: •Redefine the purpose and need for the proposed action (renewal of an operating license) as preserving continued operation of a nuclear power plant as a safe option that State regulators and utility officials may consider in their future energy planning decisions. •Consider a range of alternatives to the proposed action to identify any action that may reasonably serve the stated purpose and need. Review the environmental impacts of any such alternatives. •Consider the environmental consequences of the ``no action'' alternative to license renewal, which the NRC is required to do by NEPA, i.e., the environmental impact of a range of energy sources that might be used if NRC should preclude the option of continued operation (license renewal). •Change NRC's NEPA decision standard for license renewal so that renewal does not depend on an NRC conclusion that operation is the preferred NEPA option. Instead, license renewal would depend on an NRC conclusion that continued operation of a nuclear power plant is within the reasonable range of alternatives considered and should not be rejected as an option for future consideration. Under the NRC staff's recommended approach, the definition of the purpose and need of the Federal action in the GEIS would read: The purpose and need of the proposed action is to preserve the option of continued operation of the nuclear power plant for State regulators and utility officials in their future energy planning decisions. In formulating this proposed purpose and need statement, the NRC staff has attempted to consider the perspective of State regulators, the needs of license renewal applicants, the nature of the applications at issue, and the function that the NRC plays in the decisional process. This proposed definition does not indicate an endorsement by the NRC of nuclear power operation as a preferred energy source. Instead, the proposed definition is intended to convey that, absent findings in the Atomic Energy Act safety review or in the NEPA environmental analysis that would lead the NRC to reject a license renewal application, the NRC will not interfere with the energy planning decisions of state regulators and utility officials. It would also be explained in the GEIS that a renewed license is not a mandate nor a commitment to operate but is simply documentation that the licensee can meet the NRC's public health and safety requirements. The GEIS would continue to include a full discussion of the environmental impacts of license renewal, the purpose and need for license renewal, alternatives that can serve that purpose and need, the no action alternative, and the environmental consequences of the no action alternative. In doing so, the NRC would fulfill its obligations under NEPA to consider alternatives to the proposed action. The GEIS would contain no discussion of need for power, the economic competitiveness of nuclear power, or other economic considerations related to these issues. In applying the proposed definition of purpose and need to the GEIS, the NRC staff has identified only two basic alternatives which reasonably flow from the proposed approach: renewing an operating license, which would preserve the option, and not renewing the operating license (the no action alternative), which would not preserve the option but is nevertheless required under NEPA. The NRC staff will give further consideration to identifying additional alternatives and is soliciting public comment by means of this document. If any other reasonable alternatives are identified, the environmental impacts associated with them will be assessed. However, the NRC staff will examine the environmental impacts of alternative sources of energy in its analysis of the no action alternative. The implementation of the no action alternative, i.e., NRC's rejection of a license renewal application, would create a range of potential environmental impacts including those impacts which would result from the possible replacement of the nuclear plant's power by some other source of energy. Accordingly, under the NRC staff's proposed approach, the NRC staff will examine in the GEIS the full range of environmental impacts of other sources of energy in order to ensure a full consideration of the no action alternative.
