FR940513-2-00189 FR940513-2-00091 While not every one of these services is directly applicable to needs in Africa, they reflect the evolving demands placed upon the U.S. Congress and could help guide efforts to promote professional development of legislative staff in Africa. The legislatures in Mali, Niger and Benin are drafting landmark legislation aimed at implementing political and economic reforms. Legislators and observers have identified the need for assistance in bill drafting, improving legislative procedures and developing strategies to make better use of legislative archives. In most cases specialized training is not available, and staff could benefit from a project aimed at enhancing their capabilities to assist lawmakers fulfill their mandates. Legislators and staff also are seeking reference materials to support their legislative initiatives. In Cote d'Ivoire, where the ruling party has held power for 30 years, parliamentary elections scheduled for 1995 could alter the political landscape. Legislative aides in Cote d'Ivoire, and all these states, could benefit from a program that demonstrates the role of professionalism and nonpartisanship in conducting the business of the legislature. Objectives The project should be designed to: _Provide an overview of the structure and practices of representative government in the United States, including the interrelationship between the three branches of government; _Introduce participants to the professional support offices and staff employed by the U.S. Congress and appropriate state legislatures; _Demonstrate the roles and skills of professional staff in the day-to-day operations of a legislature and the nature of their interaction with lawmakers; _Analyze the relationship between partisan politics and the professional responsibilities of legislative staff; _Develop workshops and appropriate instructional material designed to address identified needs and enhance the capabilities of professional aides to improve the legislative process; _Develop strategies for improving management of archives, legislative records and other official documentation; _Develop appropriate training methods to prepare project participants to train others involved in the legislative process; _Devise strategies to facilitate access to reference materials and other appropriate information about the structure and functioning of the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and other democratic institutions; and _Lay the groundwork for collaboration between the professional support services for U.S. legislatures and counterpart services of African legislatures. Programmatic Considerations Pursuant to the legislation authorizing the USIA Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, all programs sponsored by that Bureau must be balanced and non-partisan in nature and representative of the diversity of American political, social and cultural life. USIA will give careful consideration to proposals which demonstrate: (1) In-depth, substantive knowledge of management and policy development issues relative to the legislative process;
