FR940616-2-00073 FR940616-2-00054 Food and Drug Administration Request for Nominations for Voting Members on Public Advisory Panels or Committees AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is requesting nominations for voting members to serve on certain device panels of the Medical Devices Advisory Committee and on the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee in the Center for Devices and Radiological Health. Nominations will be accepted for current vacancies and for those that will or may occur through February 28, 1995. FDA has a special interest in ensuring that women, minority groups, and individuals with disabilities are adequately represented on advisory committees and, therefore, extends particular encouragement to nominations for appropriately qualified female, minority, and physically disabled candidates. DATES: Because scheduled vacancies occur on various dates throughout each year, no cutoff date is established for the receipt of nominations. However, when possible, nominations should be received at least 6 months before the date of scheduled vacancies for each year, as indicated in this notice. ADDRESSES: All nominations and curricula vitae for the panels should be sent to Nancy J. Pluhowski, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;400), Food and Drug Administration, 1390 Piccard Dr., Rockville, MD 20850. All nominations and curricula vitae for the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee should be sent to Kay A. Levin (address below). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kay A. Levin, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;10), Food and Drug Administration, 12720 Twinbrook Pkwy., Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;9422. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FDA is requesting nominations of voting members for vacancies listed below. 1. Anesthesiology and Respiratory Therapy Devices Panel : Six vacancies immediately, one vacancy occurring November 30, 1994; general anesthesiologists, anesthesiologists with a specialty in regional anesthesia, physicians having expertise in ventilatory support, or nurse anesthetist. 2. Clinical Chemistry and Clinical Toxicology Devices Panel : Three vacancies immediately, one vacancy occurring February 28, 1995; doctors of medicine or philosophy with experience in clinical chemistry, clinical toxicology, clinical pathology, clinical laboratory medicine, or oncology. 3. Dental Products Panel : One vacancy immediately, two vacancies occurring October 31, 1994; individuals with expertise in lasers for dental use, dental endosseous implants, temporomandibular joint implants, or bone physiology as it applies to the oral and maxillofacial area. 4. Ear, Nose, and Throat Devices Panel : One vacancy occurring October 31, 1994; audiologist, otolaryngologist, neurophysiologist, statistician, or electrical or biomedical engineer. 5. Gastroenterology and Urology Devices Panel : Three vacancies immediately, one vacancy occurring December 31, 1994; gastroenterologists, nephrologists, or urologists with expertise in pediatrics or lithotripsy, or experience in diagnosis and treatment of impotence, incontinence, and prostatism. 6. General and Plastic Surgery Devices Panel : Two vacancies occurring August 31, 1994; general surgeons. 7. General Hospital and Personal Use Devices Panel : One vacancy immediately; experts in pediatrics, internal medicine, neonatology, gerontology, infection control, or biomedical engineering. 8. Hematology and Pathology Devices Panel : One vacancy immediately, three vacancies occurring February 28, 1995; cytopathologists. 9. Immunology Devices Panel : One vacancy immediately, two vacancies occurring February 28, 1995; oncologists, medical or surgical oncologists with experience with tumor markers, or clinical immunologists. 10. Microbiology Devices Panel : One vacancy occurring February 28, 1995; an infectious disease clinician or expert in antimicrobial susceptibility testing devices, and/or virology testing devices, and/or biotechnology; or clinical oncologist with experience with tumor markers. 11. Neurological Devices Panel : Seven vacancies immediately; neurologists, biomedical engineers, interventional neuroradiologists, neurosurgeons with interest in medical devices, or persons experienced with neurological devices with a strong background in biostatistics. 12. Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel : Four vacancies immediately, two vacancies occurring January 31, 1995; experts in endoscopy, electrosurgery, laser surgery, and assisted reproductive technologies, contraception, and/or instrumentation used during these procedures, or reproductive endocrinology. 13. Orthopedic and Rehabilitation Devices Panel : One vacancy occurring August 31, 1994; orthopedic surgeon with expertise in joint structure and function, prosthetic ligament devices, joint biomechanics and implants, or spinal instrumentation; physical therapist with expertise in spinal cord injuries, neurophysiology, electrotherapy, and joint biomechanics; rheumatologist; or biomedical engineer. 14. Radiological Devices Panel : Four vacancies immediately, two vacancies occurring January 31, 1995; physicians and scientists with expertise in nuclear medicine, diagnostic or therapeutic radiology, mammography, thermography, transillumination, hyperthermia, bone densitometry, magnetic resonance, computed tomography, or ultrasound. 15. Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee : One vacancy immediately, three vacancies occurring December 31, 1994; employees of governmental agencies, including State or Federal Government. Functions Medical Device and Dental Products Panels The functions of the panels are to: (1) Review and evaluate available data concerning the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational devices; (2) advise the Commissioner of Food and Drugs regarding recommended classification of these devices into one of three regulatory categories; (3) recommend the assignment of a priority for the application of regulatory requirements for devices classified in the standards or premarket approval category; (4) advise on any possible risks to health associated with the use of devices; (5) advise on formulation of product development protocols and review premarket approval applications for those devices classified in the premarket approval category; (6) review classification of devices to recommend changes in classification as appropriate; (7) recommend exemption of certain devices from the application of portions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; (8) advise on the necessity to ban a device; and (9) respond to requests from the agency to review and make recommendations on specific issues or problems concerning the safety and effectiveness of devices. The Dental Products Panel will also function at times as a drug advisory panel. As such, the panel reviews and evaluates available data concerning the safety and effectiveness of active ingredients, and combinations thereof, of various currently marketed dental drug products for human use, the adequacy of their labeling, and advises the Commissioner of Food and Drugs on the promulgation of monographs establishing conditions under which these drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded. The panel also evaluates and recommends whether various prescription drug products should be changed to over-the-counter status. The panel also evaluates data and makes recommendations concerning the approval of new dental drug products for human use. Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee The function of the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee is to provide advice and consultation on the technical feasibility, reasonableness, and practicability of performance standards for electronic products to control the emission of radiation from such products. The committee may recommend electronic product radiation safety standards for consideration. Qualifications Medical Device and Dental Products Panels Persons nominated for membership on the panels shall have adequately diversified experience appropriate to the work of the panel in such fields as clinical and administrative medicine, engineering, biological and physical sciences, statistics, and other related professions. The nature of specialized training and experience necessary to qualify the nominee as an expert suitable for appointment may include experience in medical practice, teaching, and/or research relevant to the field of activity of the panel. The particular needs at this time for each panel are shown above. The term of office is up to 4 years, depending on the appointment date. Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee Persons nominated for the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee must be technically qualified by training and experience in one or more fields of science or engineering applicable to electronic product radiation safety. The particular needs for this committee are identified above. The term of office is up to 4 years, depending on the appointment date. Nomination Procedures Any interested person may nominate one or more qualified persons for membership on one or more of the advisory panels or committees. Self-nominations are also accepted. Nominations shall include a complete curriculum vitae of each nominee, current business address and telephone number, and shall state that the nominee is aware of the nomination, is willing to serve as a member, and appears to have no conflict of interest that would preclude membership. FDA will ask the potential candidates to provide detailed information concerning such matters as financial holdings, employment, and research grants and/or contracts to permit evaluation of possible sources of conflict of interest. This notice is issued under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. app. 2) and 21 CFR part 14 relating to advisory committees. Dated: June 10, 1994. Linda A. Suydam, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14647 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
