FR941003-1-00093 FR941003-1-00006 (a) Counterpart procedures. Prior to a disaster or emergency, the Agency Official should develop a plan for taking historic properties into account during operations which respond to a disaster or emergency declared by the President or Agency Official. At the request of the Agency Official, the Council will assist in the development of such a plan. The plan shall be submitted to the Council for approval and, if approved, shall govern the agency's historic preservation responsibilities during any disaster or emergency. (b) Alternatives to counterpart procedures. When an Agency Official proposes an emergency undertaking as an essential and immediate response to a disaster or emergency declared by the President, and the agency has not developed counterpart procedures pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency Official may satisfy Section 106 by: (1) Following a State Disaster Plan which contains a historic preservation component that has been approved by the Council; or (2) If there is no State Disaster Plan which contains a historic preservation component that has been approved by the Council and if the Agency Official determines that circumstances permit, notifying the Council and the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer prior to the undertaking and affording them an opportunity to comment within seven days of notification. (c) Local governments statutorily delegated responsibility for Section 106 compliance. For the purposes of activities assisted under Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, or any other statute which delegates Section 106 compliance responsibilities, §§ 800.18 (a) and (b) also apply to an imminent threat to public health or safety as a result of a natural disaster or emergency declared by a local government's chief executive officer or legislative body, provided that if the Council or State Historic Preservation Officer objects within 7 days, the Agency Official shall comply with §§800.7 through 800.10. (d) Applicability. Paragraph (b)(2) of this section applies only to undertakings that will be implemented within 30 days after the disaster or emergency has been initially and formally declared by the President. An agency may seek renewals of the 30 day period by requesting a renewal from the Council prior to the completion of the 30 days. Subpart E_Coordination With Other Authorities. §800.19 Coordination with other authorities. (a) Purpose and scope. The requirements of Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act are independent of other environmental review and protection, historic preservation, and resource management authorities. As such, compliance with one does not substitute for compliance with the other. To promote program effectiveness and efficiency, Agency Officials are encouraged to coordinate and, where appropriate, integrate the requirements of Section 106 and this part with the requirements of other environmental review and protection, historic preservation, and resource management authorities to the maximum extent feasible. Neither Section 106 or this part require that Federal agencies comply with these related authorities, nor do they supersede any regulations that have been issued to govern any related authorities. (b) Related authorities. Authorities that should be considered for coordination with Section 106 compliance include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) Other authorities that require agencies to identify, evaluate, and consider effects on historic properties through planning processes (e.g., National Environmental Policy Act; American Indian Religious Freedom Act; Federal Land Policy and Management Act; National Forest Management Act; and Department of Transportation Act, Section 4(f)); and (2) Other authorities that require agencies to establish mechanisms for protection and disposition of historic properties (e.g., Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act; Archeological Resources Protection Act; Abandoned Shipwrecks Act; and Archeological and Historic Preservation Act). (c) Coordination with specific authorities_ (1) National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)._ The Agency Official should coordinate the identification, evaluation, assessment, and resolution of adverse effect steps of Subpart C of this part with NEPA requirements, so that determinations reached under the Section 106 process are accurately reflected in the Agency Official's decision- making process for the proposed undertaking. (i) During the preparation of preliminary environmental investigations and studies (and the scoping process where applicable), the Agency Official should ensure that information is explicitly sought on the presence of historic properties and the nature of any effects upon them. This information is sought to be consistent with the spirit of NEPA to identify, avoid, minimize, and lastly to mitigate unavoidable adverse environmental effects. (ii) The Agency Official is encouraged to coordinate the public participation requirements of the EIS process with those of the Section 106 process to eliminate duplication and maximize public knowledge and understanding of the undertaking and its effects upon historic properties, provided that the use of the NEPA public participation process shall not abrogate the public involvement rights afforded in the Council's regulations. (iii) An undertaking considered to be categorically excluded from review under NEPA in accordance with agency procedures may require review under Section 106 (See §800.5(c)(3)). (iv) When the Agency Official prepares an Environmental Assessment (EA) or Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) to meet NEPA requirements, the EA or DEIS should document the steps taken to comply with Section 106 and reflect the method by which the Agency Official concluded the Section 106 process. (A) The Agency Official should complete the identification and evaluation of potentially affected historic properties and the assessment of effects on such properties as set forth in Subpart C of this part prior to circulating or making the EA or DEIS available for comment. The Agency Official may include the resolution of adverse effects, if that step has been completed prior to circulation of the Draft EIS.
