FR940114-1-00048 FR940114-1-00008 Include evaluation in initial program planning efforts to ensure that data will be available and that sufficient resources will be allocated; Report results regularly to project and program managers, to police field commanders and officers, to transportation engineers, and to the public and private sectors. Use results to verify problem identification, guide future speed control activities, and assist in justifying resources to legislative bodies; Conduct a variety of surveys to assist in determining program effectiveness, such as speed surveys and surveys measuring public knowledge and attitude about speed control programs; Analyze speed compliance and speed-related crashes in areas with actual hazards to the public; Evaluate the effectiveness of speed control activities provided in support of other priority traffic safety areas; and Maintain and report traffic data to the SHSA, IACP Traffic Data Report and other appropriate repositories, such as the FBI Uniform Crime Reports, FHWA's SAFETYNET system, and annual statewide reports. Highway Safety Program Guideline No. 20 Occupant Protection Each State, in cooperation with its political subdivisions, should have a comprehensive occupant protection program that educates and motivates its citizens to use available motor vehicle occupant protection systems. A combination of use requirements, enforcement, public information, education, and incentives is necessary to achieve significant, lasting increases in safety belt usage. Therefore, a well-balanced State occupant protection program should include the components described below. I. Program Management Each State should have centralized program planning, implementation and coordination to achieve and sustain high rates of safety belt use. Evaluation is also important for determining progress and ultimate success of occupant protection programs. The State Highway Safety Agency (SHSA) should: Provide leadership, training, and technical assistance to other state agencies and local occupant protection programs and projects; Convene an occupant protection advisory task force or coalition to organize and generate broad-based support for programs; Integrate occupant protection programs into community/corridor traffic safety programs; and Evaluate the effectiveness of its occupant protection program. II. Legislation, Regulation, and Policy Each State should enact and enforce safety belt use laws, regulations, and policies to provide clear guidance to the motoring public concerning motor vehicle occupant protection systems. This legal framework should include: Legislation requiring all motor vehicle occupants to use the systems provided by the vehicle manufacturer and establish educational programs to explain their benefits and the correct way to use them; Legislation requiring children up to 40 pounds (or five years old if weight cannot be determined) to ride in a safety device certified by the manufacturer to meet all applicable Federal performance standards; Regulations requiring employees of all levels of government to wear safety belts when traveling on official business;
