FR940224-2-00069 FR940224-2-00041 [Docket No. R&hyph;0778] Federal Reserve Bank Services AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Board has approved an expansion of Fedwire funds transfer operating hours for the public policy benefits that will result through the use, over the long term, of the service by banks individually and through clearing groups. The Board believes that the potential, long run benefits from offering final payment capabilities that will strengthen interbank settlements outweigh the costs to the Federal Reserve of expanding the Fedwire funds transfer service operating hours. Over time, longer Fedwire funds transfer hours can contribute to reductions in Herstatt risk through innovations in payment and settlement practices. As well, the Fedwire funds transfer service will become a tested tool for managing settlement risk early in the day during times of financial stress. Specifically, the Board is announcing that the hours of operation of the Fedwire on-line funds transfer service will be expanded to 18 hours per day, opening at 12:30 a.m. e.t. and closing at 6:30 p.m. e.t., five days per week (Monday through Friday) to become effective in early 1997. A specific implementation date will be announced approximately one year in advance of the effective date. Intraday credit from the Federal Reserve will be available during expanded hours on the same terms that it would be provided from 8:30 a.m. e.t. to 6:30 p.m. e.t. Further expansion of the funds transfer operating day could be considered following several years of experience with the new schedule. In addition, the Board is announcing that current Fedwire securities transfer operating hours will not be expanded until after the implementation of new service capabilities that permit receivers of securities to control the use of securities-related intraday Federal Reserve credit. Public comment will be sought in 1994 on new service capabilities that permit users the option to participate in expanded securities transfer service operating hours and to control the receipt of securities that are delivered to them during expanded hours. This request for public comment could be combined with a request for views on the use of similar service features during regular securities transfer operating hours. In the case of expanded or regular hours, but especially in the latter case, a key issue concerns the effects of such changes on the liquidity and efficiency of the U.S. government securities market. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John H. Parrish, Assistant Director (202/452&hyph;2224), Gayle Brett, Manager (202/452&hyph;2934), or Lisa Hoskins, Senior Financial Services Analyst (202/452&hyph;3437), Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. For the hearing impaired only, Telecommunication Device for the Deaf (TDD), Dorothea Thompson (202/452&hyph;3544), Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th and C Streets NW., Washington, DC 20551.
