FR940527-0-00062 FR940527-0-00022 41 CFR Parts 301&hyph;3, 301&hyph;9, 302&hyph;1, 302&hyph;6 and 302&hyph;11 [FTR Amendment 37] RIN 3090&hyph;AE48 Federal Travel Regulation; Title Requirements for Reimbursement of Residence Transaction Expenses AGENCY: Federal Supply Service, GSA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule amends the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR) to allow reimbursement for residence transaction expenses in accordance with equitable title ownership, and to incorporate certain editorial corrections and clarifications. This amendment is intended to provide equitable residence transaction expense reimbursement to Federal employees who transfer in the interest of the Government. DATES: Effective date: The provisions of this final rule are effective May 27, 1994. Applicability dates: The provisions of this final rule amending chapter 301 apply for travel (including travel incident to a change of official station) performed on or after May 27, 1994. The provisions of this final rule amending chapter 302 apply to an employee whose effective date of transfer (date the employee reports for duty at the new official station) is on or after May 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert A. Clauson, Transportation Management Division (FBX), Washington, DC 20406, telephone 703&hyph;305&hyph;5745. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This amendment modifies the rules governing residence title requirements to recognize and provide reimbursement to an employee based on equitable title interests. This amendment recognizes the following four specific equitable title situations: (1) when title is held in trust for the benefit of the employee; (2) when title is held in the name of a financial institution pursuant to state laws governing financing arrangements secured by real property; (3) when title is held in the name of an accommodation party; and (4) when title is held by the seller of the real property under a financial arrangement which requires fixed periodic payments and transfer of title to the employee upon completion of the payment schedule. The amendment also recognizes ``other equitable title situations'' when documentation requirements specified in the regulation can be met. Title Held in Trust This amendment modifies the FTR to allow an employee to be reimbursed for the sale or purchase of real property when title to the property is held in trust for the benefit of the employee, a member of the employee's immediate family, or both. Previously, this was allowed under a decision of the Comptroller General (CG) of the United States ( Paul D. Atkinson , 70 Comp. Gen. 363 (1991)). This amendment explicitly states the conditions necessary for reimbursement. Title Held by Financial Institution This amendment modifies the FTR to allow an employee to be reimbursed for the sale or purchase of real property when title to the property is held by a financial institution pursuant to state financing laws. Some states require that lenders take title to real property in order to perfect (i.e., protect) the lender's security interest. Other states require the lender to record a lien against the title in the residence records to perfect the lender's security interest. This amendment ensures equal treatment for employees who enter into a financing arrangement (e.g., a mortgage) for real property and who offer the real property as security for the financing arrangement. Accommodation Parties This amendment modifies the FTR to allow an employee to be reimbursed for the sale or purchase of real property when the name of an accommodation party appears on the title document. An accommodation party is an individual who signs an employee's financing arrangement (e.g., a mortgage) to lend his/her name (i.e., credit) to the arrangement. Such an individual is a surety, becoming responsible for the payments should the employee not perform, but the individual has no beneficial interest in the property as long as the arrangement is not in default. Financing Arrangements with the Seller of the Property This amendment modifies the FTR to allow an employee to be reimbursed for the sale or purchase of real property when the title is held in the name of the seller of the property pursuant to a financing arrangement (e.g., land contract) providing for fixed periodic payments and transfer of title to the employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family upon completion of the payment schedule. Previously, this was allowed by CG decision (B&hyph;200207, September 29, 1981). Other Equitable Title Situations There are situations other than those listed above in which an employee can demonstrate that he/she has equitable title based on the following criteria: only the employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family has made payments on the residence, and the employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family must have received all proceeds from the sale of the property. This amendment modifies the FTR to authorize reimbursement to an employee for the sale of real property in ``other equitable title situations'' meeting these criteria. More extensive documentation requirements enumerated within the amendment apply when this general ``other equitable title situations'' provision is used. When both the general provision and one of the specific equitable title provisions apply, reimbursement to the employee will be covered under the specific provision instead of the general provision. This amendment adds language to the section in part 1 of chapter 302 that addresses ``applicability'' to clarify that chapter 302 covers ``last move home'' benefits for career appointees to the Senior Executive Service (SES) and prior SES appointees who have elected to retain their SES retirement benefits. This amendment also makes certain editorial and technical corrections. GSA has determined that this rule is not a significant regulatory action for the purposes of Executive Order 12866 of September 30, 1993. List of Subjects 41 CFR Parts 301&hyph;3 and 301&hyph;9 Government employees, Travel, Travel allowances, Travel and transportation expenses 41 CFR Parts 302&hyph;1, 302&hyph;6, and 302&hyph;11 Government employees, Income taxes, Relocation allowances and entitlements, Transfers For the reasons set out in the preamble, 41 CFR parts 301&hyph;3, 301&hyph;9, 302&hyph;1, 302&hyph;6 and 302&hyph;11 are amended to read as follows: PART 301&hyph;3_USE OF COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION 1. The authority citation for part 301&hyph;3 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 5701&hyph;5709; E.O. 11609, 36 FR 13747, 3 CFR, 1971&hyph;1975 Comp., p. 586. §301&hyph;3.3 [Amended] 2. Section 301&hyph;3.3 is amended by removing the phrase ``or security reasons'' in the parenthetical in paragraph (e)(1)(vi), and by adding in its place ``security reasons, or inadequate foreign coach-class train accommodations''. PART 301&hyph;9_MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES 3. The authority citation for part 301&hyph;9 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 5701&hyph;5709; E.O. 11609, 36 FR 13747, 3 CFR, 1971&hyph;1975 Comp., p. 586. 4. Section 301&hyph;9.2 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(1) to read as follows: §301&hyph;9.2 Additional travel expenses incurred by an employee with a disability. (a) * * * (1) Policy. In accordance with the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq. ) and 5 U.S.C. 3102, these provisions are intended to accommodate an employee with a disability by providing for reimbursement of necessary additional travel expenses incurred in the performance of official travel. * * * * * PART 302&hyph;1_APPLICABILITY, GENERAL RULES, AND ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS 5. The authority citation for part 302&hyph;1 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 5721&hyph;5734; 20 U.S.C. 905(a); E.O. 11609, 36 FR 13747, 3 CFR, 1971&hyph;1975 Comp., p. 586; E.O. 12466, 49 FR 7349, 3 CFR, 1984 Comp., p. 165; E.O. 12522, 50 FR 26337, 3 CFR, 1985 Comp., p. 375. SUBPART A_NEW APPOINTEES AND TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES 6. Section 302&hyph;1.2 is amended by adding paragraph (a)(7) to read as follows: §302&hyph;1.2 Applicability. (a) * * * (7) Career appointees to the Senior Executive Service (SES), and prior SES appointees who have elected to retain SES retirement benefits, upon their retirement and return to the place the individual has elected to reside. * * * * * §302&hyph;1.10 [Amended] 7. Section 302&hyph;1.10 is amended by removing the reference ``paragraph (d)'' in paragraph (b)(1), and by adding in its place, the reference ``paragraph (e)''. PART 302&hyph;6_ALLOWANCE FOR EXPENSES INCURRED IN CONNECTION WITH RESIDENCE TRANSACTIONS 8. The authority citation for part 302&hyph;6 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 5721&hyph;5734; 20 U.S.C. 905(a); E.O. 11609, 36 FR 13747, 3 CFR, 1971&hyph;1975 Comp., p. 586. 9. Section 302&hyph;6.1 is amended by revising paragraphs (c) and (f) to read as follows: §302&hyph;6.1 Conditions and requirements under which allowances are payable. * * * * * (c) Title requirements. The title to the residence or dwelling at the old or new official station, or the interest in a cooperatively owned dwelling or in an unexpired lease, is in the name of the employee alone, or in the joint names of the employee and one or more members of his/her immediate family, or solely in the name of one or more members of his/her immediate family. The rules in paragraphs (c) (1) through (3) of this section apply in determining title to the residence. (1) Title interest must have been acquired prior to notification of transfer. For an employee to be eligible for reimbursement of the costs of selling a dwelling or terminating a lease at the old official station, the employee's property interest must have been acquired prior to the date the employee was first officially notified of his/her transfer to the new official station. In the case of an employee covered by paragraph (g) of this section, the employee's interest must have been acquired prior to the date the employee was first officially notified of his/her transfer to the foreign area. (2) Legal title interest. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, title to the residence is determined by the name of the party (or parties) on the title document (e.g., the deed). (3) Equitable title interest. The employee, and/or a member(s) of his/her immediate family, in a situation listed in paragraphs (c)(3) (i) through (v) of this section is deemed to have title to the residence without regard to whether his/her name appears on the title document. (i) Title held in trust. The property is held in trust and the conditions in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) (A) through (F) of this section apply. (A) The property must be the employee's residence as described in paragraph (b) of this section. (B) The employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family must be the only beneficiary(ies) of the trust during his/her lifetime. (C) The employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family must retain the right to distribute the property during his/her lifetime. (D) The employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family must retain the right to manage the property. (E) The employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family must be the only grantor/settlor of the trust, or must retain the right to direct distribution of the property upon dissolution of the trust or death. (F) The employee provides the agency with a copy of the trust document. (ii) Title held by financial institution. The title is held in the name of a financial institution and the conditions in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) (A) through (D) of this section apply. (A) The property is the employee's residence as described in paragraph (b) of this section. (B) The employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family executed a financing agreement (e.g., mortgage) with the financial institution. (C) State or local law requires that lending parties take title to perfect (i.e., protect) a security interest in the property, or the financial institution requires that it take possession of title as a condition of the financing agreement. (D) The employee must provide the agency with a copy of the financing document. The agency may require that the employee also provide proof of state or local laws governing secured credit. (iii) Title includes an accommodation party or parties. The title is held both in the names of: the employee singularly, or the employee and one or more members of his/her immediate family jointly, or one or more members of his/her immediate family; and an individual (accommodation party) who is not an immediate family member. In addition, the conditions in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) (A) through (G) of this section apply. (An accommodation party is an individual who signs an employee's financing agreement (e.g., a mortgage) to lend his/her name (i.e., credit) to the arrangement.) (A) The property is the employee's residence as described in paragraph (b) of this section. (B) The employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family has right to use the property and to direct conveyance of the property. (C) The lender requires signature of the accommodation party on the financing document. (D) The employee and/or a member of the immediate family, is liable for payments under the financing arrangement (e.g., mortgage). (E) The accommodation party's name is on the title. (F) The accommodation party does not have a financial interest in the property unless the employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family defaults on the financing arrangement. (G) The employee provides the agency with acceptable documentation of the accommodation. Agencies shall issue policy defining acceptable documentation of the accommodation. Such documentation may include a copy of the financing document and/or a written statement from the employee certifying that the conditions in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) (A) through (G) of this section apply. Such documentation also may include a written statement from the accommodation party certifying that he/she does not have a financial interest in the property. (iv) Title held by seller of the property. The title is held in the name of the seller of the property and the conditions in paragraphs (c)(3)(iv) (A) through (D) of this section apply. (A) The property is the employee's residence as described in paragraph (b) of this section. (B) The employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family has right to use the property and to direct conveyance of the property. (C) The employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family must have signed a financing agreement with the seller of the property (e.g., a land contract) providing for fixed periodic payments and transfer of title to the employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family upon completion of the payment schedule. (D) The employee must provide the agency with a copy of the financing agreement. (v) Other equitable title situations. The title is held both in the names of: the employee singularly, or the employee and one or more members of his/her immediate family jointly, or one or more members of his/her immediate family; and an individual who is not an immediate family member. In addition, the conditions in paragraphs (c)(3)(v) (A) through (E) of this section apply. (A) The property is the employee's residence as described in paragraph (b) of this section. (B) The employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family has right to use the property and to direct conveyance of the property. (C) Only the employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family has made payments on the property. (D) The employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family received all proceeds from the sale of the property. (E) The employee must provide suitable documentation to the agency that the conditions listed in paragraphs (c)(3)(v) (A) through (D) of this section have been met. Agencies shall issue policy defining acceptable documentation. Such documentation must include financial documents proving that only the employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family made payments on the property, and financial documents proving that the employee and/or a member(s) of the immediate family received all proceeds from the sale of the property. * * * * * (f) Reimbursement of expenses. The rules in paragraphs (f) (1) and (2) of this section govern the reimbursement of employee residence transaction expenses. (1) Employee must actually incur the expenses. An employee shall be reimbursed only for expenses actually incurred and paid by the employee or a member of the employee's immediate family. If any expenses were shared by persons other than the employee or a member of his/her immediate family, reimbursement is limited to the portion actually paid by the employee and/or a member of his/her immediate family. (2) Pro rata reimbursement. The employee shall be reimbursed on a pro rata basis in the situations listed in paragraphs (f)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section. When an employee is deemed to have a title interest under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the employee shall be reimbursed on a pro rata basis to the extent of his/her actual title interest plus his/her deemed title interest in the residence. (i) Multiple occupancy dwelling. If the residence is a duplex or another type of multiple occupancy dwelling which is occupied only partially by the employee, or whenever the employee shares responsibility for a leased property (e.g., a shared apartment arrangement), expenses shall be reimbursed on a pro rata basis. (ii) Excess land. The employee shall be limited to pro rata reimbursement when he/she sells or purchases land in excess of that which reasonably relates to the residence site. * * * * * PART 302&hyph;11_RELOCATION INCOME TAX (RIT) ALLOWANCE 10. The authority citation for part 302&hyph;11 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 5721&hyph;5734; 20 U.S.C. 905(a); E.O. 11609, 36 FR 13747, 3 CFR, 1971&hyph;1975 Comp., p. 586; E.O. 12466, 49 FR 7349, 3 CFR, 1984 Comp., p. 165. §302&hyph;11.8 [Amended] 11. Section 302&hyph;11.8 is amended by removing the phrase ``paragraph (e)(4)'' in paragraph (e)(2)(iii), and by adding in its place the phrase ``paragraph (e)(5)''. Dated: May 16, 1994. Roger W. Johnson, Administrator of General Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13013 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;24&hyph;F
