FR940419-2-00074 FR940419-2-00036 Food and Drug Administration Request for Nominations for Members on Public Advisory Committees; Food Advisory Committee AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is requesting nominations for members to serve on the Food Advisory Committee (the committee) in FDA's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. Nominations will be accepted for current vacancies and vacancies that will or may occur on the committee during the next 24 months. FDA has special interest in ensuring that women, minority groups, and the physically handicapped are adequately represented on advisory committees and, therefore, extends particular encouragement to nominations for appropriately qualified female, minority, or physically handicapped candidates. Final selection from among qualified candidates for each vacancy will be determined by the expertise required to meet specific agency needs and in a manner to ensure appropriate balance of membership. DATES: Nominations should be received by May 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: All nominations for membership, except for consumer-nominated members, should be sent to Catherine M. DeRoever (address below). All nominations for the consumer-nominated members should be sent to Susan K. Meadows (address below). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Regarding all nominations for membership, except for consumer-nominated members: Catherine M. DeRoever, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS&hyph;22), Food and Drug Administration, 200 C St. SW., Washington, DC 20204, 202&hyph;205&hyph;4251. Regarding all nominations for consumer-nominated members: Susan K. Meadows, Office of Consumer Affairs (HFE&hyph;20), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;5006. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FDA is requesting nominations for members to serve on the advisory committee listed below. Individuals should have expertise in the activity of the committee. Food Advisory Committee : One vacancy needs to be filled immediately (nonconsumer/industry representative vacancy). Also, seven vacancies will occur June 30, 1994, including one for a consumer representative and one for an industry representative, and eight vacancies will occur June 30, 1995, including one for a consumer representative and one for an industry representative. The committee provides advice primarily to the Director, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, and as needed, to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs and other appropriate officials, on emerging food safety, food science, and nutrition issues that FDA considers of primary importance in the next decade. The committee also provides advice and makes recommendations on ways of communicating to the public the potential risks associated with these issues and recommends approaches to be considered in addressing them. Criteria for Members Persons nominated for membership on the committee shall be knowledgeable in the fields of life sciences, food science, risk assessment, or other relevant scientific disciplines. The committee may include technically qualified members who are identified with consumer interests and are recommended by either a consortium of consumer-oriented organizations or other interested persons. Representatives of industry interests will serve as liaisons to the regulated industry. The term of office is up to 4 years. Nomination Procedures Interested persons may nominate one or more qualified persons for membership on the committee. Nominations shall state that the nominee is willing to serve as a member of the committee and appears to have no conflict of interest that would preclude committee membership. Additionally, the nominee's mailing address, telephone number, and curriculum vitae must accompany the nominations. Potential candidates will be asked by FDA to provide detailed information concerning such matters as financial holdings, employment, consultancies, and research grants and/or contracts to permit evaluation of possible sources of conflict of interest. Criteria for Consumer-Nominated Members Selection of representatives of consumer interests will be conducted through procedures that include use of a consortium of consumer organizations which has the responsibility for screening, interviewing, and recommending candidates for the agency's selection. Candidates from this group, like all other candidates for membership on the committee, should possess appropriate qualifications to understand and contribute to the committee's work. Industry Representatives Regarding nominations for members representing industry interests, a letter will be sent to each person or organization that has made a nomination and to other organizations that have expressed an interest in participating in the selection process together with a complete list of all such organizations and the nominees. The letter will state that it is the responsibility of each nominator or organization that has expressed an interest in participating in the selection process to consult with the others and to provide a consensus slate of possible members representing industry interests within 60 days. In the event that a slate of nominees has not been provided within 60 days, the agency will select an industry representative for each such vacancy from the entire list of industry nominees to avoid delay or disruption of the work of the committee. The agency is particularly interested in nominees that possess the essential scientific credentials needed to participate fully and knowledgeably in the committee's deliberations. In addition to this expertise, the agency believes that it would be an advantage to the committee's work if the individual(s) had special insight and direct experience into specific industry-wide issues, practices, and concerns that might not otherwise be available to others not similarly situated. This notice is issued under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. app. 2) and 21 CFR part 14, relating to advisory committees. Dated: April 13, 1994. Linda A. Suydam, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9349 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
