FR940513-2-00051 FR940513-2-00031 Requests for amendments of a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.7. Record source categories: Information in this system of records comes from the employee to whom it applies or comes from information supplied by Corporation employees and other authorized personnel. FCSIC&hyph;4 System name: Employee Travel_FCSIC. System location: Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Current and former Corporation employees. Categories of records in the system: Paper and electronic records relating to travel vouchers and supporting documentation. Authority for maintenance of the system: 12 U.S.C. 2277a&hyph;7, 2277a&hyph;8. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information contained in this system of records is used to provide records of reimbursement to employees for expenses incurred while in official travel status. (1) In the event that information in this record system indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal, or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule, or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, local, or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant thereto. (2) Information in this record system may be disclosed as a routine use to a Federal, State, or local agency maintaining civil, criminal, or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to a decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a grant or other benefit. (3) Information in this record system may be disclosed to a Federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of and investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant, or other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. (4) Disclosure may be made to a congressional office from the record of an individual in response to an inquiry from the congressional office made at the request of that individual. (5) It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice or to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear, when (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice or the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such records by the Department of Justice or the use of such records in the proceeding is deemed by the agency to be relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that in each case, the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice or the disclosure of such records in the proceeding is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. (6) In the event that information in this record system is needed in the course of presenting evidence to a court, magistrate, or administrative tribunal, the relevant records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate person to use as evidence. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are stored in cabinets or electronically. Retrievability: Paper records are filed alphabetically by name. Safeguards: Paper files are kept in areas which are locked after business hours. Access to electronic system is limited to authorized employees. Retention and disposal:
