FR941219-0-00041 FR941219-0-00014 Providing low-salinity water at the Roe Island historical reference point will not put the mixing zone too far downstream into the Carquinez Strait. Conversely, completely abolishing the Roe Island reference point and relying exclusively on the Chipps Island and Sacramento-San Joaquin River confluence locations may leave an important area in the western-most portion of Suisun Bay (which is included in critical habitat) outside the mixing zone (CCCWA/EDF 1987). The western portion of Suisun Bay is important habitat for the delta smelt. Delta smelt were most abundant at the Western Suisun Bay and Carquinez Strait sampling sites in the San Francisco Bay-Outflow Study in the years 1980&hyph;1988 (Stevens et al. 1990). Apart from the ship channel, the southwestern portion of Suisun Bay contains expansive shoal areas that are less than 2 meters deep (Mortensen 1987). The best survival and growth of delta smelt larvae occur when optimum conditions in the mixing zone occupy a large area that includes extensive shoal regions containing suitable rearing substrates within the euphotic zone (depths less than 4 meters). Moreover, because the Roe Island historic reference point was developed to mimic historical conditions in the Estuary, requiring periodic low-saline waters at that location will not be an abnormal occurrence. Historically, delta smelt have been flushed out into the Carquinez Strait and into Suisun Bay in high flow years, similar to what occurred in 1983 and 1993. The delta smelt is adapted to living in the Estuary, where salinity varies spatially and temporally according to tidal cycles and the amount of freshwater inflow. Nonetheless, the historical Estuary probably offered relatively constant suitable habitat conditions to delta smelt, which could move upstream or downstream with the entrapment zone (Peter Moyle, University of California, pers. comm., 1993). The Service does not believe EPA's Roe Island salinity criteria would be detrimental to native estuarine species. A qualitative and graphic analysis of habitat preferences for Estuary species (including eggs and larvae, juveniles, adults and spawning adults life stages) presented by a commenter which predicted that EPA's salinity criteria at Roe Island would put some species at risk or greatly benefit others was overly broad and too simplistic. The commenter included introduced species (e.g., inland silverside Menidia beryllina, threadfin shad Dorosoma petenese ) and marine species (e.g., several surfperches, English sole Parophrys vetulis ) in the analysis. Its analysis did not give any preference to species having protected status, or to species that rely solely on estuarine habitat. Freshwater, marine and estuarine-dependent species were treated equally. The analysis described habitat in terms of salinity alone, when other measures of habitat, such as temperature, turbidity, and depth, are important for some estuarine-dependent species. Since the quantity of habitat available for a species was described only by river kilometer, complex bathymetry was ignored in the investigation. The Service does not intend to benefit or recover species outside the Estuary, nor does it intend to protect introduced estuarine species. To comply with the Act, the Service must promote the recovery of the delta smelt. Impeding the establishment and success of introduced species, and providing suitable habitat for delta smelt, are significant and complementary components to recovering the species. The Service does not foresee a significant decline in other native estuarine species due to critical habitat designation for the delta smelt. The Service expects the opposite to occur and has evaluated the impacts of EPA's water quality standards through section 7 consultations. Comment 3: One commenter thought the Roe Island criteria would not benefit the delta smelt because the relationship between the 2 ppt isohaline location and the abundance indices of delta smelt become uncertain as the entrapment zone moves downstream from Chipps Island. Service Response: The Service need not show statistical significance between the location of the mixing zone and fishery abundance to include variable, low-salinity habitat as a primary constituent element. Under the Act, the Service must base a critical habitat designation on the best scientific information available. A statistical correlation between a primary constituent element and its effect on species recovery is not required. The complexity of the Delta ecosystem and the numerous factors contributing in time and space to the species' decline make it highly unlikely that any one factor would show a direct correlation with its potential recovery.
