FR940428-2-00095 FR940428-2-00052 Description of Amendment Request: The proposed amendment would include the use of integral fuel burnable absorbers as a method of controlling core excess reactivity and maintaining the core power distribution within acceptable peaking limitations. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis against the standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c). The staff's review is presented below: 1. The proposed amendment would not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Any fuel containing integral burnable absorbers will be analyzed using NRC approved methods and acceptance criteria prior to being loaded into Maine Yankee's reactor vessel core. Verification of adequate shutdown margin is performed during low power physics testing after each refueling. In addition, core physics monitoring is required during power operation by Technical Specifications sections 3.10, ``CEA Group, Power Distribution, Moderator Temperature Coefficient Limits and Coolant Conditions,'' and 3.15 ``Reactivity Anomalies.'' Such testing and monitoring ensures adequate margin exists to accommodate the anticipated transients and accidents postulated in Maine Yankee's Final Safety Analysis Report. The licensee therefore concludes that implementation of the proposed change will not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed amendment would not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. A determination of compliance with approved acceptance criteria is made for every Maine Yankee fuel reload prior to loading fuel. The use of approved methodologies and acceptance criteria ensure that new or different accidents will not be created by the use of integral fuel burnable absorbers. The licensee therefore concludes that implementation of the proposed change will not create any or new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. 3. The proposed amendment would not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The safety evaluation performed for each core reload ensures that the core design meets appropriate acceptance criteria. Because these criteria remain unchanged as approved by the NRC, the margin of safety remains the same. The licensee therefore concludes that implementation of the proposed change would not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: Wiscasset Public Library, High Street, P.O. Box 367, Wiscasset, Maine 04578. Attorney for Licensee: Mary Ann Lynch, Esquire, Maine Yankee Atomic Power Company, 83 Edison Drive, Augusta, Maine 04336. NRC Project Director: Walter R. Butler. Northern States Power Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;263, Monticello Nuclear Generating Plant, Wright County, Minnesota Date of Amendment Request: January 26, 1994. Description of Amendment Request: The proposed amendment would revise the Technical Specifications and associated Bases to reflect the fact that the main steam isolation valves can now be tested at a pressure of greater than or equal to P a (42 psig) thereby eliminating the need for the previously granted exemption to certain Appendix J testing requirements. The exemption would no longer be necessary because of improvements in testing technology. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: a. The proposed amendment will not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed amendment is limited to changes to the surveillance testing requirements (test pressure and allowable leakage criteria) applicable to the main steam line isolation valves. The proposed criteria are equivalent to the current criteria with respect to monitoring main steam isolation valve performance to ensure that leakage past the valves would be within acceptable limits under accident conditions. This surveillance test is performed while the plant is in a cold shutdown condition at a time when the main steam isolation valves are not required to be operable. Performance of the test itself is not an input or consideration in any accident previously evaluated, thus the proposed change will not increase the probability of any such accident occurring. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect the function, operation, or reliability of the valves, nor will it diminish the capability of the valves to perform as required during an accident. There will be no increase in post accident off-site or on-site radiation dose, since the adjusted leakage limit is consistent with inputs previously established for the dose analyses. The proposed amendment is consistent with regulatory requirements (10 CFR Part 50, Appendix J) and guidance (TER&hyph;C5257&hyph;30) that has been previously reviewed by the NRC and found to be acceptable. Therefore, the amendment will not increase the consequences of any accident previously evaluated.
