FR940622-2-00017 FR940622-2-00011 [Docket No. 940550&hyph;4150] RIN No. 0693&hyph;AB28 Proposed Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) For SQL Environments AGENCY: National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Commerce. ACTION: Notice; Request for comments. SUMMARY: This proposed FIPS defines general purpose profiles that can be used by both vendors and users to specify exact requirements for how various products will fit into an SQL environment. An SQL environment is an integrated data processing environment in which heterogeneous products, all supporting some aspect of FIPS 127, SQL, are able to communicate with one another and provide shared access to data and data operations and methods under appropriate security, integrity, and access control mechanisms. The profiles in this proposed FIPS will enable Federal agencies to specify a subset of FIPS 127 to provide limited SQL access to legacy databases, or to support SQL gateways to specialized data managers such as Geographic Information Systems, full-text document management systems, or object database management systems. Prior to the submission of this proposed FIPS to the Secretary of Commerce for review and approval, it is essential to assure that consideration is given to the needs and views of manufacturers, the public, and State and local governments. The purpose of this notice is to solicit such views. This proposed FIPS contains two sections: (1) An announcement section, which provides information concerning the applicability, implementation, and maintenance of the standard; and (2) a specifications section. Only the announcement section of the standard is provided in this notice. Interested parties may obtain copies of the specifications section from the Standards Processing Coordinator (ADP), National Institute of Standards and Technology, Technology Building, room B64, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, telephone (301) 975&hyph;2816. An electronic version of this specification is available using Internet anonymous FTP protocols. Internet Node: speckle.ncsl.nist.gov User name: ftp Password: <YourName>@<YourInternetAddress> Change Directory to: isowg3/FIPSdocs Get File: fipseri.ps ␣_Postscript version An ASCII text version of this document is also available in the same directory as above, but with file name ``fipseri.txt''. You will receive some sign-on messages. If these messages confuse your FTP client, you can turn them off when you sign-on again by preceding your password with a hyphen (-). DATES: Comments on this proposed FIPS must be received on or before September 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments concerning the proposed FIPS should be sent to: Director, Computer Systems Laboratory, ATTN: Proposed FIPS for SQL Environments, Technology Building, Room B154, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. Written comments received in response to this notice will be made part of the public record and will be made available for inspection and copying in the Central Reference and Records Inspection Facility, Room 6020, Herbert C. Hoover Building, 14th Street between Pennsylvania and Constitution Avenues, NW., Washington, DC 20230. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Leonard J. Gallagher, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, telephone (301) 975&hyph;3251. Dated: June 17, 1994. Samuel Kramer, Associate Director.
