FR940804-2-00071 FR940804-2-00034 [Docket No. CP93&hyph;434&hyph;001, et al.] NorAm Gas Transmission Company, et al.; Natural Gas Certificate Filings July 27, 1994. Take notice that the following filings have been made with the Commission: 1. NorAm Gas Transmission Company [Docket No. CP93&hyph;434&hyph;001] Take notice that on July 22, 1994, NorAm Gas Transmission Company (NGT), formerly Arkla Energy Resources Company, 1600 Smith Street, Houston, Texas 77002, filed in Docket No. CP93&hyph;434&hyph;001 an amendment to its original application seeking abandonment authority required for NGT to effect the sale and transfer to UtiliCorp United, Inc. (UtiliCorp) of certain existing natural gas transmission lines, together with equipment and facilities pertinent thereto, located in the State of Kansas and services provided by means therefore, all as more fully set forth in the application which is on file with the Commission and open to public inspection. NGT states that on June 7, 1993, it filed an application in this docket seeking permission and approval to abandon by sale to UtiliCorp all NGT jurisdictional facilities located in the State of Kansas in order to implement the Acquisition Agreement executed May 7, 1993. It is stated that under the Acquisition Agreement, NGT and NorAm agreed to sell and transfer to UtiliCorp both those local distribution facilities located in Kansas and currently owned and operated by NorAm's Arkansas Louisiana Gas Company (ALG) distribution division, as well as NGT's jurisdictional transmission facilities. It is stated that the transferred facilities would then be operated by UtiliCorp's division, Peoples Natural Gas (PNG), as distribution utility facilities, with PNG continuing to provide retail services to ALG's customer's and offering transportation or other substitute services to NGT's current customers. In connection therewith, NGT states that the proposed abandonment contemplated the agreement by NGT and PNG to enter into a Capacity Lease Agreement affecting a portion of the facilities to be transferred pursuant to which NGT would continue to provide services to the City of Winfield, Kansas for the remainder of the term of the then current service agreement between NGT and Winfield. It is stated that Winfield protested the application and requested a hearing, raising concerns with respect to continuation of the jurisdictional service to Winfield following the expiration of the Capacity Lease and as to the jurisdictional status of the arrangement. NGT states that it and PNG have engaged in discussions to resolve Winfield's concerns and those presented by the Commission staff at the May 19, 1994, technical conference convened in this proceeding. It is stated that those negotiations have resulted in the agreement in principle of NGT, NorAm and UtiliCorp to amend the Acquisition Agreement. NGT states that the primary purpose of the amendment will be to delete certain facilities from the list of facilities to be conveyed to UtiliCorp and to delete the Capacity Lease from the arrangement. It is stated that the deleted facilities, which are more particularly described in the amended application, will be retained by NGT, allowing it to continue to provide direct transportation service to the City of Winfield, Kansas. Comment date: August 17, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice.
