FR940223-1-00020 FR940223-1-00001 (a) Butter price means the simple average, for the first 15 days of the month, of the daily prices per pound of Grade A (92-score) butter on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, using the price reported each week as the price for the day of the report, and for each following workday until the next price is reported. (b) Cheddar cheese price means the simple average, for the first 15 days of the month, of the daily prices per pound of cheddar cheese in 40-pound blocks. The prices used shall be those of the National Cheese Exchange (Green Bay, WI), using the price reported each week as the price for the day of the report and for each following workday until the next price is reported. (c) Nonfat dry milk price means the simple average of the prices per pound of nonfat dry milk for the first 15 days of the month computed as follows: (1) The prices used shall be the prices (using the midpoint of any price range as one price) of high heat, low heat, and Grade A nonfat dry milk, respectively, for the Central States production area; (2) For each week, determine the simple average of the prices reported for the three types of nonfat dry milk. Such average shall be the daily price for the day that such prices are reported and for each preceding workday until the day such prices were previously reported; and (3) Add the prices determined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for the first 15 days of the month and divide by the number of days for which there is a daily price. (d) Edible whey price means the simple average, for the first 15 days of the month, of the daily prices per pound of edible whey powder (nonhygroscopic). The prices used shall be the prices (using the midpoint of any price range as one price) of edible whey powder for the Central States production area. The average shall be computed using the price reported each week as the daily price for that day and for each preceding workday until the day such price was previously reported. (e) The butterfat differential is the number that results from subtracting the computation in paragraph (e)(2) of this section from the computation in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and rounding to the nearest one-tenth cent: (1) Multiply 0.138 times the monthly average Chicago Mercantile Exchange Grade A (92-score) butter price as reported and published by the Dairy Division; (2) Multiply 0.0028 times the average price per hundredweight, at test, for manufacturing grade milk, f.o.b. plants in Minnesota and Wisconsin, as reported by the Department for the month. 6. In §1124.30, paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), and (c)(1), (2) and (3) are revised to read as follows: §1124.30 Reports of receipts and utilization. * * * * * (a) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (i) Milk received directly from producers (including such handler's own production) and the pounds of nonfat milk solids contained therein; (ii) Milk received from a cooperative association pursuant to §1124.9(c) and the pounds of nonfat milk solids contained therein; * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (1) The pounds of skim milk, butterfat, and nonfat milk solids received from producers; (2) The utilization of skim milk, butterfat, and nonfat milk solids for which it is the handler pursuant to §1124.9(b); and (3) The quantities of skim milk, butterfat, and nonfat milk solids delivered to each pool plant pursuant to §1124.9(c). * * * * * 7. In §1124.31, paragraphs (a)(1), (b) introductory text, and (b)(1) are revised to read as follows: §1124.31 Payroll reports. * * * * * (a) *␣*␣* (1) The total pounds of milk received from each producer, the pounds of butterfat and nonfat milk solids contained in such milk, and the number of days on which milk was delivered by the producer during the month; * * * * * (b) Each handler operating a partially regulated distributing plant who wishes computations pursuant to §1124.75(a) to be considered in the computation of its obligation pursuant to §1124.75 shall submit its payroll for deliveries of Grade A milk by dairy farmers which shall show:
