FR940627-0-00211 FR940627-0-00019 ( 2 ) A separate group is also created for each unique combination of atypical elements (and/or other specified atypical characteristics) occurring together in one or more fuels and/or additives within a given fuel family. ( i ) Consistent with the basic grouping guidelines provided in §79.56(d), a fuel which is classified as atypical because its basic registration data lists one bulk additive containing two or more atypical characteristics, may be grouped with that additive and/or with other fuels and/or additives containing the same combination of atypical characteristics. Grouping of fuels containing more than one atypical additive shall be guided by provisions of §79.51(j). ( ii ) Within a group of such products containing a unique combination of two or more atypical elements or characteristics, the designated representative shall be the product within the group which contains the highest total concentration of the atypical elements or characteristics. ( iii ) In the event that two or more products within a given atypical group contain the same and highest concentration of the same atypical elements or characteristics then, among such candidate products, the designated representative shall be the product which, first, has the highest total concentration of metals, followed in order by highest total concentration of halogens, highest total concentration of other atypical elements (including sulfur concentration, as applicable), highest total concentration of polymers containing atypical elements, and, lastly, highest total concentration of oxygen. ( iv ) If two or more products have the same and highest concentration of the variable identified in the preceding paragraph, then, among such products, the one with the greatest concentration of the next highest variable on the list shall be the group representative. ( v ) This decision-making process shall continue until a single product is determined to be the representative. If two or more products remain tied at the end of this process, then the representative shall be chosen by a random method from among such remaining products. §79.57. Emission generation. This section specifies the equipment and procedures that must be used in generating the emissions which are to be subjected to the characterization procedures and/or the biological tests specified in §§79.52(b) and 79.53 of these regulations. When applicable, they may also be required in conjunction with testing under §§79.54 and 79.58(c). Additional requirements concerning emission generation, delivery, dilution, quality control, and safety practices are outlined in §79.61. (a) Vehicle and engine selection criteria . (1) All vehicles and engines used to generate emissions for testing a fuel or additive/fuel mixture must be new (i.e., never before titled) and placed into the program with less than 500 miles on the odometer or 12 hours on the engine chronometer. The vehicles and engines shall be unaltered from the specifications of the original equipment manufacturer. (2) The vehicle/engine type, vehicle/engine class, and vehicle/engine subclass designated to generate emissions for a given fuel or additive shall be the same type, class, and subclass which, over the previous three years, has consumed the most gallons of fuel in the fuel family applicable to the given fuel or additive. No distinction shall be made between light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks for purposes of this classification. (3) Within this vehicle/engine type, class, and subclass, the specific vehicles and engines acceptable for emission generation are those that represent the most common fuel metering system and the most common of the most important emission control system devices or characteristics with respect to emission reduction performance for the model year in which testing begins. These vehicles will be determined through a survey of the previous model year's vehicle/engine sales within the given subclass. These characteristics shall include, but need not be limited to, aftertreatment device(s), fuel aspiration, air injection, exhaust gas recirculation, and feedback type.
