FR940926-1-00013 FR940926-1-00006 VII. Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments on this proposal. It is requested but not required that any comments be submitted in 10 copies each. Comments must not exceed 15 pages in length (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in concise fashion. If a commenter wishes to submit certain information under a claim of confidentiality, 3 copies of the complete submission, including the purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the street address shown above, and 7 copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in 49 CFR part 512, the agency's confidential business information regulation. All comments received on or before the close of business on the comment closing date indicated above for the proposal will be considered, and will be available to the public for examination in the docket at the above address both before and after the closing date. To the extent possible, comments received after the closing date will be considered. Comments received too late for consideration in regard to the final rule will be considered as suggestions for further rulemaking action. Comments on the proposal will be available for public inspection in the docket. NHTSA will continue to file relevant information in the docket after the closing date, and it is recommended that interested persons continue to monitor the docket for new material. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the rules docket should enclose a self-addressed stamped postcard in the envelope with their comments. Upon receiving the comments, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 567 Labeling, Motor vehicle safety, Motor vehicles. In consideration of the foregoing, 49 CFR Part 567 would be amended as follows: PART 567_CERTIFICATION 1. The authority citation for Part 567 would be revised to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. 322, 30115, 30117, 30166, 32502, 32505, 33102, 33103, 33108, and 33109; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50. 2. Section 567.4 would be revised as follows: ยง567.4 Requirements for manufacturers of motor vehicles. (a) Each manufacturer of motor vehicles (except vehicles manufactured in two or more stages) shall affix to each vehicle a label, of the type and in the manner described below, containing the statements specified in paragraph (j) of this section. (b) The location of the label shall be such that it is clearly visible and easily readable without moving any part of the vehicle except an outer door. (c) For motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) greater than 4,536 kilograms (kg) (10,000 pounds (lb)) and all trailers, the label shall be fabricated of metal, with raised or recessed letters and numbers, and, except for trailers, shall be riveted or otherwise permanently affixed to the vehicle in one of the locations specified in paragraph (e) of this section. (d) For motor vehicles with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) or less, the label shall, unless riveted, be permanently affixed in such a manner that it cannot be removed without destroying or defacing it. (e)(1) For motor vehicles with a GVWR greater than 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) other than buses and trailers, the label shall be riveted to the door latch post next to the driver's seating position. If that location is not practicable, then to a permanent vertical position of the cab floor area to the left of the driver's seating position. If that location is not practicable, the label shall be riveted to the left side of the instrument panel, left of the steering wheel. (2) For buses, the label shall be riveted to the ceiling area above the windshield or window(s) in the driver's seating area. (3) If none of the preceding locations are practicable, notification of that fact, together with drawings or photographs showing a suggested alternate location in the same general area, shall be submitted for approval to the Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, Washington, DC 20590. (f) For motor vehicles with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) or less, except trailers and motorcycles, the label shall be affixed either to the hinge pillar, door latch post, or the door edge that meets the door latch post, next to the driver's seating position, or if none of these locations are practicable, to the left side of the instrument panel. If the latter location is not practicable, the label shall be affixed to the inward-facing surface of the door next to the driver's seating position. If none of the preceding locations are practicable, notification of that fact shall be submitted to the Administrator, NHTSA, as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. (g) The label for trailers shall be affixed to a location on the forward half of the left side, such that it is easily readable from outside the vehicle without moving any part of the vehicle. (h) The label for motorcycles shall be affixed to a permanent member of the vehicle as close as is practicable to the intersection of the steering post with the handle bars, in a location such that it is easily readable without moving any part of the vehicle except the steering system.
