FR941221-1-00038 FR941221-1-00012 RSPA is proposing to add two special provisions that would permit the transportation of RMW by aircraft. A new Special Provision ``A13'' would be added to allow the transportation of sharps aboard passenger and cargo-carrying aircraft in quantities of not more than 16 kilograms (35 pounds) per package and maximum liquid content of 50 milliliters for each inner packaging. This provision is consistent with USPS regulations for the mailability of used sharps under 39 CFR Part 111 and would serve to eliminate confusion as to whether sharps mailers are acceptable for air transportation. RSPA also is proposing to add Special Provision ``A14'' to allow shipments of RMW to be transported by aircraft in quantities not exceeding 16 kilograms (35 pounds) for solid waste and 12 liters (3 gallons) for liquid waste, when means of transportation other than air are impracticable or unavailable. Even though these provisions would not have any effect on the movement of RMW until adopted, proposal of these provisions is intended to clarify that sharps and RMW from Alaska and other remote areas are permitted aboard aircraft. See Section VI of this preamble for possible future rulemaking concerning quantity limitations aboard aircraft. RSPA also is proposing to revise the I.D. number for RMW from a domestic-only recognized I.D. number (NA 9275) to an internationally recognized I.D. number (UN 3291). This proposed amendment is consistent with the UN Recommendations and the ICAO Technical Instructions. E. Proposed Extension of Compliance Date RSPA intended to issue this notice of proposed rulemaking simultaneously with the final rule which was published on September 22, 1994 (see Section II of this notice). Due to a delay in publication of this notice, RSPA is proposing to extend the compliance date once again for requirements applicable to regulated medical waste and infectious substances affecting only animals from October 1, 1995, to January 1, 1996. This is intended to allow sufficient time for the public to comment on the proposals contained in this notice, for RSPA to evaluate the comments received, and, based on the merits of the comments, publish a final rule. RSPA invites comments on the need for this proposed extension. VI. Scope of Future Work RSPA believes that uniform standards, applicable to both domestic and international transportation, are essential to ensuring the safe and efficient movement of infectious substances. To this end, RSPA continues to work with other Federal agencies and the United Nations Subcommittee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods to improve standards for classification, hazard communication, packaging and operational control of infectious substances. The HMR are generally consistent with the United Nations Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods (UN Recommendations), although there are some differences. RSPA anticipates proposing changes to the HMR in future rulemaking concerning defining criteria, particularly the adoption of risk groups and regulation of genetically-modified organisms and microorganisms, and new shipping descriptions and marking requirements for non-bulk packagings based on the UN Recommendations. The ICAO Technical Instructions prescribe no air quantity limits for RMW. RSPA may propose to align its air quantity limits for RMW with the ICAO in future rulemaking action. Transportation safety for all categories of infectious substances (i.e., cultures and stocks, diagnostic specimens, biological products containing infectious substances, and RMW) could be enhanced through imposition of uniform classification, hazard communication and packaging requirements. Both through rulemaking action and in working with other Federal agencies, RSPA anticipates advocating standards based on UN Recommendations, such as for the internationally-recognized ``INFECTIOUS SUBSTANCE'' label and for performance-oriented packaging. RSPA intends to continue its review of the HMR and the regulations of other Federal agencies and to work with these agencies to identify and eliminate inconsistencies, overlaps, gaps and inadequacies in regulatory coverage. Although RSPA is aware of allegations of inconsistent regulations, RSPA has not identified any regulatory impediment to compliance with the HMR and the regulations of other agencies.
