FR941227-0-00104 FR941227-0-00020 (2) In the absence of evidence (which may, but need not, be derived from performance reviews or other sources) which tends to challenge in a substantial manner the certifications made by the applicant, the certifications will be accepted by HUD. However, if HUD does have available such evidence, HUD may require the submission of additional information or assurances before determining whether an applicant's certifications are satisfactory. (d) Thresholds. The HUD Office may use any information available to it to make the threshold judgments required by the applicable NOFA, including information related to the applicant's performance with respect to any previous assistance under this subpart. The annual performance and evaluation report required under §570.507(a) is the primary source of this information. The HUD Office may request additional information in cases where it is essential to make the required performance judgments. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506&hyph;0060) §570.424 Grants for imminent threats to public health and safety. (a) Criteria. The following criteria apply for an imminent threat to public health or safety: (1) The Director of Community Planning and Development of the HUD office may, at any time, invite an application for funds available under this subpart in response to a request for assistance to alleviate an imminent threat to public health or safety that requires immediate resolution. HUD shall verify the urgency and the immediacy of the threat with an appropriate authority other than the applicant prior to acceptance of the application, and the Director of Community Planning and Development of the HUD Office shall review the claim to determine if, in fact, an imminent threat to public health or safety does exist. For example, an applicant with documented cases of disease resulting from a contaminated drinking water supply has an imminent threat to public health, while an applicant ordered to improve the quality of its drinking water supply over the next two years does not have an imminent threat within the definition of paragraph (a) of this section. These funds are to be used to deal with those threats which represent a unique and unusual circumstance, not for the type of threat that occurs with frequency in a number of communities within the State of New York. (2) The applicant does not have sufficient local resources, and other Federal or State resources are unavailable to alleviate the imminent threat. (3) All imminent threat projects must meet the requirement of §570.420(e). (b) HUD action. (1) Fifteen percent of the funds allocated to New York State in the Small Cities Program may be reserved to alleviate imminent threats to the public health or safety unless a lesser amount is specified in a NOFA. Applications shall be submitted in accordance with §570.423. (2) Applications which meet the requirements of this section may be approved by the Director of Community Planning and Development of the HUD Office without competition. (3) The only funds reserved for imminent threats to the public health or safety are those specified by this section as modified by the NOFA. After the funds have been depleted, HUD shall not consider further requests for grants relating to imminent threats during that fiscal year. (c) Letter to proceed. Notwithstanding §570.425(a)(3), after a determination has been made that an imminent threat exists, HUD may issue the applicant a letter to proceed to incur costs to alleviate the imminent threat. Reimbursement of such costs is dependent upon HUD approval of the final application. (d) Environmental review. Pursuant to 24 CFR 58.34(a)(8), grants for imminent threat to public health or safety are excluded from some or all of the environmental review requirements of 24 CFR part 58, to the extent provided therein. §570.425 HUD review and actions on applications for New York State applicants. (a) Final application submission. (1) Submission deadline. HUD will establish a time period during which final applications must be submitted to the appropriate office. The dates for this period will be published in a notice in the Federal Register . (2) Incomplete applications. Applications must contain the information required by HUD. Information relative to the application will not be accepted or considered if received after the submission deadline, unless the information is specifically requested in writing by HUD. (3) Pre-agreement costs. HUD authorizes a unit of general local government to incur costs during a Federal fiscal year in which a grant is made or the prior fiscal year for preparation of a CDBG grant application, planning costs eligible under §570.205, environmental assessments, and project engineering and design costs for eligible activities under §570.201 through 570.204 before the establishment of a formal grant relationship between the applicant and HUD. Costs of such activities for the funded application may be charged to the grant should it be funded, provided that the activities are undertaken in accordance with the requirements of this subpart, and 24 CFR part 58. It is understood that the incurring of costs described in this paragraph creates no obligation on HUD to approve the application. (b) HUD action on final application. (1) Review and notification. Following the review of the applications, HUD will promptly notify each applicant of the action taken with regard to its application. Documentation which supports HUD's decisions on applications will be available to the public. (2) Conditional approval. HUD may make a conditional approval, in which case the grant will be approved but the obligation and utilization of funds will be restricted. The reasons for the conditional approval and the actions necessary to remove the condition will be specified. Failure to satisfy the condition may result in a termination of the grant.
