FR940921-0-00012 FR940921-0-00008 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 52 [OH53&hyph;2&hyph;6360; FRL&hyph;5076&hyph;1] Approval and Promulgation of Implementation Plans; Ohio AGENCY: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: On August 20, 1993, in response to requirements in part D of title I of the Clean Air Act, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) submitted materials to USEPA pertaining to new source review (NSR) in nonattainment areas. This submittal included no revisions to any Ohio regulations. Instead, the submittal relied on existing pre-1990 NSR rules, described how Ohio intended to implement various applicable part D requirements, and presented a rationale that no revisions to State regulations would be necessary to satisfy these requirements. USEPA disagrees with this rationale and disapproves the State's submittal for failure to satisfy applicable requirements, as proposed on March 4, 1994. EFFECTIVE DATE: This final rule becomes effective on October 21, 1994.. ADDRESSES: Copies of the SIP revision request, public comments on the rulemaking, and other materials relating to this rulemaking are available for inspection at the following address: (It is recommended that you telephone John Summerhays at (312) 886&hyph;6067 before visiting the Region 5 Office.) United States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, Air and Radiation Division, 77 West Jackson Boulevard (AE&hyph;17J), Chicago, Illinois 60604. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John Summerhays, Air Enforcement Branch, Regulation Development Section (AE&hyph;17J), United States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 886&hyph;6067. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Sections 172, 173, 182, 189, and other sections of the Clean Air Act require States to submit implementation plan provisions for new source review in nonattainment areas to USEPA for approval or disapproval. Ohio provided various materials to USEPA between November 1992 and April 1993, but USEPA notified the State on June 1, 1993, that these materials did not constitute a complete submittal and that the State had failed to submit a complete submittal. On August 20, 1993, the Ohio provided new material to USEPA addressing new source review in nonattainment areas. USEPA notified OEPA on October 22, 1993, that it found this August 1993 submittal complete. USEPA published a notice of proposed rulemaking on the State's submittal on March 4, 1994 (59 FR 10349). This document summarized the history of new source review plans in Ohio, reviewed the submittal of August 20, 1993, and proposed disapproval of the submittal. In a cover letter accompanying the submittal, the OEPA Director stated that Ohio's NSR rules adopted in 1974 were sufficient for USEPA to find the State's submission both complete and approvable. According to the OEPA Director, ``Ohio EPA believes that the current, federally approved, Ohio SIP is adequate for fulfilling the requirements of a NSR SIP, and that no changes are necessary. . . . Ohio EPA has thoroughly evaluated the basis for this submittal, and has resolved that the 1974 [NSR] rules remain the vehicle for the U.S. EPA to review as part of this NSR SIP submittal.'' OEPA also submitted a document dated October 1992 entitled ``Requirements for Major New Sources in Nonattainment Areas'' (referenced in this document as ``Ohio's statement of permitting criteria''). On page 4 of this latter document, the State again states that ``Ohio EPA needs not modify the current rules to conform to the legislatively mandated changes under the CAA. In fact, the current state law and Ohio EPA requires that the Director account for these new requirements in the review of new source applications.'' Ohio thus seeks approval of its existing pre-1990 NSR rules, along with its statement of permitting criteria, as satisfying the NSR SIP submittal requirements of part D of title I of the Act, including the new requirements imposed by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (1990 Amendments). Based on a review of the submittal, USEPA proposed that Ohio's submittal failed to satisfy the NSR SIP submittal requirements of part D, both for requirements predating the 1990 Amendments as well as new requirements imposed by the 1990 Amendments. Concerning requirements predating the 1990 Amendments, USEPA explained that the State had failed to make any of the necessary changes to its NSR rules since USEPA's prior action on September 8, 1993 (58 FR 47211) in which USEPA concluded that the State had not satisfied the requirements of part D, even as required before 1990, particularly because of exemptions from NSR permitting for temporary sources and resource recovery facilities. Regarding requirements imposed by the 1990 Amendments, USEPA noted that Ohio's statement of permitting criteria ``was not adopted according to the full procedures in Ohio for adoption of regulations, even though this statement is intended to serve purposes normally served by regulations.'' In an extensive discussion, USEPA also concluded that ``the statement of permitting criteria lacks the specificity, the regulatory standing, and the assurance of being enforceable that are needed to satisfy Clean Air Act requirements'' and that the State's reliance ``on a general regulatory provision (requiring compliance with the Clean Air Act)'' fails to authorize the State to impose the necessary ``specific, detailed permit conditions.'' Therefore, USEPA proposed to disapprove Ohio's submittal. II. Comments on Proposed Rulemaking Subsequent to the proposed rulemaking, Ohio requested an extension of the public comment period, which USEPA granted on May 3, 1994 (59 FR 22776). During the extended comment period, comments were received from OEPA, the local air pollution control agency for the Dayton area, a law firm, and the State Chamber of Commerce. The following summarizes the comments received and USEPA's responses. Comment: All four commenters disputed USEPA's proposed conclusion that Ohio's 1974 regulations and its statement of permitting criteria do not adequately specify applicable new source review requirements. The Chamber of Commerce stated that Ohio's submittal has the same specificity as Federal law, the law is sufficiently specific and clear, and Ohio's submittal meets all requirements of that law. The State commented that the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 are very specific and clearly specify applicable requirements, such that further efforts to define these requirements by regulation would be redundant and unnecessary. Another commenter stated that ``specificity and clarity of criteria'' are not an appropriate basis for disapproving a submittal which has the same specificity and clarity of criteria as the relevant Federal law, and the fourth commenter stated that ``[d]isagreement over [the form that Ohio's permitting mandates take rather than over the substance of those mandates] should not be a basis on which to disapprove Ohio's NSR program.'' Response: As stated in the proposed disapproval, Ohio's statement of permitting criteria was not adopted pursuant to the applicable Ohio procedures for the adoption of binding, enforceable regulations and did not clearly identify detailed decisionmaking criteria, and therefore ``lacks the specificity, the regulatory standing, and the assurance of being enforceable that are needed to satisfy the Clean Air Act requirements.'' A fundamental principle for SIPs is that SIP measures must be enforceable. See 57 FR 13498, 13568 (April 16, 1982). In its comments, OEPA did not dispute USEPA's conclusion that Ohio's statement of permitting criteria does not constitute binding regulations and is unenforceable. Instead, the State merely responded that ``[t]he requirements of the CAAA are clearly enforceable via existing Ohio regulations'' (emphasis added). Ohio's response makes it clear that its statement of permitting criteria is not enforceable and that Ohio seeks approval of its submission based on its existing pre-1990 NSR rules. Accordingly, USEPA concludes that it cannot rely on the unenforceable statement of permitting criteria to approve Ohio's submittal. USEPA also evaluated whether Ohio's existing NSR rules, adopted well before the 1990 Amendments, satisfy current NSR SIP requirements. As the State conceded in its statement of permitting criteria, several applicable sections of the amended Act, including sections 182(a)(2)(C) and 189(a)(2)(A), required states to submit revisions to their State Implementation Plans for nonattainment NSR permits by various dates in 1992 and 1993. As described above, the State contends that its existing pre-1990 NSR rules are sufficient to meet current requirements because they require adherence to ``applicable law,'' including the Clean Air Act. Thus, instead of submitting revisions to its rules, Ohio asserted that no such revisions are necessary. USEPA disagrees. It should be self-evident that Ohio's reliance on its existing pre-1990 NSR rules does not satisfy the statutory mandates enacted in 1990 for revisions to the State's NSR rules. USEPA reaffirms its view that a reference in existing state rules to the Clean Air Act, and references to pre-1990 sections of the Act, do not satisfy current NSR SIP requirements. USEPA believes that the Act requires States to adopt specific, enforceable rules to implement the Act's requirements for a nonattainment new source review program. Although not mandated by the Act, USEPA has already provided general guidance to states concerning NSR SIP requirements (See 57 FR 13498, 13552&hyph;13556 (April 16, 1982); 57 FR 55620, 55623&hyph;55624 (Nov. 25, 1992)), and plans to issue further guidance and rules concerning NSR SIP measures later in 1994. Although certain provisions in the Act may present questions of statutory interpretation, USEPA finds that Ohio's NSR submission, consisting primarily of existing pre-1990 NSR rules supplemented by the unenforceable statement of permitting criteria completely fail to satisfy the statutory obligation to submit specific revisions to its NSR SIP rules. 1 1 E.g., lowered major source thresholds, provisions governing NOx as an ozone precursor in ozone nonattainment areas, specific mandated offset ratios and other provisions governing emission offsets, a provision that emission reductions otherwise required by the Act are not creditable to satisfy NSR offset requirements, and an alternatives analysis requirement for all nonattainment NSR permits. This regulatory situation is typical. Statutes usually establish general requirements and usually cannot be successfully implemented without detailed regulations clearly specifying criteria for evaluating individual cases. Thus, the issue is not simply philosophical or superficial, but rather a fundamental question of whether Ohio has properly set forth a regulatory framework under which to implement the mandated provisions, and whether USEPA or a member of the public could successfully object if a permit were proposed that would violate NSR requirements. USEPA believes that it would be difficult and impractical for a commenter to object to a proposed permit based on statutory provisions in the amended Act where USEPA had approved the SIP as satisfying the requirements of the amended Act but where the SIP did not contain specific provisions to implement the amended Act. USEPA further believes that Federal enforcement of NSR requirements would be severely jeopardized by USEPA approval of NSR SIP provisions that fail to contain specific provisions implementing the amended Act. Ohio's SIP submission fails to provide enforceable NSR provisions which assure compliance with the amended Act and therefore are disapproved. A discussion of comments and responses below addresses specific requirements for offsets, offset ratios, and major source and major modification definitions. The technical support document for the proposed rulemaking also identified deficiencies with respect to the alternatives analysis requirement, and observed that Ohio's statement of permitting criteria mistakenly assigns various USEPA responsibilities regarding clean coal technology demonstration projects to OEPA, such as promulgation of national regulations and review of other States' submittals. No comments were submitted on these latter deficiencies, and so they remain as additional examples of Ohio's submittal being inadequate to implement the mandated requirements. Comment: The State further commented regarding emissions offsets that ``[t]hese requirements are all contained and specified in either Federal rules, the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 or in Ohio EPA policy.'' Response: As discussed above, Ohio's existing NSR rules do not contain (either directly or by reference) a definition of offset ratios reflecting the amended Clean Air Act. Ohio observes that the Clean Air Act identifies the values of the ratios to be used in various circumstances. However, Ohio does not address the concern identified in the NPR with the absence (in either the existing NSR rules or Ohio's statement of permitting criteria) of detailed, explicit criteria for evaluating offset ratios. Relevant criteria include whether fugitive or secondary emissions (with or without mobile source emissions) are to be included in computing the ratio, what averaging time to use, whether the numerator or denominator is to be potential to emit or actual emissions, and where the offsets may occur. Since these criteria are not explicit or implicit elements of Ohio's rules, it would be difficult and impractical to implement the mandated offset ratios effectively and consistent with the Clean Air Act. Comment: The State agrees that ``Appendix S is not explicit in requiring annual, actual offsets,'' but observes that this requirement has been established by OEPA policy and is given in Ohio's submitted statement of permitting criteria. Response: USEPA acknowledges that OEPA interprets its regulation to require annual, actual offsets. However, this requirement should be given full regulatory standing by being incorporated into enforceable Ohio regulations. Comment: The State asserts that it has properly relied on definitions which are given in appendix S to 40 CFR part 51. Response: The definitions in appendix S are insufficient because of differences between appendix S and the amended Clean Air Act. Appendix S defines major stationary sources as sources with the potential to emit 100 tons per year (or sources modified such that potential to emit increases by 100 tons per year). The Clean Air Act provides that the term ``major stationary source'' in some areas includes sources with lower potential to emit, such as 50 tons per year in Serious ozone nonattainment areas. See section 182 of the Act. Since Ohio's regulations reference both the Clean Air Act and appendix S, Ohio's regulations are unclear as to which cutoffs apply. Comment: The State commented on USEPA's uncertainty as to whether the State intended in its statement of permitting criteria to lower the threshold of nitrogen oxides (NO x ) source sizes at which major modifications would trigger new source review. The State commented it ``does not intend to change this threshold.'' Response: Notwithstanding its recent comments, the State did not change its statement of permitting criteria. Thus, Ohio's submittal contains a statement of permitting criteria that contradicts the criteria for major NO x modifications given by reference (i.e. in appendix S) in Ohio's regulations. Comment: Three commenters commented that requiring new State regulations every time Federal rules change would cause delays and reduce the adaptability of the new source review process. Response: With respect to the requirements of the 1990 Amendments, this rulemaking does not concern whether hypothetical Federal rule changes would require State rule revisions but rather whether the 1990 Amendments require State rule revisions. The Clean Air Act has had significant amendments only twice since 1970, whereas Ohio has changed its Permit to Install (NSR) rules eight times during the same period. The commenters seek an approach that allows one set of State rules to impose changing requirements in accordance with changes in Federal mandates, but such approaches are prone to be too vague as to the precise obligations of regulated entities imposed by the rules and statute. In this particular case, the State's reference to the general mandates in the amended Clean Air Act does not provide sufficient specificity on the implementation of these mandates to be enforceable. In any event, Congress clearly provided for States to revise their SIP rules in accordance with the 1990 Amendments. These comments raise a further issue, namely the extent to which a State may change permitting requirements without providing opportunity for public input by means of a rule revision process. Ohio argues that the State's regulations provide for the applicability of requirements resulting from subsequent Clean Air Act amendments even without revision of the State rules. Under this view, there would be no reason for any State SIP submittal at all, and therefore no opportunity for public review and comment on the changed requirements. This runs counter to the general principle that regulations are to be interpreted based on requirements contemplated at the time of regulation adoption and not on the basis of subsequently devised criteria. For this reason as well, the State and USEPA would face obstacles in trying to enforce the requirements of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Comment: The State comments ``U.S. EPA had expressed a concern about certain items that were identified in the Clean Air Act as part of the review of new sources which were not identified in either state or Federal rules. Ohio EPA proposed a policy that includes these additional Federal requirements. The policy was issued in proposed format and a public hearing was held on the document. After a review of the comments, Ohio EPA submitted that policy as part of the State Implementation Plan.'' Response: The State implicitly agrees that certain requirements in the Clean Air Act are not addressed by any rules contained or referenced in the State's SIP, which suggests further that these requirements have not been given regulatory standing in Ohio. The notice of proposed rulemaking focussed on Ohio's statement of permitting criteria, which USEPA finds to be an inadequate instrument for giving these requirements regulatory standing, notwithstanding that this policy statement was subject to public hearing. (Ohio had previously provided essentially the same policy statement without public review, but USEPA judged this and related material not to constitute a complete submittal.) Comment: The State commented on USEPA's concern that two source categories (certain types of municipal waste combustors and temporary sources) are exempted by appendix S and thus by Ohio rules and yet are not to be exempted under 40 CFR 51.165. The State commented that Ohio permits must comply with Federal law, Federal law does not permit these exemptions, and so the State has developed guidance that these exemptions do not apply. Response: The State did not submit to USEPA the guidance that it claims provides that these exemptions do not apply. The State's SIP does contain appendix S, incorporated by reference in Rule 3745&hyph;31&hyph;05, and indeed relies on appendix S to interpret applicable new source review requirements. Consequently, Ohio's regulations are to be interpreted as also providing the exemptions in appendix S and therefore do not satisfy even the pre-1990 NSR requirements of part D of title I of the Act. Comment: A local air pollution control agency comments that USEPA's involvement in permit oversight assures that Federal requirements will not be misapplied. Response: Although USEPA agrees that its permit oversight can improve the quality of State permits, such an oversight program is not a substitute for an approvable SIP. USEPA cannot through oversight establish or correct requirements which are not correctly provided in the State regulations. Comment: A commenter believes that USEPA acknowledges that Ohio's statutes and regulation ``already require that the provisions of the amended Clean Air Act be met.'' Response: The commenter is quoting statements that USEPA used to characterize the State's position; these statements do not represent USEPA's position. III. Final Action Notwithstanding comments to the contrary, USEPA's review indicates that Ohio's submittal does not clearly establish the specific criteria required by the Act by which judgments in new source permitting will be made. Furthermore, by relying not on properly adopted regulations but rather on a general regulatory provision (requiring compliance with the Clean Air Act) in conjunction with an unenforceable statement of permitting criteria, the State has failed to adopt enforceable SIP provisions to implement an NSR program in accordance with the Clean Air Act requirements. Furthermore, Ohio's existing regulations exempt two types of sources which may not be exempted under the Act and applicable USEPA regulations. For these reasons, USEPA takes final action to disapprove Ohio's submittal for failure to satisfy part D requirements. Under section 179(a)(2), one of the sanctions set forth in section 179(b) shall apply unless the deficiency has been corrected within 18 months of the effective date of this disapproval. Extensive discussion of USEPA's sanctions procedures is given in the Federal Register of August 4, 1994, at 59 FR 39832. Pursuant to 40 CFR 52.31, unless a revised plan has been submitted and proposed for approval in the meantime, a requirement for two-for-one offsets shall apply to any permits issued after [insert date 18 months after 30 days from date of publication] for major new sources and modifications in nonattainment areas. Highway funding sanctions shall apply [insert date 24 months after 30 days from date of publication], again unless a revised plan has been submitted and proposed for approval in the meantime. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting, allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. USEPA shall consider each request for revision to the SIP in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , USEPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. (5 U.S.C. 603 and 604.) Alternatively, USEPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. USEPA's disapproval of the State request under section 110 and part D of the Clean Air Act does not affect any existing requirements applicable to small entities. Any pre-existing Federal requirements remain in place after this disapproval. Federal disapproval of the State submittal does not affect its State enforceability. Moreover, USEPA's disapproval of the submittal does not impose any new Federal requirements. Therefore, USEPA certifies that this disapproval action would not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities because it does not remove existing requirements nor does it impose any new Federal requirements. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. The OMB has exempted this regulatory action from Executive Order 12866 review. Under section 307(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act, petitions for judicial review of this action must be filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the appropriate circuit by November 21, 1994. Filing a petition for reconsideration by the Administrator of this final rule does not affect the finality of this rule for the purposes of judicial review nor does it extend the time within which a petition for judicial review may be filed, and shall not postpone the effectiveness of such rule or action. This action may not be challenged later in proceedings to enforce its requirements. (See section 307(b)(2).) List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Carbon monoxide, Hydrocarbons, Intergovernmental relations, Nitrogen oxides, Ozone, Particulate matter, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Sulfur dioxide. Dated: September 8, 1994. Valdas V. Adamkus, Regional Administrator. Chapter I, part 52, title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 52_APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS 1. The authority citation for part 52 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Subpart KK_Ohio 2. Section 52.1879 is amended by adding paragraph (a) to read as follows: ยง52.1879 Review of new sources and modifications. (a) The requirements of sections 172, 173, 182, and 189 for permitting of major new sources and major modifications in nonattainment areas for ozone, particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, and carbon monoxide are not met, because Ohio's regulations exempt source categories which may not be exempted and because the State has not adopted the new permitting requirements of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 in a clear or enforceable manner. * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23349 Filed 9&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
