FR940907-2-00134 FR940907-2-00092 The utilization of NRSRO ratings, therefore, is an important component of the Commission's regulatory program. Initially, the Commission solicits comment as to whether it should continue to employ in its rules the term ``NRSRO'' and the ratings assigned to various debt and other rated securities by NRSROs. The Commission also invites commentators to consider alternative means by which the Commission could distinguish among various grades of debt and other rated securities. In addition, with the advent of limited scope ratings of the type applied, for example, to ``cash flow securities,'' 15 and with the proliferation of structured securities subject to substantial non-credit payment risks, it is appropriate to review the regulatory use of ratings and to specify, if necessary, what types of ratings fall within each of the regulatory provisions that refer to specific ratings. We also request comment regarding whether a limited scope rating by NRSROs should qualify for the exemption from liability under section 11 of the Securities Act. 16 15 A cash flow security represents an interest in a pool of several classes of previously issued unrelated mortgage backed securities, which typically are highly sensitive to principal prepayment speed and have volatile yields. The Commission has been informed that certain NRSROs have developed rating techniques to measure the likelihood that holders of a particular class of securities will receive a specified dollar amount by the maturity date, without regard to whether such payment amount constitutes interest or principal repayment. Assessing the likelihood of receipt of this cash flow combines both a credit rating and non-credit payment evaluation of prepayments on the underlying pooled securities, and thus represents a significant departure from traditional credit rating techniques. The Commission is issuing a release that proposes amendments with respect to the use of securities ratings in disclosure documents. See Securities Act Release No. 33&hyph;7086 (Aug. 31, 1994). 16 15 U.S.C. ยง77k. See also 17 CFR ยง230.436(g). Rating agencies and other organizations have developed ratings of open-end and other types of investment companies. These ratings serve a number of purposes. Three rating agencies, Fitch Investors Service, Inc. (``Fitch''), Standard & Poor's Corporation (``Standard & Poor's''), and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (``Moody's''), issue ratings that assess the safety of principal invested in a money market mutual fund. These rating agencies also have begun to rate different characteristics of bond funds. 17 For example, Fitch, Standard & Poor's, and Moody's each issue bond fund ratings designed to identify the degree of credit risk in a bond fund's underlying investments. Fitch and Standard & Poor's also issue bond fund ``stability'' or ``market risk'' ratings that purport to quantify the potential volatility of the market value of bond fund shares, based on an analysis of interest rate risk, spread risk, currency risk, and the fund's use of derivatives. 18 Other organizations issue mutual fund risk ratings that are designed to quantify different types of investment risk. These ratings may provide investors with information that may be useful in assessing the risks of investing in a mutual fund; however, they also may create expectations of investment performance that may not be achieved, notwithstanding disclaimers that they are not projections of future results. 17 The mutual fund ratings, generally, are accompanied by a suffix ( e.g., an ``m'' to indicate a money market fund rating or an ``f'' to indicate a bond fund rating) to differentiate them from traditional bond and preferred stock ratings. 18 See Bond Fund Rating Guidelines, Fitch Research, June 14, 1993; Bond Fund Risk Rating Criteria, Standard & Poor's Credit Week (Jan. 17, 1994). Comment is requested regarding whether the Commission should encourage or require these types of ratings to be disclosed in fund prospectuses, sales literature, and advertisements. Commenters are asked to address the type of disclosure that should accompany these types of ratings to assure that their significance and limitations are appreciated by investors, and any other appropriate conditions for their use in fund prospectuses and advertisements (such as conditions to assure that an issuer will only use a rating that is current and that changes in a fund rating are promptly disclosed to investors). Comment is requested as to whether these ratings may lead an investor to select a fund based solely on a fund's ratings rather than other information that bears on the appropriateness of the fund for the investor's investment objectives and goals. Finally, comment is requested on whether Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act should be amended so that a fund could include these types of ratings in its registration statements without having to provide a written consent conveying expert liability to the organization preparing the ratings. 19 Further questions regarding NRSROs are set forth below. 19 Mutual fund ratings relate to the fund's equity securities. Currently, because Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act does not cover equity securities, a fund would be required to file an NRSRO's consent if the rating assigned by the NRSRO to the fund's common stock is disclosed in the fund's prospectus. Because NRSROs, generally, will not provide the required consent, funds have been unable to use NRSRO ratings in their prospectuses. In 1986, the Commission proposed to extend Rule 436(g) to ratings of money market fund securities. See Investment Company Act Release No. 14984 (Mar. 14, 1986), 51 FR 9838 (Mar. 21, 1986). These proposed amendments were not adopted. II. Designating and Monitoring NRSROs A. Designation of NRSROs Six rating organizations currently are ``designated'' as NRSROs for purposes of the net capital rule: 20 (1) Standard & Poor's; (2) Moody's; (3) Fitch; (4) Duff & Phelps, Inc. (``Duff & Phelps''); 21 (5) Thomson BankWatch, Inc. (``BankWatch''); 22 and (6) IBCA Limited and its subsidiary, IBCA Inc. (collectively known as ``IBCA''). 23 Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch were the only rating agencies initially designated as NRSROs by the Division of Market Regulation (``Division''). The Division indirectly designated these three rating agencies as NRSROs by granting no-action relief to broker-dealers who sought assurances concerning their status as NRSROs for purposes of the net capital rule. Subsequently, based on requests directly from rating agencies, the Division provided no-action assurances to three additional rating agencies, Duff & Phelps, BankWatch and IBCA, that they would be considered NRSROs for purposes of the net capital rule. 20 McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei, Inc. (``McCarthy''), a seventh rating agency designated as an NRSRO on September 13, 1983 by the Division of Market Regulation, has discontinued its ratings business. Duff & Phelps purchased the credit research and ratings business of McCarthy on February 7, 1991. See Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, to Paul J. McCarthy, President of McCarthy (Sept. 13, 1983); Letter from J. Christopher Jackson, Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Van Kampen Merritt, to Michael A. Macchiaroli, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation (Mar. 13, 1991). 21 See Letter from Nelson S. Kibler, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, to John T. Anderson, Attorney, Lord, Bissell & Brook, on behalf of Duff & Phelps (Feb. 24, 1982). 22 See Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, to Gregory A. Root, President, BankWatch (Aug. 6, 1991). BankWatch is recognized as an NRSRO only for the purposes of rating debt issued by banks, bank holding companies, non-bank banks, thrifts, broker-dealers and broker-dealers' parent companies. Id. 23 See Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, to Mr. Robin Monro-Davies, President, IBCA Limited (Nov. 27, 1990); Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, to David L. Lloyd, Jr., Attorney, Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood, on behalf of IBCA (Oct. 11, 1990). At present, IBCA is designated as an NRSRO only for the purposes of rating debt issued by banks, bank holding companies, United Kingdom building societies, broker-dealers, broker-dealer parent companies and bank-supported debt. Id.
