FR941206-0-00082 FR941206-0-00011 (B) Follow the procedures in section 6 of Method 18 and choose the appropriate column, analytical apparatus, and calibration gases for the analysis of the bag samples collected. The bag samples shall be analyzed within 8 hours of collection. (C) Follow the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(B)( 2 )( ii ) through ( iv ) of this section. (D) Determine control device efficiency (% Eff) using the equation in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section. (E) Repeat the procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section three times. The arithmetic average percent efficiency of the three runs shall determine the overall efficiency of the control device. (iii) In the event that the outlet concentration from the control device is below the detection limit for ethylene oxide for determining the efficiency in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) or (ii)(D) of this section, the owner or operator shall assume the control device is meeting the standard in §63.362(e)(1) or (2) if the inlet ethylene oxide concentration is at or below approximately 50 ppmv. (c) Concentration determination. The following procedures shall be used to determine the ethylene oxide concentration as the monitored parameter established in §63.363(c) and (e) for aeration room emissions and chamber exhaust vents, respectively, and to continuously monitor the ethylene oxide concentration for aeration room vents as established in §63.364(e)(1) and to monitor the ethylene oxide concentration before activation of the chamber exhaust for chamber exhaust vents as established in §63.364(e)(2). (1) Aeration room vent. For determining the ethylene oxide concentration for aeration room emissions, the procedures outlined in section 7.2 of Method 18 shall be used. Repeat these procedures three times. The arithmetic average of the ethylene oxide concentration of the three test runs shall determine the overall outlet ethylene oxide concentration from the control device. Compliance testing of gas chromatographs shall be performed using PS 9 in 40 CFR part 60. (2) Sterilization chamber prior to activation of the chamber exhaust. For determining the ethylene oxide concentration in the sterilization chamber before activation of the chamber exhaust, the procedures outlined in sections 7.2 or 7.3 of Method 18 shall be used. The ethylene oxide concentration from one test run shall determine the outlet ethylene oxide concentration from the chamber exhaust vent. Compliance testing of gas chromatographs shall be performed using PS 9 in 40 CFR part 60. (d) Efficiency determination at the aeration room vent and at the chamber exhaust vent (not manifolded). The following procedures shall be used to determine the efficiency of a control device used to comply with §63.362(d) or (e), the aeration room vent standard or the chamber exhaust vent standards (without manifolding the chamber exhaust vent emissions to another vent type):
