FR940207-1-00024 FR940207-1-00002 •``Interest paid,'' to describe interest that has been credited •``Interest accrued'' or ``interest earned,'' to indicate that interest is not yet credited 3. Closed accounts. If a consumer closes an account between crediting periods and forfeits accrued interest, the institution may not show any figures for ``interest earned'' or annual percentage yield earned for the period. (a)(3) Fees Imposed 1. General. Periodic statements must state fees debited to the account during the statement period even if assessed for an earlier period. 2. Itemizing fees by type. In itemizing fees by type, institutions may group together fees of the same type that are imposed more than once in the period. If fees are grouped, the description must make clear that the dollar figure represents more than a single fee, for example, ``total fees for checks written this period.'' Examples of fees that may not be grouped together are: •Monthly maintenance and excess activity fees •``Transfer'' fees, if different dollar amounts are imposed_such as $.50 for deposits and $1.00 for withdrawals •Fees for electronic fund transfers and fees for other services, such as balance inquiry or maintenance fees 3. Identifying fees. Statement details must enable the consumer to identify the specific fee. For example: •Institutions may use a code to identify a particular fee if the code is explained on the periodic statement or in documents accompanying the statement. •Institutions using debit slips may disclose the date the fee was debited on the periodic statement and show the amount and type of fee on the dated debit slip. 4. Relation to Regulation E. Compliance with Regulation E complies with this section for the disclosure of fees related to electronic fund transfers on periodic statements (for example, totaling all electronic funds transfer fees in a single figure). (a)(4) Length of Period 1. General. Institutions that provide the beginning and ending dates of the period must make clear whether both dates are included in the period. 2. Opening or closing an account mid-cycle. If an account is opened or closed during the period for which a statement is sent, institutions must calculate the annual percentage yield earned based on account balances for each day the account was open. (b) Special Rule for Average Daily Balance Method 1. General. To illustrate, this rule applies when an institution calculates interest on a quarterly average daily balance and sends monthly statements. The first two monthly statements may not state annual percentage yield earned and interest earned figures; the third ``monthly'' statement will reflect the interest earned and the annual percentage yield earned for the entire quarter. 2. Length of the period. Institutions must disclose the length of both the interest calculation period and the statement period. For example, a statement could disclose a statement period of April 16 through May 15 and further state that ``the interest earned and the annual percentage yield earned are based on your average daily balance for the period April 1 through April 30.'' 3. Quarterly statements and monthly compounding. Institutions that use the average daily balance method to calculate interest on a monthly basis, but send statements on a quarterly basis, may disclose a single interest (and annual percentage yield earned) figure. Alternatively, an institution may disclose three interest earned and three annual percentage earned figures, one for each month in the quarter, as long as the institution states the number of days (or beginning and ending date) in the interest period if it is different from the statement period. Section 230.7_Payment of Interest (a) Permissible Methods 1. Prohibited calculation methods. Calculation methods that do not comply with the requirement to pay interest on the full amount of principal in the account each day include: •The ``ending balance'' method, where institutions pay interest on the balance in the account at the end of the period •The ``investable balance'' method, where institutions pay interest on a percentage of the balance, excluding an amount institutions set aside for reserve requirements
