FR940919-2-00079 FR940919-2-00046 However, this work will not be done in isolation_ internally, we will continue to seek advice on these issues from our Advisory Group, comprised of SSA and DDS executives and union and association leaders. Externally, we will continue to publicly inform all who are interested and create opportunities for dialogue and consultation. Special thanks are extended to the Disability Process Reengineering Team whose recommendations are the result of an unprecedented endeavor for this Agency, and I dare say for most Federal agencies. The Team's thousands of hours of interviews, research, analysis, computer modeling, feedback sessions, and revisions have created a daring image for us of what can be if we truly seek to provide world-class service. We must accept their challenge and begin the arduous task of bringing to reality what is now only a concept. The next few years will be challenging for all of us as we build our redesigned process, but that will not be a new experience for those of you who are employees of SSA and the State DDSs. You have been called upon in the past to rise to the occasion and have always more than met the challenge; your flexibility, resourcefulness, professionalism, and just plain hard work are legendary. Now more than ever, I will need you to be bold and help build a better future for those who seek our services. Shirley S. Chater, Commissioner of Social Security. Case for Action Overview SSA and the State Disability Determination Services (DDSs) have always striven to provide high-quality, responsive service to the public. In recent years, the disability insurance (DI) and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) claims workload has been the Agency's most challenging problem. SSA has been faced with unprecedented workload increases in both the DI and SSI programs which have severely strained its resources. Despite improvements in productivity by employees in field offices, DDSs, hearing offices, the Appeals Council and the processing centers over the last several years, SSA has had difficulty providing a satisfactory level of service to claimants for disability benefits. SSA recognizes that, in an era of spending limitations and competing social spending priorities, placing more and more resources into the current process is not a viable alternative. Additionally, demographic changes in the general population and in the SSA claimant population present challenges as well as opportunities as SSA strives to provide world-class service to its customers. Despite the workload and demographic changes, however, the procedures for processing disability claims have not changed in any important way since the beginning of the DI program in the 1950's and many of the Agency's current practices are based, in large part, on procedures begun 40 years ago. Disability process changes that have evolved over time tend to reflect small, incremental improvements designed to address various pieces of the overall process. It has become increasingly clear that incremental improvements are no longer sufficient to achieve the level of service that will make a substantial difference to disability claimants. Thus, SSA needs a longer-term strategy for addressing service delivery problems in the disability claim process. Workload and Operations Trends Over the last several years, as workloads have increased dramatically, the disability process has been placed under increasing stress. The upward trend in the number of claims and the number of beneficiaries awarded is reflected as follows: BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN19SE94.061 E:GRAPHICSEN19SE94.062 BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;C
