FR941222-1-00030 FR941222-1-00008 The Agency is seeking comment on whether enforceable agreements between EPA and industry that restrict the use of certain waste management practices could affect the Agency's plausible mismanagement analysis and, in turn, affect the Agency's listing determination. Specifically, the Agency seeks comment on whether EPA should pursue such agreements with respect to either the dye and pigment wastes that the Agency is proposing to list in this notice (or, additionally those it proposes not to list). The Agency seeks comment on whether the Agency should decide not to list such wastes (or retain a no-list decision) if the agreements ensure that the wastes will not be managed in a manner that poses unacceptable risk. A decision not to list based on such enforceable agreements could be based on the view that management practices that are prohibited in an enforceable agreement are not ``plausible'' because facilities within an industry covered by an enforceable agreement are unlikely to violate that agreement; i.e. , use a risky management practice, especially if the agreement were to contain monetary or other sanctions for a breach or violation. Waste management practices that are not plausible because they are prohibited by such an agreement arguably need not be considered by the Agency in determining whether the waste poses ``a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of, or otherwise managed.'' ( See discussion of selection of waste management scenarios at I.B.1.) Thus, if a waste does not pose an unacceptable risk if managed in accordance with an enforceable agreement, the Agency could determine that the waste should not be listed as hazardous. The Agency requests comment on the use of such an approach as part of the listing determination for wastes generated during the production of dyes and pigments, including those proposed to be listed and/or proposed not to be listed in today's notice. For such an approach to be workable, the EPA believes that the following basic principles must apply: (1) All of the companies that generate the wastestream at issue must be party to the agreement; (2) To ensure that the agreement will adequately deter prohibited waste management practices, the agreement should be enforceable in court and should contain provisions requiring payment of sufficient penalties or damages if the agreement is violated; (3) The agreement should eliminate management practices that pose an unacceptable risk; (4) The agreement should contain provisions that would account for new entrants; and (5) The agreement should promote waste minimization. Section 7003 of RCRA may provide EPA with authority under appropriate circumstances to enter into such agreements on consent. Section 7003(a) of RCRA authorizes EPA to issue orders requiring such action as may be necessary upon receipt of evidence that the past or present handling, storage, treatment, transportation, or disposal of any solid waste or hazardous waste may present an imminent and substantial endangerment to human health or the environment. EPA also has the authority to settle claims under RCRA section 7003 by entering into a consent decree or agreement. In addition, the Agency has inherent authority to enter into contracts that are not prohibited by law. See generally, Kern-Limerick, Inc. v. Scurlock, 347 U.S. 110 (1954). Such inherent authority also may be available to enter into such agreements. EPA believes that such an approach may be feasible for the wastes generated during the production of dyes and pigments because such wastes are generated by a relatively small number of facilities, and the likelihood of expansion in this industry does not appear to be great. Such an approach may not be feasible in an industry with a greater number of facilities or in an industry that is expanding. Additionally, it may not be a valid approach for an industrial sector in which the wastes generated are so hazardous, move off-site in such a fashion, or require such detailed controls that EPA wants the full regulatory controls and civil and criminal authorities that follow from full Subtitle C regulation. The Agency requests comments on the feasibility of entering into and enforcing such agreements with industry. The Agency also requests comment on how such agreements would account for entrance into the market of new facilities that generate the waste at issue ( e.g. , add new elements to the agreement, issue unilateral order under RCRA Section 7003). The Agency also requests comment on alternative innovative approaches to listing determinations.
