FR941205-0-00192 FR941205-0-00029 Termination ยง266.620 Termination of Contract of Insurance. The Contract of Insurance shall terminate if any of the following occurs: (a) The mortgage is paid in full; (b) The HFA acquires the mortgaged property and notifies the Commissioner that it will not file an insurance claim; (c) A party other than HFA acquires the property at a foreclosure sale; (d) The HFA notifies the Commissioner of Termination of Insurance (voluntary termination); (e) The HFA or its successors commit fraud or make a material misrepresentation to the Commissioner with respect to information culminating in the Contract of Insurance on the mortgage or while the Contract of Insurance is in existence; (f) The receipt by the Commissioner of an Application for Final Claims Settlement; (g) If the HFA acquires the mortgaged property and fails to make an initial claim. ยง266.622 Notice and date of termination by the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall notify the HFA that the Contract of Insurance has been terminated and shall establish the effective date of termination. The termination shall be the last day of the month in which one of the events specified in ยง266.620 occurs. Claim Procedures ยง266.626 Notice of default and filing an insurance claim. (a) Definition of default. (1) A monetary default exists when the mortgagor fails to make any payment due under the mortgage. (2) A covenant default exists when the mortgagor fails to perform any other covenant under the provision of the mortgage or the regulatory agreement, which is incorporated by reference in the mortgage. An HFA becomes eligible for insurance benefits on the basis of a covenant default only after the HFA has accelerated the debt and the owner has failed to pay the full amount due, thus converting a covenant default into a monetary default. (b) Date of default. For purposes of this subpart, the date of default is: (1) The date of the first uncorrected failure to perform a mortgage covenant or obligation; or (2) The date of the first failure to make a monthly payment that is not covered by subsequent payments, when such subsequent payments are applied to the overdue monthly payments in the order in which they were due. (c) Notice of default. If a default (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) continues for a period of 30 days, the HFA must notify the Commissioner within 10 days thereafter, unless the default is cured within the 30-day period. Unless waived by the Commissioner, the HFA must submit this notice monthly, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, until the default has been cured or the HFA has filed an application for an initial claim payment. In cases of mortgage acceleration, the mortgagee must first give notice of the default. (d) Timing of claim filing. Unless a written extension is granted by HUD, the HFA must file an application for initial claim payment (or, if appropriate, for partial claim payment) within 75 days from the date of default and may do so as early as the first day of the month following the month for which a payment was missed. Upon request of the HFA, HUD may extend, up to 180 days from the date of default, the deadline for filing a claim. In those cases where the HFA certifies that the project owner is in the process of transacting a bond refunder, refinancing the mortgage, or changing the ownership for the purpose of curing the default and bringing the mortgage current, HUD may extend the deadline for filing a claim beyond 180 days, not to exceed 360 days from the date of default.
