FR940719-2-00088 FR940719-2-00053 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC&hyph;411] RIN 0905&hyph;ZA48 Announcement of Cooperative Agreement for the Development of a National Public Health Information Infrastructure to the National Public Health Information Coalition Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), announces the availability of funds for fiscal year (FY) 1994 for a sole source cooperative agreement with the National Public Health Information Coalition (NPHIC) to facilitate the exchange and sharing of information, methods, and techniques for the enrichment and improvement of public health programs; to elicit the cooperation and coordination of other national, public, private, and voluntary agencies in promoting public health programs; to improve communications and coordination among public information officers at State health agencies; and to provide a forum for continuing education opportunities in public health communications, in particular, communications with and through the news media. Approximately $115,000 will be available in FY 1994 to support this project for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 5 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and availability of funds. The purpose of this cooperative agreement is to: (1) Enrich and improve public health programs; (2) Identify methods to improve the quality and process of communication among members, CDC, and other Public Health Service agencies; (3) Elicit the cooperation and coordination of other national, public, private, and voluntary agencies in promoting public health programs; and (4) Provide a forum for continuing education opportunities in public health communications. CDC will: (1) Provide technical assistance and consultation in the area of program development and implementation; (2) Assist in the support of an annual conference for State, regional, and national exchange of public health information; (3) Assist NPHIC in the selection and performance of proposed project activities; (4) Participate in defining the scope of training needs at the local, State, and territorial levels, and review proposed training materials to address those needs; and (5) Assist in the development of training materials. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of Educational and Community-Based Programs. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section WHERE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION .) Authority This program is authorized under Section 1704 [42 U.S.C. 300u&hyph;3] of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicant Assistance will be provided only to the National Public Health Information Coalition (NPHIC). No other applications are solicited. The Program Announcement and application kit have been sent to the NPHIC. The NPHIC is the most appropriate and qualified agency to provide the service specified under this cooperative agreement because: A. NPHIC is an existing network of the top public information officers within State health departments, providing national access to news media for coverage of health emergencies and unique opportunities to tell the stories of prevention. Through its executive board of senior information officers, NPHIC has the experience and training available to identify methods to improve health communication using local health departments, other independent partners, and Federal agencies to amplify basic public health messages. B. NPHIC has the established relationship with State health departments and expertise necessary to carry out the purpose of this cooperative agreement. The information exchange among NPHIC members makes the coalition a unique organization with expert knowledge of disease and injury problems at the national, State, and local levels which can elicit the cooperation and coordination of other national, public, private, and voluntary agencies in promoting public health information. Executive Order 12372 Review The application is not subject to review under Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. Public Health System Reporting Requirement This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number for the program is 93.283. Where To Obtain Additional Information If you are interested in obtaining additional information regarding this project, please refer to Announcement Number 411 and contact Georgia Jang, Grants Management Specialist, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., MS&hyph;E13, Atlanta, GA 30305, telephone (404) 842&hyph;6814. A copy of ``Healthy People 2000'' (Full Report, Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00474&hyph;0) or ``Healthy People 2000'' (Summary Report, Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;1) referenced in the SUMMARY may be obtained through the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;9325, telephone (202) 783&hyph;3238. Dated: May 13, 1994. Ladene H. Newton, Acting Associate Director for Management and Operations, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12213 Filed 5&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;P
