FR941025-2-00091 FR941025-2-00059 Employment and Training Administration Notice of Attestations Filed by Facilities Using Nonimmigrant Aliens as Registered Nurses AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Department of Labor (DOL) is publishing, for public information, a list of the following health care facilities that have submitted attestations (Form ETA 9029 and explanatory statements) to one of four Regional Offices of DOL (Boston, Chicago, Dallas and Seattle) for the purpose of employing nonimmigrant alien nurses. A decision has been made on these organizations' attestations and they are on file with DOL. ADDRESSES: Anyone interested in inspecting or reviewing the employer's attestation may do so at the employer's place of business. Attestations and short supporting explanatory statements are also available for inspection in the U.S. Employment Service, Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor, Room N&hyph;4456, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. Any complaints regarding a particular attestation or a facility's activities under that attestation, shall be filed with a local office of the Wage and Hour Division of the Employment Standards Administration, Department of Labor. The address of such offices are found in many local telephone directories, or may be obtained by writing to the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, Department of Labor, Room S&hyph;3502, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Regarding the Attestation Process: Chief, Division of Foreign Labor Certifications, U.S. Employment Service. Telephone: 202&hyph;219&hyph;5263 (this is not a toll-free number). Regarding the Complaint Process: Questions regarding the complaint process for the H&hyph;1A nurse attestation program will be made to the Chief, Farm Labor Program, Wage and Hour Division. Telephone: 202&hyph;219&hyph;7605 (this is not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Immigration and Nationality Act requires that a health care facility seeking to use nonimmigrant aliens as registered nurses first attest to the Department of Labor (DOL) that it is taking significant steps to develop, recruit and retain United States (U.S.) workers in the nursing profession. The law also requires that these foreign nurses will not adversely affect U.S. nurses and that the foreign nurses will be treated fairly. The facility's attestation must be on file with DOL before the Immigration and Naturalization Service will consider the facility's H&hyph;1A visa petitions for bringing nonimmigrant registered nurses to the United States. 26 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(i)(a) and 1181(m). The regulations implementing the nursing attestation program are at 20 CFR Parts 655, Subpart D, and 29 CFR Part 504, (January 6, 1994). The Employment and Training Administration, pursuant to 20 CFR 655.310(c), is publishing the following list of facilities which have submitted attestations which have been accepted for filing and those which have been rejected. The list of facilities is published so that U.S. registered nurses, and other persons and organizations can be aware of health care facilities that have requested foreign nurses for their staff. If U.S. registered nurses or other persons wish to examine the attestation (on Form ETA 9029) and the supporting documentation, the facility is required to make the attestation and documentation available. Telephone numbers of the facilities chief executive officer also are listed to aid public inquiries. In addition, attestations and explanatory statements (but not the full supporting documentation) are available for inspection at the address for the Employment and Training Administration set forth in the ADDRESSES section of this notice. If a person wishes to file a complaint regarding a particular attestation or a facility's activities under the attestation, such complaint must be filed at the address for the Wage and Hour Division of the Employment Standards Administration set forth in the ADDRESSES section of this notice. Signed at Washington, D.C., this 13th day of October, 1994. John M. Robinson, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Employment and Training Administration.
