FR940118-1-00042 FR940118-1-00007 EPA's assessment is that the site poses a significant threat to human health and anticipates that it will be more cost-effective to use remedial authority than to use removal authority to respond to the site. This finding is set out in a memorandum dated August 17, 1993, from Joseph R. Franzmathes, Region 4 Waste Management Division Director, to Larry Reed, Hazardous Site Evaluation Division Director. This memorandum and the ATSDR advisory are available in the Superfund docket for this proposed rule. Based on this information, and the references in support of proposal, EPA believes that the Tennessee Products site is appropriate for the NPL pursuant to 40 CFR 300.425(c)(3). Name Change EPA is proposing to change the name of the Schofield Barracks site in Oahu, Hawaii, to Schofield Barracks/Wheeler Army Airfield. EPA believes the name change more accurately reflects the site. IV. Regulatory Impact Analysis Executive Order 12866 This action was submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993) and Executive Order 12580 (52 FR 2923, January 29, 1987). No changes were made in response to OMB. V. Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 requires EPA to review the impacts of this action on small entities, or certify that the action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. By small entities, the Act refers to small businesses, small government jurisdictions, and nonprofit organizations. While this rule proposes to revise the NCP, it is not a typical regulatory change since it does not automatically impose costs. As stated above, proposing sites to the NPL does not in itself require any action by any party, nor does it determine the liability of any party for the cost of cleanup at the site. Further, no identifiable groups are affected as a whole. As a consequence, impacts on any group are hard to predict. A site's proposed inclusion on the NPL could increase the likelihood of adverse impacts on responsible parties (in the form of cleanup costs), but at this time EPA cannot identify the potentially affected businesses or estimate the number of small businesses that might also be affected. The Agency does expect that placing the sites in this proposed rule on the NPL could significantly affect certain industries, or firms within industries, that have caused a proportionately high percentage of waste site problems. However, EPA does not expect the listing of these sites to have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small businesses. In any case, economic impacts would occur only through enforcement and cost-recovery actions, which EPA takes at its discretion on a site-by-site basis. EPA considers many factors when determining enforcement actions, including not only the firm's contribution to the problem, but also its ability to pay. The impacts (from cost recovery) on small governments and nonprofit organizations would be determined on a similar case-by-case basis. For the foregoing reasons, I hereby certify that this proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Therefore, this proposed regulation does not require a regulatory flexibility analysis.
