FR940224-2-00079 FR940224-2-00041 Overlapping business and calendar days. One complication associated with a Fedwire funds transfer day that begins earlier than 3 a.m. e.t. concerns asynchronous business and calendar days for domestic payments and possibly for cross-border payments as well. For example, assuming a 6:30 p.m. e.t. closing time and an 18-hour Fedwire funds transfer day, the 12:30 a.m. e.t. opening time is 9:30 p.m. Pacific Time (p.t.). This means that today's business day, as defined by the opening of Fedwire, begins on the prior calendar day in continental United States time zones other than the Eastern time zone. Some clarification or adjustment in accounting practices and possibly legal conventions may be necessary to address this situation. These adjustments do not appear to present large issues and they can be readily addressed through such things as modifications in financial reporting conventions and business practices. For example, financial reporting conventions that rely on precise ``as of'' reporting dates and times would appear reasonably to address most reporting issues. Similarly, more precision may be needed in financial contracts about when completion of a payment or other financial transaction must occur. This is a problem that exists today and that is addressed in contracts by specifying the location at which payment is to be made and the date (``pay to my account in San Francisco on x date''). The new problem posed by an earlier Fedwire opening time could be addressed readily by specifying when during the day payment is to be made at a particular location (``pay to my account in San Francisco by close of Fedwire on x date''). Federal Reserve daylight overdraft policy. In an expanded Fedwire funds transfer operating environment, Federal Reserve intraday credit will be provided to banks on the same basis that it would be provided from 8:30 a.m. e.t. to 6:30 p.m. e.t. That is, eligible institutions will be able to incur intraday overdrafts subject to the net debit caps and daylight overdraft fees in place at the time the overdraft is incurred. Some adjustments to the intraday overdraft measurement rules will be required. For example, posting times for non-wire transactions settled on the books of the Reserve Banks that are currently tied to the opening of Fedwire, such as ACH and principal and interest payments for securities, need to be adjusted. Since users will be accustomed to the current schedule, which generally results in posting these transactions at 8:30 a.m. e.t., a clear option would be for the Board to consider establishing 8:30 a.m. e.t. as the ``explicit'' posting time for these transactions. BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN24FE94.026 BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;C
