FR941103-2-00116 FR941103-2-00068 Part I. Background A. Authorities Section 324 of the Job Training Partnership Act authorizes the use of funds reserved under Part B of Title III for demonstration programs. The Secretary shall conduct or provide for an evaluation of the success of each demonstration program. B. Purpose of the Demonstration Job Development Broker Demonstration Projects funded through this solicitation are to provide reemployment and retraining services_as described in sections 314(c) and 314(d) JTPA_to eligible dislocated workers. The goals of this retraining program are to: _Expand the retraining resources available to dislocated workers being served under Title III of the Job Training Partnership Act; and _Support the development of a job development marketplace where brokers with retraining and employment opportunities can compete to provide assistance to dislocated workers on the basis of performance and customer satisfaction. The purpose of this demonstration is to identify brokers that will link specific job opportunities with the development of appropriate curricula and support mechanisms so that eligible dislocated workers who successfully complete the program will get those jobs, at a cost that will be competitive with other program options available for the dislocated worker substate grantees and their customers. C. Demonstration Policy 1. Awards DOL will select approximately three to five applicants, making awards up to $2.0 million in total, to conduct demonstrations for job development brokers. It is anticipated that individual grant awards will be approximately $300,000 to $500,000 each; however, in no case will an award exceed $750,000. 2. Evaluation Under a separate announcement, DOL will select and fund an evaluation contractor to: (1) Provide technical assistance to selected grantees in establishing appropriate data collection methods and processes; and (2) conduct an independent evaluation of the outcomes, impacts and benefits of the demonstration projects. Grantees will be expected to make available participant records and access to personnel, as specified by the evaluation contractor. In addition, DOL will establish, for each demonstration project site, an oversight group made up of federal, State and substate staff. 3. Eligible Participants Workers eligible for assistance under these demonstration grants are those eligible dislocated workers who are participants in Title III funded programs operated by State and substate grantees.
