FR940712-2-00098 FR940712-2-00067 [Release No. 34&hyph;34309; File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;08] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Additions to Its Minor Rule Violation Plan July 5, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on May 6, 1994, the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. (``BSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The BSE seeks to amend its Minor Rule Violation Plan (``Plan'') to provide for the imposition of summary fines for violation of certain specified Exchange rules and policy by revising the List of Exchange Rule Violations and Fines Applicable Thereto Pursuant to Section 4 of Chapter XVIII (``List'') for the imposition of fines by adding the following rule and policy violations: 1 1 The BSE also has requested approval, under Rule 19d&hyph;1(c)(2), 17 CFR 240.19&hyph;1(c)(2), to amend its Rule 19d&hyph;1 minor rule violation enforcement and reporting plan to include these policy violations. See letter from Karen Aluise, Staff Attorney, to Sandy Sciole, Special Counsel, Division, dated April 28, 1994. 1. Failure to Promptly Respond to Exchange Blue Sheet Requests or File Regularly Scheduled Financial (FOCUS, SIPC) and/or Regulatory Reports (Specialist Performance Evaluation Questionnaire, Quarterly Option Report); 2. Improper Use of the ITS Administrative Message Function; and 3. Failure to Register Floor Employees and Complete Appropriate Forms. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Exchange's Plan provides that the Exchange may impose a fine, not to exceed $2,500, on any member, member organization, allied member, approved person, registered or non-registered employee of a member or member organization for a minor violation of certain specified Exchange rules. 2 2 The BSE's Plan for enforcing and reporting minor disciplinary rule violations was approved by the Commission in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 26737 (April 17, 1989), 54 FR 16438&hyph;I (April 24, 1989) (File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;88&hyph;2). The purpose of the Plan is to provide for a response to a rule violation when a sanction is appropriate but when initiation of a full disciplinary proceeding is not suitable because such proceeding would be more costly and onerous than would be warranted given the minor nature of the violation. The Plan provides for an appropriate response to minor violations of certain Exchange rules while preserving the due process rights of the party accused through specified, required procedures. In the Exchange's initial filing which set forth the provisions and procedures of the Plan, the Exchange indicated that it periodically would amend the list of rules subject to the Plan as the Exchange deemed appropriate. The Exchange now seeks to add the aforementioned rules and policy to the List. 2. Statutory Basis The statutory basis for the proposed rule change is Section 6(b)(6) of the Act, in that its members and persons associated with its members will be appropriately disciplined for violation of rules and policies where the Exchange has determined that such violation is minor in nature. In accordance with Sections 6(b)(7) and 6(d)(1) of the Act, the Plan provides for a fair disciplinary procedure for the imposition of sanctions. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received written comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the BSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;08 and should be submitted by August 2, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16747 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
