FR940711-0-00031 FR940711-0-00003 Based on the above, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The information collection requirements contained in these regulations have been previously approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been assigned OMB Control Number 0581&hyph;0071. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, it is also found and determined that good cause exists for not postponing the effective date of this action until 30 days after publication in the Federal Register because: (1) the new Credit-Back program, as modified herein, will be more beneficial to the industry if it is implemented at the beginning of the 1994&hyph;95 crop year which begins July 1, 1994; (2) this action provides handlers with additional flexibility in the types of promotion and advertising allowed for crediting; (3) this action relaxes requirements currently in effect; (4) the interim final rule provided two comment periods which were addressed in this action and modifications were made based on the comments and other relevant information. After consideration of the all relevant material presented, the information and recommendations submitted by the Board, the comments received, and other information, the Department has determined that finalizing the interim final rule, with modifications, as published in the Federal Register [58 FR 43500, August 17, 1993] will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act. List of Subjects in 7 CFR 981 Almonds, Marketing agreements, Nuts, Reporting and recording requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR Part 981 is amended as follows: PART 981_ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR Part 981 continues to read as follows: Authority : 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. 2. Section 981.441 is revised to read as follows: ยง981.441 Credit for market promotion activities, including paid advertising. (a) In order for a handler to receive credit for his/her own promotional activities from his/her pro rata portion of advertising assessment payments, pursuant to ยง981.41(c), the Board must determine that such expenditures meet the applicable requirements of this section. Credit will be granted either in the form of a payment from the Board, or as an offset to the advertising assessment if activities are conducted and documented to the satisfaction of the Board at least two weeks prior to assessment billings. Credit, hereinafter termed ``Credit-Back'', will be granted in an amount not to exceed 662/3 percent of a handler's proven expenditures for qualified activities. (b) The portion of the handler assessment for which credit may be received under this section will be billed, and is due and payable, at the same time as the portion of the handler assessment used for the Board's administrative expenses, unless the handler(s) conduct and document activities at least two weeks prior to assessment billings. In the latter case, handlers' advertising assessment obligations will be reduced according to the amount of proven activities approved by the Board. (c) The Board shall grant Credit-Back for qualifying activities only to the handler who performed such activities and who filed a claim for Credit-Back in accordance with this section. (d) Credit-Back shall be granted only for qualified promotional activities which are conducted and completed during the crop year for which Credit-Back is requested. (e) The following requirements shall apply to Credit-Back for all promotional activities: (1) Credit-Back granted by the Board shall be that which is appropriate when compared to accepted professional practices and rates for the type of activity conducted. In the case of claims for Credit-Back activities not covered by specific and established criteria, the Board shall grant the claim if it is consistent with practices and rates for similar activities. To this end, the Board may issue guidelines for qualifying activities from time to time as warranted. For activities in markets other than the United States and Canada, paragraph (e)(5) of this section shall also apply. (2) The clear and evident purpose of each activity shall be to promote the sale, consumption or use of California almonds, and nothing therein shall detract from this purpose. (3) No Credit-Back will be given for advertising placed in publications that target the farming or grower trade. No Credit-Back shall be given for any outdoor advertising or sponsorships in the California almond growing counties of Butte, Colusa, Fresno, Glenn, Kern, Madera, Merced, Sacramento, San Joaquin, Stanislaus, and Tulare counties, except that, outdoor advertising in these counties which specifically directs consumers to a handler-operated outlet offering direct purchase of almonds will be eligible for Credit-Back. (4) Credit-Back shall be granted for those qualified activities specified below, except that Credit-Back for travel expenses will not be allowed in any case. (i) Paid advertising directed to end-users, trade or industrial users. Credit-Back shall be granted for money spent on paid advertising space or time including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, radio, television, transit and outdoor media, and including the standard agency commission costs not to exceed 15 percent of gross.
