FR940825-0-00086 FR940825-0-00016 Award means financial assistance that provides support or stimulation to accomplish a public purpose. Awards include grants and other agreements in the form of money or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government to an eligible recipient. The term does not include: technical assistance, which provides services instead of money; other assistance in the form of loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, or insurance; direct payments of any kind to individuals; and, contracts which are required to be entered into and administered under Federal procurement laws and regulations. Cash contributions mean the recipient's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the recipient by third parties. Closeout means the process by which the HHS awarding agency determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the award have been completed by the recipient and HHS. Contract means a procurement contract under an award or subaward, and a procurement subcontract under a recipient's or subrecipient's contract. Cost sharing or matching means that portion of project or program costs not borne by the Federal Government. Current accounting period means, with respect to ยง74.27(b), the period of time the recipient chooses for purposes of financial statements and audits. Date of completion means the date on which all work under an award is completed or the date on the award document, or any supplement or amendment thereto, on which HHS awarding agency sponsorship ends. Departmental Appeals Board means the independent office established in the Office of the Secretary with delegated authority from the Secretary to review and decide certain disputes between recipients of HHS funds and HHS awarding agencies under 45 CFR part 16 and to perform other review, adjudication and mediation services as assigned. Disallowed costs mean those charges to an award that the HHS awarding agency determines to be unallowable, in accordance with the applicable Federal cost principles or other terms and conditions contained in the award. Discretionary award means an award made by an HHS awarding agency in keeping with specific statutory authority which enables the agency to exercise judgment (``discretion'') in selecting the applicant/recipient organization through a competitive award process. Equipment means tangible nonexpendable personal property, including exempt property, charged directly to the award having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $5000 or more per unit. However, consistent with recipient policy, lower limits may be established.
