FR940906-2-00120 FR940906-2-00083 9. Response Function Overview Table II&hyph;2 provides an overview of the responsible Federal agencies for major response functions. Table II&hyph;2._Response Function Overview 1Response action 1Responsible agency (1) Maintain cognizance of the Federal response; conduct and manage Federal onsite actions LFA. (2) Coordinate Federal offsite radiological monitoring and assessment: _Initial Response DOE. _Intermediate and Long-Term Response EPA. (3) Develop and evaluate recommendations for offsite protective actions for the public LFA, in coordination with other agencies. (4) Present recommendations for offsite protective actions to the appropriate State and/or local officials LFA, in conjunction with FEMA and other Federal agencies when practical. (5) Coordinate Federal offsite non-technical resource support FEMA. (6) Coordinate release of Federal information to the public LFA; FEMA after mutual agreement. (7) Coordinate release of Federal information to Congress LFA. (8) Provide reports to the President and keep the White House informed on all aspects of the emergency LFA. (9) Coordinate international aspects and make required international notifications DOS; LFA as appropriate. (10) Coordinate the law-enforcement aspects of a criminal act involving radioactive material DOJ. E. Stages of the Federal Response The Federal response is divided into five stages: Notification, Activation and Deployment, Response Operations, Response Deactivation, and Recovery. 1. Notification The owner or operator of the facility or radiological activity is generally the first to become aware of a radiological emergency and is responsible for notifying the State and local authorities and the LFA. The notification should include: (1) Location and nature of the accident, (2) An assessment of the severity of the problem, (3) Potential and actual offsite consequences, and (4) Initial response actions. If any Federal agency receives notification from any source other than FEMA or the LFA, the agency will notify the LFA. See Figure II&hyph;1 for the notification process. a. Role of the Lead Federal Agency (LFA). (1) Verify accuracy of notification, (2) Notify FEMA and advisory team agencies and provide information, (3) Verify that other Federal agencies have been notified, and (4) Verify that the State has been notified. b. Role of Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) . (1) Verify that the State has been notified of the emergency, and (2) Notify other Federal agencies as appropriate. BILLING CODE 6718&hyph;02&hyph;P ␣ E:GRAPHICSEN06se94.000 BILLING CODE 6718&hyph;02&hyph;C
