FR941219-1-00051 FR941219-1-00016 E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Their Continued Existence These four plant species are restricted in range and population numbers. Lasthenia conjugens is currently known from five population sites, Navarretia leucocephala ssp. pauciflora from three sites, Navarretia leucocephala ssp. plieantha from four sites, and Parvisedum leiocarpum from three sites. All four species occupy highly restricted and vulnerable habitats. The combination of low populations, narrow range, and restriction and vulnerability of habitat make these plants susceptible to destruction of all or a significant part of any population from random natural events such as flood, drought, disease, or other natural occurrences. Low population numbers also make the populations vulnerable to genetic variations. Changes in gene frequency, inbreeding, and genetic drift can result from populations becoming genetically depauperate. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by these species in determining to propose this rule. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list Lasthenia conjugens, Navarretia leucocephala ssp. pauciflora , Navarretia leucocephala ssp. plieantha , and Parvisedum leiocarpum as endangered. Endangered status is appropriate for these four species due to the vulnerability of their restrictive habitats, threats posed to those habitats by urbanization, agricultural land conversion, drainage, road widening, off-highway vehicle use, stochastic events, and inadequate regulatory mechanisms. Critical habitat is not proposed for these species for reasons discussed below. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary designate critical habitat concurrently with determining a species to be endangered or threatened. The Service finds that the designation of critical habitat is not prudent for these species at this time. Because the four species face numerous anthropogenic threats (see Factors A, B, and E in the ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species'') and occur predominantly on private land, Federal actions affecting these species are limited. Designating critical habitat would not provide any additional protection to the species. The publication of precise maps and descriptions of critical habitat in the Federal Register may make the plants even more vulnerable to incidents of vandalism and, therefore, could contribute to the decline of the four plant species. Thus, designation of critical habitat would not be beneficial and is accordingly, not prudent. Responsible agencies will be notified of the importance of protecting the habitat of the species. Protection of the species' habitat will be addressed through the recovery process and, under limited circumstances, through the section 7 consultation process. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain activities. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the State and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against certain activities involving listed plants are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR Part 402. Section 7(a)(4) of the Act requires Federal agencies to confer informally with the Service on any action that is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a proposed species or result in destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. If a species is listed subsequently, section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to insure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. Federal involvement may include Federal mortgage programs, including the Veterans Administration and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (Federal Home Administration loans), the Federal Highway Administration in the case of impacts from federally funded bridge and road construction, the Army Corps of Engineers through jurisdiction of section 404 of the Clean Water Act, the Environmental Protection Agency through the Clean Water Act's provisions for pesticide registration and waste management actions, and proposed activities on Travis Air Force Base. Listing Lasthenia conjugens , Navarretia leucocephala ssp. pauciflora , Navarretia leucocephala ssp. plieantha , and Parvisedum leiocarpum as endangered would provide for development of a recovery plan (or plans) for them. Such plan(s) would bring together both State and Federal efforts for conservation of the plants. The recovery plan(s) would establish a framework for agencies to coordinate activities and cooperate with each other in conservation efforts. The plan(s) would set recovery priorities and estimate costs of various tasks necessary to accomplish them. It also would describe site-specific management actions necessary to achieve conservation and survival of these four plants. Additionally, pursuant to section 6 of the Act, the Service would be more likely to grant funds to affected states for management actions promoting the protection and recovery of these species.
