FR940627-0-00144 FR940627-0-00019 Vehicles to be used in the evaluation of baseline and non-baseline F/FAs are required to accumulate at least 4,000 miles prior to emission testing. For engines operated on an engine dynamometer, the minimum break-in requirement is 125 hours of operation for testing baseline and non-baseline F/FAs. The 4,000 mile/125 hour mileage accumulation requirements are consistent with the emission stabilization procedures used in EPA's new vehicle certification program. 39 An intact aftertreatment device must be used when accumulating mileage in the evaluation of baseline and non-baseline F/FAs. Mileage can be accumulated in a number of ways, i.e., on a test track, on a dynamometer, on the street, or as part of a manufacturer's fleet. No specific driving cycle is required, but it must include a reasonable amount of transient operation. 39 40 CFR 86.094&hyph;26. Mileage and service accumulation; emission requirements. For atypical F/FAs, the minimum mileage accumulation required prior to testing is also 4,000 miles for test vehicles or 125 hours for test engines. After completion of the 4,000 mile/125 hour minimum mileage accumulation, an attempt should be made to identify and measure the atypical element(s) in the emissions. Mileage accumulation must continue until either: (1) 50 percent or more of the input mass of each atypical element is measured in the emissions (i.e., vapor, semi-volatile, and particulate combined), or (2) a maximum mileage accumulation equivalent to 40 percent of the average useful life of the applicable vehicle/engine (e.g., 40,000 miles for light-duty vehicles, 116,000 miles for heavy-duty vehicles, or engine equivalent) has been reached. When either of these conditions has been met, emission generation can begin for purposes of emission characterization or biological testing. Because the presence of atypical species in specific emission fractions will be dependent on the nature of the particular atypical element, EPA recommends examination of all emission fractions (i.e., vapor, semi-volatile, and particulate). The determination of the appropriate intervals for conducting emissions measurements is left to the manufacturer's discretion. Manufacturers of atypical F/FAs may choose to accumulate the required mileage using a vehicle/engine equipped with either an intact aftertreatment device or with a non-functional aftertreatment device (e.g., a blank catalyst without its catalytic wash coat). 40 However, the sampling and analysis of emissions for detecting the atypical element(s) of interest, prior to emission characterization or biological testing, must be done with a non-functional aftertreatment device. A brief period of warm-up driving (i.e., 10 miles or equivalent time) needs to precede the sampling for the detection of atypical element(s). 40 If the manufacturer chooses to accumulate mileage without a functional aftertreatment device, and if the manufacturer wishes to do this outside of a laboratory/test track setting, then a memorandum of exemption for product testing must be obtained by applying to the Director of the Field Operations and Support Division [see ยง79.51(e)(6)(iv) of this rule]. During the mileage accumulation period for the testing of any fuel or fuel additive, vehicles and engines used for emission generation must be maintained in good condition by following the recommended maintenance practices in the appropriate vehicle or engine owner's manual. Maintenance requirements were described in the previous section. F. Special Requirements for Additives This section describes provisions for the testing of specific types of additives that might require modification in emission generation requirements. These include additives used in conjunction with aftertreatment devices, additives used infrequently, and diesel additives produced exclusively for use in diesel # 1 fuels. As explained in the above sections, EPA is requiring that emissions used for Tier 1 and Tier 2 testing be generated from vehicles/engines with non-functional aftertreatment devices. In response to comments received on the Reopening Notice, however, EPA is including in this final rule a special allowance for specific types of additives that are designed to work in conjunction with aftertreatment devices. In the case of fuel additives specifically intended to enhance the effectiveness of exhaust aftertreatment devices, the related aftertreatment device may be used on the emission generation vehicle/engine during all mileage accumulation and testing. Regarding infrequently used additives, EPA recognizes that some aftermarket additives are intended by the manufacturer (as stated in the additive's instructions for use) to be added to the fuel tank only at infrequent intervals. During mileage accumulation, these types of additives may be applied according to the manufacturer's specifications. However, during emission generation and testing, EPA requires that each tankful of fuel used contain the fuel additive at its maximum recommended level. In the case of bulk additives used intermittently for the direct purpose of conditioning or treating a fuel during storage or transport, or for treating or maintaining the storage, pipeline, and/or other component of the fuel distribution system (and not the vehicle/engine for which the fuel is ultimately intended), EPA also requires that the additive be added to the base fuel at the maximum concentration recommended by the additive manufacturer for treatment of the fuel or distribution system component. If the manufacturer of infrequently used aftermarket or bulk additives (as described above) is concerned that the test vehicle/engine may be adversely affected and/or the emissions may be subject to artifacts due to overuse of these types of additives, then that manufacturer may submit a request for a modification in test procedure requirements. Any such request must include test data (e.g., emission characterization data) to support the claim that procedural modification is needed, as well as a suggested substitute procedure.
