FR940512-1-00054 FR940512-1-00010 (b) Appointment and composition_ (1) Appointment. Members of the SILC must be appointed by the Governor or the appropriate entity within the State responsible, in accordance with State law, for making appointments. (2) Composition. (i) The SILC must include_ (A) At least one director of a center chosen by the directors of centers within the State; and (B) As ex officio, nonvoting members, a representative from the DSU and representatives from other State agencies that provide services to individuals with disabilities. (ii) The SILC may include_ (A) Other representatives from centers; (B) Parents and legal guardians of individuals with disabilities; (C) Advocates of and for individuals with disabilities; (D) Representatives from private businesses; (E) Representatives from organizations that provide services for individuals with disabilities; and (F) Other appropriate individuals. (iii) A majority of the members of the SILC must be individuals with disabilities, as defined in ยง364.4(b), and not employed by any State agency or center. (c) Qualifications. The SILC must be composed of members_ (1) Who provide statewide representation; (2) Who represent a broad range of individuals with disabilities; and (3) Who are knowledgeable about centers and IL services. (d) Voting members. A majority of the voting members of the SILC must be individuals with disabilities, as defined in ยง364.4(b), and not employed by any State agency or center. (e) Chairperson_ (1) In general. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the SILC shall select a chairperson from among the voting membership of the SILC. (2) Designation by Governor. In States in which the Governor does not have veto power pursuant to State law, the Governor shall designate a voting member of the SILC to serve as the chairperson of the SILC or shall require the SILC to so designate a voting member. (f) Terms of appointment. Each member of the SILC shall serve for a term of three years, except that_ (1) A member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which a predecessor was appointed must be appointed for the remainder of that term; (2) The terms of service of the members initially appointed must be (as specified by the appointing authority) for the fewer number of years as will provide for the expiration of terms on a staggered basis; and (3) No member of the SILC may serve for more than two consecutive full terms. (g) Duties. The SILC shall_ (1) Jointly develop and sign (in conjunction with the DSU) the State plan required by section 704 of the Act and ยง364.20; (2) Monitor, review, and evaluate the implementation of the State plan; (3) Coordinate activities with the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council established under section 105 of the Act and councils that address the needs of specific disability populations and issues under other Federal law; (4) Ensure that all regularly scheduled meetings of the SILC are open to the public and sufficient advance notice is provided; and (5) Submit to the Secretary all periodic reports as the Secretary may reasonably request and keep all records, and afford access to all records, as the Secretary finds necessary to verify the periodic reports. (h) Hearings. The SILC is authorized to hold any hearings and forums that the SILC determines to be necessary to carry out its duties. (i) Resource plan. (1) The SILC shall prepare, in conjunction with the DSU, a resource plan for the provision of resources, including staff and personnel, made available under parts B and C of chapter 1 of title VII of the Act, part C of title I of the Act, and from other public and private sources that may be necessary to carry out the functions of the SILC under this part.
