FR940406-2-00073 FR940406-2-00046 [Announcement Number 424] RIN 0905-ZA36 State-Based Programs to Reduce the Burden of Diabetes: A Health Systems Approach; Notice of Availability of Funds for Fiscal Year 1994 Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for new applications for cooperative agreements to develop, implement, and evaluate State-based diabetes control programs (DCPs). The program is designed to establish the DCP as a key component of an evolving health care environment. The conceptual framework within which successful applicants should operate is characterized by four areas of program activity: (1) Defining the nature, extent, distribution, and causes of the burden of diabetes; (2) Developing new, effective approaches for reducing the diabetes burden which complement emerging health care systems; (3) Implementing specific measures to ensure the widespread application of accepted standards, policies, and protocols to reduce the burden of diabetes; and (4) Coordinating the diabetes-related efforts of the public health system with private health care providers and payers, as well as with all appropriate governmental, voluntary, professional, and academic institutions. This announcement addresses two distinct levels of program support, both of which are consistent with the conceptual framework described above. The first is a Core Capacity Program, which defines basic diabetes prevention and control activities to be carried out through existing and evolving health care systems. The second is an Enhanced Program, which is intended to introduce additional, innovative elements to a State's diabetes prevention and control efforts, and is also carried out through existing and evolving health care systems. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led, national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is primarily related to Priority Area 17, Diabetes and Chronic Disabling Conditions_with particular attention to populations at disproportionate risk of developing diabetes, including minorities and the elderly. However, it also is relevant to other priority areas, including Physical Activity and Fitness, Nutrition, Tobacco, Educational and Community-Based Programs, Maternal and Infant Health, Heart Disease and Stroke, Clinical Preventive Services, and Surveillance and Data Systems. (To order a copy of Healthy People 2000, see the section WHERE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION .) Authority This program is authorized under sections 301(a) and 317(k)(3) [42 U.S.C. 241(a) and 247b (k) (3)] of the Public Health Service Act. Applicable program regulations are found in 45 CFR part 92. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants are the official public health agencies of States or their bona fide agents or instrumentalities. This includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U. S. Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau. Availability of Funds Approximately $9,750,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund approximately 42 awards in two categories (Core Capacity Programs and Enhanced Programs). A. Core Capacity Program to Reduce the Burden of Diabetes Approximately $8,750,000 is available to fund approximately 40 awards for Core Capacity Programs. It is expected that the average award will be $230,000, ranging from $150,000 to $350,000. B. Enhanced Program to Reduce the Burden of Diabetes Approximately $1,000,000 is available to fund approximately 2 awards for Enhanced Programs. It is expected that the average award will be $500,000, ranging from $300,000 to $700,000. Enhanced Program awards will only be considered for those applicants who compete successfully and are funded for Core Capacity Program awards. It is expected that awards will begin on or about July 1, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 5 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and availability of funds. At the request of the applicant, Federal personnel may be assigned to a project in lieu of a portion of the financial assistance. Purpose The purpose of this program is to provide financial and programmatic assistance to States and territories for integrating diabetes prevention and control activities within existing and evolving health care systems.
