FR940804-0-00122 FR940804-0-00024 Paragraph (d): Communications with separately represented controlling individuals. This paragraph applies only when a controlling individual of a represented organizational party has retained separate counsel. In such circumstances, a government attorney may not communicate with the controlling individual without the consent of that individual's separate counsel unless the communication satisfies one of the exceptions contained in §§77.6 or 77.9 of this part. The paragraph also allows such communications if the individual does not qualify as a represented party, initiates the communication, and waives the presence of counsel. Thus, the same rules apply to contacts with controlling individuals of represented organizational parties who retain separate counsel as apply to controlling individuals of represented organizational parties who are not separately represented. No specific comments were received regarding this paragraph, and it has not been changed. Paragraph (e): Initiation of communication by unrepresented controlling individuals. This paragraph addresses a relatively narrow circumstance: when a controlling individual who is not individually represented by counsel initiates a communication with the government outside the presence of counsel for the organization. An attorney for the government may participate in such communications if: (1) the controlling individual indicates that he or she is speaking exclusively in his or her personal capacity and not as a representative of the organizational party; and (2) he or she indicates that the waiver of counsel is voluntary, knowing, and informed and, if willing, signs a statement to that effect. The fact that the controlling individual indicates that he or she is speaking in his or her personal capacity does not mean, however, that incriminating testimony received from the controlling individual cannot be used against the represented organization. If the controlling individual is also a named defendant in a civil enforcement proceeding or has been arrested or charged in a criminal action, the requirements set forth in paragraph 77.6(c) must be satisfied before any substantive communications are made. No specific comments were received regarding this paragraph, and it has not been changed. Paragraph (f): Multiple representation. This paragraph makes clear that these rules should not be construed as altering existing legal and ethical rules regarding the propriety of multiple representation. No specific comments were received regarding this paragraph, and it has not been changed. Section 77.11: Enforcement of This Part Paragraph (a): Exclusive enforcement by Attorney General. In order to ensure consistency and uniformity in the interpretation of the final rule, this paragraph provides that the Attorney General shall have exclusive authority to enforce these regulations. Thus, state courts, state disciplinary boards, and federal courts may not impose sanctions on or otherwise regulate a Department attorney engaged in federal law enforcement activities for violations of an anti-contact rule or subject a Department attorney to regulation under state or local federal court rules governing communications with represented parties, except as provided in §77.12. This paragraph further provides the framework for investigating allegations that a Department attorney has violated this regulation. It provides that the Department's Office of Professional Responsibility (``OPR'') shall have sole original jurisdiction to investigate such allegations and that violations will be treated as matters of attorney discipline. See 28 CFR §0.39 (establishing and defining duties of OPR). It also makes clear that the Attorney General's determination as to whether a violation has occurred shall be final and conclusive except to the extent that the Department attorney enjoys a right of review provided by other laws. One individual and one organization objected to placing investigative responsibility in OPR, suggesting that OPR had, in the past, been reluctant to share the results of its investigations. The Department recently adopted a policy under which the results of OPR investigations are disclosed to the public if, inter alia , there is a finding of intentional and knowing professional misconduct by a Department attorney in the course of an investigation or litigation and the public interest in disclosure outweighs the privacy interest of the attorney and any law enforcement interest. Therefore, there will be meaningful disclosure of findings of violations of these rules. Moreover, allegations of professional misconduct by Department attorneys concerning violations of these rules may be reported directly to OPR by any person. Complaints filed by members of the public will be fully and thoroughly reviewed by OPR. Therefore, this paragraph has not been changed. Paragraph (b): No private remedies. This paragraph provides that the rule is not intended to and does not create any substantive rights for any person other than an attorney for the government. In particular, a violation of the regulation will not provide a basis for the dismissal of civil or criminal charges or for the suppression of evidence that is otherwise admissible. This provision accords with existing law. Traditionally, matters relating to communications with represented persons have been treated as matters of attorney discipline without granting substantive rights to defendants or any other persons. See , e.g. , ABA Code of Professional Responsibility, Preliminary Statement; ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct, Scope. Of course, when the communication with a represented person or represented party violates the Constitution, the federal courts retain the power to fashion appropriate remedies. No specific comments were received regarding this paragraph, and it has not been changed. Section 77.12: Relationship to State and Local Regulation
