FR941027-2-00060 FR941027-2-00032 D. Expansion Alternative The John E. Moss Federal Building is a nine-story federal office building located at 650 Capitol Mall in downtown Sacramento. Under this project alternative, an annex would be constructed against the south wall of the Moss Building. A parking lot for federal employees now occupies the proposed annex site. The land uses surrounding the site consist of the City's Lot A parking garage to the north, high density residential uses (apartments and townhouses) to the south, and State of California offices to the east and the IBM and Wells Fargo towers to the west. Under this alternative, an approximately 250,000 square foot annex to the existing John E. Moss Federal Building-US Courthouse would be constructed against the south wall of the Moss Building. The proposed annex would occupy the approximately 20,000 square foot parking area to the south of the Building. It would house a new district courtroom, a new and a relocated magistrate courtroom, a jury assembly area, lobbies and corridors, elevators and ancillary facilities. The proposed annex would be 13 floors in height. Parking for 250 cars would be provided in a subterran two-level parking garage beneath the annex. Approximately 28,000 cubic yards of material would have to be excavated in order to accommodate a parking area of this size. Because this site could not meet the courts projected space needs over the current planning period, other space would eventually have to be leased or constructed. The expansion alternative is infeasible because it does not provide adequate space to meet the court's current or projected needs. E. No Action Alternative Under the no action alternative, the City of Sacramento would retain possession of the proposed site, and no Federal building would be constructed there, or any other location. The U.S. Court for the Eastern District of California would either reduce its space needs in the Sacramento area, or accommodate its future growth by some other means. The projected increase in the federal presence in the Sacramento area is not contingent upon the construction of a Courthouse/Federal Building. The rate of growth in all categories of federal employees (including judicial and executive branch agencies) is projected to be the same, regardless of whether the proposed building is constructed. III. Mitigation Measures All practicable means to avoid or minimize impacts to the area are being considered in the development of the project. GSA received a number of comments and mitigation suggestions from concerned citizens, and interested and responsible local, state, and Federal agencies. Significant impacts were identified and mitigation measures were set forth in the EIS. The mitigation measures proposed in the EIS that can be implemented were adopted by GSA. A. Air Quality There are several potential areas of impact to air quality. Construction activities will exceed the SMAQMD NO x and SMAQMD PM10 emission thresholds. This will be significant and unavoidable. The construction management plan developed for the project will reduce vehicle emission by reducing vehicle idling time and vehicle miles traveled. Specifically it will: 1. Route construction trips to avoid congested streets. Construction traffic ingress and egress will be controlled so as to avoid long queues of construction vehicles entering and leaving the site. Vehicles will enter and leave via the staging area. Appropriate traffic controls will be established on public roadways where project traffic enters and leaves the site. 2. Electrical power for construction activities will be obtained from power poles instead of electrical generators (when feasible). 3. Methanol or natural gas will be used for mobile construction equipment instead of diesel (when feasible). 4. Trucks will not idle for more than two minutes. 5. Active portions of the project site will be watered twice daily. 6. Non-toxic soil stabilizers will be applied to graded areas to be inactive for 10 days or more. 7. Excavation and grading will be suspended when the wind speed (as instantaneous gusts) exceeds 25 miles per hour. 8. Trucks carrying earth material off-site will be covered. 9. Paved streets adjacent to the construction site will be swept as needed to remove dust and silt that may have accumulated as a result of construction activities, and all construction requiring heavy equipment will be curtailed during second stage smog alerts. Mitigation Measures are feasible and required, but the impact is unavoidable. The primary source of construction-related NO x emissions are gasoline and diesel-powered heavy duty mobile construction equipment. The above mitigation measures will reduce the short-term significant impact of construction activities by restricting use of mobile construction equipment such that NO x , ROC and CO concentrations from Project construction are minimized. These measures, however, will only partially reduce the impact. The impact remains significant and unavoidable. The project's direct and indirect emissions are less than the de minimis thresholds, as defined in Section 176 of the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act. Therefore, the subject project is exempt from the final conformity rule and a conformity determination need to be prepared. The information has been provided to the regional office of the Environmental Protection Agency. B. Noise Implementation of this alternative would expose surrounding land uses to short-term noise levels in excess of City threshold levels. This impact is considered significant and unavoidable. Site preparation and construction activities shall comply with the City of Sacramento Noise Ordinance limiting construction activities to the hours between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m., Monday through Friday, and 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. on Saturday as a maximum. All construction equipment fixed or mobile shall be in proper operating condition and fitted with standard silencing features. Prior to construction activities, a solid wood construction barrier will be erected around the exterior perimeter of the project sites to minimize noise intrusion into surrounding residential land uses. An outside construction manager will ensure that all noise mitigation measures are implemented. In addition, the construction manager will handle any complaints regarding noise that may arise as a result of construction. The mitigation measure will reduce, but not entirely eliminate, construction noise impacts resulting from the project. The impact remains significant and unavoidable. C. Archaeological and Historical The implementation of the preferred alternative will have an impact on archaeological and historic resources. The American Railway Express Building is a building which has been determined eligible, by consensus, for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places. A portion of the structure which is the loading dock has been removed by the City after the concurrence of the State Historic Preservation Officer and Advisory Council. This is considered a significant unavoidable impact. The loading dock structure was recorded through mapping, photography, textual description, and drawings along with a narrative description and history of the structure. Mitigation has GSA consulting with the State Historic Preservation Officer to seek ways to avoid or reduce the effect on historic properties. In addition, GSA will cooperate to the extent feasible, in plans to preserve the historic structure which would be affected by the proposed project. The mitigation measure is feasible and will reduce impacts to historical resources through recordation. However, impacts to the physical structure through demolition cannot be reduced to a less-than-significant level. Another potential impact is the scale and style of the proposed courthouse may not be compatible with the surrounding historically significant structures. This is considered a significant unavoidable impact. By using the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings as a resource document, the project will employ project design standards which make thorough use of existing historic context. The project design standards for new construction will consider the existing historic context in determining: mass, size, scale, materials, texture, setback, and architectural features. The mitigation measure is feasible and will partially reduce compatibility impacts, but not to a less-than-significant level. The General Services Administration believes that there are no outstanding issues to be resolved with respect to the proposed project. For additional information associated with the new U.S. Courthouse-Federal Building may be directed to Mr. Lou Lopez, Planning Staff (9PL), U.S. General Services Administration, 525 Market Street, San Francisco, CA 94105, (415) 744&hyph;5256. Dated: October 13, 1994. Aki K. Nakao, Acting Regional Administrator (9A). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26576 Filed 10&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;BR&hyph;M
