FR941004-1-00039 FR941004-1-00013 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 76 [CS Docket No. 94&hyph;99; DA 94&hyph;987] Cable Television Service; List of Major Television Markets AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Commission, through this action, invites comments on its proposal to amend its rules regarding the listing of major television markets, to change the designation of the Fresno-Visalia-Hanford-Clovis, California television market to include the community of Sanger, California. This action is taken at the request of Sanger Telecasters, Inc., licensee of television station KMSG&hyph;TV, channel 59, Sanger, California and it is taken to test the proposal for market hyphenation through the record established based on comments filed by interested parties. DATES: Comments are due on or before November 10, 1994 and reply comments are due on or before November 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. 20554. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William H. Johnson, Cable Services Bureau, (202) 416&hyph;0856. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a synopsis of the Commission's Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, CS Docket 94&hyph;99, adopted September 2, 1994 and released September 19, 1994. The full text of this decision is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Reference Center (room 239), 1919 M Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20554, and may be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, (202) 857&hyph;3800, 1919 M Street, NW, Washington D.C. 20554. Synopsis of the Notice of Proposed Rule Making 1. The Commission, in response to a Petition for Rule Making filed by the petitioner, proposed to amend Section 76.51 of the Rules to add the community of Sanger to the Fresno-Visalia-Hanford-Clovis, California television market. 2. In evaluating past requests for hyphenation of a market, the Commission has considered the following factors as relevant to its examination: (1) The distance between the existing designated communities and the community proposed to be added to the designation; (2) whether cable carriage, if afforded to the subject station, would extend to areas beyond its Grade B signal coverage area; (3) the presence of a clear showing of a particularized need by the station requesting the change of market designation; and (4) an indication of benefit to the public from the proposed change. Each of these factors helps the Commission to evaluate individual market conditions consistent ``with the underlying competitive purpose of the market hyphenation rule to delineate areas where stations can and do, both actually and logically, compete.'' 3. Based on the facts presented, the Commission believes that a sufficient case for redesignation of the subject market has been set forth so that this proposal should be tested through the rule making process, including the comments of interested parties. It appears from the information before the Commission that the television stations licensed to Fresno, Visalia, Hanford, Clovis, and Sanger, California do compete throughout much of the proposed combined market area, and that sufficient evidence has been presented tending to demonstrate commonality between the proposed communities to be added to the market designation and the market as a whole that ``hyphenation'' of the market should be proposed. Moreover, the petitioners' proposal appears to be consistent with the Commission's policies regarding redesignation of a hyphenated television market. Accordingly, comment is requested on the proposed addition of Sanger to the Fresno-Visalia-Hanford-Clovis, California television market. Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis
