FR941003-1-00082 FR941003-1-00006 (B) If it is not known that human remains or cultural items as defined in the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act are present, then a Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement may be executed, but shall contain adequate provisions for consultation with Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations, or other concerned descendant individuals and communities in the event of discovery. (iii) The Agency Official and the State Historic Preservation Officer shall execute a Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement that specifies the conditions which qualify the undertaking for such treatment. The Agency Official shall file the Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement with the Council prior to approval of the undertaking and carry out the undertaking in accordance with the agreement. (iv) Unless anyone requests, the Council shall not review individual Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreements, but may elect to review specific ones at its discretion in accordance with § 800.12(e)(1) . (v) For the purposes of this part, the Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement shall be considered a Memorandum of Agreement in accordance with § 800.10(d) and shall govern the undertaking and all of its parts in accordance with Section 110(l) of the Act. Effects covered by the Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement shall be considered not to be adverse under this part. (c) R esults of assessment ._(1) No adverse effect found. A finding of no adverse effect in which the State Historic Preservation Officer has concurred, failed to respond, or has executed a Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement in accordance with §800.9(b) shall be final, unless the Council determines otherwise in accordance with §800.12(a). Implementation of the undertaking in accordance with the finding as documented, or in accordance with a Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement, evidences that the Agency Official has complied with Section 106 and this part. The Agency Official shall maintain a record of the finding or the Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement, notify all known interested parties, and make the record available for public review before approving the undertaking. Failure to carry out the undertaking in accordance with a finding of no adverse effect or a Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement requires the Agency Official to reopen the Section 106 process. (2) Adverse effect found. If an adverse effect is found in accordance with this section, the Agency Official shall consult further to resolve the adverse effect pursuant to §800.10. (d) Council review of findings. If anyone requests, the Council shall review in accordance with §800.12(a) a finding made by an Agency Official under §800.9(a) or (b). §800.10 Resolution of adverse effects. (a) Determine method. If an adverse effect on historic properties is found, the Agency Official shall consult further with the State Historic Preservation Officer to determine the appropriate method for resolving the adverse effect of the undertaking. (1) Resolution with the State Historic Preservation Officer. If the undertaking and its effects on historic properties do not involve National Historic Landmarks, the preservation issues are not complex, and there is no public controversy over preservation issues, the Agency Official may follow §800.10(c)(1). (2) Resolution with the State Historic Preservation Officer and the Council. If the undertaking and its effects on historic properties involve National Historic Landmarks, the preservation issues are complex, or there is public controversy over preservation issues, the Agency Official shall follow § 800.10(c)(2).
