FR940426-0-00081 FR940426-0-00017 ยง542.2 Procedures for selecting low theft new lines with a majority of major parts interchangeable with those of a high theft line. (a) Scope. This section sets forth the procedures for motor vehicle manufacturers and NHTSA to follow in the determination of whether any new lines that will be likely to have a low theft rate have major parts interchangeable with a majority of the covered major parts of a line having or likely to have a high theft rate. (b) Application. These procedures apply to: (1) Each manufacturer that pro duces_ (i) At least one passenger motor vehicle line that has been or will be introduced into commerce in the United States and that has been listed in appendix A of part 541 of this chapter or that has been identified by the manufacturer or preliminarily or finally determined by NHTSA to be a high-theft line under ยง542.1, and (ii) At least one passenger motor vehicle line that will be introduced into commerce in the United States on or after April 24, 1986 and that the manufacturer identifies as likely to have a theft rate below the median theft rate; and (2) Each of those likely submedian theft rate lines. (c) Procedures. (1)(i) For each new line that is to be introduced before the 1997 model year and that a manufacturer identifies under appendix C of part 541 of this chapter as likely to have a theft rate below the median rate, the manufacturer identifies how many and which of the major parts of that line will be interchangeable with the covered major parts of any other of its lines that has been listed in appendix A of part 541 of this chapter or identified by the manufacturer or preliminarily or finally determined by the agency to be a high theft line under ยง542.1. (ii) For each new line that is to be introduced in the 1997 or subsequent model years and that a manufacturer identifies under appendix C of part 541 of this chapter as likely to have a theft rate below the median rate, the manufacturer shall identify how many and which of the major parts of that line will be interchangeable with the covered major parts of any other of its lines that has been listed in appendix A of part 541 of this chapter or identified by the manufacturer or preliminarily or finally determined by the agency to be a high-theft line under ยง542.1. (2)(i) If the manufacturer concludes that a new line that is to be introduced before the 1997 model year has a likely submedian theft rate and will have major parts that are interchangeable with a majority of the covered major parts of a high theft line, the manufacturer determines whether all the vehicles of those lines with likely submedian theft rates and interchangeable parts will account for more than 90 percent of the total annual production of all of the manufacturer's lines with those interchangeable parts. (ii) If the manufacturer concludes that a new line that is to be introduced for the 1997 or subsequent model years has a likely submedian theft rate and will have major parts that are interchangeable with a majority of the covered major parts of a high theft line, the manufacturer shall determine whether all the vehicles of those lines with likely submedian theft rates and interchangeable parts will account for more than 90 percent of the total annual production of all of the manufacturer's lines with those interchangeable parts. (3)(i) For new lines to be introduced before the 1997 model year, the manufacturer submits its evaluations and identifications made under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (2)(i) of this section, together with the underlying factual information, to NHTSA not less than 18 months before the date of introduction. During this period, the manufacturer may request a meeting with the agency to further explain the bases for its evaluations and conclusions. (ii) For new lines to be introduced for the 1997 and subsequent model years, the manufacturer shall submit its evaluations and conclusions made under paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (2)(ii) of this section, together with the underlying factual information, to NHTSA not less than 15 months before the date of introduction. During this period, the manufacturer may request a meeting with the agency to further explain the bases for its evaluations and conclusions.
