FR940922-0-00016 FR940922-0-00008 (d) In considering the factors listed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, for violations subject to a determination under ยง1003.103(f), the following circumstances are to be considered, as appropriate, in determining the amount of any penalty_ (1) Nature and circumstances of the incident. (i) It would be considered a mitigating circumstance if, where more than one violation exists, the appropriate items or services not provided were_ (A) Few in number, or (B) Of the same type and occurred within a short period of time. (ii) It would be considered an aggravating circumstance if such items or services were of several types and occurred over a lengthy period of time, or if there were many such items or services (or the nature and circumstances indicate a pattern of such items or services not being provided). (2) Degree of culpability. It would be considered a mitigating circumstance if the violation was the result of an unintentional, unrecognized error, and corrective action was taken promptly after discovery of the error. (3) Failure to provide required care. It would be considered an aggravating circumstance if the failure to provide required care was attributable to an individual or entity that the contracting organization is expressly prohibited by law from contracting with or employing. (4) Use of excluded individuals. It would be considered an aggravating factor if the contracting organization knowingly or routinely engages in the prohibited practice of contracting or employing, either directly or indirectly, individuals or entities excluded from the Medicare program under section 1128 or section 1128A of the Act. (5) Routine practices. It would be considered an aggravating factor if the contracting organization knowingly or routinely engages in any discriminatory or other prohibited practice which has the effect of denying or discouraging enrollment by individuals whose medical condition or history indicates a need for substantial future medical services. (6) Prior offenses. It would be considered an aggravating circumstance if at any time prior to determination of the current violation or violations, the contracting organization or any of its principals was convicted on criminal charges or held liable for civil or administrative sanctions in connection with a program covered by this part or any other public or private program of payment for medical services. The lack of prior liability for criminal, civil, or administrative sanctions by the contracting organization, or the principals of the contracting organization, would not necessarily be considered a mitigating circumstance in determining civil money penalty amounts. (e) (1) The standards set forth in this section are binding, except to the extent that their application would result in imposition of an amount that would exceed limits imposed by the United States Constitution. (2) The amount imposed will not be less than the approximate amount required to fully compensate the United States, or any State, for its damages and costs, tangible and intangible, including but not limited to the costs attributable to the investigation, prosecution, and administrative review of the case. (3) Nothing in this section will limit the authority of the Department to settle any issue or case as provided by ยง1003.126, or to compromise any penalty and assessment as provided by ยง1003.128. Dated: September 13, 1994. June Gibbs Brown, Inspector General. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23415 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4150&hyph;04&hyph;P
