FR940325-1-00098 FR940325-1-00008 35. A new §4120.3&hyph;8 is added to read as follows: §4120.3&hyph;8 Range improvement fund. (a) In addition to range developments accomplished through other resources management funds, authorized range improvement may be secured through the use of the appropriated range improvement fund. One-half of the available funds shall be expended in the State and district from which they were derived. The remaining one-half of the fund shall be allocated, on a priority basis, by the Secretary or designee for on-the-ground rehabilitation, protection and improvements of public rangeland ecosystems. (b) Funds appropriated for range improvement are to be used for investment in all forms of improvements that benefit rangeland resources including riparian area rehabilitation, improvement and protection, fish and wildlife habitat improvement or protection, soil and water resource improvement, wild horse and burro habitat management facilities, vegetation improvement and management, and livestock grazing management. The funds may be used for activities associated with on-the-ground improvements including the planning, design, layout, contracting, modification, maintenance for which BLM is responsible, and monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of specific range improvement projects. (c) During the planning of the range development or range improvement programs, the authorized officer shall consult the multiple resource advisory council, affected permittees, lessees, and members of the interested public. 36. A new §4120.3&hyph;9 is added to read as follows: §4120.3&hyph;9 Water rights for the purpose of livestock grazing on public lands. Any right acquired on or after (The Effective Date of the Rule Would be Inserted here) to use water on public land for the purpose of livestock watering on public land shall be acquired, perfected, maintained and administered under the substantive and procedural laws of the State within which such land is located. To the extent allowed by the law of the State within which the land is located, any such water right shall be acquired, perfected, maintained, and administered in the name of the United States. 37. A new §4120.5 is added to read as follows: §4120.5 Cooperation in management. The authorized officer shall, to the extent appropriate, cooperate with Federal, State, Indian tribal and local governmental entities, institutions, organizations, corporations, associations, and individuals to achieve the objectives of this part. 38. A new §4120.5&hyph;1 is added to read as follows: §4120.5&hyph;1 Cooperation with State, county, and Federal agencies. Insofar as the programs and responsibilities of other agencies and units of government involve grazing upon the public lands and other lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management, or the livestock which graze thereon, the Bureau of Land Management will cooperate, to the extent consistent with applicable laws of the United States, with the involved agencies and government entities. The authorized officer shall cooperate with State, county, and Federal agencies in the administration of laws and regulations relating to livestock, livestock diseases, sanitation, and noxious weeds including: (a) State cattle and sheep sanitary or brand boards in control of stray and unbranded livestock, to the extent such cooperation does not conflict with the Wild Free-Roaming Horse and Burro Act of December 15, 1971; and (b) County or other local weed control districts in analyzing noxious weed problems and developing control programs for areas of the public lands and other lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management. Subpart 4130_Authorizing Grazing Use 39. Section 4130.1 is revised to read as follows: §4130.1 Applications. Applications for grazing permits or leases (active grazing use and conservation use), annual grazing authorizations (active grazing use and temporary nonuse), free-use grazing permits and other grazing authorizations shall be filed with the authorized officer at the local Bureau of Land Management office having jurisdiction over the public lands or other lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management. 40. Section 4130.1&hyph;1 is amended by adding 2 new sentences at the end of the paragraph (b) to read as follows: §4130.1&hyph;1 Changes in grazing use. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* Permittees and lessees may apply to activate forage in temporary nonuse or to place forage in temporary nonuse, and may apply for the use of forage that is temporarily available on ephemeral or annual ranges. Temporary increases or decreases in grazing use, not to exceed the greater of 25 percent of the active grazing use or 100 AUMs, may be authorized or required by the authorized officer following consultation with the affected permittees or lessees and the State having land or responsibility for managing resources within the allotment, provided such changes comply with applicable land use plans and standards and guidelines, and are within the scope of the terms and conditions of the existing permits or leases. 41. Section 4130.1&hyph;2 is amended by revising paragraph (b), removing the word ``and'' from paragraph (e) and adding new paragraphs (g) and (h) to read as follows: §4130.1&hyph;2 Conflicting applications. * * * * * (b) Proper use of rangeland resources; * * * * * (g) Demonstrated stewardship by the applicant to improve or maintain and protect the rangeland ecosystem; and
