FR940711-1-00061 FR940711-1-00017 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AB75 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Notice of Six-Month Extension and Reopening of Public Comment Period on the Proposed Rule To List the Northern Copperbelly Water Snake (Nerodia Erythrogaster Neglecta) as a Threatened Species AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of extension and reopening of comment period on proposed rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) gives notice that the deadline to determine whether the northern copperbelly water snake ( Nerodia erythrogaster neglecta ) is a threatened species is being extended to allow time for additional field surveys and data analysis. This species now persists in isolated populations in southern Michigan and adjacent Indiana and Ohio, as well as southern Indiana, southeastern Illinois, and adjacent Kentucky. It occurs in lowland swamps and adjacent woodland and upland areas. During prior comment periods, new questions were raised by herpetologists and State conservation departments as to the merits of including intergrades in the listing and the sufficiency of information on the boundaries between intergrade and pure populations. The comment period on the proposal is reopened. DATES: The new deadline for determining whether the northern copperbelly water snake is a threatened species is February 18, 1995. The comment period now closes November 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be sent to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Bishop Henry Whipple Federal Building, 1 Federal Drive, Fort Snelling, Minnesota 55111&hyph;4056. Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David Hudak, Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ecological Services, Field Office, 620 S. Walker Street, Bloomington, Indiana 47403&hyph;2121 (phone 812/334&hyph;4261; fax 812/334&hyph;4273). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The northern copperbelly water snake was proposed for listing as a threatened species due to strong evidence that its range and numbers have declined dramatically, primarily as a result of the destruction of its habitat, and that the threats to the habitat and to the snakes are continuing. The Federal Register notice proposing the northern copperbelly water snake for classification as a threatened species was published on August 18, 1993 (58 FR 43860). During the subsequent comment period, the Service received several letters from herpetologists and State conservation departments regarding intergradation between N. e. neglecta and N. e. flavigaster (yellow-bellied water snake). The latter subspecies occurs in southwestern Illinois and in the western portions of Kentucky and Tennessee, and also is widespread in the Gulf Coast States and the southern Atlantic Coast States.
