FR940902-1-00018 FR940902-1-00002 Effective Date and Implementation For plans outside the United States and for defined benefit plans of employers that (a) Are nonpublic enterprises and (b) sponsor defined benefit postretirement plans with no more than 500 plan participants in the aggregate, Statement No. 106 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1994. For all other plans, Statement No. 106 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1992. REA borrowers must comply with the implementation dates set forth in Statement No. 106. At the time of the adoption of Statement No. 106, rates must be in place sufficient to recover the current period expense and any amortization of the transition obligation. A copy of a board resolution or commission order, as appropriate, indicating that the transition obligation and current period expense have been included in the borrower's rates must be submitted to REA. Accounting Journal Entries_Transition Obligation The journal entries required to record the transition obligation are as follows: 1. If the borrower elects to expense the transition obligation in the current period and there is no deferral of costs, the following entry shall be recorded: Dr. 435.1, Cumulative Effect on Prior Years of a Change in Accounting Principle ␣␣␣or Dr. 926, Employee Pensions and Benefits Dr. 107, Construction Work-in-Progress Dr. 108.8, Retirement Work-in-Progress Cr. 228.3, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits To record the current period recognition of the transition obligation for postretirement benefits. Note: A portion of the transition obligation may be charged to construction and retirement activities provided such charges are properly supported. 2. If the borrower elects to defer and amortize the transition obligation in accordance with the provisions of Statement No. 71, the following entry shall be recorded: Dr. 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets Cr. 228.3, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits To record the deferral of the transition obligation under the provisions of Statement No. 71. Dr. 926, Employee Pensions and Benefits Dr. 107, Construction Work-in-Progress Dr. 108.8, Retirement Work-in-Progress Cr. 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets To record the amortization of postretirement benefits expenses as they are recovered through rates in accordance with Statement No. 71. 3. The deferral and amortization of the transition obligation under the provisions of Statement No. 106 is considered to be an off balance sheet item. If, therefore, the borrower elects to defer and amortize the transition obligation on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of the active employees or 20 years in accordance with Statement No. 106, no entry is required. Instead, the transition obligation is recognized as a component of postretirement benefit cost as it is amortized. It should be noted, however, that the amount of the unamortized transition obligation must be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. Accounting Journal Entries_Current Period Expense The current period postretirement expense should be recorded by the following entry: Dr. 926, Employee Pensions and Benefits Dr. 107, Construction Work-in-Progress Dr. 108.8, Retirement Work-in-Progress Cr. 228.3, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits To record current period postretirement benefit expense. Dr. 228.3X, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits_Funded Cr. 131.1, Cash_General To record cash payments on a ``pay-as-you-go'' basis for postretirement benefits. Accounting Journal Entry_Funding If a borrower elects to voluntarily fund its postretirement benefits obligation, the following entry shall be recorded: Dr. 228.3X, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits_Funded Cr. 131.1, Cash_General To record the funding of postretirement benefits expense. 628␣ Postemployment Benefits Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 112, Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits (Statement No. 112) establishes the standards of financial accounting and reporting for employers who provide benefits to former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. Inactive employees are those who are not currently rendering service to the employer but who have not been terminated, including employees who are on disability leave, regardless of whether they are expected to return to active service. For purposes of applying the provisions of Statement No. 112, former members of the board of directors are considered to be employees of the cooperative. Postemployment benefits include benefits provided to former or inactive employees, their beneficiaries, and covered dependents. They include, but are not limited to, salary continuation, supplemental benefits (including workmen's compensation), health care, job training and counseling, and life insurance coverage. Benefits may be provided in cash or in kind and may be paid upon cessation of active employment or over a specified period of time. The cost of providing postemployment benefits is considered to be a part of the compensation provided to an employee in exchange for current service and should, therefore, be accrued as the employee earns the right to be paid for future postemployment benefits. Applying the criteria set forth in Statement No. 43, a postemployment benefit obligation is accrued when all of the following conditions are met: 1. The employer's obligation for payment for future absences is attributable to employees' services already performed; 2. The obligation relates to employee rights that vest or accumulate. Vested rights are considered those rights for which the employer is obligated to make payment even if the employee terminates. Rights that accumulate are those earned, but unused rights to compensated absences that may be carried forward to one or more periods subsequent to the period in which they are earned; 3. Payment of the compensation is probable; and 4. The amount can be reasonably estimated. If all of these conditions are not met, the employer must account for its postemployment benefit obligation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (Statement No. 5) when it becomes probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of that liability can be reasonably estimated. If an obligation for postemployment benefits is not accrued in accordance with the provisions of Statement No. 5 or Statement No. 43 only because the amount cannot be reasonable estimated, the financial statements should disclose that fact. Accounting Requirements
