FR941003-0-00020 FR941003-0-00005 Under section 42(h)(3)(D), States that have unused housing credit carryovers must assign them to the Secretary for inclusion in a national pool of unused housing credit carryovers (National Pool), and the Secretary must allocate National Pool credit among qualified States. In determining whether there is any unallocated credit within the State at the close of a calendar year, the housing credit dollar amounts apportioned to all Agencies within the State (including Agencies of constitutional home rule cities in the State) and the allocations of all Agencies within the State are considered. One commentator suggested that a constitutional home rule city be considered alone rather than in combination with other constitutional home rule cities or Agencies within a State in determining access to the National Pool. Section 42(h)(3)(E) does provide special rules for apportioning credits to constitutional home rule cities. Under these rules, however, credits are apportioned to these cities from the State housing credit ceiling. There is no provision in the Code that permits a constitutional home rule city to receive credit that is not apportioned from the State housing credit ceiling. Accordingly, the final regulations do not adopt this suggestion. In addition to a de minimis exception for States that have 1 percent or less of unallocated credit remaining in their State housing credit ceiling at the close of a calendar year (de minimis rule), the proposed regulations provide that, in other circumstances where relief is deemed appropriate, the IRS may determine that a State is a qualified State eligible to participate in the National Pool. One commentator requested that States that cannot allocate their entire ceiling as a result of a natural disaster be allowed to participate in the National Pool. This type of relief exceeds the scope and intent behind the limited exception provided in the proposed regulations. Further, this type of relief would be inequitable to other States that qualify for the National Pool. Thus, the final regulations do not adopt this suggestion. Another commentator suggested that the de minimis rule provide an alternative fixed dollar amount measurement of de minimis amount to reflect unallocated amounts that are, as a practical matter, insufficient to provide an allocation to a project. Due to variations in construction and housing costs across the United States, this suggestion was not adopted. Similarly, a suggestion that the final regulations provide a separate de minimis rule for the set-aside for nonprofit organizations was not adopted. Under the regulations, however, these situations can be addressed by the IRS on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, if appropriate, additional safe harbors could be provided in the future (e.g., to respond to other common situations not addressed by the 1 percent rule). The final regulations also amend §1.42&hyph;5 to provide a cross reference to section 42(g)(8)(B), as added by section 13142(b)(3) of the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993. Section 42(g)(8)(B) provides that on application by the taxpayer, the Secretary may waive any annual recertification of tenant income (the Waiver) for purposes of section 42(g), if the entire building is occupied by low-income tenants. Instructions on how to obtain the Waiver will be contained in a forthcoming revenue procedure. Special Analyses It has been determined that this Treasury decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, the notice of proposed rulemaking preceding these regulations was submitted to the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Christopher J. Wilson, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel (Passthroughs and Special Industries), IRS. However, other personnel from the IRS and the Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 26 CFR Part 602 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR parts 1 and 602 are amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority for part 1 is amended by adding an entry in numerical order to read as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣* Section 1.42&hyph;14 also issued under 26 U.S.C. 42(n). *␣*␣* Par. 2. Section 1.42&hyph;5 is amended by: 1. Revising paragraph (b)(1)(vi). 2. Adding a sentence after the first sentence in paragraph (b)(1)(vii). 3. Revising paragraph (c)(1)(iii).
