FR941212-0-00074 FR941212-0-00019 Monday December 12, 1994 Part II Department of Defense Department of the Army 32 CFR Parts 536 and 537 The Army Claims System; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 237␣/␣Monday, December 12, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Department of the Army 32 CFR Parts 536 and 537 The Army Claims System AGENCY: Department of the Army, DOD. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Department of the Army announces a revision and consolidation of 32 CFR Parts 536, Claims Against the United States and 537, Claims on Behalf of the United States in order to bring them in line with new policies and procedures being promulgated in Army Regulation 27&hyph;20, Claims. This revision retains part 536 as The Army Claims System. Part 537 is removed and held in reserve for future use. This part prescribes the policies, procedures, and responsibilities for investigating, processing, and settling claims against and in favor of the United States under the authority conferred by certain statutes, regulations, international and interdepartmental agreements, and Department of Defense directives. It is intended to ensure that claims are properly investigated, adjudicated objectively and fairly, and either paid or collection action initiated. Because of the complexity and length of changes and consolidation of parts 536 and 537, a breakout of the scope or responsibilities of each subpart to this whole part is listed in the Supplementary Information part of this submission. By reviewing the supplementary information portion, reading of the complete part becomes necessary in order to understand the entire part. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Director, U.S. Army Claims Service, Building 4411, Llewellyn Ave., Fort Meade, Maryland 20755&hyph;5360. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LTC Cashiola, (301) 677&hyph;7622 or 7960. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: (Subpart A). Subpart A is the introduction of part 536. (Subpart B). Subpart B describes the investigation and processing of claims investigation and the importance of claims investigation. (Subpart C). This subpart is applicable in all locations and prescribes the substantive bases and special procedural requirements for the settlement of claims against the United States for death; personal injury; or damage, loss, or destruction of property caused by military personnel or civilian employees of the DA acting within the scope of their employment and incident to the noncombat activities of the DA, provided such claim is not for personal injury or death of a member of the Armed Forces or Coast Guard or civilian officer or employee whose injury or death is incident to service. (Subpart D). This subpart prescribes the substantive bases and special procedural requirements for the administrative settlement of claims against the United States under the FTCA and the implementing Attorney General's Regulations based on death, personal injury, or damage to or loss of property that accrues on or after 18 January 1967. (Subpart E). This subpart prescribes the substantive bases and special procedural requirements for the administrative settlement and payment, in an amount not more than $1,000, of any claim against the United States not cognizable under any other provision of law for damage or loss of property, or for personal injury or death caused by a member or employee of the DA incident to the use of a U.S. vehicle at any location or incident to the use of other U.S. property on a Government installation. (Subpart F). This subpart is applicable in all places and sets forth the procedures to be followed in the settlement and payment of claims for death, personal injury, or damage, loss, or destruction of property caused by members or employees of the Army National Guard; noncombat activities of the Army National Guard when engaged in training or duty under 32 U.S.C. provided such claim is not for personal injury or death of a member of the Armed Forces or Coast Guard and an employee whose injury or death is incident to service. (Subpart G). this subpart provides procedures and defines responsibilities for the investigation, processing, and settlement of claims arising out of acts or omissions of members of a foreign military force or civilian component present in the United States, or a territory, commonwealth, or possession thereof under the provisions of reciprocal international agreements which contain claims settlement provisions applicable to claims arising in the United States such as Article VIII of the Agreement Regarding the Status of Forces of Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty. (Subpart H). This subpart deals with claims against the United States. Title 10, U.S.C., section 4802, provides for the settlement or compromise of claims for damage caused by a vessel of, or in the service of, the Department of the Army (DA) or by other property under the jurisdiction of the DA; compensation for towage and salvage service, including contract salvage, rendered to a vessel of, or in the service of, the DA or other property under the jurisdiction of the DA or damage caused by a maritime tort committed by any agent or employee of the DA or by property under the jurisdiction of the DA. (Subpart I). This subpart sets for the standards to be applied and the procedures to be followed in the processing of claims for damage, loss, or destruction of property owned by or in the lawful possession of an individual whether civilian or military, a business, a charity, or a State or local government, where the property was wrongfully taken or willfully damaged by military members of DA. (Subpart J). This subpart implements the Foreign Claims Act (FCA) and authorizes the administrative settlement of claims of inhabitants of a foreign country, or by a foreign country or a political subdivision hereof, against the United States for personal injury or death or property damages caused outside the United States, its territories, commonwealths, or possessions by military personnel or civilian employees of the DA, or claims which arise incident to noncombat activities of the Army. (Subpart K). This subpart deals with personal claims and related recovery actions, delegation of authority and prescribes the substantive bases and special procedural rules for the administrative settlement of claims against the United States submitted by the Active Army, Army National Guard and U.S. Army Reserve personnel, and civilian employees of DOD and DA for damage to or loss of personal property incident to their service. (Subpart L). This subpart sets forth the procedures to be followed in the settlement and payment of claims by employees of nonappropriated fund activities for the loss of or damage to personal property incident to their employment, and for claims generated by the acts or omissions of the employees of such funds. (Subpart M). This subpart establishes the authority and responsibility for affirmative claims. This subpart prescribes procedures for the administrative determination, assertion, collection, settlement, and waiver of claims in favor of the United States for damage to, loss, or destruction of Army property, and for the recovery of the reasonable value of medical care furnished or to be furnished by the United States under the statutes cited in §536.213. (Subpart N). This subpart sets forth the procedures for all aspects of records management to include, arrangement of files, file management; maintenance of and retrieval of files, files disposition, etc., and monthly claims reporting system as pertains to Claims Office Administration. Army publications referenced in this Final Rule may be purchased from the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia 22161. The U.S. Code or public laws, can normally be reviewed in any public library. Executive Order 12291 This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12291. The effect of this proposed rule on the economy will be less than $100 million. Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule has been reviewed with regard to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980. This action does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities.
