FR940516-1-00093 FR940516-1-00006 (3) Test three engines each from 50 percent of all small SI engine families certified in that model year. An engine manufacturer with total projected annual production of 75,000 small SI engines or less must test a minimum of two engines. Criteria for selecting test engines: An engine manufacturer would be required to select test engines from engine families utilizing the following criteria and in the order specified: (1) Engine families using emission technology which may be used on phase 2 engines, (2) Engine families using aftertreatment, (3) Engine families certified to different emission standards, (4) Different engine designs (such as side valve versus overhead valve engines), (5) Engine families using emission control technology specifically installed to achieve compliance with Phase 1 standards, (6) The engine family with the highest projected annual sales, and (7) Engine families which meet the above criteria, but have not been included in prior model year in-use testing programs as required by these provisions. Collection and testing of in-use engines: An engine manufacturer would be required to procure in-use engines which have been operated for between half and three-quarters of the engine's advertised (or projected) useful life. All testing would be completed within three years after the certificate is issued or is effective, whichever is later, for an engine family which requires in-use testing. A test engine would be procured from sources not associated with the engine manufacturer or equipment manufacturer, except that, with prior approval of the Administrator, an engine manufacturer with annual sales of less than 50,000 engines might obtain in-use engines associated with itself or its equipment manufacturer. A test engine would be required to have a maintenance history representative of actual in-use conditions. To comply with this requirement a manufacturer would question the end user regarding the accumulated usage, maintenance, operating conditions, and storage of the test engine. The manufacturer would perform minimal set-to-spec maintenance on a test engine. Maintenance would include only what is listed in the owner's instructions for engines with the amount of service and age of the acquired test engine. One valid emission test would be required for each in-use engine. Finally, if a selected in-use engine failed to comply with any applicable certification emission standards, the manufacturer would be responsible for determining the reason for noncompliance. In-use test program reporting requirements: The manufacturer would be required to submit to the Administrator by January 30 of each calendar year all emission testing results generated from the in-use testing program. At the Administrator's request, a manufacturer would be required to provide documents used in the procurement process, including criteria used in the procurement screening process and information from the end user(s) related to use, maintenance, and storage of the selected engines. EPA is aware that engine manufacturers may have near-term concerns regarding testing capacity and the burden this type of program may impose on a newly regulated industry. EPA requests comments on the lack of in-use standards, the lack of in-use enforcement, all elements of this proposed testing requirement, and on possible alternative designs of in-use testing programs (such as a joint program between manufacturers and EPA) or enforcement that may be more effective, giving consideration to the limited lead time and duration of the Phase 1 program. 11. Certificate of Conformity, Requirements of Certification Any manufacturer of a small SI engine would be responsible for obtaining from the Administrator a certificate of conformity covering any engine introduced into commerce in the United States, before such an engine is sold, offered for sale, introduced or delivered for introduction into commerce, or imported into the United States. Section 203 of the CAA does not prohibit the production of vehicles or engines before a certificate of conformity is issued. Vehicles or engines produced prior to the effective date of a certificate of conformity might also be covered by the certificate if the following conditions were met: •The engine conformed in all respects to the engines described in the application for the certificate of conformity. •The vehicles or engines were not sold, offered for sale, introduced into commerce, or delivered for introduction into commerce prior to the effective date of the certificate of conformity. •The Agency was notified prior to the beginning of production when such production would start, and the Agency was provided full opportunity to inspect and/or test the engines during and after their production. For example, the Agency would have the opportunity to conduct SEA production line testing as if the engines had been produced after the effective date of the certificate. EPA is proposing that a number of requirements be met by the engine manufacturer prior to granting a certificate of conformity. As is the case for on-highway vehicles and engines, the proposed regulations would make it illegal for any person to use a device on a nonroad engine which senses operation outside normal emission test conditions and reduces the ability of the emission control system to control the engine's emissions. To guard against use of these devices, EPA would reserve the right to require testing of a certification test engine over a modified test procedure if EPA suspected a defeat device was being used by an engine manufacturer on a particular engine. In addition, use of defeat devices would be considered a prohibited act subject to civil penalties.
