FR940404-0-00061 FR940404-0-00019 (a) The budget plan is the financial expression of the project or program as approved during the award process. It may include either the Federal and non-Federal share, or only the Federal share, depending upon Federal awarding agency requirements. It shall be related to performance for program evaluation purposes whenever appropriate. (b) Recipients are required to report deviations from budget and program plans, and request prior approvals for budget and program plan revisions, in accordance with this section. (c) For nonconstruction awards, recipients shall request prior approvals from Federal awarding agencies for one or more of the following program or budget related reasons. (1) Change in the scope or the objective of the project or program (even if there is no associated budget revision requiring prior written approval). (2) Change in a key person specified in the application or award document. (3) The absence for more than three months, or a 25 percent reduction in time devoted to the project, by the approved project director or principal investigator. (4) The need for additional Federal funding. (5) The transfer of amounts budgeted for indirect costs to absorb increases in direct costs, or vice versa, if approval is required by the Federal awarding agency. (6) The inclusion, unless waived by the Federal awarding agency, of costs that require prior approval in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;21, ``Cost Principles for Institutions of Higher Education,'' OMB Circular A&hyph;122, ``Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations,'' or 45 CFR part 74 Appendix E, ``Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals,'' or 48 CFR part 31, ``Contract Cost Principles and Procedures,'' as applicable. (7) The transfer of funds allotted for training allowances (direct payment to trainees) to other categories of expense. (8) Unless described in the application and funded in the approved awards, the subaward, transfer or contracting out of any work under an award. This provision does not apply to the purchase of supplies, material, equipment or general support services.
