FR940328-2-00123 FR940328-2-00068 TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ACTIVITIES The Corporation expects to give grants to or enter into cooperative agreements with organizations to accomplish the following activities. (I) Application by Proposal Proposed T/TA activities in this category include: (A) Technical Assistance and Training for the National Leadership Corps. (B) Maintaining a Strong Organization. (C) National Priority Skills Development Centers. (A) Technical Assistance and Training for the National Leadership Corps _Proposals due May 3, 1994. _Must be able to deliver services by July 1, 1994. Summary The National Leadership Corps will create a diverse cadre of emerging service leaders to help build the highest quality AmeriCorps programs and strengthen the national service infrastructure and identity. In the first year, the Corporation will recruit up to 50 members from programs such as Peace Corps, VISTA, the Armed Forces, youth corps, and other full-time service programs. T/TA providers will help design and carry out initial training for the Corps which will last two to five weeks and begin in mid-July or early August, 1994. Providers will also help with ongoing training which will occur at least three times during the year. Leadership Corps (LC) members will bring skills and expertise to new AmeriCorps programs in year-long assignments starting September, 1994. Amount and Duration of Funding The Corporation expects to issue one or more grants or cooperative agreements totaling approximately $100,000 to accomplish the tasks listed below. Funding would be for one year, with possibility of renewal subject to performance, continuing need, and availability of funds. Description of T/TA Activities Desired The Corporation seeks T/TA providers who will work with Corporation staff and other T/TA providers to design and deliver training for the Leadership Corps. Proposals may address one or all of the activities outlined below, or may suggest additional activities. These include: _ Team building among Leadership Corps members. Since LC members will be placed in separate AmeriCorps programs around the country, it is important that members develop strong bonds with each other during training so that they are able to provide support to each other and share resources, ideas, and lessons learned throughout their experience. _ Specialty skills. This component of training will give LC members an understanding of how to organize and carry out projects that meet community needs in one or more of the Corporation's national priority areas. (The national priorities areas are discussed more fully in the ``National Priority Skills Development'' section below). This element of training will ensure that members know how to make demonstrable impacts on specific community problems and bring resources to programs that do not already exist. _ Leadership skills. Training that helps LC members master the main tasks required of front-line supervisors such as group facilitation, organizing and managing service projects, team building, handling conflict, community relations, working with diverse peoples and organizations, and others. _ Communication skills. Training that teaches LC members how to communicate effectively, including public speaking and media training. Proposals should include a plan to train leaders in any or all of the activities mentioned above over a 2&hyph;5 week period during the initial training in July, 1994, as well as periodically throughout the year. The Corporation intends to involve leaders in curriculum design for ongoing training, so applicant plans should be flexible enough to accommodate their input. Encouraged Approaches While the Corporation will consider any proposal that accomplishes one or more of the activities listed above, it especially encourages the following approaches: (a) A proposal by an organization that has experience and expertise in one or more of the components listed above and can arrange to have expert resources and information available starting in mid-May to provide assistance to the Corporation in designing and delivering training. (b) A proposal by a consortium of organizations whose members collectively have the expertise to work with the Corporation to provide all of the training components listed above. This sort of proposal should clearly describe the specific responsibilities of each provider, the amount of funds to be allocated to each, the amount of staff time devoted by each, and the mechanisms for cooperation and coordination among members and the Corporation. If possible, the consortium should have experts available to work with the Corporation starting in mid-May as discussed above. For more information on the leadership pool, please contact Jane Marsh at (202) 606&hyph;5000, extension 173. (B) Maintaining a Strong Organization: Fundraising, Program Management, Evaluation, Fiscal Administration, and Grievance Procedures _Proposals due May 18, 1994. _Preference will be given to organizations which can have the majority of services available by August 1994. Summary Strong management, well-planned and well-executed fundraising, evaluation, and careful, appropriate administration of funds are critical to the success of AmeriCorps programs. The Corporation will fund activities that provide information, training, and technical assistance to State Commissions and AmeriCorps programs to strengthen the ability of programs to manage, fundraise, and leverage community resources, design and perform program evaluation, administer funds effectively, establish grievance procedures, and perform other critical functions. Amount and Duration of Funding The Corporation expects to make up to five grants or cooperative agreements in this area. Together, grants will total approximately $1,000,000. Grants will be for one year, with the possibility of renewal based on performance, need, and availability of funds. Description of T/TA Activity Desired Specific tasks include but are not limited to providing, arranging for, or connecting programs to information, training, and technical assistance on the factors involved in establishing and maintaining a strong organization, including: (a) Fundraising : Building on existing Corporation materials, assist grantees in developing comprehensive fundraising strategies. Proposals may also describe ways in which technical assistance can help organizations put fundraising plans into action. The Corporation has an interest, as manifested through the match requirement, to encourage grantees not to rely solely on Corporation funds, but rather to solicit a broad range of financial and in-kind resources from foundations, corporations, individuals, and other governmental agencies. As the match increases, grantees will need to raise additional funds, create more partnerships, build larger constituencies, and leverage additional resources. Technical assistance should be designed with this mission in mind. (b) Program Management : Help programs build a strong leadership team as well as feedback mechanisms such as participant advisory councils or other vehicles which allow for regular input from participants and/or community members and involve them in program design, operation, and evaluation. (c) Evaluation and organizational development : Help programs use evaluation as a tool for program improvement. Aid them in developing a mission statement, goals, and annual objectives, concrete operating plans, and tailored evaluation strategies. As needed, work with Corporation evaluation staff to create materials, develop and conduct trainings, and/or offer technical assistance to State Commissions and AmeriCorps programs related to setting direct and demonstrable objectives and performing program monitoring and evaluation functions. (d) Fiscal Management : Building on Corporation materials, help establish appropriate and effective fiscal management and accounting processes, including compliance with all federal laws and regulations. (e) Grievance Procedures : Help grantees develop grievance procedures that give programs systems in which to resolve disputes with staff members, program participants, community residents, and others. These procedures should comply with the requirements for grievance procedures described in the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993. In each case, providers are expected to: _Bring to bear existing training and subject expertise. Efforts will focus on arranging or providing assistance, rather than developing new training and resources using Corporation funds; _Comply with federal requirements for administering federal funds. The T/TA provider will work with Corporation staff as needed to develop training on this topic; _Demonstrate a commitment to and experience in evaluation that examines outcomes and uses its findings as tools for redesigning and improving program activities and approaches; and
