FR940106-0-00100 FR940106-0-00021 (f) The third attestation element: facility/employer wage. The facility employing or seeking to employ the alien shall attest that ``the alien employed by the facility will be paid the wage rate for registered nurses similarly employed by the facility.'' The facility shall maintain documentation substantiating compliance with this attestation which shall include a description of the factors taken into consideration by the facility in making compensation decisions for nurses and the facility pay schedule for nurses maintained pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section. See ยง XXX .350(b). The facility shall pay the higher of the wage required pursuant to this paragraph (f) or the wage required pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section ( i.e., the second attestation element: no adverse effect). (g) The fourth attestation element: timely and significant steps; or State plan. The facility may satisfy the fourth attestation element by satisfying Alternative I in paragraph (g)(1) of this section or by satisfying Alternative II in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. (1) Alternative I: Timely and significant steps. The facility shall attest that it ``has taken and is taking timely and significant steps designed to recruit and retain sufficient registered nurses who are United States citizens or immigrants who are authorized to perform nursing services, in order to remove as quickly as reasonably possible the dependence of the facility on nonimmigrant registered nurses.'' The facility shall take at least two such steps, unless it demonstrates that taking a second step is not reasonable. The steps described in this paragraph (g)(1) shall not be considered to be an exclusive list of the significant steps that may be taken to meet the conditions of this paragraph (g)(1). Nothing in this subpart or subpart E of this part shall require a facility to take more than one step, if the facility can demonstrate that taking a second step is not reasonable. The facility is not required to have taken any of these steps prior to December 18, 1989. A facility choosing to take timely and significant steps other than those specifically described in paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) of this section shall submit with its attestation a description of the steps it is proposing to take and an explanation of how the proposed steps are of comparable timeliness and significance to those described in paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) of this section. A facility claiming that a second step is unreasonable shall submit an explanation of why such second step would be unreasonable. (i) Descriptions of steps_ (A) Statutory steps. Each of the actions described in this paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) shall be considered a significant step reasonably designed to recruit and retain U.S. nurses. A facility choosing any one of the following steps shall attest that its program(s) meets the regulatory requirements set forth for each and provide an explanation of how the requirements are satisfied by the program(s). In addition, the attesting facility shall maintain and make available for inspection (as described in ยง XXX .350(b) of this part) documentation specified in the particular step selected and/or documentation which provides a complete description of the nature and operation of its program(s) sufficient to substantiate its attestation and full compliance with the requirements for the particular step selected. Section 212(m)(2)(E) of the INA provides that a violation shall be found if a facility fails to meet a condition attested to. Thus, a facility shall be held responsible for all timely and significant steps to which it attests. ( 1 ) Step One: ``Operating a training program for registered nurses at the facility or financing (or providing participation in) a training program for registered nurses elsewhere.'' Training programs may include either courses leading to a higher degree ( i.e. , beyond an associate or a baccalaureate degree), or continuing education courses. If the program includes courses leading to a higher degree, they shall be courses which are part of a program accepted for degree credit by a college or university and accredited by a State Board of Nursing or a State Board of Higher Education (or its equivalent), as appropriate. If the program includes continuing education courses, they shall be courses which meet criteria established to qualify the nurses taking the courses to earn continuing education units accepted by a State Board of Nursing (or its equivalent). In either type of program, financing by the facility, either directly or arranged through a third party, shall cover the total tuition costs of such training. The number of U.S. nurses for whom such training actually is provided shall be no less than half of the number of nurses who left the facility during the 12-month period prior to submission of the attestation. (U.S. nurses to whom such training was offered, but who rejected such training, may be counted towards those provided training, but the facility, in such case, shall maintain documentation of such offer and rejection). See ยง XXX .350(b).
