FR940328-0-00064 FR940328-0-00013 FSIS is not persuaded by these comments to make any changes in the leftover statement. The Agency believes that current language conveys appropriate information on the importance of prompt refrigeration of leftovers. In addition, the leftover statement is broad enough so as not to conflict with the described company policy. Symbols Six retailers and their associations commented on the symbols required by the proposed regulation. They stated the symbols were possibly misleading, do not effectively enhance the message and are meaningless without the word message. In addition, the commenters stated that the symbols were likely to confuse those who can read the label as well as those who cannot read. A specific example cited was that the frying pan may suggest that frying is the preferred method of cooking. In addition, the use of symbols also substantially increases costs to retailers. The commenters recommended that the symbols be eliminated. One consumer group and one meat trade association supported the use of the symbols. The consumer group stated that the symbols provide important information to those who cannot read English and serve as a reminder of the written instructions to those who have read them. The symbols also draw attention to the labels and convey the instructions to the consumers instantaneously. However, they do not believe the symbol for the cross contamination message is clear or effectively illustrated the need to keep raw meat and poultry separate from other foods. One USDA Agency suggested that the frying pan be replaced by a pot. This Agency believes that the skillet might be interpreted as a suggestion that the meat be fried, which is inconsistent with nutritional recommendations of the Department. Our focus-study research on labels has indicated that short messages with visual symbols are more acceptable to consumers as a means of alerting them to actions they should take. Symbols convey messages to individuals who have difficulty reading English. The symbols provide visual reminders of actions consumers should take to handle food safely. The symbols were modified from those originally considered to reflect suggestions from participants of the focus-study research and public comments. Regarding the cross contamination symbol, FSIS agrees that the symbol addresses the cleaning portion of the message. However, since no feasible alternatives were offered for the symbol of the soapy hands under a faucet, FSIS will not make any changes in the symbol. Finally, regarding the objections to the skillet symbol, FSIS believes that the skillet is a more recognizable symbol than a pot, given the scale of its representation. Additionally, the Agency considers the likelihood of resulting confusion over preferred cooking method to be low. Therefore, FSIS is retaining the skillet symbol as proposed. FSIS is adopting the proposed rule as a final rule with the changes as discussed above. Labels prepared in accordance with the August 16, 1993, interim rule may be used for 1 year past the effective date of this final rule. List of Subjects 9 CFR 317 Food labeling, Meat inspection. 9 CFR 381 Food labeling, Poultry inspection. Final Rule For the reasons discussed in the preamble, FSIS is amending 9 CFR parts 317 and 381 of the Federal meat and poultry products inspection regulations to read as follows: PART 317_LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS 1. The authority citation for part 317 continues to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 601&hyph;695; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.55. 2. Section 317.2 is amended by adding a new paragraph (1) to read as follows:
