FR940317-1-00097 FR940317-1-00013 (b) Personal injury or death. A claim for personal injury or death is allowable only for the cost of reasonable medical, hospital, or burial expenses actually incurred and not otherwise furnished or paid by the United States. (c) Property loss or damage. A claim for damage or loss of property is allowable only for the cost of reasonable repairs or value at time of loss, whichever is less. §536.86 Claims not payable. (a) A claim is not allowable under this chapter that_ (1) Results wholly or partly from the negligent or wrongful act of the claimant or his or her agent or employee. The doctrine of comparative negligence is not applicable. (2) Is for medical, hospital, and burial expenses furnished or paid by the United States. (3) Is for any element of damage pertaining to personal injuries or death other than provided in §536.85(b). All other items of damage; for example, compensation for loss of earnings and services, diminution of earning capacity, anticipated medical expenses, physical disfigurement, and pain and suffering are not payable. (4) Is for loss of use of property or for the cost of a substitute property; for example, a rental. (5) Is legally recoverable by the claimant under an indemnifying law or indemnity contract. If the claim is legally recoverable in part, that part recoverable by the claimant is not payable. (6) Is a subrogated claim. (b) Examples of claims not allowable under this chapter are as follows: (1) The claimant has collision insurance covering his or her automobile with a deductible amount of $100. While the claimant is sitting in the vehicle, which is properly parked, it is struck from the rear by an Army truck operated by a DA civilian who had misappropriated the Government vehicle. The claimant sustains personal injuries requiring hospitalization for 6 weeks during which actual medical and hospital expenses are incurred in the amount of $1,200. He or she has no medical or hospitalization insurance. The damage to the vehicle totals $300. The claimant's insurance carrier reimburses him or her $200 for the vehicle damage and becomes subrogated in that amount under the policy terms. The claimant files a claim in the amount of $1,500, alleging $300 for property damage to the automobile and $1,200 for medical and hospital expenses. The claim is allowable in the total amount of $1,000, consisting of $100, the insurance deductible for property damage, and $900 of the medical and hospital expenses. The amount claimed for medical and hospital expenses and for property damage merely constitutes separable interests in a single claim that may not be allowed in an amount in excess of $1,000 under this chapter. The claimant's insurer is not a proper party claimant, and no payment is allowable for the insurer's subrogated interest. (2) Claimant has medical and hospitalization insurance that entitles him or her to reimbursement of up to $500 for the reasonable cost of medical and hospital expenses incurred for personal injuries. While visiting at an Army installation the claimant is wounded by the negligent discharge of a Government issue caliber .45 pistol by a soldier who had stolen the weapon. The claimant is hospitalized at a civilian hospital and has incurred medical and hospital expenses of $750. The claimant may be paid $250, the amount allowable for reasonable medical and hospital expenses actually incurred after deduction of $500 legally recoverable by him or her under the insurance policy. §536.87 When claim must be presented. A claim may be settled under this regulation only if it is presented in writing within 2 years after it accrues. §536.88 Procedures. So far as not inconsistent with this part, the procedures for the investigation and processing of claims contained in subpart B will be followed. §536.89 Settlement agreement. A claim may not be paid under this part unless the amount tendered is accepted by the claimant in full satisfaction. A settlement agreement is required before payment. (See sections 536.32) §536.90 Delegation of authority. (a) Settlement authority. The following are delegated authority to pay up to $1,000 in settlement of claims and to disapprove claims presented in any amount under this chapter: (1) TJAG. (2) TAJAG.
