FR941006-2-00166 FR941006-2-00113 In sum, educational and nonprofit organizations that receive payments from the Institute that are sufficient to meet the applicability thresholds of OMB Circular A&hyph;133 must have their annual audit conducted in accordance with Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States rather than with generally accepted auditing standards. Grantees in this category that receive amounts below the minimum threshold referenced in Circular A&hyph;133 must also submit an annual audit to SJI, but they would have the option to conduct an audit of the entire grantee organization in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards; include SJI funds in an audit of Federal funds conducted in accordance with the Single Audit Act of 1984 and OMB Circular A&hyph;128 or A&hyph;133; or conduct an audit of only the SJI funds in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. (See Guideline Section XI.J.) 12. Does SJI have a CFDA number? Auditors often request that a grantee provide the Institute's Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number for guidance in conducting an audit in accordance with Government Accounting Standards. Because SJI is not a Federal agency, it has not been issued such a number, and there are no additional compliance tests to satisfy under the Institute's audit requirements beyond those of a standard governmental audit. Moreover, because SJI is not a Federal agency, SJI funds should not be aggregated with Federal funds to determine if the applicability threshold of Circular A&hyph;133 has been reached. For example, if in fiscal year 1995 grantee ``X'' received $10,000 in Federal funds from a Department of Justice (DOJ) grant program and $20,000 in grant funds from SJI, the minimum A&hyph;133 threshold would not be met. The same distinction would preclude an auditor from considering the additional SJI funds in determining what Federal requirements apply to the DOJ funds. Grantees that are required to satisfy either the Single Audit Act, OMB Circular A&hyph;128 or A&hyph;133, and who include SJI grant funds in those audits, need to remember that because of its status as a private non-profit corporation, SJI is not on routing lists of cognizant Federal agencies. Therefore, the grantee needs to submit a copy of the audit report prepared for such a cognizant Federal agency directly to SJI. The Institute's audit requirements may be found in Section XI.J. of the Grant Guideline. * * * * * The following Grant Guideline is adopted by the State Justice Institute for FY 1995: State Justice Institute Grant Guideline Table of Contents Summary I. Background II. Scope of the Program III. Definitions IV. Eligibility for Award V. Types of Projects and Grants; Size of Awards VI. Concept Paper Submission Requirements for New Projects VII. Application Requirements for New Projects VIII. Application Review Procedures IX. Renewal Funding Procedures and Requirements X. Compliance Requirements XI. Financial Requirements XII. Grant Adjustments Appendix I␣List of State Contacts Regarding Administration of Institute Grants to State and Local Courts Appendix II␣SJI Libraries: Designated Sites and Contacts Appendix III␣Judicial Education Scholarship Application Forms Appendix IV␣Preliminary Budget Form Appendix V␣Certificate of State Approval Form Appendix VI␣Illustrative List of Model Curricula
