FR940325-0-00075 FR940325-0-00016 2. Date of Promulgation of the Natural Resource Damage Assessment Regulations CERCLA provides that natural resource damage claims other than those involving Federal facilities or sites on the National Priorities List must be commenced by Federal and State trustee officials: *␣*␣* within 3 years after the later of the following: (A) The date of the discovery of the loss and its connection with the release in question. (B) The date on which regulations are promulgated under section 301(c). CERCLA sec. 113(g)(1). Neither the language nor the legislative history of CERCLA defines the date of promulgation of the natural resource damage assessment regulations under section 301(c). There has been considerable confusion over this statutory provision in the aftermath of Ohio v. Interior and Colorado v. Interior. The natural resource damage assessment regulations are designed to calculate a monetary damage figure for injuries to natural resources. Ohio v. Interior and Colorado v. Interior remanded a fundamental issue, namely the measure of damages. Until the court orders are fully implemented, trustee officials are left without a complete procedure for calculating damages consistent with the provisions of CERCLA. Therefore, the Department has amended the rule to clarify that for the purposes of section 113(g)(1) of CERCLA, the ``date on which regulations are promulgated'' is the date on which final rules revising both the type A rule and the type B rule in compliance with Ohio v. Interior and Colorado v. Interior are published. III. Response to Comments The Department received numerous comments on the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice. The Department appreciates the time and effort expended by the commenters. This notice does not address any of the comments received concerning the use of CV to calculate lost nonuse values. Those comments will be addressed in the Department's upcoming notice of proposed rulemaking to revise the original language of the type B rule concerning the assessment of nonuse values. With respect to comments outside the confines of the Ohio v. Interior remand, the Department has for now simply reproduced guidance provided in prior Federal Register notices and indicated that further clarification is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. During the upcoming biennial review, the Department will carefully consider all of the comments submitted during this rulemaking that were beyond the scope of the court remand. Commenters need not resubmit these comments during the biennial review. A. General Comments Concerning this Rulemaking 1. Scope of This Rulemaking
