FR940606-2-00032 FR940606-2-00022 D. Allocation Claims We may also receive claims based upon Ginther's alleged failure to furnish products that it was obliged to supply under the DOE allocation regulations that became effective in January 1974. See 10 CFR part 211. Any such applications will be evaluated with reference to the standards set forth in subpart V implementation cases such as Office of Special Counsel, 10 DOE ¶85,048, at 88,220 (1982), and refund application cases such as Mobil Oil Corp./Reynolds Indus., Inc., 17 DOE ¶85,608 (1988); Marathon Petroleum Co./Research Fuels, Inc., 19 DOE ¶85,575 (1989) ( Marathon/RFI ), aff'd sub nom. Research Fuels, Inc. v. DOE, No. CA3&hyph;89&hyph;2983G (N.D. Tex. 1990), aff'd, 977 F.2d 601 (Temp. Emer. Ct. App. 1992). These standards generally require an allocation claimant to demonstrate the existence of a supplier/purchaser relationship with the consent order firm and the likelihood that the consent order firm failed to furnish NGL products that it was obliged to supply to the claimant under 10 CFR part 211. In addition, the claimant should provide evidence that it had contemporaneously notified the DOE or otherwise sought redress from the alleged allocation violation. Finally, the claimant must establish that it was injured and document the extent of the injury. In our evaluation of whether allocation claims meet these standards, we will consider various factors. For example, we will seek to obtain as much information as possible about the agency's treatment of complaints made to it by the claimant. We will also look at any affirmative defenses that Ginther may have had to the alleged allocation violation. See Marathon/RFI, 19 DOE ¶85,575. In assessing an allocation claimant's injury, we will evaluate the effect of the alleged allocation violation on its entire business operations with particular reference to the amount of product that it received from suppliers other than Ginther. In determining the amount of an allocation refund, we will utilize any information that may be available regarding the portion of the Ginther consent order amount that the agency attributed to allocation violations in general and to the specific allocation violation alleged by the claimants. Finally, since the Ginther consent order fund is less than Ginther's potential liability in the proceedings, we will pro rate those allocation refunds that would otherwise be disproportionately large in relation to the consent order fund. Cf. Amtel/Whitco, 19 DOE ¶85,319. E. Distribution of Funds Remaining After First Stage In the event that money remains after all refund claims from the Ginther funds have been analyzed, the remaining funds in that account will be disbursed as indirect restitution in accordance with the provisions of the Petroleum Overcharge Distribution and Restitution Act of 1986 (PODRA), 15 U.S.C. 4501&hyph;07. PODRA requires that the Secretary of Energy determine annually the amount of oil overcharge funds that will not be required to refund monies to injured parties in subpart V proceedings and make those funds available to state governments for use in energy conservation programs. The Secretary has delegated these responsibilities to the OHA, and any funds in the Ginther consent order escrow account that the OHA determines will not be needed to effect direct restitution to injured customers will be distributed in accordance with the provisions of PODRA. IV. General Refund Application Requirements Pursuant to 10 CFR 205.283, we will now accept Applications for Refund from individuals and firms that purchased NGL products sold by Ginther during the period September 1, 1973, through March 31, 1977. There is no specific application form that must be used. However, the following information should be included in all Applications for Refund: (1) Identifying information including the claimant's name, current business address, business address during the refund period, taxpayer identification number, a statement indicating whether the claimant is a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or other business entity, the name, title, and telephone number of a person to contact for any additional information, and the name and address of the person who should receive any refund check. 9 If the applicant operated under more than one name or under a different name during the price control period, the applicant should specify these names. 9 Under the Privacy Act of 1974, the submission of a social security number by an individual applicant is voluntary. An applicant that does not wish to submit a social security number must submit an employer identification number if one exists. This information will be used in processing refund applications, and is requested pursuant to our authority under the Petroleum Overcharge Distribution and Restitution Act of 1986 and the regulations codified at 10 C.F.R. part 205, subpart V. The information may be shared with other Federal agencies for statistical, auditing or archiving purposes, and with law enforcement agencies when they are investigating a potential violation of civil or criminal law. Unless an applicant claims confidentiality, this information will be available to the public in the Public Reference Room of the OHA. (2) If the applicant's firm is owned by another company, or owns other companies, a list of those companies' names, addresses, and descriptions of their relationship to the applicant's firm. (3) A brief description of the claimant's business and the manner in which it used the petroleum products listed on its application. (4) A monthly schedule of the applicant's purchases of NGL products that it purchased from Ginther during the Consent Order period. The applicant must indicate the name of its supplier and the delivery location. The applicant should indicate the source of its volume information. Monthly schedules should be based upon actual, contemporaneous business records. If such records are not available, the applicant may submit estimates provided that those estimates are reasonable and the estimation methodology is explained in detail.
