FR940826-0-00036 FR940826-0-00014 Prior approval means written approval by an authorized official evidencing prior consent. Program income means gross income earned by the recipient that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of the award (see exclusions in paragraphs 12.924 (e) and (h)). Program income includes, but is not limited to, income from: fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under federally-funded projects, the sale of commodities or items fabricated under an award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and interest on loans made with award funds. Interest earned on advances of Federal funds is not program income. Except as otherwise provided in Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, program income does not include the receipt of principal on loans, rebates, credits, discounts, etc., or interest earned on any of them. Project costs means all allowable costs, as set forth in the applicable Federal cost principles, incurred by a recipient and the value of the contributions made by third parties in accomplishing the objectives of the award during the project period. Project period means the period established in the award document during which Federal sponsorship begins and ends. Property means, unless otherwise stated, real property, equipment, supplies, intangible property, and debt instruments. Real property means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, but excludes movable machinery and equipment. Recipient means an organization receiving financial assistance directly from Federal awarding agencies to carry out a project or program. The term includes public and private institutions of higher education, public and private hospitals, commercial organizations, and quasi-public and private non-profit organizations such as, but not limited to: community action agencies, research institutes, educational associations, and health centers. The term may include, at the discretion of the Federal awarding agency foreign or international organizations (such as agencies of the United Nations) which are recipients, subrecipients, or contractors or subcontractors of recipients or subrecipients. The term does not include government-owned contractor-operated facilities or research centers providing continued support for mission-oriented, large-scale programs that are government-owned or controlled, or are designated as federally-funded research and development centers. Research and development means all research activities, both basic and applied, and all development activities that are supported at universities, colleges, and other non-profit institutions. (1) ``Research'' is defined as a systematic study directed toward fuller scientific knowledge or understanding of the subject studied. (2) ``Development'' is the systematic use of knowledge and understanding gained from research directed toward the production of useful materials, devices, systems, or methods, including design and development of prototypes and processes. The term research also includes activities involving the training of individuals in research techniques where such activities utilize the same facilities as other research and development activities and where such activities are not included in the instruction function. Small awards means a grant or cooperative agreement not exceeding the small purchase threshold fixed at 41 U.S.C. 403(11) (currently $25,000). Subaward means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, made under an award by a recipient to an eligible subrecipient or by a subrecipient to a lower tier subrecipient. The term includes financial assistance when provided by any legal agreement, even if the agreement is called a contract, but does not include procurement of goods and services nor does it include any form of assistance that is excluded from the definition of ``award'' in this section. Subrecipient means the legal entity to which a subaward is made and which is accountable to the recipient for the use of the funds provided. The term may include foreign or international organizations (such as agencies of the United Nations) at the discretion of the Federal awarding agency. Supplies means all personal property excluding equipment, intangible property, and debt instruments as defined in this section, and inventions of a contractor conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the performance of work under a funding agreement (``subject inventions''), as defined in 37 CFR part 401, ``Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts, and Cooperative Agreements.'' Suspension means an action by a Federal awarding agency that temporarily withdraws Federal sponsorship under an award, pending corrective action by the recipient or pending a decision to terminate the award by the Federal awarding agency. Suspension of an award is a separate action from suspension under the Department of the Interior regulations implementing E.O.'s 12549 and 12689, ``Debarment and Suspension.'' See Subpart D of 43 CFR part 12. Termination means the cancellation of Federal sponsorship, in whole or in part, under an agreement at any time prior to the date of completion. Third party in-kind contributions means the value of non-cash contributions provided by non-Federal third parties. Third party in-kind contributions may be in the form of real property, equipment, supplies and other expendable property, and the value of goods and services directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to the project or program. Unliquidated obligations , for financial reports prepared on a cash basis, means the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient that have not been paid. For reports prepared on an accrued expenditure basis, they represent the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient for which an outlay has not been recorded. Unobligated balance means the portion of the funds authorized by Federal awarding agency that has not been obligated by the recipient and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the cumulative funds authorized.
