FR940622-1-00033 FR940622-1-00010 Therefore, net losses on forward contracts or net payments on swap agreements, if due an affiliate, could trigger the notice requirement. The Department specifically requests comment as to whether this exclusion should be broadened and if so how. The only material difference between the notification rules as promulgated by the SEC and as proposed by the Department is that the SEC's rules use excess net capital, whereas the Department's rule uses excess liquid capital. This variance conforms to the different measurement standards used under each rule. The Department believes that knowledge of significant capital movements is an essential part of ensuring capital adequacy and financial responsibility. The SEC's experience with the Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, Inc. 19 and the National Association of Securities Dealer's experience with Drexel Burnham Lambert GSI making substantial amounts of inadequately secured loans to its holding company indicate the importance of prompt and accurate knowledge of the movement of capital. 19 See 56 FR 9124, 9125 (March 5, 1991). The Department does not plan to amend the current restrictions on the withdrawal of capital to reflect the SEC's adoption of a new early warning threshold derived from securities haircuts. It has been the Department's belief, in establishing its capital standard, that a capital cushion related to a firm's securities position risk is a prudent approach to determining capital adequacy. The Treasury rule currently places a restriction on any capital withdrawals that would cause a government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital to fall below a level of 150% of haircuts. This standard is analogous to the recently-adopted SEC requirement 20 and, therefore, no further action is required in order for the two rules to conform in this area. 20 17 CFR §240.15c3&hyph;1(e)(2)(iii). The third element of the SEC's capital withdrawal rule is a provision giving the SEC authority to prohibit a withdrawal of capital by a broker or dealer, for up to 20 business days, if the withdrawal would exceed 30% of excess net capital and is deemed detrimental to the financial integrity of the broker or dealer or may unduly jeopardize the broker's or dealer's ability to repay its creditors. 21 The SEC intends that this provision be used in emergency situations and the rule provides for an expeditious review of the SEC's action. For the reasons that follow, the Department has determined that a similar provision should not be incorporated in the Treasury capital rule. 21 17 CFR §240.15c3&hyph;1(e)(3). First, while the SEC has an existing process for holding hearings, the Department has no comparable structure and therefore the implementation of the post-order process would require the Department to develop additional administrative regulations and procedures. In addition, the Department's decision not to enact a corresponding order provision is based on the fact that the SEC has existing temporary cease and desist authority. The SEC was granted this authority prusuant to the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;429), Section 203 of which added Section 21C to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 22 Paragraph (c) of Section 21C provides the SEC with authority to issue a temporary cease and desist order in the event ``that the alleged violation or threatened violation specified in the notice *␣*␣* is likely to result in significant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest,*␣*␣*.'' 23 A temporary cease and desist order, while different from a capital withdrawal order, serves a similar purpose. Both are emergency remedies that can be expeditiously applied. Prior to issuing a temporary cease and desist order, the SEC must provide notice and opportunity for a hearing unless the SEC ``*␣*␣* determines that notice and hearing prior to entry would be impracticable or contrary to the public interest.'' 24 22 15 U.S.C. 78u-3. 23 15 U.S.C. 78u-3(c)(1). 24 Id.
