FR941004-1-00080 FR941004-1-00018 a. The current definition of ``Child welfare services plan (CWSP)'' is revised to reflect the broader, more comprehensive scope and content of the proposed ``Child and Family Services Plan (CFSP).'' b. The revised definition of ``Child welfare services'' (title IV&hyph;B, subpart 1) is taken verbatim from section 425 of the Act. We propose to include this language because we believe that as many public and private agencies and organizations work together to provide new and more effective services and bring about changes in how services are delivered, a clear understanding of the purposes to which child welfare services are directed would be helpful. c. The current definition of ``Joint planning'' is revised to propose a revitalized partnership process between ACF and the State and between ACF and the Indian tribe in the development and implementation of child and family services programs. This process is intended to be characterized by mutual respect and shared responsibility on the part of all participants. Joint planning is required for approval of the five-year Child and Family Services Plan (section 432(b) of the Act) and is proposed for the development and approval of the Annual Progress and Services Report (§1357.15(b)(4)). We view joint planning as a process of discussion, consultation, and negotiation between the parties. It also may include Federal technical assistance, as needed. Through joint planning, State and Federal staff, and Indian tribes and Federal staff, with appropriate consultation and participation of other State, local, and community-based stakeholders, review and discuss key strategic decisions such as: •Priorities for services and for target populations; •Proposed goals and objectives; •Unmet needs, services gaps, and overlaps in funding; •Other funding resources available to provide the services needed; •The State and local organizations, foundations, and agencies with which the State or Indian tribe can consult and coordinate services; •Ongoing plans to move toward the goals and objectives by improving the service delivery system and ensuring a more efficient comprehensive system of care for children and families; and •Methods for reviewing progress toward the selected goals and objectives. Joint planning also includes Federal guidance and technical assistance after the plan has been developed and approved. This is provided through follow-up review and discussion of progress in accomplishing the goals and objectives identified in the plan and updating the plan as appropriate. The following new definitions and clarifications of terms are proposed: a. The term children refers to individuals from birth to the age of 21, with special emphasis on serving youth, adolescents, and young adults because too often they are overlooked as child and family services are developed. This proposed language is not intended to supersede a State's legal definition of child, children, or age of majority. Rather, it is intended to emphasize that there are no age restrictions for the purpose of providing services to children under title IV&hyph;B. b. The term community-based services refers to service programs characterized by accessibility and responsiveness to individual, family, and community needs and which may be provided by public or private nonprofit agencies or organizations including community-based organizations. The proposed language is intended as guidance to States and Indian tribes in identifying and working with those local agencies and organizations whose services are most likely to exemplify the principles of child and family services in 45 CFR 1355.25. c. The term families is proposed to include persons needing services regardless of their family configuration. The language of the new family support and family preservation legislation explicitly refers to biological, adoptive, foster, and extended families as recipients of these services. Several agencies, organizations and focus group participants urged that we use the broadest possible language in this definition, e.g., ``families as defined by themselves.'' Although we did not include this phrase in the proposed definition, we are in general agreement with its intent. d. The proposed definitions of the terms family preservation services and family support services are taken from the statute. (Section 431 of the Act) In addition, language from the Conference Report has been added to provide additional examples of family support services. The literature on professional practice and the discussion at the focus groups reflected general agreement on the goals for family support and family preservation services. These services should be directed towards:
