FR940406-0-00194 FR940406-0-00015 At that time, the metropolitan area definitions for both the Boston and New York-Northern New Jersey areas were still under review by OMB. HUD decided, therefore, to continue using the previous definitions until OMB made its final decisions and HUD could evaluate them. On June 30, 1993, OMB announced its revised definitions in OMB Bulletin NO. 93&hyph;17. OMB's final decisions were, with minor differences, to return to the pre-1993 definitions for both the Boston and New York-Northern New Jersey areas. For the Boston area, the only significant change was to combine the former Salem-Gloucester PMSA with the former Boston PMSA to form the new Boston MA-NH PMSA. This change increased the FMRs for the Salem-Glouchester area, but did not change the Boston area FMRs. For the New York-Northern New Jersey area, Pike County, Pennsylvania was combined with Orange County, New York to form the Newburgh NY-PA PMSA. This had the effect of increasing the FMRs for Pike County but did not change those for Orange County. Because these changes had no significant impact on HUD's existing FMR areas, the October 1 publication adopted the revised OMB definitions of the Primary Metropolitan Statistical Areas (PMSAs) that comprise the greater Boston and the greater New York metropolitan areas as the area definitions for the final FY 1994 FMRs. HUD also proposed in the May 6, 1993 publication to modify the FMR area definitions for seven other metropolitan areas by deleting counties that OMB had added to its revised definitions. The decision to delete these counties was based on an evaluation conducted by HUD headquarters and field staff. The counties deleted from the FMR areas are those that are the most remote from the central cities/counties of the metropolitan area and have the lowest rents, in most cases significantly below the FMR area rent averages. They are as follows: FMR Area and Changes in FMR Area Atlanta, GA_Deleted Carroll, Pickens, Spalding, and Walton Counties. Chicago, IL_Deleted DeKalb, Grundy and Kendall Counties. Cincinnati-Hamilton, OH-KY-IN_Deleted Brown County, Ohio; Gallatin, Grant and Pendleton Counties in Kentucky; and Ohio County, Indiana. Dallas, TX_Deleted Henderson County. Lafayette, LA_Deleted St. Landry and Acadia Parishes. New Orleans, LA_Deleted St. James Parish. Washington, DC_Deleted Berkeley and Jefferson Counties in West Virginia; and Clarke, Culpeper, King George and Warren counties in Virginia. The counties deleted from the FMR areas are included in Schedule B within their respective states as separate metropolitan FMR areas. The only comments received concerning the revised FMR areas for the above areas were several from Lake County, Illinois, requesting that it be designated a separate FMR area independent of the Chicago FMR area. On the basis of its analysis, HUD has determined that Lake County is appropriately categorized as part of the Chicago housing market area and should remain a part of the Chicago FMR area. HUD, therefore, has not changed the definition. OMB also modified the definitions of four other metropolitan areas in its final Bulletin. The four are: Augusta-Aiken, GA-SC; Baton Rouge, LA; Huntington-Ashland, WV-KY-OH; Wilmington, NC. HUD is implementing the new definitions because the changes involved adding small counties that did not affect the FMRs or significantly alter the FMR area definitions. HUD also proposed in the May 6, 1993 Notice that the FMRs for the independent cities and surrounding counties in Virginia be established by combining the city and county data, rather than having separate FMRs for the cities and counties. The final FY 1994 FMRs are based on the following FMR areas: ␣ 1FMR area (county) 1Independent cities included Allegheny Clifton Forge and Covington. Augusta Staunton and Waynesboro. Carroll Galax. Frederick Winchester. Greensville Emporia. Halifax South Boston. Henry Martinsville. Montgomery Radford. Rockbridge Buena Vista and Lexington. Rockingham Harrisonburg. Southampton Franklin. Wise Norton. Method Used To Develop the FY 1994 FMRs FMR Standard: The FMRs are gross rent estimates; they include shelter rent and the cost of utilities, except telephone. HUD sets FMRs to assure that a sufficient supply of rental housing is available to program participants. To accomplish this objective, FMRs must be both high enough to permit a selection of units and neighborhoods and low enough to serve as many families as possible. The level at which FMRs are set is expressed as a percentile point within the rent distribution of standard quality rental housing units. The current definition used is the 45th percentile rent, the dollar amount below which 45 percent of the standard quality rental housing units rent. The 45th percentile rent is drawn from the distribution of rents of units are occupied by recent movers (renter households who moved into their unit within the past 15 months). Public housing units and newly built units less than two years old are excluded.
