FR940511-2-00002 FR940511-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Prichard Project Area, Idaho Panhandle National Forests, Shoshone County, ID action: Notice of Availability of the Final Environmental Impact Statement and Record of Decision for proposed activities in the Prichard Project Area. dates: The appeal period on this decision ends June 20, 1994. addresses: Appeals should be addressed to Appeals Deciding Officer, Regional Forester, David F. Jolly, USDA Forest Service, Northern Region, 200 East Broadway, P.O. Box 7669, Missoula, MT 59867. for further information contact: Questions about the proposed action, environmental impact statement and the Record of Decision should be directed to Don Garringer, Planning Staff Officer, Wallace Ranger District, Idaho Panhandle National Forests, P.O. Box 14, Silverton, ID 83867. Phone: (208) 752&hyph;1221. summary: Notice is hereby given that the Forest Service has prepared a Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) and signed a Record of Decision documenting a landscape-level approach to ecosystem management in the Prichard Project Area. The area is located approximately 12 air miles northeast of Wallace, Idaho, and is approximately 29,700 acres in size. Public participation has been on going throughout the project. Comments received during the comment period have been addressed by appropriate specialists in an appendix located in the FEIS. During the 45 day appeal period comments and concerns should still be addressed to the planning officer for clarification. The District Ranger is the responsible official for this EIS, and has made the decision to implement alternative 7, a modification of the preferred alternative in the DEIS. Rationale for this decision can be found in the Record of Decision. His decision was based upon several factors: Comments and responses from the public, environmental consequences discussed in the FEIS, and applicable laws, regulations, and policies. supplementary information: A very specific proposed action was developed for the area, and included timber harvest, reforestation activities and watershed/fisheries rehabilitation as well as wildlife improvements, through implementation of timber sales. The scope of the proposed action is limited to timber harvesting, reforestation, precommercial thinning, related road construction, road removal, reconstruction activities and stream channel restoration and stabilization. During development of the proposed action and alternatives to the proposed action, emphasis has been placed on the water resource needs and visual concerns of local residents. Eight alternatives were developed, including a No-Action Alternative. Alternative 7 is the alternative preferred by the Forest Service. Under Alternative 7, the harvest of green, dead and dying timber is scheduled for implementation in three separate but related projects. The projects would produce an estimated 10.5 million board feet of timber and treat 25 timber harvest units. Harvest methods include, commercial thin, salvage, group selection and group shelterwood using helicopter and cable yarding. In this proposal 1 mile of road will be constructed, 2.39 miles will be reconstructed and 13.08 will be reconditioned. Road removal projects will involve the treatment of new road construction and existing roads identified in the road management plan as not being needed for future management needs. With the removal of roads various miles of stream course will also undergo restoration. Management activities would be administered by the Wallace Ranger District of the Idaho Panhandle National Forests in Shoshone County, Idaho. This FEIS will tie to the Forest Plan (September 1987) which provides the overall guidance (Goals, Objectives, Standards and Guidelines, and Management Area direction) in achieving the desired future condition for this area. Dated: April 29, 1994. Steve Williams, District Ranger, Wallace Ranger District, Idaho Panhandle National Forests. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11318 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
