FR940930-0-00102 FR940930-0-00017 (12) The HMO's current rates, including copayments, for basic and uniformly included supplemental health services and the dates these rates became effective; or the HMO's estimated rates for these services. (d) Employing entity's response_ (1) Timing . An employing entity or its designee must respond in writing to an HMO's request for inclusion no later than 60 days after receipt of the request. (2) Basic statement . The response must state whether the employing entity has 25 or more employees who reside within the HMO's service area. (3) Additional information: Public entities only . A public entity's response must specify the health benefits, including limitations and exclusions, that are required under State law or regulations for employees of the public entity. (4) Additional information: All employing entities . If the employing entity has 25 or more employees who reside within the HMO's service area, the response must include the following: (i) Expiration or renewal dates of contracts that cover those employees. (ii) The amount of the employing entity's current contribution and, if applicable, the employee's contribution, for health benefits, and the dates when those contribution levels became effective. (iii) The expiration dates of any collective bargaining agreements covering those employees. (e) Effect of inadequate request . If the request for inclusion does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the following rules apply: (1) The employing entity is not required to include the HMO option in its employees' health benefits plan under ยง417.154 until the HMO makes its request in accordance with those paragraphs. (2) The employing entity or its designee must, within 60 days after receipt of the request, notify the HMO in writing of the basis for its conclusion that the request does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. (f) New request for inclusion . (1) If an employing entity includes the HMO option in a health benefits plan in accordance with a request meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the employing entity must offer the HMO option to all the eligible employees who reside in the HMO's service area during the entire health benefits year. (2) However, if no employees enroll during the health benefits year, the HMO seeking inclusion in the health benefits plan for subsequent enrollment periods must submit a new request in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. ยง417.153 Offer of HMO option to employees. 1 1 The statutory requirement for the employing entity to include the HMO option has a sunset date of October 24, 1995. Accordingly, the statutory requirement expires on that date unless Congress extends it. (a) Basic rule . An employing entity subject to this subpart must, at the time it offers a health benefits plan to its eligible employees, include in the plan the option of enrollment in qualified HMOs in accordance with this section. (b) Employees to whom the HMO option must be offered . Each employing entity must offer the option of enrollment in a qualified HMO to each eligible employee and his or her eligible dependents who reside in the HMO's service area. (c) Manner of offering the HMO option . (1) For employees who are represented by a bargaining representative, the option of enrollment in a qualified HMO__ (i) Must first be presented to the bargaining representative; and (ii) If the representative accepts the option, must then be offered to each represented employee. (2) For employees not represented by a bargaining representative, the option must be offered directly to those employees.
