FR941230-1-00017 FR941230-1-00004 H. Section 1.141&hyph;7␣Special rules for output facilities 1. General rule. The proposed regulations adopt the approach of the industrial development bond regulations providing special rules for the determination of whether the purchase of the output of an output facility by a nongovernmental person causes the bonds to be private activity bonds. These rules apply the private business use test to output contracts by comparing the amount of output purchased by nongovernmental persons under take or take or pay contracts to the available output of the facility. The proposed regulations provide certain additional clarifications. For example, the proposed regulations clarify that certain requirements contracts are treated as take or take or pay contracts. Transitional rules are provided for existing contracts. In modifying the rules for output facilities, the Service and Treasury recognize that, as a result of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, significant regulatory changes are occurring regarding electric generation and transmission facilities. In this regard, the proposed regulations attempt to address the changing nature of this industry. For example, the proposed regulations provide guidance on allocations of use of transmission facilities. 2. De minimis exceptions. The proposed regulations contain several de minimis exceptions under which output contracts are disregarded. First, in lieu of the 3 percent de minimis rule in the industrial development bond regulations, the proposed regulations adopt a 1 percent de minimis rule. The proposed regulations also incorporate the safe harbors in the 1986 Act legislative history relating to pooling, exchange, and spot sale agreements. Special rules are also provided for use of transmission facilities. Finally, contracts with terms not exceeding 1 year may be disregarded in certain circumstances. 3. Allocation of output contracts. The proposed regulations provide specific guidance on allocations of output sold under a contract among particular facilities. Generally, these determinations are made on a facts and circumstances basis taking into account certain physical and contractual factors. I. Section 1.141&hyph;8␣ $15 million limitation for output facilities 1. General rules. Section 141(b)(4) provides a special private activity bond limitation for issues used to finance output facilities, under which the permissible private business use and private security or payments are limited to $15 million. Further, this $15 million limitation for an issue is reduced by the amount of private business use and private security or payments in other outstanding tax-exempt bonds financing the same project. 2. Definition of project. The proposed regulations define project for purposes of the $15 million output limitation. Generating units not located at the same site or not placed in service within 3 years are not part of the same project. In addition, improvements made more than 3 years after a generating unit is placed in service are treated as a separate project. For transmission facilities, a project includes functionally related or contiguous property placed in service during a single 24-month period. J. Section 1.141&hyph;9␣Unrelated or disproportionate use test Under section 141(b)(3), an issue meets the private business tests if the amount of private business use and private security or payments attributable to any unrelated or disproportionate private business use exceeds 5 percent of the proceeds. The proposed regulations provide that whether private business use is related to a government use of the proceeds of an issue is determined on a case-by-case basis, emphasizing the operational relationship of the financed facilities. Generally, facilities used for a private business use are related to a government use only if the private use occurs in the same facility or an adjacent facility. The proposed regulations also provide that a single facility that is used for both a government use and a private business use of the same type (for example, governmental and private parking) generally does not result in unrelated use. Disproportionate private business use occurs when the amount of proceeds used for a private business use exceeds the amount of proceeds used for the related government use. The proposed regulations provide allocation rules designed to simplify the application of the disproportionate use rules. For example, where a private business use relates to more than one government use, in determining the amount of disproportionate use the private business use may be allocated either entirely to the government use to which it primarily relates or among each of the government uses. A number of examples are provided illustrating the application of the unrelated and disproportionate use rules.
