FR940712-2-00050 FR940712-2-00040 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Announcement 447] Evaluation of the Impact of the 1993 AIDS Case Definition Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a competitive cooperative agreement program to study the quality of AIDS surveillance using the 1993 AIDS case definition and reporting system to determine methods that increase the efficiency of AIDS surveillance activities. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of HIV Infection. (To order a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section Where To Obtain Additional Information.) Authority: These cooperative agreements are authorized under Sections 301(a) and 311 of the Public Health Service Act [42 U.S.C. 241(a) and 243], as amended. Applicable program regulations are found in 42 CFR Part 52, Grants for Research Projects. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Assistance will be provided only to official public health agencies of States and their bona fide agents or instrumentalities. This includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and the following cities and county only: the cities of Chicago, Houston, Philadelphia, New York, San Francisco, and the County of Los Angeles. Availability of Funds Approximately $1,200,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund four to six awards. It is expected that the average award will be $250,000, ranging from $200,000 to $300,000. It is expected that the awards will begin on or about September 30, 1994, and will be for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 3 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within a project period will be based on satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. Purpose The purpose of these awards is to assist State and local health departments in: (1) Determining the sensitivity, timeliness, and validity of the AIDS surveillance system; (2) Improving the efficiency of AIDS surveillance by evaluating a variety of case ascertainment methods; and (3) Identifying the information collected as part of AIDS surveillance that is most useful for planning and evaluating HIV-related treatment and preventive services. All activities should be implemented under various reporting alternatives (provider-based vs. lab-initiated reporting) through a population-based retrospective study. Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient shall be responsible for activities under A., below, and CDC will be responsible for conducting activities under B., below:
