FR940323-1-00022 FR940323-1-00005 Section 4501(e)(1) of OBRA '90 amended section 1905(p)(2) of the Act by adding paragraph (D) to provide that, in determining income eligibility for qualified Medicare beneficiaries (QMBs) who are entitled to monthly title II insurance benefits, any cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) in these title II benefits received beginning in December of the preceding year must be disregarded. We will issue a separate regulation incorporating this provision for QMBs. Section 4501(e)(2) of OBRA '90 made this rule also apply to the income eligibility determinations of the aged and disabled individuals covered by section 1902(m). The disregard applies to all the months from the month the COLA increase is effective through the month after the month the revised poverty levels are published each year. Since the new poverty levels are usually published in February, the disregard normally will be effective through March of each year. However, for Medicaid purposes, the new poverty levels are effective upon publication. This means that, for the period between publication of the poverty levels (usually mid-February) and the end of the disregard period (usually March), the disregard of the COLA increase and the poverty level increase would overlap. As a result of this overlap, some individuals would meet the income level for this group because the COLA disregard would lower their countable income at the same time that the revised poverty level would allow for higher income. As soon as the COLA disregard expired, these individuals would lose eligibility again. We believe that this approach would create an unreasonable administrative burden for States. They would have to add these individuals to the Medicaid rolls, only to have to remove them again a few weeks later. We also believe that the intent of the statutory provision is to protect individuals who would lose that status for a few weeks because of the COLA increase (but only until the increase in the poverty level took effect), and not to permit other individuals to achieve eligibility status for a few weeks. For these reasons, we are proposing to make the revised poverty levels effective for title II recipients with the month after the last month in which the COLA disregard is effective. Since the COLA disregard normally expires at the end of March, in most years, the new poverty levels would be effective for these individuals on April 1. By delaying the effective date of the increased poverty level so that it coincides with the date on which the COLA increase is first counted, we would eliminate the problem discussed above. Section 9402 of OBRA '86 does not require or permit the different treatment of income and resources allowed for this low-income aged and disabled eligibility group to be applied to other Medicaid eligibility groups because of the comparability provisions of section 1902(a)(17) of the Act. In addition, we propose to require that if a State elects to provide Medicaid eligibility to this low-income group, it must cover both the aged and disabled and must apply the same income and resource standards to both groups and to all family sizes involved. This requirement is consistent with the intent of Congress, as expressed in the language of the House Committee Report accompanying OBRA '86 (H. Rep. 727, 99th Cong., 2d Sess. 103 (1986)). Medicaid services provided to the optional group of low-income aged and disabled individuals must be the same in amount, duration, and scope as the Medicaid services provided to other categorically needy individuals under the approved State Medicaid plan. The amendments made by section 9402 of OBRA '86 apply to payments to States for services for calendar quarters beginning on or after July 1, 1987, without regard to whether or not final regulations to carry them out have been published by that date. We propose to incorporate the provisions of sections 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii)(X) and 1902(m) of the Act and section 9402 of OBRA '86 in the Medicaid regulations by adding §435.238 (§436.235 for the Territories) to specify the optional categorically needy eligibility group of aged and disabled individuals with incomes at or below Federal poverty income guidelines and the conditions under which they may establish eligibility. We also propose to add a new §§435.615 and 436.615 to specify the requirements for establishing the income and resource standards and methodologies for this group and for determining financial eligibility.
