FR940110-2-00094 FR940110-2-00075 Selection Criteria: The Secretary uses the following selection criteria to evaluate applications for new grants under this competition. The maximum score for all of these criteria is 100 points. The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses. In addition to the points awarded based on the selection criteria, the Secretary assigns five points to applications from partnerships that include as a partner one or more small businesses that have signed the partnership agreement. An applicant must provide on the Partnership Agreement form the Small Business Administration's (SBA) Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code for the small business partner. See the Small Business Size Standards: Final and Interim Final Rules (13 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) part 121). These rules may be found at many public libraries or by contacting a Small Business Administration local district office or regional office, or by calling the SBA's Office of Size Standards in Washington, DC at (202) 205&hyph;6618. Reserved points: The program regulations in 34 CFR 472.21(b) provide that the Secretary may award up to 100 points for selection criteria, including a reserved 10 points. For this competition, the Secretary distributes the reserved 10 points as follows: Program Factors (34 CFR 472.22(a)). Five points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 20 points. Plan of Operation (34 CFR 472.22(d)). Five points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 20 points. The criteria: (a) Program Factors. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the project_ (1) Demonstrates a strong relationship between skills taught and the literacy requirements of actual jobs, especially the increased skill requirements of the changing workplace; (2) Is targeted to adults with inadequate skills for whom the training described is expected to mean new employment, continued employment, career advancement, or increased productivity; (3) Includes support services, based on cooperative relationships within the partnership and from helping organizations, necessary to reduce barriers to participation by adult workers. Support services could include educational counseling, transportation, and child care during non-working hours while adult workers are participating in a project; (4) Demonstrates the active commitment of all partners to accomplishing project goals; and (5) Focuses on improving performance in jobs or job functions that have a broad representation within the nation's workforce so that the products can be adapted for use by similar workplaces across the Nation. (b) Extent of need for the project. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the project meets specific needs, including consideration of_ (1) The extent to which the project will focus on demonstrated needs for workplace literacy training of adult workers; (2) The adequacy of the applicant's documentation of the needs to be addressed by the project; (3) How those needs will be met by the project; and (4) The benefits to adult workers and their industries that will result from meeting those needs. (c) Quality of training. (15 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the training to be provided by the project, including the extent to which the project will_ (1) Develop or use curriculum materials for adults based on literacy skills needed in the workplace; (2) Use individualized educational plans developed jointly by instructors and adult learners; (3) Take place in a readily accessible environment conducive to adult learning;
