FR940114-1-00100 FR940114-1-00018 (h) Payment of death, disability, closed school, false certification, and bankruptcy claims by the guaranty agency. (1) *␣*␣* (iii) In the case of a closed school claim, the guaranty agency shall document its determination that the student was unable to complete the educational program as a result of the school's closure. On the same date that it pays a closed school claim to the lender, the agency shall pay the borrower an amount equal to the amount paid on the loan by or on behalf of the borrower, less any school tuition refunds or payments received by the holder or the borrower from a tuition recovery fund, performance bond, or other third-party source. (iv) In the case of a false certification claim, the guaranty agency shall document its determination that the borrower is eligible for cancellation under paragraph (e) of this section. On the same date that it pays a false certification claim to the lender, the agency shall pay the borrower an amount equal to the amount paid on the loan by or on behalf of the borrower, less any school tuition refunds or payments received by the holder or the borrower from a tuition recovery fund, performance bond, or other third-party source. (2) *␣*␣* (ii) The amount of loss payable on a closed school claim or on a false certification claim is equal to the sum of the remaining principal balance and interest accrued on the loan, collection costs incurred by the lender and applied to the borrower's account within 30 days of the date those costs were actually incurred, and unpaid interest determined in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section. (3) *␣*␣* (i) During the period before the claim is filed, not to exceed the period provided for in paragraph (g)(2) of this section for filing the claim. (ii) During a period not to exceed 30 days following the receipt date by the lender of a claim returned by the guaranty agency for additional documentation necessary for the claim to be approved by the guaranty agency. * * * * * (i) *␣*␣* (2) Response by a guaranty agency to plans proposed under Chapters 11, 12, and 13. The guaranty agency shall take the following actions when a petition for relief in bankruptcy under Chapters 11, 12, or 13 is filed: * * * * * (iv) The agency shall monitor the debtor's performance under a confirmed plan. If the debtor fails to make payments required under the plan or seeks but does not demonstrate entitlement to discharge under 11 U.S.C. 1328(b), the agency shall oppose any requested discharge or move to dismiss the case if the costs of litigation together with the costs incurred for objections to the plan are not reasonably expected to exceed one-third of the amount of the loan to be discharged under the plan.
