FR940418-2-00037 FR940418-2-00016 Corps of Engineers Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for a Municipal Solid-Waste Landfill Proposed by Resource Investments, Inc. in Pierce County, WA AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Seattle District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: Resource Investments, Inc. (RII) of Puyallup, Washington is proposing construction and operation of a private solid-waste landfill on a 320-acre site in central Pierce County, Washington. The project site is located at the intersection of State Route (SR) 161 (Meridian) and 304th Street East (Kapowsin Highway), approximately 15 miles south of Puyallup, Washington. Construction of the landfill's cells and support facilities will impact approximately 33 acres of wetlands, including palustrine emergent, scrub-shrub, and forested wetlands. The proposed project may also require relocating 2,600 linear feet of the South Fork of Muck Creek (South Creek) which flows through the northwest corner of the site. South Creek is a seasonal tributary to Much Creek, which is a tributary of the Nisqually River. The proposed site is located over the Clovers-Chambers Creek Sole Source Aquifer which has been designated by the Environmental Protection Agency as a ``Sole Source Aquifer.'' Work in wetlands and South Creek will require a Department of the Army Permit under section 404 of the Clean Water Act. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions about the proposed action and DEIS can be answered by: Dr. Stephen Martin, Planning Branch, Environmental Resources Section, Seattle District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Seattle, Washington 98124&hyph;2255, telephone (206) 764&hyph;3631. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Proposed Action RII has proposed the facility because the existing landfill in Pierce County (Hidden Valley, owned and operated by an affiliated company, Land Recovery, Incorporated) has nearly reached maximum capacity and is scheduled for closure sometime between January and September 1996. To extend the life of the existing Hidden Valley Landfill, Pierce County has opted to use this existing facility for approximately 80 percent of Pierce County's solid-waste disposal needs. The remaining 20 percent is long-hauled to the Rabanco Landfill (located in eastern Washington) via truck and rail. The proposed project site is located in central Pierce County, approximately 15 miles south of Puyallup, Washington and approximately 12 miles north of Eatonville, Washington, adjacent to SR 161. The site is bounded by SR 161 (Meridian) to the west and 304th Street East (Kapowsin Highway) to the north. The landfill facility will occupy up to 177 acres of the relatively level 320-acre site. Fill in wetlands and in South Creek is necessary under the proposed action to construct the landfill's cells and support facilities. The landfill design includes a bottom liner, temporary and permanent cover cap systems, a leachate collection system, a leak detection and collection system, a gas collection and combustion system, and a storm drainage system. The landfill would be constructed in a series of seven cells (one cell constructed and filled at a time) over approximately 20 years. The life of the proposed project would depend upon the waste stream volume and any fluctuations (i.e., increases or decreases from established 20-year projections. RII's project purpose is to provide the unincorporated areas and the incorporated cities in Pierce County that participated in the 1989 Tacoma-Pierce County Solid Waste Management Plan and specifically not the military bases located within Pierce County with a viable, affordable, environmentally sound solid waste project to meet projected needs for the next 20 years.
