FR940711-2-00114 FR940711-2-00049 Definition of ``Failure to Meet Standards'' Section 106(j)(i)(A) of JTPA requires the Secretary to establish uniform criteria of determining whether a service delivery area fails to meet performance standards. To comply with this provision, the Department specified the number of failed standards which constitute overall failure. Commenters generally agreed with the concept of a uniform definition of performance failure; however, there was minor opposition to defining overall failure as missing a combination of any three standards or simply missing both youth standards. The Department was criticized for placing too much weight on the youth standards. Given Congressional interest in improving the quality of service to youth, as reflected in various provisions in the amended JTPA, and given the need to respond to the programmatic issues raised by the National JTPA Study, the Department believes its emphasis on youth program performance is appropriate. Several commenters requested clarification on whether SDAs had to fail the same standards two consecutive years to trigger a reorganization. The sanction policy does not apply to the same standards over the two-year period. Thus, for the purpose of identifying whether an SDA has failed to meet performance standards for two consecutive years, overall failure means failing any three core standards or both youth standards for two consecutive years. Definitions for meeting and failing individual standards will be established by Governors. Performance Standards for Older Worker Programs Under Section 204(d) The other major area of comment involved the performance standards for older worker programs under Section 204(d). A total of 27 letters was received from advocates/service providers and State agencies on aging. These letters questioned the methodology and data used for setting the performance standards levels. Many indicated that the proposed levels were too high, particularly the level of the average wage at placement standard. Since March 1, 1994, when the notice appeared in the Federal Register , additional data became available from the PY 1992 SPIR. Reported information on the Section 204(d) Older Worker program was analyzed and used to establish revised levels for the standards that are more closely related to actual experience for that program. This has resulted in a lower entered employment rate standard, but the average wage at placement standard remains unchanged. It should be remembered, however, that the Secretary's standards are merely departure points which will be adjusted to account for local economic conditions and the characteristics of the terminees. The Department will be providing States with a methodology for making these adjustments. Performance Standards Levels A total of 9 comments was received about the overall performance levels for Titles II&hyph;A and II&hyph;C standards. Comments were mixed with hard-to-serve advocates supporting both higher and lower levels. The majority of comments advocating lower levels were from youth advocates who felt that the standard for youth employment was too high given the recent decline in the rate of placing youth in jobs. The numerical values of the standards are generally set so that if local programs continue to perform unchanged from the prior program year, 75 percent of the system are expected to exceed their standards. The proposed numerical standards for five of the six core measures (all but the YEER) and the Title III Entered Employment Rate measure are set in this manner, using PY 1992 performance. Further adjustments were made to reflect the new 20 hour per week minimum requirement for employment. To arbitrarily raise the level of all standards, as suggested by certain advocate groups, appeared counterproductive when the Department was imposing new targeting requirements and employment caveats. One exception is the numerical standard for the YEER which if similarly set, would lead to reduced standards for SDAs. The recently published 30-month results from the National JTPA Study suggest that employment and earnings experienced by out-of-school youth in JTPA fall short of acceptable levels. Therefore, to foster improved services to out-of-school youth, the numerical standard for the YEER will remain at its current level of 41 percent. The Secretary's standards for the new older worker performance measures were derived from an analysis of available PY 1992 Section 204(d) data from the SPIR. The same general rules that were used for setting the levels for the Titles II&hyph;A, II&hyph;C, and III programs, including the adjustment for 20-hour employment, were used for the Section 204(d) program. Again, it must be emphasized that these national standards are merely departure points and States must make adjustments to account for local conditions. Certifications This issuance is procedural in character and gives directions to States and local service deliverers on the implementation of performance standards under Title II&hyph;A, Title II&hyph;C, Section 204(d), and Title III of JTPA. Therefore, it is not classified as ``major'' under Executive Order 12291 and no impact analysis is required. This issuance has been assessed according to the Federalist policymaking criteria outlined in Executive Order 12612. The Department believes that this issuance will not materially limit the policymaking discretion of the States. This issuance both addresses Departmental policy objectives and permits States discretionary authority in the application of performance standards. The procedural framework included in this issuance enables States to better assist localities in more effective and efficient program design and management. Signed at Washington, DC, this 5th day of July, 1994. Doug Ross, Assistant Secretary of Labor.
