FR940616-0-00109 FR940616-0-00012 Discussion: The Secretary believes that the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program cannot be expected to meet all specialized training needs, particularly in nonacademic areas. The Secretary plans to make greater use of the extensive flexibility provided by section 302 of the Act and the six specific rehabilitation training programs to ensure that specialized training needs are addressed. Changes: None. Comments: Several representatives of tribal-controlled colleges commented that, because of support that they receive from the Bureau of Indian Affairs for each Native American student, there is less need for stipends and scholarships as student incentives. Tribal-controlled colleges, however, need greater levels of financial support to maintain national and regional networks through faculty travel, for supervision at internship sites, for course development, and for materials development. Commenters were concerned that the 75 percent limit would hurt program growth and quality and would be detrimental to undergraduate rehabilitation programs in rural regions where graduates work with American Indian clients. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that tribal-controlled colleges and other training programs for Native Americans often conduct rehabilitation training under unique circumstances. Under ยง386.31(b), the Secretary may award grants that use less than 75 percent of the total award for scholarships based on the unique nature of the project. It will be particularly important for applicants to document the unique circumstances that apply in their proposals to assist the Secretary in making this determination. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters observed that, if a quantitative requirement regarding the percentage of funds directed to scholarships is necessary, there should be a reduction in the limit and a broadening of the unique circumstances under ยง386.31(b) if less than 75 percent of the funds are devoted to scholarships. The Department should provide examples of circumstances of projects funded with less than 75 percent in scholarships. In addition, projects should be approved that demonstrate that the shortage they intend to meet is best met by funding training program resources such as faculty and equipment. Many traditional degree or certificate granting disciplines, such as physical medicine and rehabilitation and its residency programs, are limited because of the lack of adequate numbers of faculty and, therefore, programs. Also, there should be an exception for training programs in newly emerging areas, such as independent living, that do not have degrees or certificates. Discussion: The Secretary believes that a quantitative limit is necessary to establish clear standards for all applicants. Current long-term training grants average over $100,000 per year; therefore, a grant with 75 percent of the award targeted for scholarships will still have more than $25,000 for other related costs. Broadening the circumstances under which unique projects may be supported that use less than 75 percent of the total award for scholarships is not consistent with the overall objective of the long-term training program. Changes: None. Comments: Many commenters from university rehabilitation training programs expressed concern that programs at their institutions might be discontinued if Federal funds were required to be directed to student support rather than for paying for instructional costs. Discussion: Existing regulations require academic training projects with a multi-year project period to increase the grantee's share of teaching costs progressively in each succeeding year so that total personnel costs are fully absorbed by the grantee at the termination of the project period. The 75 percent requirement provides greater latitude than existing regulations. Changes: None. Requirements for Directing Grant Funds: The Department of Education Should Target Priorities To Require Grantees To Award Specific Degrees or Certificates (ยง386.31). Comments: One commenter requested that the Secretary use program announcements to target programs on degrees and certificates in appropriate areas. Two commenters requested that the Secretary be sensitive to individual student preferences for attending degree or certificate programs.
