FR940722-0-00111 FR940722-0-00019 B. Performance Requirements 90. The Budget Act requires the Commission to ``include performance requirements, such as appropriate deadlines and penalties for performance failures, to ensure prompt delivery of service to rural areas, to prevent stockpiling or warehousing of spectrum by licensees or permittees, and to promote investment in and rapid deployment of new technologies and services.'' 63 In the Second Report and Order we decided that it was unnecessary and undesirable to impose additional performance requirements, beyond those already provided in the service rules, for all auctionable services. The broadband PCS service rules already contain specific performance requirements, such as the requirement to construct within a specified period of time. See, e.g., 47 CFR §24.203. Failure to satisfy these construction requirements will result in forfeiture of the license. Accordingly, we do not see the need to adopt any additional performance requirements in this Report and Order. 63 See Section 309(j)(4)(B) of the Communications Act, as amended. C. Rules Prohibiting Collusion 91. In the Second Report and Order , we adopted a special rule prohibiting collusive conduct in the context of competitive bidding. See 47 CFR §1.2105(c). We referred to the Notice, wherein we indicated our belief that such a rule would serve the objectives of the Budget Act by preventing parties, especially the largest firms, from agreeing in advance to bidding strategies that divide the market according to their strategic interests and disadvantage other bidders. See Second Report and Order at ¶221. We believe that this rule is nowhere more necessary than with respect to broadband PCS auctions, where we expect bidder interest to be high and the incentives to collude to be great. Thus, Section 1.2105(c) will apply to broadband PCS auctions. This rule provides that from the time the short-form applications are filed until the winning bidder has made its required down payment, all bidders will be prohibited from cooperating, collaborating, discussing or disclosing in any manner the substance of their bids or bidding strategies with other bidders, unless such bidders are members of a bidding consortium or other joint bidding arrangement identified on the bidder's short-form application. In addition, as discussed in Section IV, supra , bidders will be required by Section 1.2105(a)(2) of the Commission's Rules to identify on their Form 175 applications all parties with whom they have entered into any consortium arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships or other agreements or understandings which relate to the competitive bidding process. Bidders will also be required to certify that they have not entered and will not enter into any explicit or implicit agreements, arrangements or understandings with any parties, other than those identified, regarding the amount of their bid, bidding strategies or the particular properties on which they will or will not bid. 92. Winning bidders in broadband PCS auctions will also be subject to Section 1.2107 of the Commission's Rules, which among other things requires each winning bidder to attach as an exhibit to the Form 401 long-form application a detailed explanation of the terms and conditions and parties involved in any bidding consortium, joint venture, partnership, or other agreement or arrangement they had entered into relating to the competitive bidding process prior to the close of bidding. All such arrangements must have been entered into prior to the filing of short-form applications. In addition, where specific instances of collusion in the competitive bidding process are alleged during the petition to deny process, the Commission may conduct an investigation or refer such complaints to the United States Department of Justice for investigation. Bidders who are found to have violated the antitrust laws or the Commission's rules in connection with participation in the auction process may be subject to forfeiture of their down payment or their full bid amount and revocation of their license(s), and they may be prohibited from participating in future auctions. VII. Treatment of Designated Entities A. Overview and Objectives 93. Congress mandated that the Commission ``ensure that small businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by members of minority groups and women are given the opportunity to participate in the provision of spectrum-based services.'' 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(4)(D). To achieve this goal, the statute requires the Commission to ``consider the use of tax certificates, bidding preferences, and other procedures.'' Thus, while providing that we charge for licenses, Congress has ordered that the Commission design its auction procedures to ensure that designated entities have opportunities to obtain licenses and provide service. For that purpose, the law does not mandate the use of any particular procedure, but it specifically approves the use of ``tax certificates, bidding preferences, and other procedures.'' The use of any such procedure is, in our view, mandated where necessary to achieve Congress's objective of ensuring that designated entities have the opportunity to participate in broadband PCS. 94. In addition to this mandate, the statute sets forth various congressional objectives. For example, it provides that in establishing eligibility criteria and bidding methodologies the Commission shall ``promot[e] economic opportunity and competition and ensur[e] that new and innovative technologies are readily accessible to the American people by avoiding excessive concentration of licenses and by disseminating licenses among a wide variety of applicants, including small businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by members of minority groups and women.'' 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(3)(B); see also id . §309(j)(4)(C) (requiring the Commission when prescribing area designations and bandwidth assignments, to promote ``economic opportunity for a wide variety of applicants, including small businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by members of minority groups and women). 64 Further, Section 309(j)(4)(A) provides that to promote the statute's objectives the Commission shall ``consider alternative payment schedules and methods of calculation, including lump sums or guaranteed installment payments, with or without royalty payments, or other schedules or methods *␣*␣* and combinations of such schedules and methods.'' 64 As noted in the Second Report and Order, the statute also requires the Commission to promote the purposes specified in Section 1 of the Communications Act, which include, among other things, ``to make available, so far as possible, to all the people of the United States a rapid, efficient, Nation-wide, and world-wide wire and radio communication service with adequate facilities at reasonable charges.'' 47 U.S.C. §151; Second Report and Order at n. 3. 95. To satisfy these statutory mandates and objectives, we established in the Second Report and Order eligibility criteria and general rules that would govern the special measures for small businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by members of minority groups and women. We also identified several measures, including installment payments, spectrum set-asides, bidding credits and tax certificates, that we could choose from in establishing rules for auctionable spectrum-based services. We stated that we would decide whether and how to use these special provisions, or others, when we developed specific competitive bidding rules for particular services. In addition, we set forth rules designed to prevent unjust enrichment by designated entities who transfer ownership in licenses obtained through the use of these special measures or who otherwise lose their designated entity status.
