FR940622-1-00042 FR940622-1-00011 (3) Issuer call _(i) In general. Paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies to stock by reason of the issuer's right to redeem the stock (even if the right is immediately exercisable), but only if, based on all of the facts and circumstances as of the issue date, redemption pursuant to that right is more likely than not to occur. However, even if redemption is more likely than not to occur, paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply if the redemption premium is solely in the nature of a penalty for premature redemption. A penalty for premature redemption is a premium paid as a result of changes in economic or market conditions over which neither the issuer nor the holder has control. (ii) Safe harbor. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), redemption pursuant to an issuer's right is not treated as more likely than not to occur if_ (A) The issuer and the holder are not related within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b); (B) There are no arrangements that effectively require the issuer to redeem the stock; and (C) Exercise of the right to redeem would not reduce the yield of the stock, as determined under principles similar to the principles of section 1272(a). (iii) Effect of not satisfying safe harbor. The fact that a redemption right is not described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section does not affect the determination of whether the right to redeem is more likely than not to occur. (4) Coordination of multiple redemption provisions. If the provisions of stock permit redemption at more than one time, the time and price at which redemption is most likely to occur must be determined based on all of the facts and circumstances as of the issue date. Any constructive distribution under paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be construed to result only with respect to the time and price identified in the preceding sentence. However, if redemption does not occur at that identified time, the amount of any additional premium payable on any later redemption date, to the extent not previously treated as distributed, is treated as a constructive distribution over the period from the missed call or put date to that later date, to the extent required under the principles of this paragraph (b). (5) Consistency. The issuer's determination as to whether there is a constructive distribution under this paragraph (b) is binding on all holders of the stock, other than a holder that explicitly discloses that its determination as to whether there is a constructive distribution under this paragraph (b) differs from that of the issuer. Unless otherwise prescribed by the Commissioner, the disclosure must be made on a statement attached to the holder's timely filed Federal income tax return for the taxable year that includes the date the holder acquired the stock. The issuer must provide the relevant information to the holder in a reasonable manner. For example, the issuer may provide the name or title and either the address or telephone number of a representative of the issuer who will make available to holders upon request the information required for holders to comply with this provision of this paragraph (b). (6) Effective date. This paragraph (b) (and Examples 4, 5, and 7 of paragraph (d) of this section) apply to stock issued on or after the date final regulations are filed with the Federal Register . For rules applicable to previously issued stock, see 26 CFR part 1 edition revised April 1, 1994, §1.305&hyph;5(b) and (d) Examples (4), (5), and (7). Although this paragraph (b) and the revised examples do not apply to stock issued before the date final regulations are filed with the Federal Register , the rules of sections 305(c)(1), (2), and (3) apply to stock described therein issued on or after October 10, 1990, except as provided in section 11322(b)(2) of the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;508). * * * * * (d)␣*␣*␣* Example 4 _(i) Facts. Corporation X is a domestic corporation with only common stock outstanding. In connection with its acquisition of Corporation T, X issues 100 shares of its 4% preferred stock to the shareholders of T, who are unrelated to X. The issue price of the preferred stock is $40 per share. Each share of preferred stock is convertible at the shareholder's election into three shares of X common stock. At the time the preferred stock is issued, the X common stock has a value of $10 per share. The preferred stock does not provide for its mandatory redemption or for redemption at the option of the holder. It is callable at the option of X at any time beginning three years from the date of issuance for $100 per share. There are no other arrangements that would affect X's decision to call the preferred stock. (ii) Analysis. The preferred stock is described in the safe harbor rule of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section because X and the former shareholders of T are unrelated, there are no arrangements that effectively require X to redeem the stock, and calling the stock for $100 per share would not reduce the yield of the preferred stock. Therefore, the $60 per share call premium is not treated as a constructive distribution to the shareholders of the preferred stock under paragraph (b) of this section.
