FR940207-1-00031 FR940207-1-00004 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Part 107 Small Business Investment Companies; Leverage AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: SBA proposes regulations that would exempt non-Leveraged Licensees from certain regulations primarily intended to safeguard SBA's interests as a creditor of, guarantor of, and/or investor in, Leveraged Licensees. DATES: Written comments on this proposed rule must be received no later than March 9, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be sent to: Robert D. Stillman, Associate Administrator for Investment, Small Business Administration, suite 6300; 409 3rd Street SW., Washington, DC 20416. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marvin D. Klapp, Acting Director, Office of Program Development; Telephone (202) 205&hyph;6515. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 408(d) of Public Law 102&hyph;366 (September 4, 1992) directs SBA to review and to revise those regulations intended to provide for the ``safety and soundness'' of Leveraged Licensees, with a view towards exempting non-Leveraged Licensees from compliance with inappropriate regulations. Accordingly, SBA has identified 7 areas of its regulations where some exemptions to certain provisions could be made. Three regulatory changes that would distinguish between Leveraged and non-Leveraged Licensees have already been proposed. See 58 FR 41882 at 41894 and 41896, August 5, 1993. In selecting those areas in which regulatory relief could be granted, SBA tried to balance two objectives: (1) To insure that SBIC investing promotes the ``flow of private equity capital and long-term loan funds which small-business concerns need for the sound financing of their business operations and for their growth, expansion, and modernization''; and (2) to reduce the financial risk to the Government that arises from its guarantees or purchases of Leverage. If an SBIC has no Leverage, the Government is obviously not at financial risk. Therefore, in many instances, relief from certain regulations can be provided. SBA therefore proposes to provide exemptions to non-Leveraged Licensees from compliance with certain sections that are discussed below. It should be clearly understood, however, that a Licensee that has availed itself of the exemptions proposed to be extended to non-Leveraged Licensees must bring itself into compliance with all applicable regulations before any Leverage may be extended; and no Leverage will be extended on the basis of a Licensee's promise to bring itself into compliance subsequently. Under ยง107.709, changes in the compensation of an SBIC's managers now require advance approval by SBA. SBA's underlying concern is the risk to its position as an investor in or (contingent) creditor of the Licensee as the result of dissipation of assets through the payment of compensation that may be excessive relative to the size of an SBIC. However, without Leverage funds at risk, SBA would not be as concerned about levels of compensation so long as required minimum capital levels were maintained. Accordingly, a non-Leveraged Licensee would not be required to obtain SBA's prior approval for its compensation arrangements; however, all compensation agreements and changes therein would be required to be reported for subsequent approval pursuant to ยง107.1004(a). Section 107.710 imposes limitations on the expenditures a Licensee may make for the maintenance and preservation of physical assets acquired in connection with the liquidation of a Portfolio asset, including payments of mortgage interest, principal, and taxes. SBA proposes to exempt non-Leveraged Licensees from the requirement of SBA approval for such expenditures, and to leave the determination to make such expenditures entirely to the discretion of the non-Leveraged Licensee's managers.
