FR941110-0-00066 FR941110-0-00016 Response: The Act provides that State expenses for the implementation and maintenance of an incentive program is an authorized Medicaid administrative expense: the Act does not permit the use of funds collected from civil money penalties for this purpose. Indeed, section 1919(h)(2)(A)(ii) of the Act provides that when the State uses the specified civil money penalty remedy, the State must apply funds collected through civil money penalties to the protection of the health or property of nursing home residents. Therefore, we reject this comment. Comment: Several commenters suggested that the regulation should go beyond the Act and specify certain topics and methods of training. •Some wanted mandated educational programs for assessment and care planning, resident rights and quality of care issues as well as those in subparts E and F of part 488. •Other commenters believe that the scope of the educational program should include a section on complaint investigation and resolution. •A few commenters asked that States work with the ombudsman program to develop and present training. •Another commenter believes that literature and/or video presentations would be more effective than State presentations. Response: Sections 1819(g)(1)(B) and 1919(g)(1)(B) of the Act require that States conduct educational programs for staff and residents of facilities regarding current regulations, procedures and policies of the long term care survey and certification process. We agree with the commenters that the proposed regulation unnecessarily restricts the scope of the mandated educational programs. We are revising it to permit the education programs to cover all aspects of the long term care survey process so that the States have the flexibility to structure the educational programs to the needs of the facilities. The methods to develop the programs (for example, consultation with the ombudsman program) and the methods of presentation are being left to the States. Comment: A few commenters suggested that these requirements be met, in part, by giving facility staff and residents access to HCFA and State agency surveyor training sessions. Response: We believe that this suggestion, if done at the participant's expense, may have merit. Traditionally, we have not had the ability within available resources to accommodate all providers or other interested parties wanting to attend training; our available resources are devoted, for the most part, to providing timely training for surveyors. However, being able to offer surveyor training universally to providers and interested others at their own cost, and if space allows, may help improve understanding and cooperation between surveyors and the other parties. We are, therefore, seriously considering what changes in policy and legislation will be necessary to allow this. Comment: One commenter suggested that a review of the State educational activities be made a part of HCFA's State agency evaluation program which would assure its implementation. Response: The HCFA State Agency Evaluation Program (SAEP) currently is undergoing substantial review and revision. We are unable, at this time, to assert that a review of State educational activities will become a part of the revised SAEP. Nonetheless, the HCFA regional offices will continue to have the responsibility to monitor and assess the States' educational activities. Comment: Several commenters suggested that the States be directed to include bans on all new admissions as a required remedy because a ban on only Medicaid admissions is discriminatory. A majority of those commenting suggested that a directed plan of correction also be included as a required remedy. Response: We do not have statutory authority to allow the States the option of banning all new admissions. States are free, however, to enact their own laws regarding facility licensure that may extend enforcement options beyond the reach of the Act.
