FR940110-1-00026 FR940110-1-00004 A. Legislation The enabling legislation for the Examinations Fee Account is the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989 (Pub. L. 100&hyph;459), a U.S.C. 1356(n), which provides that the receipts collected shall ``*␣*␣* remain available *␣*␣* to reimburse any appropriation the amount paid out of such appropriation for expenses in providing immigration adjudication and naturalization services and the collection, safeguarding and accounting for fees *␣*␣*''. The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;515), 8 U.S.C. 1356(m), provides further ``*␣*␣* that fees for providing adjudication and naturalization services may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of the full costs of providing all such services, including the costs of similar services provided without charge to asylum applicants or other immigrants. Such fees may also be set at a level that will recover any additional costs associated with the administration of the fees collected.'' The general authority to assess fees for services is found in the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1952 (Pub. L. 82&hyph;137) (IOAA), 31 U.S.C. 9701, frequently referred to as the ``user fee statute,'' which provides for Federal agencies to define special services provided to unique segments of the population and to charge fees for those services instead of supporting them through general tax revenues. The IOAA provides that ``*␣*␣* each service or thing of value provided by an agency *␣*␣* to a person *␣*␣* is to be self-sustaining to the extent possible.'' These charges, among other things, are to be based on ``*␣*␣* [t]he costs to the Government *␣*␣*.'' In 1986, proposed fee increases for adjudication services were challenged in the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia on the grounds that the Attorney General lacked authority to impose fees for the services in question and that, even if the fees were legally permissible, the specific fees under challenge were arbitrarily excessive. In Ayuda, Inc. v. Attorney General, 661 F. Supp. 33 (D.D.C., 1987), the District Court rejected these arguments: Accordingly, it appearing that the service fees were established through appropriate administrative procedures after adequate cost analysis and with opportunity for public participation, and that they are in all respects consistent with the statutes being implemented, summary judgment must be granted to the Attorney General and denied to plaintiffs. 661 F.Supp. at 36. In upholding the District Court decision, the Court of Appeals held that: In light of settled law, we are constrained to conclude that the INS fees at issue are for a ``service or thing of value'' which provides the recipients with a special benefit *␣*␣*. Since these procedures are triggered only at the instance of the individual who seeks, obviously, to benefit from them, this fee regime cannot in fairness be characterized as an INS effort to charge for activities that are carried on principally to benefit the public generally. The benefit is simply too direct and immediate to a specific, identifiable beneficiary to consider such services as constituting primarily a broad part of INS' overall mission to serve the public. Ayuda, Inc. v. Attorney General, 848 F.2d 1297, at 1301 (D.C. Cir. 1988). B. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Guidelines OMB circular A&hyph;25, User Charges, states that as a general policy ``a user charge *␣*␣* will be assessed against each identifiable recipient for special benefits derived from Federal activities beyond those received by the general public.'' The following discussion is provided: When a service (or privilege) provides special benefits to an identifiable recipient beyond those that accrue to the general public, a charge will be imposed (to recover the full cost to the Federal Government for providing the special benefit, or the market price). For example, a special benefit will be considered to accrue and a user charge will be imposed when a Government service: (a) Enables the beneficiary to obtain more immediate or substantial gains or values (which may or may not be measurable in monetary terms) than those that accrue to the general public (e.g., receiving a patent, insurance, or guarantee provision, or a license to carry on a specific activity or business or various kinds of public land use); or (b) Provides business stability or contributes to public confidence in the business activity of the beneficiary (e.g., insuring deposits in commercial banks); or (c) Is performed at the request of or for the convenience of the recipient, and is beyond the services regularly received by other members of the same industry or group or by the general public (e.g., receiving a passport, visa, airman's certificate, or a Custom's inspection after regular duty hours). Circular No. A&hyph;25, User Charges, Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, July 8, 1993, pp. 2&hyph;3. C. Department of Justice Guidelines The Department of Justice issued guidance on User Fee Programs in April 1993. The guidance states that as a general policy ``a charge shall be imposed to recover the full cost to the Federal Government of rendering a service that provides specific benefits to an identifiable recipient above and beyond those that accrue to the public at large.'' The following discussion is provided: Cost is a financial measurement of resources used in accomplishing a specified purpose, carrying out an activity, or completing a unit of work or a specific project *␣*␣*. Direct costs are those which are proximate and directly traceable to the unit of output for which the fee is charged. Indirect costs are those which are more distant, general in nature, and not directly traceable to the product or service produced. *␣*␣* [E]xisting legislation may require the inclusion of costs for selected activities not directly related to the unit of performance or product for which a fee is charged. Where this occurs, both the direct and indirect costs of such activities should be included in the cost computation. User Fee Programs, Department of Justice, Justice Management Division, April 1993, pp. 3 and 12. The policies and procedures followed in the development of the proposed fee schedules are consistent with this guidance.
