FR941004-2-00082 FR941004-2-00050 During the initial implementation of a certification program when there are not certified operators or operator supervisors available to certify the applicant's proficiency, the applicant's employer could be allowed to verify that the applicant has been continuously employed as either an operator or operator supervisor for a minimum period of time and that the applicant's job performance has been satisfactory. Further, the employer should verify that the hands-on experience was as an operator or operator supervisor for a boiler system equivalent to, or higher than, the class of boiler equipment for which certification is being sought. 5. Training Requirements The training requirements should be established for boiler operators to provide the operator with a basic understanding of the principles of fuel combustion and air pollution control and to identify good operating practices. The training requirements should included both classroom and site-specific ``hands-on'' training of the operator. The objectives of the training program are: to instruct operators in the basic principles of proper operation and maintenance of boilers and air pollution control systems; to help assure that the boiler is continuously operated in a manner which complies with State and Federal regulations; to enhance the operators appreciation for their role in minimizing air pollution; and to increase the operators awareness of regulatory requirements. 6. Pass Written Examination The final key element should be a requirement that the applicant demonstrate sufficient knowledge in specified areas by passing a written examination administered by the State or an approved certification organization. This element should also require a provision for a ``bank'' of questions to implement the written examination to assure that tests given at different times are not identical. The examination should be structured as a closed book, multiple choice, and written examination. The examinations for operators should differ from those for operator supervisor consistent with the differences in duties. The examination could be modular in design and given in parts. Candidates successfully passing the appropriate parts can be deemed to have completed the written testing requirements for a particular certification class. To successfully pass a test part, a candidate should correctly answer a minimum of 70 percent of the questions in that part. Questions should be related to: a. Water and Steam Circuit b. Fuel, Air and Gas Circuit c. Basic Combustion Principles d. Air Pollution Fundamentals e. Boiler equipment characteristics f. Normal Boiler Operation g. Automatic Control Systems h. Instrumentation i. Preventative Maintenance j. Safety k. Air Pollutants of Concern l. Environmental Regulations m. Continuous Emissions Monitoring n. Particulate Control o. NO X Control p. SO X Control q. Water Pollution and Control r. Solids Waste and Control 7. Issuance of Certification Each candidate who passes the written examination and whose proficiency has been verified should be issued a certificate valid for a specific time period (e.g., five years). Each certificate should contain the following minimum information: a. Type of certification; b. Certified individual's full name; c. Photograph of certified individual; d. Effective date and expiration date. e. Signature of a duly authorized designee. 8. Provision for Recertification
