FR940110-1-00018 FR940110-1-00001 §701.312 Long-term agreements. (a) The period of a long-term agreement shall be for not less than three (3) years nor more than ten (10) years. The COC and the parties to the agreement in consultation with the State forestry representative will mutually determine the scheduling of essential practices and practice cost-sharing over the period of the agreement. (b) The long-term agreement shall be based on a forest management plan for the land which shall be developed by the service forester. (c) The long-term agreement shall provide that the owner shall perform those measures in the forest management plan which are determined to be essential regardless of whether cost-share assistance is approved for such measures. (d) The level of cost-share assistance in effect for practices in all years of a long-term agreement shall be the level in effect for the beginning year of the agreement. The rate of cost-sharing for payment purposes for such practices will be based on the average cost of performing the practice at the time the practice is performed. (e) A long-term agreement may be canceled for failure to fully comply with the terms of the agreement if, after consulting with the service forester, the STC or COC determines that the seriousness of the irregularities warrant such action. If the agreement is canceled, the signors to the agreement are jointly and severally responsible for refunding all cost shares paid and will forfeit all rights to further payments under the agreement. In such a case, no other refund or forfeiture provisions of these regulations apply. (f) A long-term agreement may be revised in accordance with instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator where there is a change in status of the participants or the land under agreement. (g) An eligible person who acquires control of land under an approved agreement may elect to become a successor in interest under such agreement. (h) An agreement will be terminated with respect to land for which loss of control has occurred and where the person acquiring control of such land elects not to become a successor in interest under the agreement. If the loss of control is for reasons beyond the control of the signatories to the agreement, the COC will determine whether or not any cost-share assistance previously paid shall be refunded; however, in no event shall the refund be greater than would be required in cases where loss of control is voluntary. If the loss of control is voluntary on the part of the signatories, they will be jointly and severally responsible for refunding all cost shares paid and will forfeit all rights to further payments, with respect to the land for which control is lost. A refund will not be required for cost-share assistance where the COC or the STC determines, after consulting with the service forester, that failure to perform the remaining practices in the agreement will not impair the effectiveness of the practices which have been performed and that the completed practices will provide forestry benefits consistent with the cost-share assistance which have been paid. (i) An agreement may be terminated if, after considering the recommendation of the service forester, the STC or COC recommends that such action is in the public interest. §701.313 Restoration of practices. (a) Cost-share assistance may be authorized under FIP for the establishment or installation of the practices contained in this part. Cost-share assistance may not be authorized for repeating any of the practices in this part with the same owner on the same acreage, except as provided in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. (b) Cost-share assistance may be authorized for the replacement, enlargement, or restoration of practices for which such assistance has been allowed under the program only if all of the following conditions exist: (1) Replacement or restoration of the practice is needed to solve a conservation or environmental problem. (2) The failure of the original practice was not due to the lack of proper maintenance by the current operator. (3) The COC believes that the replacement or restoration of the practice merits consideration under the program to an equal extent with other practices cost-shared. (c) Cost-share assistance may be authorized for timber stand improvement measures carried out in repetitive steps where the stand treatment warrants such silvicultural practice in the judgment of the service forester. §701.314 FIP maximum cost-share assistance limitations. For each program year, the total amount which may be received by any person under this subpart shall not exceed $10,000 with respect to eligible owners (§701.302) in the United States or any commonwealth, territory, or possessions of the United States for approved practices performed under annual or long-term agreements. §701.315 Completion of practice. Cost-share assistance for the practices contained in this subpart is conditioned upon the performance of the practices according to all applicable specifications and program provisions. §701.316 Time of filing payment application. Cost-share assistance will be made only upon an application submitted to the county office by the prescribed time limit or any authorized extension. Any application for payment may be rejected if any information required of the applicant is not submitted to the county office within the applicable time limit. §§701.317&hyph;701.399 [Reserved] Signed at Washington, DC, on December 30, 1993. Bruce R. Weber, Acting Administrator, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;415 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;05&hyph;P
