FR941122-0-00021 FR941122-0-00005 (B) District directors are delegated the authority to grant or deny any application or petition submitted to the Service, except for matters delegated to asylum officers pursuant to part 208 and §253.1(f) of this chapter, or exclusively delegated to service center directors, to initiate any authorized proceeding in their respective districts, and to exercise the authorities under §§242.1(a), 242.2(a) and 242.7 of this chapter without regard to geographical limitations. District directors are delegated authority to conduct the proceeding provided for in §252.2 of this chapter. (C) Applications filed for special agricultural worker or legalization status pursuant to sections 210 and 245a of the Act, respectively, may be approved by the district director having jurisdiction of the office where a second interview is required by the service center, if the alien in the second interview can establish eligibility for approval. District directors may deny applications for special agricultural worker or legalization status at offices under their jurisdiction. (D) Officers in charge _( 1 ) General. Under the direction and supervision of the district director, officers in charge are delegated authority to control all activities conducted within their offices and to supervise all personnel assigned to their office. Officers in charge direct inspection activities at ports-of-entry and the authorization of extensions of nonimmigrant admission periods and of voluntary departure prior to the commencement of deportation hearings. The Officers in charge in the places enumerated in §212.1(i) of this chapter are delegated the authority to act on requests for waiver of visa and passport requirements under the provisions of section 212(d)(4)(A) of the Act. ( 2 ) The offices located in Oranjestaad, Aruba; Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Edmonton, Alberta, Canada; Freeport, Bahamas; Hamilton, Bermuda; Nassau, Bahamas; Shannon, Ireland; Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Victoria, British Columbia, Canada; Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada; Dublin, Ireland; and such other preinspection or preclearance sites as the Service may establish in the future, are delegated authority to perform the function of preinspection of passengers and crews on aircraft and surface vessels, as appropriate, which are departing directly to the United States mainland. ( 3 ) The Officer in charge of the office in Montreal, Canada, is authorized to perform preinspection of passengers and crew of aircraft departing directly to the United States mainland and to authorize or deny waivers of grounds of excludability under section 212 (h) and (i) of the Act; also, to approve or deny applications for permission to reapply for admission to the United States after deportation or removal, when filed in conjunction with an application for waiver of grounds of excludability under section 212 (h) or (i) of the Act. (iii) Chief patrol agents. Under the direction and supervision of a regional director, chief patrol agents are delegated authority to direct the Border Patrol activities of the Service within their respective sectors, including exercising the authority in section 242(b) of the Act to permit aliens to depart voluntarily from the United States prior to commencement of a hearing. (3) Director of International Affairs _(i) General. Under the direction and supervision of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Field Operations, the Director of International Affairs is delegated authority to direct and supervise the foreign office district directors, to maintain the integrity and efficiency of the Service's international operations, and to administer programs related to refugee, asylum, and parole benefits. The Director of International Affairs is also responsible for the direction and supervision of overseas preinspection at sites, if any, for which the Commissioner has specifically delegated inspection authority to the Office of International Affairs. The Director serves as the principal liaison with foreign governments and other agencies of the United States in overseas locations.
