FR940526-2-00094 FR940526-2-00063 One of the changes OPM requested this year was to separate the reporting of the summer and winter living-cost surveys. As noted earlier, this has been done. The purpose of this change was to allow OPM to adjust COLA where warranted in a more timely manner. Another change was to combine the St. Croix and St. Thomas, Virgin Island, data to form a single index for the U.S. Virgin Islands. This change was made to address concerns about the quantity of data, obtained in the Virgin Islands. Combining the two areas significantly increases the data base and improves price comparisons. For the 1993 summer surveys, OPM asked Runzheimer to change of its data collection procedures and data analyses relative to last year's surveys. Runzheimer also initiated other changes with OPM's approval. Some of these changes included: •Using a moving average approach to introduce new Federal employment weights; •Increasing the quantity of housing data obtained in certain areas_most notably parts of the Virgin Islands; •Making minor changes in pricing sources for certain items to refine the comparisons of D.C. and allowance area prices; •Taking into account the effects of the earthquake in Guam by ensuring that goods & services pricing_most notably fresh produce_was not abnormally skewed; •Taking into account the effects of Hurricane Iniki in Kauai by ensuring that prices_particularly housing costs_were not abnormally skewed; •Employing a new methodology for collecting and analyzing Virgin Island, Guam, and Puerto Rico automobile insurance rates; and •Employing a new methodology for determining automobile maintenance costs. In addition, to monitor, fine-tune, and maintain effective control of the data-gathering efforts in both the Pacific and Caribbean regions, two of Runzheimer's senior research staff traveled to these regions to visit retail outlets, Runzheimer research associates, housing data sources, and living communities. We discuss these and other adjustments in appropriate sections throughout this report. Report to OPM on Living Costs in Hawaii, Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and in the Washington, DC Area 1. Introduction 1.1␣Report Objectives This comprehensive report culminates data-gathering and research work undertaken in 1993 as required by Task 2 of contract OPM&hyph;90&hyph;0705 between the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and Runzheimer International. The report details the results of Runzheimer International's surveys of over 3,000 outlets to obtain more than 12,000 price quotes and the analyses of the data. This is the fourth report Runzheimer has produced for OPM under this contract. In 1990, in fulfillment of Task 1 of the contract, Runzheimer worked with OPM to design a model for estimating comparative living costs between the allowance areas and the Washington, D.C., area. Task 2 of the contract required that Runzheimer apply the model by conducting living-cost surveys, analyzing the results, and developing living-cost comparative indexes. On February 26, 1991, OPM published that model and the results of the first surveys conducted under the model in the Federal Register . On December 10, 1992, OPM published in the Federal Register the second report, which covered the summer 1991 and winter 1992 surveys. On August 30, 1993, OPM published in the Federal Register the next report that covered the summer 1992 and winter 1993 surveys. Unlike previous reports, this report provides only the results of the summer 1993 surveys. This change was made to allow OPM the opportunity to adjust COLA rates where warranted in a more timely manner. Results of the 1994 winter surveys (i.e., the Alaska surveys) will be presented in a separate report to be provided to OPM in mid-1994. The analyses in this report establish the comparative cost differences between the allowance areas listed below and the Washington, D.C., area. By law, Washington, D.C., is the base of ``reference'' area for the nonforeign-area COLA program. 1. City and County of Honolulu, Hawaii 2. Hawaii County, Hawaii 3. Kauai County, Hawaii 4. Maui County, Hawaii 5. Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) 6. Puerto Rico 7. U.S. Virgin Islands
