FR941104-1-00039 FR941104-1-00008 FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION 46 CFR Part 552 [Docket No. 94&hyph;07] Financial Reporting Requirements and Rate of Return Methodology in the Domestic Offshore Trades AGENCY: Federal Maritime Commission. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking; reply comments. SUMMARY: The Commission is seeking reply comments to its Notice of Proposed Rulemaking concerning financial reporting requirements and the rate of return methodology in the domestic offshore trades. The Commission has received seven comments on the proposed rule which have raised issues which require further comment. Comments are requested on, and are to be limited to, the calculation of the cost of capital, working capital, the selection of proxy groups, and the deletion of alternative methodologies. DATES: Reply comments due December 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments (original and fifteen copies) to: Joseph C. Polking, Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20573&hyph;0001, 202&hyph;523&hyph;5725. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard R. Speigel, Bureau of Trade Monitoring and Analysis, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20573&hyph;0001, 202&hyph;523&hyph;5845 C. Douglass Miller, Office of the General Counsel, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20573&hyph;0001, 202&hyph;523&hyph;5740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On April 7, 1994, the Federal Maritime Commission (``FMC'' or ``Commission'') published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (``NPR'') (59 FR 16592) which proposed to amend its regulations governing financial reporting requirements and rate of return methodology applicable to vessel-operating common carriers by water in the domestic offshore trades. Among other things, the proposed rule would change the method of determining the reasonableness of a carrier's return on rate base from the comparable earnings test to the weighted average cost of capital methodology. At the request of Matson Navigation Company, the Commission extended the comment period for interested parties to file until July 20, 1994 (59 FR 27002). Seven parties filed comments on the NPR. Commenters include: American President Lines (``APL''), Crowley Maritime Corporation (``Crowley''), Matson Navigation Company, Inc. (``Matson''), Puerto Rico Maritime Shipping Authority (``PRMSA''), United States Department of Transportation (``DOT''), Marsoft Incorporated (``Marsoft''), and the State of Hawaii (``Hawaii''). Based on its review of the comments, the Commission has determined that reply comments on four issues would be beneficial. In order that the Commission have the most complete information available to enable it to make an informed judgment in these matters, interested persons are invited to submit comments on the issues discussed below. Issue 1: Calculation of the Cost of Capital PRMSA addresses the issue of the calculation of the before-tax weighted average cost of capital (``BTWACC'') and its relationship to the projected rate of return on rate base. PRMSA states that the formula for the BTWACC contained in the proposed rule is correct. 1 PRMSA asserts, however, that since the projected rate of return in the proposed rule is computed on an after-tax basis_with return on rate base being computed by dividing net income plus interest expense by the trade rate base_the proposed before-tax weighted average cost of capital is being compared to the after-tax projected return on rate base. PRMSA suggests, therefore, that either the weighted average cost of capital should be changed to an after-tax basis so it can be compared to the after-tax projected return on trade rate base currently specified, or the BTWACC should be retained and the projected return on trade rate base should be changed to a before-tax basis. 1 The proposed rule states the before-tax weighted average cost of capital will be calculated using the following equation: BTWACC=(D/D+P+E)K d + ␣␣(P/D+P+E)K p (1/1^T)+ ␣␣(E/D+P+E)K e (1/1^T) where: K d is the regulated firm's cost of long-term debt capital; K p is the regulated firm's cost of preferred stock capital; K e is the regulated firm's cost of common stock equity capital; D is the value of the regulated firm's long-term debt outstanding; P is the value of the regulated firm's preferred stock outstanding; E is the value of the regulated firm's common-stock equity outstanding; T is the corporate income tax rate PRMSA's comments appear to have merit. Therefore, the Commission is proposing to retain the before-tax weighted average cost of capital contained in the proposed rule and change the calculation of the projected rate of return on rate base to a before-tax basis. Retention of the BTWACC seems appropriate because it is employed by a large majority of regulatory commissions. The before-tax weighted average cost of capital would be calculated as it is in the proposed rule. However, the projected rate of return on rate base stated in the proposed rule would be changed to: E:GRAPHICSEP04NO94.000 The Commission thus proposes to amend section 552.6(d)(2) to read: (2) Return on Rate Base. The return on rate base will be computed by dividing Trade net income plus interest expense plus provision for income taxes by Trade rate base. The Commission requests comments on this amendment to the proposed rule. Issue 2: Working Capital The proposed rule adopted Hawaii's suggestion in FMC Docket No. 91&hyph;51, Financial Reports of Common Carriers by Water in the Domestic Offshore Trades, that insurance expense be treated in the same manner as other operating expenses in calculating working capital, i.e., include that amount applicable to the duration of an average voyage. In its comments on this proposed rule, Hawaii suggests an additional modification of the calculation of working capital, namely, the exclusion of interest expense.
