FR940506-1-00032 FR940506-1-00011 9. Were there any injuries to the vehicle occupants, pedestrians, emergency personnel, or other individuals? What was the type and seriousness of the injury? 10. What type (steel, aluminum, fiberglass wrap, carbon fiber wrap, hoop wrap, full wrap, all composite, or other) was the fuel container? What were the dimensions of the container? What was the service pressure of the container? Who manufactured the container? How long had it been in service? To which design specification or standard were the tanks built? 11. Should any Federal standard include a labeling requirement to address the periodic reinspection of fuel systems on alternatively fueled vehicles? Should States establish guidelines to address the periodic reinspection or recertification of such fuel systems? Should these schedules be set at specified time or mileage intervals? After a vehicle is involved in an accident? 12. Should CNG heavy vehicles, which are not school buses, be crash tested for fuel system integrity in the same way as heavy school buses under FMVSS No. 303, i.e., a contoured barrier traveling at 48 kilometers per hour striking the test vehicle at any point and angle? If so, which types of CNG heavy vehicle should be included, i.e., transit bus, intercity bus, heavy truck, or other type? Are there other tests or guidelines which would be more appropriate to assure the fuel system integrity of such vehicles? If so, what are they? Venting Because of the size of these vehicles, there may be large enclosed areas in which natural gas could accumulate if there is a slow leak in the CNG fuel system. 13. Are there instances where gas accumulated? Did any of them result in explosions? 14. Should venting of the container away from possible areas of accumulation and potential ignition sources be required to address leakage accumulation? 15. What experimental or observed data are available regarding the dispersion behavior that results from a CNG fuel system leak? Will the gas rise or remain near the ground? If the gas remains near the ground, how long will it remain there? Leakage Detection and Warning If there is a leak in the fuel system, there would be little or no visible evidence of the gas accumulation. If persons nearby could not smell the gas, it could accumulate in an area near them without notice, which would increase the potential for an explosion. 16. Are there instances where CNG leaked out of a vehicle fuel system and caused a safety problem before the natural gas was detected? Describe how the situation occurred. 17. Should a leakage detection/warning system be required in vehicles with a GVWR of over 4536 kilograms to detect leakage of CNG as well as to warn persons nearby of the potential hazard? What type of system? Is it commercially available? What would be the cost? Would the leakage detection/warning system, including its power source, become a potential ignition sources when activated? Refueling NHTSA seeks information on potential safety hazards associated with the refueling of heavy CNG vehicles. 18. Are manufacturers or fleet operators aware of safety hazards or accidents that have occurred during refueling operations? If so, please provide information on them. 19. What items are included in current guidelines or procedures for CNG refueling, such as the need for grounding straps, operator protective clothing, etc.? 20. Is a small amount of CNG normally released during connecting/disconnecting of the refueling equipment? If so, how much? Are devices, such as excess flow valves, used in refueling equipment to prevent excess CNG leakage in the event of a refueling line rupture? To what extent are such devices used? 21. What standards or guidelines currently exist for refueling couplers and related equipment? Submission of Comments The agency invites written comments from all interested parties. It is requested that 10 copies of each written comment be submitted. No comment may exceed 15 pages in length. (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to a comment without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in a concise fashion. If a commenter wishes to submit specified information under a claim of confidentiality, three copies of the complete submission, including purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the street address given above and seven copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in the agency's confidential business information regulation, 49 CFR part 512. All comments received before the close of business on the comment closing date indicated above will be considered, and will be available for examination in the docket at the above address both before and after the closing date. To the extent possible, comments filed after the closing date will also be considered. NHTSA will continue to file relevant information as it becomes available in the docket after the closing date, and it is recommended that interested persons continue to examine the docket for new material. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the rules docket should enclose a self-addressed, stamped postcard in the envelope with their comments. Upon receiving the comments, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. Authority: 15 U.S.C. 1392, 1401, 1403, 1407, 1417; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.50 and 49 CFR 501.8. Issued on May 2, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10897 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M
