FR940419-1-00038 FR940419-1-00008 Ranched and captive-bred crocodile parts and products are exported from three establishments under an approved management program in the Northern Territory. A management program that would allow ranching operations in Western Australia is under development. One farm in Queensland exports products derived solely from captive-bred crocodiles. 3. Disease or predation. None known at this time. 4. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. The saltwater crocodile is recognized as a valuable resource in Australia, where laws and regulations are in place to prevent over- exploitation of these animals. Since the ban on hunting in 1972, saltwater crocodile populations have substantially increased in numbers. State wildlife laws govern the take, possession, and trade in saltwater crocodiles. Also, the Commonwealth Wildlife Protection (Regulation of Exports and Imports) Act of 1982, administered by the ANPWS, helps to protect wildlife that might otherwise be threatened by unregulated export. Under this Act, export of saltwater crocodiles, their parts and products requires an export permit. Permits may be issued only for scientific purposes, or for specimens derived from captive-bred animals, or animals taken under an approved management program. Maximum penalties for violations of the Act are a AUS$100,000 fine and/or 5 years imprisonment for individuals, and AUS$200,000 for corporations. The substantial increase in maximum penalties for attempting to illegally export saltwater crocodile skins from Australia (from $1,000 up to $200,000) is considered to be an effective deterrent. In addition to legislation and policies regulating take within Australia, export of saltwater crocodiles is regulated by CITES, to which Australia is a party. Regulation of take has been a factor in the continued improvement of Australia's saltwater crocodile populations in the wild. This significant improvement has prompted the Service to propose reclassification of the saltwater crocodile in Australia from endangered to threatened. 5. Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence. A comprehensive system of nature conservation reserves has been developed, so that approximately 40 million hectares of all habitats throughout Australia, or 5.5 percent of the total land surface, is reserved under different categories. Parks, reserves, and sanctuaries in Northern Australia provide a mosaic of areas in which crocodiles and their habitats are protected. Significant areas of crocodile habitat are contained in at least six parks or nature reserves. In addition, nearly 37 million hectares are protected under various state and national marine and estuarine protected area categories. The Cobourg Peninsula Marine National Park was declared in 1983 to protect, among other species, the saltwater crocodile. The Service has carefully assessed the best biological and commercial information with respect to past, present, and future threats faced by the species in issuing this proposed rule. Criteria for reclassification of a threatened or endangered species (50 CFR 424.11 (c) and (d)) are the same as for listing a species as endangered or threatened. The proposed action is to reclassify Australia's saltwater crocodile populations from endangered to threatened, based on continuing recovery of the species. A special rule amending 50 CFR 17.42 to allow for the importation of specimens into the United States without a threatened species permit is also proposed. This proposed rule is based on substantial evidence that Australia's populations of the saltwater crocodile have made a remarkable recovery and are no longer in imminent danger of extinction. Surveys conducted in the late 1980's indicated populations of at least 50,000. Populations are estimated to have increased three-fold between 1975 and 1987. The species is protected in the three jurisdictions in which it occurs and there are closely regulated crocodile farm operations. In light of increasing populations, Australia's strict regulation of harvest, and the requirement of a management program prior to approval of crocodile farm operations, several threats to the existence of the saltwater crocodile in Australia have been ameliorated. Therefore, the Service believes that reclassification to threatened best fits the current status of saltwater crocodile populations in Australia.
