FR940928-2-00107 FR940928-2-00067 Part B: The revision to the Units 1 and 3 reactor vessel water level safety limit and the Level 1 low reactor vessel water level setpoint do not reflect any change in plant equipment. The safety limit is being changed to reflect the actual analytical safety limit calculated by General Electric. The change in the Level 1 low reactor vessel water level setpoint is supported by a Unit 3 specific setpoint calculation that has been performed in accordance with the methodology endorsed by Regulatory Guide 1.105, Instrument Setpoints for Safety Related Systems. Therefore, the proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. Part C: The addition or correction of Unit 2 instrument identifiers is administrative in nature and does not reflect any modification to plant equipment. Therefore, the proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. Part D: The change in Unit 2 reactor high water level and RCIC instrumentation functional test descriptions reflects the equipment currently installed and the functional tests currently being performed. The changes in calibration frequencies are being made to reflect Unit 2 specific setpoint calculations. These calculations have been performed in accordance with the methodology endorsed by Regulatory Guide 1.105. There are no modifications to plant equipment or changes in instrument setpoints associated with these changes. Therefore, the proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. Part E: The changes in Units 1, 2, and 3 calibration frequency for the differential pressure instrumentation, which actuates the pressure suppression chamber-reactor building vacuum breakers, is being made to reflect current setpoint calculations. The specified minimum number of instrument channels per trip system, function, trip level setting, actions required, remarks, functional test, and instrument check reflect current operational requirements. The setpoint calculations have been performed in accordance with the methodology endorsed by Regulatory Guide 1.105. There are no modifications to plant equipment or changes in instrument setpoints associated with these changes. Therefore, the proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. Part F: The proposed correction of the capitalization of terms in order to conform with the current TS Definitions section is administrative in nature and does not reflect any modification to plant equipment. The correction of spelling and capitalization of other words on the same pages is also administrative in nature and does not reflect any modification to plant equipment. Therefore, the proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Athens Public Library, South Street, Athens, Alabama 35611. Attorney for licensee: General Counsel, Tennessee Valley Authority, 400 West Summit Hill Drive, ET 11H, Knoxville, Tennessee 37902. NRC Project Director: Frederick J. Hebdon. Tennessee Valley Authority, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;259, 50&hyph;260 and 50&hyph;296, Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant, Units 1, 2 and 3, Limestone County, Alabama Date of amendment request: March 31, 1994 (TS 339). Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment consists of five parts, which the licensee has designated ``A'' through ``E'' in the discussion of no significant hazards considerations, below. These five parts are: A. For the Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant (BFN) Units 1 and 3, improve operating flexibility by expanding the allowable operating domain. This expansion is accomplished by revising the equations for the flow-biased Average Power Range Monitor (APRM) flux scram trip setting and the APRM rod block trip setting. B. Revises the Rod Block Monitor (RBM) limiting conditions for operation (LCOs) to require two RBM channels to be operable if the plant is operating with low thermal margins. C. Miscellaneous editorial changes to the BFN Units 1, 2, and 3 technical specifications (TS). D. Revises the BFN Units 1, 2, and 3 TS to delete the specific value for the rated loop recirculation flow rate. E. Revises the BFN Units 1, 2, and 3 TS to relocate the specific equations for the APRM rod block and RBM upscale setpoint equations from the TS to the Core Operating Limits Report (COLR).
