FR940224-0-00025 FR940224-0-00002 (f) Foreign bank has the meaning given in 12 U.S.C. 3101(7). (g) Immediate family means the spouse of an individual, the individual's minor children, and any of the individual's children (including adults) residing in the individual's home. (h) Insider means an executive officer, director, or principal shareholder, and includes any related interest of such a person. (i) Lending limit. The lending limit for a member bank is an amount equal to the limit of loans to a single borrower established by section 5200 of the Revised Statutes, 2 12 U.S.C. 84. This amount is 15 percent of the bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus in the case of loans that are not fully secured, and an additional 10 percent of the bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus in the case of loans that are fully secured by readily marketable collateral having a market value, as determined by reliable and continuously available price quotations, at least equal to the amount of the loan. The lending limit also includes any higher amounts that are permitted by section 5200 of the Revised Statutes for the types of obligations listed therein as exceptions to the limit. A member bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus equals the sum of: 2 Where State law establishes a lending limit for a State member bank that is lower than the amount permitted in section 5200 of the Revised Statutes, the lending limit established by applicable State laws shall be the lending limit for the State member bank. (1) The ``total equity capital'' of the member bank reported on its most recent consolidated report of condition filed under 12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(3); (2) Any subordinated notes and debentures that comply with requirements of the appropriate Federal banking agency for addition to the member bank's capital structure and are reported on its most recent consolidated report of condition filed under 12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(3); and (3) Any valuation reserves created by charges to the member bank's income reported on its most recent consolidated report of condition filed under 12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(3). (j) Member bank means any banking institution that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, including any subsidiary of a member bank. The term does not include any foreign bank that maintains a branch in the United States, whether or not the branch is insured (within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 1813(s)) and regardless of the operation of 12 U.S.C. 1813(h) and 12 U.S.C. 1828(j)(3)(B). (k) Pay an overdraft on an account means to pay an amount upon the order of an account holder in excess of funds on deposit in the account. (l) Person means an individual or a company. (m)(1) Principal shareholder means a person (other than an insured bank) that directly or indirectly, or acting through or in concert with one or more persons, owns, controls, or has the power to vote more than 10 percent of any class of voting securities of a member bank or company. Shares owned or controlled by a member of an individual's immediate family are considered to be held by the individual. (2) A principal shareholder of a member bank does not include a company of which a member bank is a subsidiary. (n) Related interest of a person means: (1) A company that is controlled by that person; or (2) A political or campaign committee that is controlled by that person or the funds or services of which will benefit that person. (o) Subsidiary has the meaning given in 12 U.S.C. 1841(d), but does not include a subsidiary of a member bank. ยง215.3 Extension of credit. (a) An extension of credit is a making or renewal of any loan, a granting of a line of credit, or an extending of credit in any manner whatsoever, and includes: (1) A purchase under repurchase agreement of securities, other assets, or obligations; (2) An advance by means of an overdraft, cash item, or otherwise; (3) Issuance of a standby letter of credit (or other similar arrangement regardless of name or description) or an ineligible acceptance, as those terms are defined in ยง208.8(d) of this chapter;
