FR940617-2-00243 FR940617-2-00119 Section 5. Prohibition of Sales During Emergencies or Dates and Times Established by the Tribal Council The Tribal Council Head Chief, by authority of Tribal Council Resolution, may on an emergency basis and for a period of time not to exceed five (5) business days, by written order, act, directive or notice, prohibit the sale of liquor until such emergency order can be considered by the Tribal Council which may in its discretion, terminate or extend such order for any length of time it deems necessary, or may issue emergency rules, regulations directions or orders concerning the sale of liquor which will be valid during the stated emergency period. The Tribal Council may likewise issue orders prohibiting or limiting the sale of liquor for any period not to exceed seventy-two (72) consecutive hours. Section 6. Sovereign Immunity Preserved Nothing in this Ordinance is intended nor shall be construed as a waiver of the sovereign immunity of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe of the State of New York. No officer, manager or employee of an enterprise of the Tribe shall be authorized nor shall attempt to waive the sovereign immunity of the Tribe. Section 7. Penalty Any person or entity purchasing, possessing, selling, bartering, or otherwise trafficking in liquor on the Reservation is in violation of this ordinance or any Rule or Regulation adopted pursuant to this ordinance and shall be subject to a fine or forfeiture, as applicable, of not more than Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000.00) and may be barred from admission to the Reservation through Due Process of law. In addition, persons or entities subject to the full jurisdiction of the Tribe may be subject to such other appropriate actions as the Tribal Council may determine. All contraband merchandise shall be confiscated by the Tribe and disposed of as directed by the Tribal Council. Section 8. Severability If any clause, part or section of this Ordinance shall be adjudged invalid, such judgement shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of the ordinance but shall be confined in its operation to the clause, part or section directly involved in controversy in which such judgement was rendered. Section 9. Disclaimer Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to authorize or require the criminal trial and punishment of non-Indians by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe of the State of New York except to the extent allowed by an applicable present or future Act of Congress or any applicable laws. Section 10. Regulations The Tribal Council shall have the exclusive authority to adopt and enforce Rules and Regulations to implement the sale, transportation or introduction of liquor on the Reservation and to further the purposes of this ordinance. Such Rules and Regulations shall have the force of law upon promulgation by Resolution. Section 11. Enforcement This Ordinance shall be enforced by the Tribal Council, or any other Agency vested with such enforcement authority by resolution of the Tribal Council. Section 12. Effective Date This ordinance shall be effective upon the date that the Secretary of the Interior certifies this ordinance and it is published in the Federal Register . Section 13. Duration The duration of this Ordinance shall be perpetual. Dated: June 8, 1994. Ada E. Deer, Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14752 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;02&hyph;M
