FR940825-1-00138 FR940825-1-00009 §49.5 Tribal requests for inapplicability of additional Clean Air Act provisions. Any Tribe may request that the Administrator specify additional provisions of the Clean Air Act for which it would be inappropriate to treat Tribes in the same manner as States. Such request should clearly identify the provisions at issue and should be accompanied with an explanation why it is inappropriate to treat Tribes in the same manner as States with respect to such provisions. §49.6 Tribal eligibility requirements. Sections 301(d)(2) and 302(r), 42 U.S.C. 7601(d)(2) and 7602(r), authorize the Administrator to treat an Indian Tribe in the same manner as a State for the Clean Air Act provisions identified in §49.3 if the Indian Tribe meets the following criteria: (a) The applicant is an Indian Tribe recognized by the Secretary of the Interior, (b) The Indian Tribe has a governing body carrying out substantial governmental duties and functions, (c) The functions to be exercised by the Indian Tribe pertain to the management and protection of air resources within the exterior boundaries of the reservation or other areas within the Tribe's jurisdiction, and (d) The Indian Tribe is reasonably expected to be capable, in the EPA Regional Administrator's judgment, of carrying out the functions to be exercised in a manner consistent with the terms and purposes of the Clean Air Act and all applicable regulations. §49.7 Request by an Indian Tribe for eligibility determination and Clean Air Act program approval. (a) An Indian Tribe may apply to the EPA Regional Administrator for a determination that it meets the eligibility requirements of §49.6 for Clean Air Act program authorization. The application shall concisely describe how the Indian Tribe will meet each of the requirements of §49.6 and should include the following information: (1) A statement that the applicant is an Indian Tribe recognized by the Secretary of the Interior. (2) A descriptive statement demonstrating that the applicant is currently carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area. This statement should: (i) Describe the form of the Tribal government; (ii) Describe the types of government functions currently performed by the Tribal governing body such as, but not limited to, the exercise of police powers affecting (or relating to) the health, safety, and welfare of the affected population; taxation; and the exercise of the power of eminent domain; and (iii) Identify the source of the Tribal government's authority to carry out the governmental functions currently being performed. (3) A descriptive statement of the Indian Tribe's authority to regulate air quality. For applications covering areas within the exterior boundaries of the applicant's Reservation the statement must identify with clarity and precision the exterior boundaries of the reservation including, for example, a map and a legal description of the area. For Tribal applications covering areas outside the boundaries of the applicant's Reservation the statement should include: (i) A map or legal description of the area over which the application asserts authority. (ii) A statement by the applicant's legal counsel (or equivalent official) which describes the basis for the Tribe's assertion of authority (including the nature or subject matter of the asserted regulatory authority) which may include a copy of documents such as Tribal constitutions, by-laws, charters, executive orders, codes, ordinances, and/or resolutions which support the Tribe's assertion of authority. (4) A narrative statement describing the capability of the applicant to effectively administer any Clean Air Act program for which the Tribe is seeking approval. The narrative statement must demonstrate the applicant's capability consistent with the applicable provisions of the Clean Air Act and implementing regulations and, if requested, may include: (i) A description of the Indian Tribe's previous management experience which may include the administration of programs and services authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450, et seq. ), the Indian Mineral Development Act (25 U.S.C. 2101, et seq. ), or the Indian Sanitation Facility Construction Activity Act (42 U.S.C. 2004a); (ii) A list of existing environmental or public health programs administered by the Tribal governing body and a copy of related Tribal laws, policies, and regulations; (iii) A description of the entity (or entities) which exercise the executive, legislative, and judicial functions of the Tribal government;
