FR941006-0-00011 FR941006-0-00004 The proposed formula retained this component with some modification. The principle of stability was maintained to help assure that each State agency would receive enough funds to support its current participation level. However, the proposed rule deleted the provision allowing a State agency the option to retain 50 percent of funds it returns before July 16 of any given year as a part of its stability grant the next fiscal year. The majority of commenters addressing this issue opposed the provision and stated that the current 50 percent recovery credit should be maintained. The commenters indicated that eliminating the credit would be a disincentive for State agencies to return funds, thereby delaying the reallocation of unspent funds. Several commenters suggested maintaining the 50 percent credit for one year only. A few commenters were strongly in support of the provision to delete the 50 percent recovery credit. The 50 percent credit was originally intended as an incentive for a State agency to return food funds that it could not spend, thereby making those funds available for reallocation to State agencies that needed additional funds. However, almost all State agencies which have elected to return funds under this provision have been those which were in danger of failing to spend at least 95 percent of their allocated food funds. Failure to achieve this expenditure level results in a specific decrease in the amount of food funds in the subsequent fiscal year. In these instances, State agencies simply returned the amount of funds necessary to ensure expenditures of at least 95 percent of their adjusted food grants. The Department no longer believes restoration of 50 percent of returned funds to State agencies in the next year is prudent. The restoration of these funds makes it possible for a State agency already receiving its fair share funding to retain funds it does not need. In addition, the credit effectively increases stability grants in the subsequent year by 150 percent of the amount of funds returned, since the State agencies returning funds receive a 50 percent credit in the subsequent year's stability grant, while the State agencies to which the returned funds are reallocated have their subsequent year's stability grants increased by the full amount of the reallocation. If there are increases in appropriation levels for the subsequent year, this additional liability can be funded. However, if funds in the subsequent year are not adequate to meet all stability grants, all State agencies share in a grant decrease to accommodate the 50 percent credit. Accordingly, to ensure equity, the 50 percent recovery credit is deleted in this rule. 3. Section 246.16 (c)(3)(i)(A) Inflation adjustment. The current food funding formula uses a calculation referred to as the ``targeted inflation factor''. It was designed to provide an inflation adjustment proportionate to a State agency's service to the highest priority participants. Under this process, the full inflation increase is adjusted according to each State agency's percentage of participants in the top three priority level categories (Priority I-III women, infants and children at nutritional or medical risk). For instance, if 75 percent of a State agency's participation was in the Priority I to III participation categories, and the full inflation rate was 4 percent, that State agency would receive a targeted inflation rate of 3 percent applied against its prior year grant to determine its stability grant. An exception is made for Indian State agencies which receive full inflation. The proposed rule took a more straight-forward approach by providing all State agencies with a full inflationary increase as long as funds are adequate to do so. If, however, the appropriation for any given year is insufficient to support prior year grant levels plus full inflation, the proposed funding formula would reduce State agency grants to allow for funds allocation within available funding. Those State agencies with under fair share allocations would receive first priority for any available inflationary increases, and State agencies at or above their fair share allocation for that fiscal year would receive second priority. The proposal sought to assure continued progress in increasing the grants of States that are under their fair share. All of the commenters addressing this issue were opposed to this provision. The consensus was that if funds were insufficient to provide full inflationary increases, then all State agencies should take a prorata reduction for that fiscal year. The commenters were opposed to the two-tier concept and stated that small reductions in all State agency grants would be less disruptive to WIC operations than large cuts to a few State agencies. The Department is persuaded by the concerns raised by commenters on this aspect of the proposed rule. Therefore, Section 246.6 (c)(3)(ii) in this final rule provides that in the event that funds are insufficient to support prior year grant levels plus full inflation, all state agencies would take a prorata reduction for that fiscal year. 4. Section 246.16 (c)(3)(i)(B) Migrant set-aside. Section 17(g)(4) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(g)(4)) provides that not less than␣␣ 9/10 of one percent of the funds appropriated for the WIC Program be available first for services to migrant women, infants and children. The current regulations stipulated that the full 9/10 of one percent set-aside is to be subtracted from all States' stability grants and then added to stability grants of States that report serving migrants. Because these adjustments for the migrant set-aside become part of the base grant of stability funds for the next fiscal year, FNS found that stability grants were skewed over time, directly causing some State agencies to receive more than their fair share of funds while preventing other States from receiving their fair share. This distorting effect becomes even larger as over-all funding increases.
