FR941102-0-00026 FR941102-0-00004 (b) Any registration statement or amendment filed pursuant to this part must comply with the requirements of Commission Regulation C (17 CFR part 230, Regulation C_Registration), except to the extent those requirements conflict with specific requirements of this part. (c) In addition to the information expressly required to be included in the registration statement by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the registration statement must include any additional material information that is necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. (d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the registration statement for securities issued by a bank that is not in compliance with the regulatory capital requirements set forth in part 3 of this chapter must be on the Form S&hyph;1 (17 CFR part 239) registration statement under the Securities Act. §16.16 Effectiveness. (a) Registration statements and amendments filed with the OCC pursuant to this part will become effective in accordance with sections 8(a) and (c) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77h(a) and (c)) and Commission Regulation C (17 CFR part 230, Regulation C_Registration). (b) The OCC will deem registration statements and amendments that become effective pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to be declared effective. If the OCC deems a registration statement to be declared effective, the OCC will also deem the prospectus that was filed as a part of that registration statement to be declared effective. §16.17 Filing requirements and inspection of documents. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all registration statements, offering documents, amendments, notices, or other documents must be filed with the Securities, Investments, and Fiduciary Practices Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street, SW, Washington, DC 20219. (b) All registration statements, offering documents, amendments, notices, or other documents relating to a bank in organization must be filed with the appropriate District office of the OCC. (c) Where this part refers to a section of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act or a Commission rule that requires the filing of a notice or other document with the Commission, that notice or other document must be filed with the OCC. (d) Unless otherwise requested by the OCC, any filing under this part must include four copies of any document filed. Material may be filed by delivery to the OCC through use of the mails or otherwise. The date on which documents are actually received by the OCC will be the date of filing of those documents, if the person filing the documents has complied with all requirements regarding the filing, including the submission of any fee required under §16.33 of this part. (e) Any filing of amendments or revisions must include at least four copies, two of which are marked to indicate clearly and precisely, by underlining or in some other appropriate manner, the changes made. (f) The OCC will make available for public inspection copies of the registration statements, offering documents, amendments, exhibits, notices or reports filed pursuant to this part at the address identified in §4.17(b) of this chapter. §16.18 Use of prospectus. (a) No person shall use a prospectus or amendment declared effective by the OCC more than nine months after the effective date unless the information contained in the prospectus or amendment is as of a date not more than 16 months prior to the date of use. (b) If any event arises, or change in fact occurs, after the effective date and that event or change in fact, individually or in the aggregate, results in the prospectus containing any untrue statement of material fact, or omitting to state a material fact necessary in order to make statements made in the prospectus not misleading under the circumstances, then no person shall use the prospectus that has been declared effective under this part until an amendment reflecting the event or change has been filed with and declared effective by the OCC.
