FR941027-2-00111 FR941027-2-00066 [Investment Company Act Release No. 20647; International Series Release No. 734/812&hyph;9242] The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.; Notice of Application October 21, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``Act''). APPLICANT: The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. (``Chase''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Exemption requested under section 6(c) from the provisions section 17(f) of the Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION. Chase seeks an order to enable it to maintain foreign securities and other assets of United States registered investment companies for which Chase serves as custodian or subcustodian in the custody of The Chase Manhattan Bank (M) Berhad (``Chase-Malaysia''). FILING DATE: The application was filed on September 22, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving Applicant with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on November 14, 1994, and should be accompanied by Proof of service on Applicant, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reasons for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request such notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicant, c/o Daniel L. Goelzer, Esq., Baker & McKenzie, 815 Connecticut Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20006. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: H.R. Hallock, Jr., at (202) 942&hyph;0564 or Barry D. Miller, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations and Legal Analysis 1. Chase requests exemptive relief for itself, any management investment company registered under the Act, other than an investment company registered under section 7(d) of the Act (a ``U.S. Investment Company''), and any custodian for a U.S. Investment Company from section 17(f) of the Act. The requested exemption would let Chase, such U.S. Investment Company and such custodian to maintain foreign securities, cash, and cash equivalents (collectively, ``Assets'') in the custody of Chase-Malaysia, an indirect subsidiary of Chase located in Malaysia. For purposes of the application, the term ``foreign securities'' includes (a) securities issued and sold primarily outside the United States by a foreign government, a national of any foreign country, or a corporation or other organization incorporated or organized under the laws of any foreign country, and (b) securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of the United States or by any state or any political subdivision thereof or by any agency thereof by any entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof which have been issued and sold primarily outside the United States. 2. Section 17(f) of the Act requires every registered management investment company to place and maintain its securities and similar investments in the custody of certain enumerated entities. Rules 17f&hyph;5 under the Act expands the group of entities located outside the United States that are permitted to serve as custodians for the Assets of registered management investment companies. Rule 17f&hyph;5 defines the term ``Eligible Foreign Custodian'' to include a majority-owned direct or indirect subsidiary of a qualified U.S. bank or bank-holding company that is incorporated or organized under the laws of a country other than the United States and that has shareholders' equity in excess of $100,000,000 (U.S. $ equivalent or U.S. $) as of the close of its most recently completed fiscal year. The rule defines the term ``Qualified U.S. Bank'' to include a banking institution organized under the laws of the United States that has an aggregate capital, surplus and undivided profit of not less than $500,000. 3. Chase is a national banking association and is regulated as such by the Comptroller of the Currency under the National Bank Act. At December 31, 1993, Chase had shareholders' equity in excess of $6.4 billion. Thus, Chase is a ``Qualified U.S. Bank'' under the requirements of Rule 17f&hyph;5, since it is a banking institution organized under the laws of the United States, and it has aggregate capital, surplus and undivided profit substantially in excess of the $500,000 minimum required by the rule. 4. Chase is a subsidiary of The Chase Manhattan Corporation, a Delaware company that provides financial services throughout the world. Through its Global Securities Services division (``GSS''), Chase provides custody and related services to global institutional investors, including U.S. mutual funds. GSS currently has over $1,300 trillion in assets under custody at various locations throughout the world, including its branches and subsidiaries in approximately 50 countries. 5. Chase established a branch in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in 1964, and currently offers custody services in Malaysia through that branch. However, under the Malaysian Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1989, Chase must now convert its branch to a locally incorporated entity. To comply with Malaysian law, Chase proposes to transfer all the activities of the branch, as well as its personnel, to Chase-Malaysia. 6. Chase-Malaysia will be wholly-owned by Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of Chase. Chase-Malaysia will assume the assets, liabilities, and business of the Chase Kuala Lumpur branch and will be subject to the supervision of Bank Negara Malayasia (the central bank of Malaysia). Chase-Malaysia will offer the same services as the former Chase Kuala Lumpur branch, and will become subject to the same capital and reporting requirements as other domestic banks in Malaysia. 7. Chase-Malaysia will satisfy the requirements of rule 17f&hyph;5 insofar as it will be a majority-owned indirect subsidiary of Chase and will be incorporated and organized under the laws of Malaysia. Chase-Malaysia will not, however, meet the $100 million minimum shareholder's equity requirement of rule 17f&hyph;5. Accordingly, Chase-Malaysia will not qualify as an ``Eligible Foreign Custodian'' under the rule and, absent exemptive relief, could not serve as custodian for the Assets of U.S. Investment Companies. 8. Where custody services are required in Malaysia, Chase will hold the Assets of U.S. Investment Companies as custodian or subcustodian, and will deposit (or cause or permit the deposit of) the Assets with Chase-Malaysia in accordance with the arrangement described in the conditions below. Chase-Malaysia will be well-qualified to provide custody and subcustody services to Chase, U.S. Investment Companies, and custodians for U.S. Investment Companies, since Chase-Malaysia will be the successor to the business of Chase's Kuala Lumpur branch, which is experienced in providing custody services. Under the proposed foreign custody arrangements, the protection affforded the Assets of U.S. Investment Companies held by Chase-Malaysia would not be diminished from the protection afforded by rule 17f&hyph;5.
