FR940325-2-00084 FR940325-2-00046 For purposes of this announcement, all applicants will use SF&hyph;424, SF&hyph;424A, and SF&hyph;424B. Instructions for completing the SF 424, SF&hyph;424A, and SF&hyph;424B are found in Attachments A, B, and C and Part F. Part F contains instructions for the project narrative. The project narrative will be submitted on plain bond paper along with the SF&hyph;424 and related forms. Attachment I provides a checklist to aid applicants in preparing a complete application package for OCS. 2. Application Submission Refer to the section entitled ``Closing Date'' at the beginning of this Program Announcement for the last day on which applications should be submitted. Applications may be mailed to: Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 6th Floor OFM/DDG, OCS&hyph;94&hyph;04, 370 L'Enfant Promenade SW., Washington, DC 20447. Hand-delivered applications are accepted during normal working hours of 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays, on or prior to the established closing date at: Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, OCS&hyph;94&hyph;04, Sixth Floor, 901 D Street SW., Washington, DC 20447. An application shall be considered as meeting the announced deadline if it is either: 1. Received on or before the deadline date at a place specified in the Program Announcement, or 2. Sent on or before the deadline date and received by the granting agency in time for them to be considered during the competitive review and evaluation process. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or the U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) Applications which do not meet one of these criteria are considered late applications. The ACF Division of Discretionary Grants will notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered in this competition. The ACF may extend the deadline for all applicants because of acts of God such as floods, hurricanes, etc. or when there is a disruption of the mails. However, if the ACF does not extend the deadline for all applicants, it may not waive or extend the deadline for any applicant. Applications once submitted are considered final and no additional materials will be accepted. One signed original application and two copies should be submitted. 3. Intergovernmental Review This program is covered under Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs'' and 45 CFR Part 100, ``Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health and Human Services Programs and Activities.'' Under the Order, States may design their own processes for reviewing and commenting on proposed Federal assistance under covered programs. All States and Territories except Alabama, Alaska, Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Washington, American Samoa and Palau have elected to participate in the Executive Order process and have established Single Points of Contact (SPOCs). Applicants from these seventeen jurisdictions need take no action regarding E.O. 12372. Applicants for projects to be administered by Federally-recognized Indian Tribes are also exempt from the requirements of E.O. 12372. Otherwise, applicants should contact their SPOCs as soon as possible to alert them of the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions, so that the program office can obtain and review SPOC comments as part of the award process. It is imperative that the applicant submit all required materials, if any, to the SPOC and indicate the date of this submittal (or the date of contact if no submittal is required) on the Standard Form 424A, item 16a. Under 45 CFR 100.8(a)(2), a SPOC has 60 days from the application deadline date to comment on proposed new awards. These comments are reviewed as a part of the award process. Failure to notify the SPOC can result in a delay in grant award. SPOCs are encouraged to eliminate the submission of routine endorsements as official recommendations. Additionally, SPOCs are requested to clearly differentiate between mere advisory comments and those official State process recommendations which they intend to trigger the ``accommodate or explain'' rule under 45 CFR 100.10.
