FR940727-0-00153 FR940727-0-00028 (b) Tribal organizations which are eligible under Title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act may apply on behalf of any Indian Tribe, band, group, nation, or Alaskan native village eligible under that act for funds under this part when one or more of these entities have authorized the Tribal organization to do so through concurring resolutions. Such resolutions must accompany the application for funding. Eligible Tribal organizations under Title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act will be determined by the Bureau of Indian Affairs. (c) To apply for funding in a given fiscal year, an applicant must be eligible as an Indian Tribe or Alaskan native village, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, or as a Tribal organization, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, by the application submission date. A list of eligible applicants is maintained by each ONAP field office. §953.6 Technical assistance. On an annual basis, each field office will provide technical assistance to eligible applicants for these purposes: (a) To provide eligible applicants with information on how to apply for funds and how grants will be selected and awarded; and (b) To inform eligible applicants of changes in the program. §953.7 Waivers. The Secretary may waive any requirement of this part not required by law whenever it is determined that undue hardship will result from applying the requirement, and where application of the requirement would adversely affect the purposes of the Act. Subpart B_Allocation of Funds §953.100 General. (a) Types of grants . Two types of grants are available under the Indian CDBG Program. (1) Single purpose grants provide funds for one or more single purpose projects consisting of an activity or set of activities designed to meet a specific community development need. This type of grant is awarded through competition with other single purpose projects. (2) Imminent threat grants alleviate an imminent threat to public health or safety that requires immediate resolution. This type of grant is awarded only after a field office determines that such conditions exist and if funds are available for such grants. (b) Size of grants _(1) Ceilings . Each field office may recommend grant ceilings for single purpose grant applications. Field offices have the option of recommending different ceilings for different size tribes/villages (e.g. tribes 5,000+ will have one ceiling and tribes with less than 5,000 will have a smaller ceiling.) Single purpose grant ceilings for each field office shall be established in the NOFA. (2) Individual grant amounts . In determining appropriate grant amounts to be awarded, the field office may take into account the size of the applicant, the level of demand, the scale of the activity proposed relative to need and operational capacity, the number of persons to be served, the amount of funds required to achieve project objectives and the administrative capacity of the applicant to complete the activities in a timely manner. §953.101 Field Office allocation of funds. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, funds will be allocated to the field offices responsible for the program on the following basis: (1) Each field office will be allocated $1,000,000 as a base amount, to which will be added a formula share of the balance of the Indian CDBG Program funds, as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (2) The amount remaining after the base amount is allocated will be allocated to each field office based on the most recent data available from reliable sources referable to the same point or period in time, as follows: (i) Forty percent (40%) of the funds will be allocated based upon each field office's share of the total eligible Indian population; (ii) Forty percent (40%) of the funds will be allocated based upon each field office's share of the total extent of poverty among the eligible Indian population; and (iii) Twenty percent (20%) of the funds will be allocated based upon each field office's share of the total extent of overcrowded housing among the eligible Indian population. (b) If funds are set aside by statute for a specific purpose in any fiscal year, the formula in paragraph (a) of this section will apply unless otherwise specified in the law, or unless it is determined that the formula is inappropriate to accomplish the purpose, in which case the Secretary may establish other criteria to determine an allocation formula for distributing funds to the field offices. (c) Data used for the allocation of funds will be based upon the Indian population of those Tribes and villages that are determined to be eligible ninety (90) days before the beginning of each fiscal year. §953.102 Recaptures. (a) After the rating and ranking process is completed, use of funds that the field office obtains from recapture of obligated funds from grantees that fail to meet statutory or regulatory requirements, or return of unneeded funds, will be determined by the Assistant Secretary on a case-by-case basis. The funds may be used to fund the highest ranking unfunded project, an imminent threat, or other uses as determined by the Assistant Secretary. (b) Undistributed funds (funds that are unobligated at the conclusion of the rating and ranking process) will be treated the same as recaptured funds. (c) Recaptured and undistributed funds will remain with the field office that they came from unless the Assistant Secretary determines there is an overriding reason to redistribute the funds outside of the field office's jurisdiction. Subpart C_Eligible Activities §953.200 General. The eligibility requirements of part 570, subpart C of this title_Eligible Activities_apply to grants under this part, except for those provisions which are specifically stated as applying only to the Entitlement Cities or Small Cities_HUD administered programs, and with the modifications stated in this subpart. §953.201 Primary and national objectives. (a) Not less than 70 percent of the funds of each single purpose grant must be used for activities that benefit low- and moderate-income persons under the criteria set forth in §570.208(a) of this title. In determining the percentage of funds used for such activities, the provisions of §570.200(a)(3)(i), (iv), and (v) of this title shall apply. The requirements of this paragraph (a) do not apply to imminent threat grants funded under Subpart E of this part. (b) In addition to the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, each activity must meet one of the national objectives pursuant to the criteria set forth in §570.208 of this title. §953.202 Nonprofit organizations. Tribal-based nonprofit organizations replace neighborhood-based nonprofit organizations under §570.204(c)(1) of this title. A Tribal-based nonprofit organization is an association or corporation duly organized to promote and undertake community development activities on a not-for-profit basis within an identified service area. §953.203 Administrative costs.
