FR940719-1-00091 FR940719-1-00015 16. Section 75.334 is amended by revising paragraph (e) to read as follows: §75.334 Worked-out areas and areas where pillars are being recovered. * * * * * (e) Each mining system shall be designed so that each worked-out area can be sealed. The approved ventilation plan shall specify the location and the sequence of construction of proposed seals. * * * * * 17. The Agency is asking for comments on paragraph (f) of §75.334 which is identical to the text published in the Federal Register on May 15, 1992 (57 FR 20919). This paragraph is being reproposed and republished for the convenience of the readers to read as follows: §75.334 Worked-out areas and areas where pillars are being recovered. * * * * * (f) In place of the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, for mines with a demonstrated history of spontaneous combustion, or that are located in a coal seam determined to be susceptible to spontaneous combustion, the approved ventilation plan shall specify the following: (1) Measures to detect methane, carbon monoxide, and oxygen concentrations during and after pillar recovery, and in worked-out areas where no pillars have been recovered, to determine if the areas must be ventilated or sealed. (2) Actions that will be taken to protect miners from the hazards of spontaneous combustion. (3) If a bleeder system will not be used, the methods that will be used to control spontaneous combustion, accumulations of methane-air mixtures, and other gases, dusts, and fumes in the worked-out area. * * * * * 18. Section 75.340 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §75.340 Underground electrical installations. (a) Underground transformer stations, battery charging stations, substations, rectifiers, and water pumps shall be located in noncombustible structures or areas or be equipped with a fire suppression system meeting the requirements of §75.1107&hyph;3 through §75.1107&hyph;16. (1) When a noncombustible structure or area is used, these installations shall be_ (i) Ventilated with intake air that is coursed into a return air course or to the surface and that is not used to ventilate working places; (ii) Ventilated with intake air that is monitored for carbon monoxide or smoke by an AMS installed and operated according to §75.351. Monitoring of intake air ventilating battery charging stations shall be done with sensors not affected by hydrogen; or (iii) Ventilated with intake air and equipped with sensors to monitor for heat and for carbon monoxide or smoke. Monitoring of intake air ventilating battery charging stations shall be done with sensors not affected by hydrogen. The sensors shall deenergize power to the installation, activate a visual and audible alarm located outside of the enclosure on the intake side of the installation, and activate doors that will automatically close when either of the following occurs: (A) The temperature in the noncombustible structure reaches 165 ○F. (B) The carbon monoxide concentration reaches 10 parts per million above the ambient level for the area, or the optical density of smoke reaches 0.05 per meter. At least every 31 days, sensors installed to monitor for carbon monoxide shall be calibrated with a known concentration of carbon monoxide and air sufficient to activate the closing door, or each smoke sensor shall be tested to determine that it functions correctly. (2) When a fire suppression system is used, these installations shall be_ (i) Ventilated with intake air that is coursed into a return air course or to the surface and that is not used to ventilate working places; or (ii) Ventilated with intake air that is monitored for carbon monoxide or smoke by an AMS installed and operated according to §75.351. Monitoring of intake air ventilating battery charging stations shall be done with sensors not affected by hydrogen. * * * * * 19. Section 75.342 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(4) to read as follows: §75.342 Methane monitors. (a)␣*␣*␣* (4) Methane monitors shall be maintained in permissible and proper operating condition and shall be calibrated with a known air-methane mixture at least once every 31 days. To assure that methane monitors are properly maintained and calibrated, the operator shall: (i) Use persons properly trained in the maintenance, calibration, and permissibility of methane monitors to calibrate and maintain the devices. (ii) Develop and adopt a written maintenance program that shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners. (iii) Maintain a record of all calibration tests of methane monitors. Records shall be maintained in a state-approved book or in a bound book with sequential machine-numbered pages. (iv) Retain the record of calibration tests for 1 year from the date of the test. Records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine and made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners. * * * * * 20. Section 75.344 is amended by revising stayed paragraph (a)(1), redesignating paragraph (b)(2) as (b)(3) and adding new paragraphs (b)(2) and (e) to read as follows: §75.344 Compressors. (a)␣*␣*␣* (1) Located in a noncombustible structure or area unless a person designated by the operator continuously attends and can see the compressor at all times during its operation. Any designated person attending the compressor shall be capable of activating the fire suppression system and deenergizing or shutting off the compressor in the event of a fire; and * * * * * (b)␣*␣*␣* (2) While located immediately adjacent to a return air course between two permanent ventilation controls and ventilated through an intake control opening with a current of air that is then coursed directly into the return air course. In lieu of the intake side ventilation control, a door may be constructed in accordance with §75.333 (d)(1) and (d)(2). The velocity of the air maintained through the intake control opening shall be sufficient to prevent smoke rollback or airflow reversal through this opening during a fire on a compressor. The air quantity shall be sufficient to adequately cool the compressor. Sensors for heat or carbon monoxide or smoke shall be installed between the two permanent ventilation controls and shall activate a visual and audible alarm located outside of the enclosure on the intake side when either condition specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) occurs; or * * * * * (e) Notwithstanding the requirements of §75.1107&hyph;4, upon activation of any fire suppression system used under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or activation of any system used under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the compressor shall be automatically deenergized or automatically shut off. * * * * * 21. Section 75.360 is amended by removing paragraph (e), redesignating paragraphs (f) through (h) as (e) through (g), revising paragraphs (a), introductory text to (b), (b)(1), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(6), introductory text to (c), (c)(1), introductory text to (c)(3), and newly redesignated paragraph (f), and by adding paragraphs (b)(8) through (b)(10) to read as follows: §75.360 Preshift examination. (a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a certified person designated by the operator shall make a preshift examination within 3 hours preceding the beginning of any shift and before anyone on the oncoming shift, other than certified persons conducting examinations required by this subpart, enters any underground area of the mine.
