FR940930-0-00227 FR940930-0-00029 Section 234.219␣Gate Arm Lights and Light Cable The proposed rule requires that each gate arm light be visible to approaching motorists. The rule also required that lights and light wires be secured to the gate arm. The labor/management group suggested that the proposed rule be modified to reflect a maintenance requirement. FRA concurs with this recommendation and is revising the rule to require that each gate arm light be maintained in such condition to be properly visible to approaching highway users. Final Rule This section requires that each gate arm light be maintained in such condition to be properly visible to approaching highway users and that lights and light wire be secured to the gate arm. Section 234.221␣ Lamp Voltage The rule requires that lamp voltage be maintained at no less than 85 percent of its prescribed rating. The National Transportation Safety Board has recommended that FRA establish a standard for minimum lamp voltage at highway-rail grade crossing warning systems. There is a consensus that it is impossible to maintain lamp voltage at the full rating of the lamp, at all warning system installations. The State of Oregon Public Utility Commission commented that the rule should require that voltage be maintained at 95 percent of the lamp's prescribed rating. FRA agrees that 95 percent, or even 90 percent of the lamp's rating is a desirable voltage and should be maintained when possible. However, it is not a realistic minimum standard, particularly at locations where there is great distance from the source of the lamp voltage to the farthest lamp (i.e., lights supported by cantilever on expansive highway) or at older installations where light cable upgrades would be required at substantial expense. All other commenters were supportive of the 85 percent minimum requirement. The section will ensure that the lamp voltage is sufficient to provide suitable illumination of the lamp. Final Rule This section requires that each lamp shall be maintained at not less than 85 percent of the prescribed rating for the lamp. Section 234.223␣Gate Arm The proposed rule requires that each gate arm, when in the downward position, extend across each lane of approaching highway traffic and be maintained in a condition sufficient to be clearly viewed by approaching highway users. The proposed rule also requires that each gate arm start its downward motion not less than three seconds after flashing lights begin to operate and assume the horizontal position in a minimum of five seconds before the arrival of any train at the crossing. The labor/management group commented that the rule should be modified to reflect a requirement for maintenance of gate arms in accordance with the design of the warning system. They believe that it would be inappropriate to establish universal criteria for gate arm operation because of the variation in warning system designs, particularly at locations utilizing four quadrant gates or other special applications. While FRA does not want to impede the development or use of special applications, we do believe it is important to establish minimum standards for gate arm operations. FRA has revised this section to make clear that, in four-quadrant gate installations, the three second and five second requirements apply only to entrance gates, (the gates closest to oncoming traffic). New Jersey Transit commented that there is no demonstrated need for the requirement that gates assume the horizontal position at least five seconds before the arrival of any train at the crossing. We disagree. It is important for the highway user to have more than a minimal warning of approaching trains. We do not believe that sufficient warning is provided by only requiring that gates reach the horizontal position before arrival of the train at the crossing. The five second requirement helps to ensure that the highway user who attempts to cross at the last opportunity will be able to clear the crossing or vacate a stalled vehicle. It will not have any impact on the design of grade crossing warning systems. Final Rule This section requires that each gate arm, when in the downward position, shall extend across each lane of approaching highway traffic and shall be maintained in a condition sufficient to be clearly viewed by approaching highway users. Each gate arm shall start its downward motion not less than three seconds after flashing lights begin to operate and shall assume the horizontal position at least five seconds before the arrival of any train at the crossing. At those crossings equipped with four quadrant gates, the timing requirements of this section apply to entrance gates only.
