FR940318-2-00236 FR940318-2-00117 Finally, the proposal will also establish as Rule 3.5(t) specific delisting procedures to provide the issuer with the opportunity to appeal a delisting decision. Corporate Governance and Disclosure Policies. As set forth in Rule 3.3, the proposal will require that specific corporate governance and disclosure policies be established by domestic issuers of any equity security listed on the Exchange. 12 The Exchange believes that effective and responsive corporate governance ensures that shareholders' interests are sufficiently protected. Therefore, each listed company will be expected to follow certain practices aimed at maintaining appropriate standards of corporate responsibility, integrity, and accountability to their shareholders. This rule also includes the Exchange's formal disclosure policy, which describes procedures for a listed company to employ in their communication of material information to the Exchange and investing public. 12 The Exchange will not require an issuer of a security under the Tier II or SCOR designation to comply with the provision for an audit committee as set forth in Rule 3.3(b). Trading Environment and Transaction Reporting. All securities, regardless of the requirements used for their admission to listing, will be subject to auction market trading rules and real-time reporting. Transactions in Tier II and SCOR designated securities will be identified by a special suffix to the ticker symbol so that members, public investors and others can distinguish these securities from other securities traded on the Exchange. 13 Finally, all of the Exchange's rules and surveillance procedures will be applicable to transactions in securities listed under the Tier I, Tier II and SCOR designations. 13 The suffix will not be applied, however, to a security listed on either the NYSE, Amex, or NASDAQ/NMS even though it is designated by the Exchange as a Tier II security. Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990. The Exchange believes that the heightened listing requirements will serve to enhance the integrity of the marketplace and to protect the public interest. As recognized by the Commission, 14 adequate listing criteria are necessary to screen out companies that lack substantial float, assets and shareholders, thereby assuring sufficient liquidity for fair and orderly markets. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change also acts in furtherance of the interests of Rule 15c2&hyph;6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 15 Rule 15c2&hyph;6, also referred to as the Penny Stock Rule, was enacted by the Commission in response to concerns of widespread misconduct by broker-dealers in the recommendation, to persons who are not established customers, of low-priced securities that are not registered on an exchange or authorized for quotation on NASDAQ. The Commission noted that, due to the effect that the Rule may have on small business capital formation, many such businesses may seek listing on an exchange in order to avoid the restrictions of the Rule. 16 As such, and since broker-dealer abuses may extend to exchange traded low-priced securities, the Commission stated its expectation that self-regulatory organizations develop new regulatory initiatives designed to address fraud and manipulation in low-priced securities. The Exchange believes that the heightening of its listing requirements, thereby precluding the listing of many low-priced securities, addresses the Commission's concern. 14 See Exchange Act Release No. 28293 (August 1, 1990), 55 FR 32518 (August 9, 1990) (File No. SR&hyph;CSE&hyph;90&hyph;04). 15 17 C.F.R. 240.15c2&hyph;6 (1993). 16 See Exchange Act Release No. 27160 (August 22, 1989), 54 FR 35468 (August 28, 1989) (File No. S7&hyph;3&hyph;89). Finally, the Exchange believes that the proposed rule change serves to create uniformity of enhanced listing standards among the various exchanges and that general uniformity in raising the standards will benefit the marketplace as a whole, thereby further serving the public's interest. With the enactment of Rule 15c2&hyph;6, the Exchange has been made aware of the necessity for higher listing requirements, and with this rule change is seeking to address the Commission's concerns.
