FR941013-1-00055 FR941013-1-00010 1. Applicability The proposed rule would apply to owners and operators of facilities, with certain exceptions listed below, where operations are conducted to manage, convey, or handle wastes or recoverable materials that are received from other facilities and contain hazardous air pollutants. In other words, the waste or recoverable material has been generated off-site at a separate location and, then, shipped or transferred to the facility for subsequent management. Applicable operations subject to the rule would include storage, treatment, and disposal operations as well as recycling, recovery, and reprocessing operations. All of these operations collectively are referred to hereafter in this notice as ``off-site waste and recovery operations.'' The rule would apply to off-site waste and recovery operations receiving regulated materials that contain one or more of the specific organic chemicals listed in a table included as part of the proposed rule. These organic chemicals have been designated as hazardous air pollutants (HAP) under CAA section 112(b), and are referred to collectively hereafter in this notice as ``organic HAP.'' Off-site waste and recovery operations managing waste or recoverable material that does not contain any of the organic chemicals listed in the rule would not be ``regulated materials'' subject to the rule. The EPA is proposing that the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP only apply to ``major sources'' as defined in the Part 63 general provisions (40 CFR 63.2). ``Area sources'' as defined under 40 CFR 63.2 would not be subject to the rule. The rule would not apply to certain types of waste or recovery operations located at an affected facility because HAP emissions from these operations are addressed by other EPA regulatory actions. The following operations at an affected facility would be exempted from the requirements of the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP: (1) Units or equipment used exclusively to manage waste or recoverable material generated at the affected facility site (i.e., waste or recoverable material generated on-site); (2) municipal solid waste landfill units; (3) incinerators used to burn waste; (4) boilers or furnaces used to burn regulated material to produce energy; (5) units or equipment located at a publicly-owned treatment works; or (6) units or equipment used exclusively to manage waste that has been received from remediation activities to cleanup wastes designated as hazardous wastes under Resource, Conservation, and Recovery Act (RCRA) rules. In addition, the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP would not apply to underground components of injection wells used for disposal of waste. 2. General Standards The general standards proposed for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP apply to major sources. The standards would require that the owner or operator of an affected facility control air emissions from certain waste management units and equipment in which regulated materials containing the organic HAP listed in the rule are placed on or after the effective date of the rule. These air emission control requirements would not apply to any affected facility for which the owner or operator demonstrates that the total annual organic HAP mass content of all regulated materials subject to the rule entering the facility is less than 1 megagram per year (Mg/yr). The procedure to be used by the owner or operator to calculate the total annual organic HAP mass content of the regulated material is specified in the rule. The EPA requests comment on the proposed 1 Mg/yr exemption, and requests supporting information be provided with any recommendation for an alternative exemption level. Two other provisions are proposed for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP that would allow individual units at an affected facility to be exempted from the air emission control requirements of the rule. The first provision would exempt from the air emission control requirements those units at major sources that exclusively are used to manage regulated material received at the facility with a volatile organic hazardous air pollutant (VOHAP) concentration less than 100 parts per million by weight (ppmw) on a mass-weighted average basis. The regulated material VOHAP concentration would be determined based on the organic HAP content of the regulated material at the point where the facility accepts delivery or takes possession of the regulated material, using procedures specified in the rule. The EPA requests comment on the definitiveness of the term ``point of entry'' as defined in the rule.
