FR940919-0-00009 FR940919-0-00001 (6) New producers may have their approved APH yields based on unadjusted T or D-Yields or a combination of actual and unadjusted T or D-Yields. (7) Producers who add land or new practice, types and varieties to their farming operations and who do not have available records for the added land, practice, types or varieties may have approved APH yields for the added land, practice, types or varieties that are based on adjusted or unadjusted T or D-Yields as determined by FCIC. (8) If the producer's crop is destroyed or if it produces a low actual yield due to insured causes of loss, the resulting average yield may qualify for catastrophic yield adjustment according to FCIC guidelines. APH yields qualifying for catastrophic yield adjustment may be adjusted to mitigate the effect of catastrophic years. Premium rates for approved APH yields, which are adjusted for catastrophic years, may be based on the producer's APH average yield prior to the catastrophic adjustment or such other basis as determined appropriate by FCIC. (c) If no insurable acreage of the insured crop is planted for a year, a production report indicating zero planted acreage will maintain the continuity of production reports for APH record purposes and that calendar year will not be included in the APH yield calculations. (d) Actual yields calculated from the claim for indemnity will be entered in the database. The resulting average yield will be used to determine the premium rate and approved APH yield, at the discretion of FCIC. (e) Optional units are not available to an insured who does not provide acceptable production reports for at least the most recent crop year with which to calculate an approved APH yield. (f) FCIC may determine approved APH yields for designated crops in the following situations: (1) If less than four years of yield history is certified and T or D-Yields are not provided in the actuarial documents, (2) If actual yield exceed tolerances specified in yield variance tables, and (3) For perennial crops: (i) If significant upward or downward yield trends are indicated; (ii) If tree or vine damage, or cultural practices will reduce the production level; (iii) if more than two percent of the trees or vines have been removed within the last two years; or (iv) If yield trends are evident and yields greater than the average yield are requested by the insured. (g) APH yields will not be approved the first insurance year on perennial crops until an inspection acceptable to FCIC has been performed and the acreage is accepted for insurance purposes in accordance with the crop insurance contract. (h) APH Master Yields may be established whenever crop rotation requirements and land leasing practices limit the yield history available. FCIC will establish crops and locations for which Master Yields are available. To qualify, the producer must have at least four recent continuous crop years' annual production reports and must certify the authenticity of the production reports of the insured crop. Master Yields are based on acreage and production history from all acreage of the insured crop in the county in which the operator has shared in the crop's production. (i) FCIC may use any production report available under the provisions of any crop insurance contract, whether continuous or not, involving the interests of the person's insured crops in determining the approved APH yield. ยง400.56 Administrative appeal exhaustion. The insured may appeal the approved APH yield in accordance with the procedures contained in 7 CFR part 400, subpart J. Administrative remedies through the appeal process must be exhausted prior to any action for judicial review. The approved APH yield determined as a result of the appeal process will be the yield applicable to the crop year. ยง400.57 OMB control numbers. OMB control numbers are contained in 7 CFR part 400, subpart H. Done in Washington, D.C., on September 8, 1994. Kenneth D. Ackerman, Manager, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23035 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;08&hyph;M
