FR941125-2-00064 FR941125-2-00050 [FRL&hyph;5106&hyph;5] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before December 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information or a copy of this ICR contact Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response Title: Hazardous Waste Generator Standards (EPA No. 820.06). This ICR is a renewal of an approved collection (OMB No. 2050&hyph;0035). Abstract: The informational requirements for hazardous waste generators include pre-transport (separate for large and small quantity generators), export, and recordkeeping requirements. Pre-transport requirements for large quantity generators (LQGs) include documenting certain personnel information, such as job description and training, for positions dealing with hazardous wastes; preparing and maintaining contingency plans; complying with emergency reporting requirements; and recording when local firehouses decline to become more familiar with the generator's facility and its waste. Also, LQGs using tank systems for accumulating hazardous waste may need to submit to one or more of the following: a no-free-liquids demonstration, existing tank system assessments, an equivalent containment exemption, a variance from secondary containment requirements, annual leak tests and inspections, an exemption from the 24-hour leak detection requirement, new tank system assessments and certifications, an exemption from the 24-hour waste removal requirement, release notifications and reports, and major repair certifications. Pre-transport requirements for small quantity generators (SQGs) include notification in the event of a fire, explosion, or other release threatening human health outside the facility or when the generator has knowledge that a spill has reached surface water. Export requirements include: providing notification of intent to export hazardous waste, renotification if conditions are altered, filing an annual report summarizing information on all wastes exported, filing exception reports where applicable, maintaining copies of relevant documents for a period of three years, and under certain circumstances providing additional information, as requested by the receiving country. The Agency uses the information as an enforcement tool, and to ensure that all hazardous waste generated in the Unites States is managed in a manner protective of human health and the environment. All generators are required to keep records of test results, waste analyses, or other records documenting that a waste is hazardous for at least three years. Burden Statement: The estimated average public burden per response for this collection is about 15 hours for large quantity generators, 2 hours for small quantity generators, 5 hours for exporters, and 2 hours for importers. This estimate includes all aspects of the information collection, including recordkeeping. Respondents: Hazardous Waste Generators. Estimated Number of Respondents: 67,037. Estimated Number of Responses per Respondent: 1. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 153,222 hours. Frequency of Collection: On occasion. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (2136), 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. and Jonathan Gledhill, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503. Dated: November 17, 1994. Paul Lapsley, Director, Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28965 Filed 11&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
