FR941110-0-00150 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: A few commenters indicated that the prohibition of nurse aide training and competency evaluation programs (NATCEPs) is a penalty which should be included in the listing of available remedies. Response: The prohibition of a NATCEP is predicated on, among other things, the existence of a nurse staffing waiver, the fact that a facility has been subject to an extended or partial extended survey, or the imposition of an adverse action, including termination of the provider agreement. The enforcement remedies, on the other hand, are the consequences of facility noncompliance once deficiencies have been identified through the survey process. While the disapproval of a NATCEP is automatic when criteria set forth in the Act are met, the imposition of remedies is a matter requiring some discretion on the part of HCFA or the State. It is possible for a facility with a nurse staffing waiver to be surveyed and have no deficiencies identified or have no deficiencies found which cause the facility to be out of compliance. In these cases, an enforcement action would not be in order, even though other provisions of the Act and regulations would require that a prohibition of a NATCEP be imposed. Further, it would be possible for a facility with no nurse staffing waiver, which had not been subject to an extended or partial extended survey, to have a civil money penalty imposed as a remedy for deficiencies identified. In this latter case, the civil money penalty is the enforcement remedy, and not the prohibition of a NATCEP, which is an automatic statutory consequence of the civil money penalty being imposed. Because we believe that the Act, as well as regulations published on September 26, 1991, separately address how the State arrives at the disapproval of a NATCEP as opposed to how it or HCFA determines that an enforcement action is in order, we are not adopting these comments in the final regulation. Comment: One commenter indicated that denial of payment for new admissions for certain diagnostic categories is too difficult to implement or monitor. Another stated that it is too broadly defined and that it was not the intention of the Act to modify remedies included in the Act. Response: The first comment is discussed in detail under ``Denial of Payment'' later in this preamble. Regarding the comment that the Act does not allow for modifications of its listed remedies, we point to the provisions of the Act at sections 1819(h)(2)(B), 1919(h)(2)(A), 1919(h)(2)(B)(ii) and 1919(h)(3)(C), all of which indicate that remedies other than those specified in the Act are allowed. Comment: Two commenters asked that the proposed available remedy of denial of payment for new admissions for certain diagnostic categories be amended to ensure that it not promote discrimination against residents a facility does not want to admit. Both indicated that a directed plan of correction should be required in these situations, and one comment further stated that the directed plan of correction should direct the facility on how to regain the capability to care for residents with the designated diagnoses. Response: This issue is discussed in detail under ``Denial of Payment'' later in this preamble. Comment: Five commenters indicated that HCFA should specify in the regulation the criteria by which the Secretary will determine whether a State's alternative or additional remedies are as effective in determining noncompliance and correcting deficiencies as the remedies specified in the Act. Other commenters insisted that any alternative or additional remedies must be made available for public comment before adoption. Response: We agree that there is a need for uniformity in the process which is used to approve State remedies which are alternative or additional to those included in the regulation. While we will prepare manual instructions that will address how these reviews and approvals should be processed, we believe such information is not appropriate for the text of the regulation itself since it would be impossible to contemplate the vast array of alternatives that States might propose. The Act does not require and HCFA will not require specific public notice procedures that limit State prerogatives in the State plan amendment process.
