FR940907-1-00013 FR940907-1-00005 Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 100 [CGD 08&hyph;94&hyph;019] RIN 2115&hyph;AE46 Annual Marine Events within the Eighth Coast Guard District AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes to establish permanent special local regulations for the annual marine events in the Eighth Coast Guard District. This proposal would reduce the number of annual requests for temporary final rules for regattas and marine parades and codifying these marine events in the Code of Federal Regulation would streamline the implementation process. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to the Commander, Eighth Coast Guard District (dl) (CGD 08&hyph;94&hyph;019), 501 Magazine St., New Orleans, LA 70130&hyph;3396, or may be delivered to room 1311 of the Hale Boggs Federal Building at the same address between 8 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. The telephone number is (504) 589&hyph;6188. Comments may also be hand-delivered to this address. The Eighth Coast Guard District Legal Office maintains the public docket for this rulemaking. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection or copying at room 1311, Eighth Coast Guard District, located in the Hale Boggs Federal Building, between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. Annual notice of the exact dates and times of the effective period of the regulation with respect to each event, the geographical area, and details concerning the nature of the event and the number of participants and type(s) of vessels involved will also be published in local notices to mariners. To be placed on the mailing list for such notices, contact: Commander (oan), Eighth Coast Guard District, Hale Boggs Federal Building, 501 Magazine Street, Suite 1211, New Orleans, Louisiana 70118. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LT C.D. Michel, Eighth Coast Guard District Legal Office, at Hale Boggs Federal Building, 501 Magazine, room 1311, New Orleans, Louisiana 70118, telephone (504) 589&hyph;6188. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Requests for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking (CGD 08&hyph;94&hyph;019) and the specific section to which the comment applies, and give the reasons for concurrence with or for any recommended changes to the proposal. Please submit two copies of all comments and attachments in an unbound format, no larger than 8 by 11 inches, suitable for copying and electronic filing. Persons desiring acknowledgment that their comments have been received should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard, will evaluate all communications received and determine a course of final action on this proposal. Based upon the comments received the proposal may be changed. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Eighth Coast Guard District Legal Office at the address under ADDRESSES . The request should include the reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are LCDR T.P. Marian, Project Manager, and LT C.D. Michel, Project Counsel. Discussion of Proposed Rules (a) Currently, Coast Guard units responsible for overseeing the safety of marine events prepare temporary rules each year for each event. This rulemaking would eliminate the need to prepare annual temporary final rules for those annual marine events that have few or no changes from year to year. If this rule is adopted, the rules would be effective at the same time each year without need for temporary rules. The Coast Guard would issue event information in the Local Notice to Mariners. This would streamline the marine event process for those regattas and marine events that have very little annual variation and would significantly reduce the Coast Guard's administrative burden for managing these type events. The marine events requiring this regulation are regattas and marine parades that occur annually in the Eighth District of the United States Coast Guard with little or no variation in location, time frame, and sponsors. Table 1 delineates the events, their sponsors, dates, and locations. Each event occurs annually on or about the date given. The course will be patrolled by patrol vessels. While viewing the event at any point outside the regulated area is not prohibited, spectators will be encouraged to congregate within areas designated by the sponsor. Non-participating vessels will be permitted to transit the area at NO WAKE SPEED at the discretion of the Coast Guard Patrol Commander.
