FR940419-2-00156 FR940419-2-00086 (1) The Field Office shall select HAs, including all Group 1 HAs, for Joint Review so that the total dollar value of all proposed modernization recommended for funding exceeds the subassignment amount by at least 15%. This will preserve the Field Office's ability to adjust cost estimates and work items as a result of Joint Review. (2) The Field Office shall notify in writing each HA whose application has been selected for further processing as to whether the Joint Review will be conducted on-site or off-site (e.g., by telephone or in-office meeting). An HA will not be selected for Joint Review if other funding is available (refer to section V(g)). The Field Office shall notify in writing each HA not selected for Joint Review and provide the reasons for non-selection. (3) Where the HA has not included some of its developments in the CIAP Application, the Field Office may not, as a result of Joint Review, consider funding any non-emergency work at excluded developments or subsequently approve use of leftover funds at excluded developments. Therefore, to provide maximum flexibility, the HA may wish to include all of its developments in the CIAP Application, even though there are no current needs. (4) The HA shall prepare for the Joint Review by preparing a draft CIAP budget, and reviewing the other items to be covered during the Joint Review, such as the need for professional services, method of accomplishment of physical work (contract or force account labor), HA compliance with various Federal statutes and regulations, etc. If conducted on-site, the Joint Review may include an inspection of the proposed physical work. (e) HUD Awards After all Joint Reviews are completed, the Field Office shall adjust the HAs, developments, and work items to be funded and the amounts to be awarded, on the basis of information obtained from Joint Reviews, environmental reviews, and FHEO review. Such adjustments are necessary where Joint Review determines that actual Group 1 emergencies and Group 2 high priority needs, HA priorities, or cost estimates vary from the HA's application. Such adjustments may preclude the Field Office from funding all of the higher ranked HA applications. However, where the information obtained from Joint Reviews, environmental reviews, and FHEO review does not substantially alter the information used to establish the rankings before Joint Review, the Field Office shall make funding decisions in accordance with its rankings. The Field Office shall then announce the HAs selected for CIAP grants, subject to their submission of an approvable CIAP budget and other required documents. (f) HA Submission of Additional Documents After Field Office funding decisions, the Field Office shall provide written notification to the HA of funding approval, subject to HA submission of the following documents within the time frame prescribed by the Field Office: (1) Form HUD&hyph;52825, CIAP Budget/Progress Report , which includes the implementation schedule(s), in an original and two copies. (2) Form HUD&hyph;50070, Certification for a Drug-Free Workplace , in an original only. (3) Form HUD&hyph;52820, HA Board Resolution Approving CIAP Budget , in an original only. (4) For each Turnkey III development approved for modernization, the number of units to be included in the modernization program and, where applicable, the estimated cost attributed to each home, in an original only. (5) On a voluntary basis, an estimate of goals under Section 3 of the HUD Act of 1968 for the FY 1994 CIAP funds. (g) ACC Amendment After HUD approval of the CIAP budget, HUD and the HA shall enter into an ACC amendment in order for the HA to requisition modernization funds. The ACC amendment shall require low-income use of the housing for not less than 20 years from the date of the ACC amendment (subject to sale of homeownership units in accordance with the terms of the ACC). HUD has the authority to condition an ACC amendment (e.g., to require an HA to hire a modernization coordinator or contract administrator to administer its modernization program). (h) Declaration of Trust Where requested by the Field Office, the HA shall execute and file for record a Declaration of Trust as provided under the ACC to protect the rights and interests of HUD throughout the 20-year period during which the HA is obligated to operate its developments in accordance with the ACC, the Act, and HUD regulations and requirements. HUD has determined that its interest in Mutual Help Program units is sufficiently protected without the further requirement of a Declaration of Trust; therefore, a Declaration of Trust is not required for Mutual Help units. (i) ``Fast Tracking'' Applications Emergency applications do not have to be processed within the normal processing time allowed for other applications. Where an immediate hazard must be addressed, HA applications may be submitted and processed at any time during the year when funds are available. The Field Office shall ``fast track'' the processing of these emergency applications so that fund reservation may occur as soon as possible.
