FR940616-2-00074 FR940616-2-00055 Request for Nominations for Representatives of Consumer and Industry Interests on Public Advisory Panels or Committees AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is requesting nominations for consumer representatives and an industry representative to serve on certain device panels of the Medical Devices Advisory Committee and consumer representatives for the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee in the Center for Devices and Radiological Health. Nominations will be accepted for current vacancies and for those that will or may occur through February 28, 1995. FDA has a special interest in ensuring that women, minority groups, individuals with disabilities, and small businesses are adequately represented on advisory committees and, therefore, extends particular encouragement to nominations for appropriately qualified female, minority, and physically disabled candidates, and nominations from small businesses that manufacture medical devices subject to the regulations. DATES: Nominations should be received by August 15, 1994 for vacancies listed in this notice. ADDRESSES: All nominations and curricula vitae for consumer representatives for the medical device panels should be sent to Susan Meadows (address below). All nominations and curricula vitae (which includes nominee's office address and telephone number) for the industry representative for the Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel and the consumer representatives for the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee should be sent to Kay Levin (address below). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Regarding consumer interests for the medical device panels: Susan K. Meadows, Office of Consumer Affairs (HFE&hyph;20), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;5006. Regarding industry interests for the Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel and the consumer interests for the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee: Kay A. Levin, Food and Drug Administration, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;10), 12720 Twinbrook Pkwy., Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;9422. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FDA is requesting nominations for members representing consumer and industry interests for the vacancies listed below: 1Committee or Panel 1Approximate Date Representative is Needed 2Consumer 2Industry Circulatory System July 1, 1994 NV Gastroenterology and Urology Jan. 1, 1995 NV General Hospital and Personal Use Jan. 1, 1995 NV Immunology Mar. 1, 1995 NV Obstetrics and Gynecology NV Feb. 1, 1995 Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards IMMED (3) NV Jan. 1, 1995 (1) NV NV = No vacancy IMMED = Immediate vacancy Functions Medical Device Panels The functions of the medical device panels are to: (1) Review and evaluate data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational devices; (2) advise the Commissioner of Food and Drugs regarding recommended classification of these devices into one of three regulatory categories; (3) recommend the assignment of a priority for the application of regulatory requirements for devices classified in the standards or premarket approval category; (4) advise on any possible risks to health associated with the use of devices; (5) advise on formulation of product development protocols and review premarket approval applications for those devices classified in the premarket approval category; (6) review classification of devices to recommend changes in classification as appropriate; (7) recommend exemption to certain devices from the application of portions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act); (8) advise on the necessity to ban a device; and (9) respond to requests from the agency to review and make recommendations on specific issues or problems concerning the safety and effectiveness of devices. Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee The function of the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee is to provide advice and consultation on technical feasibility, reasonableness, and practicability of performance standards for electronic products to control the emission of radiation from such products. The committee may recommend electronic product radiation safety standards for consideration. Consumer and Industry Representation Medical Device Panels Section 513 of the act, as amended by the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 (21 U.S.C. 360c), provides that each medical device panel include as members one nonvoting representative of consumer interests and one nonvoting representative of interests of the medical device manufacturing industry. Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee Section 534(f) of the act, as amended by the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990 (21 U.S.C. 360kk(f)), provides that the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee include five members from governmental agencies, including State or Federal Governments, five members from the affected industries, and five members from the general public, of which at least one shall be a representative of organized labor. Nomination Procedures Consumer Representatives Any interested person may nominate one or more qualified persons as a member of a particular advisory committee or panel to represent consumer interests as identified in this notice. Self-nominations are also accepted. To be eligible for selection, the applicant's experience and/or education will be evaluated against Federal civil service criteria for the position to which the person will be appointed. Nominations shall include a complete curriculum vitae of each nominee and shall state that the nominee is aware of the nomination, is willing to serve as a member, and appears to have no conflict of interest that would preclude membership. FDA will ask the potential candidates to provide detailed information concerning such matters as financial holdings, employment, and research grants and/or contracts to permit evaluation of possible sources of conflict of interest. The nomination should state whether the nominee is interested only in a particular advisory committee or panel or in any advisory committee or panel. The term of office is up to 4 years, depending on the appointment date. Industry Representative for the Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel Any organization in the medical device manufacturing industry (industry interests) wishing to participate in the selection of an appropriate member of a particular panel may nominate one or more qualified persons to represent industry interests. Persons who nominate themselves as industrial representatives for the panels will not participate in the selection process. It is, therefore, recommended that all nominations be made by someone with an organization, trade association, or firm who is willing to participate in the selection process. Nominees shall be full-time employees of firms that manufacture products that would come before the panel, or consulting firms that represent manufacturers. Nominations shall include a complete curriculum vitae of each nominee. The term of office is up to 4 years, depending on the appointment date. Selection Procedures Consumer Representatives Selection of members representing consumer interests is conducted through procedures which include use of a consortium of consumer organizations which has the responsibility for recommending candidates for the agency's selection. Candidates should possess appropriate qualifications to understand and contribute to the committee's work. Industry Representative for the Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel Regarding nominations for members representing the interests of industry on the Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel, a letter will be sent to each person that has made a nomination, and to those organizations indicating an interest in participating in the selection process, together with a complete list of all such organizations and the nominees. This letter will state that it is the responsibility of each nominator or organization indicating an interest in participating in the selection process to consult with the others in selecting a single member representing industry interests for the panel within 60 days after receipt of the letter. If no individual is selected within 60 days, the agency will select the nonvoting member representing industry interests. This notice is issued under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. app. 2) and 21 CFR part 14 relating to advisory committees. Dated: June 10, 1994. Linda A. Suydam, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14648 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
