FR940406-0-00067 FR940406-0-00005 (v) Delegating authority to approve interim leases and simple land transfers. (vi) Considering the personal property requirements of the community redevelopment plan when making decisions on the disposition of base equipment. (2) Ensuring fast-track environmental cleanup of closing bases to permit earlier determination of property suitable for either conveyance or lease. The key elements of this initiative are to: (i) Establish a base realignment and closure cleanup team composed of members from the Department of Defense, the Environmental Protection Agency and State regulatory agencies, at every base where property is available for transfer and reuse. The team shall prepare the base realignment and closure cleanup plan and make decisions to expedite the process. (ii) Quickly identify and document uncontaminated real property parcels to permit timely reuse. (iii) Identify opportunities to convey property quickly to those willing to pay the cost of cleaning up the contaminated property. (iv) Ensure analyses required by the National Environmental Policy Act (Pub. L. 91&hyph;190; 10 U.S.C. 4332 et. seq.) process are produced in a timely manner. (v) Establish procedures for identifying and documenting parcels of real property that are environmentally suitable for lease, even if needed mitigation precludes conveyance. (vi) Improve public involvement in the environmental cleanup by establishing and seeking public participation in Restoration Advisory Boards. (3) Providing full time base transition coordinators at major installations slated for closure or substantial realignment. The principal functions of the coordinators shall be to: (i) Assist in cutting through red tape on property disposal. (ii) Assist in keeping the environmental cleanup on a fast track. (iii) Assist the DoD Office of Economic Adjustment (OEA) in helping communities identify sources of Federal assistance for developing and implementing economic redevelopment plans. (4) Providing easy access to transition and redevelopment help for workers and communities by targeting major sources of Federal funding assistance to base closure communities. (5) Providing larger economic development planning grants to base closure communities. Planning grants should be approved quickly. The Department of Defense's Office of Economic Adjustment will move beyond the traditional role of providing grants for planning to helping communities transition from planning to implementation by funding a portion of the staff required for implementation of the local redevelopment plan. (b) Follow the following framework in implementing Title XXIX of Pub. L. 103&hyph;160: (1) Where a ready market exists, complete screening and then sell properties quickly for public or private development to speed up job creation. (2) Where a ready market does not exist, make property available to the local redevelopment authority without initial consideration, for economic development. (3) Share the net profits between the Department of Defense and the local redevelopment authority if a property conveyed without initial consideration for economic development is subsequently leased or sold. (c) This regulation does not create any rights or remedies and may not be relied upon by any person, organization, or other entity to allege a denial of any rights or remedies other than those provided by Pub. L. 103&hyph;160, Title XXIX. ยง90.5 Responsibilities. (a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology shall issue DoD Instructions as necessary, to further implement the President's Five-Part Plan and applicable public law, and shall monitor compliance with this part. All authorities of the Secretary of Defense in Pub. L. 103&hyph;160, Title XXIX, in section 2905 of Pub. L. 100&hyph;526, Title II, and in section 204 of Pub. L. 101&hyph;510, Title XXIX are hereby delegated to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology and may be redelegated. (b) The Heads of the DoD Components shall advise personnel with responsibilities related to base closures of the policies set forth in this directive. 2. Part 91 is added to read as follows:
