FR940621-0-00017 FR940621-0-00007 Response. The provision concerning the HA's responsibility for supervision of testing and abatement activity has been moved to the general paragraph. Comment. Requiring small (some as low as one or two persons) contractors to purchase this type of insurance will have an enormous impact on small businesses due to the high minimum premiums and total cost involved. Response. While this may very well be true, the Department is not willing to waive the insurance requirement for small businesses. The underwriting standards of insurance companies may preclude them from insuring accounts that do not generate a certain minimum premium. However, if the Department were to waive the insurance requirement for small contractors, it would place both the contractor and the HA at risk for uninsured claims. Comment. The minimum required limit should be raised to $1,000,000 per occurrence with no annual aggregate being permitted. Response. The $500,000 limit is only a minimum. Higher limits are permitted and highly recommended. It was not felt that the Department should require substantially higher minimum limits than required for other forms of insurance, particularly automobile and commercial general liability. The absence of an annual aggregate limit would be very desirable. However, few insurance companies are willing to issue a policy without one. To insist upon having no annual aggregate limit would severely restrict the market availability and certainly increase the cost. Comment. The rule should address all forms of insurance including workers compensation, general liability and professional liability. Response. This rule is concerned only with the provisions of Pub. L. 102&hyph;139, 105 Stat. 736 concerning selection of insurance to protect against the liability hazards involved in the testing and abatement of lead-based paint. IV. Findings and Certifications A. Environmental Review A Finding of No Significant Impact with respect to the environment was made in accordance with HUD regulations at 24 CFR part 50 that implement section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4332, when the proposed rule was issued. No changes made in this final rule require any changes in that finding. The Finding of No Significant Impact is available for public inspection and copying between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. weekdays in the Office of the Rules Docket Clerk, room 10276, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410&hyph;0500. B. Federalism Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that the policies contained in this rule will not have substantial direct effects on states or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the Federal Government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. This rule merely gives standards used by HUD in approving the sources of insurance coverage selected by HAs in accordance with longstanding provisions of the contracts between them and HUD. As a result, the rule is not subject to review under the order. C. Impact on the Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family, has determined that this rule does not have potential for significant impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being, and, thus, is not subject to review under the order. No significant change in existing HUD policies or programs will result from promulgation of this rule, as those policies and programs relate to family concerns. D. Impact on Small Entities The Secretary, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed this rule before publication and, by approving it, certifies that this rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rule is limited to specifying the nature and quality of liability insurance for the hazards of testing for and abatement of lead-based paint; and while it may be more difficult for small entities to obtain the insurance or to obtain it at a reasonable cost, this is a factor controlled by the insurance marketplace, and not by the establishment of this rule. E. Regulatory Agenda This rule was listed as item 1703 under the Office of Public and Indian Housing in the Department's Semiannual Agenda of Regulations published on April 25, 1994 (59 FR 20424, 20474) under Executive Order 12866 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act. F. Catalog The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance numbers for the public housing and Indian housing programs affected by this rule are 14.850 and 14.851. List of Subjects 24 CFR Part 905 Aged, Energy conservation, Grant programs_housing and community development, Grant programs_Indians, Individuals with disabilities, Lead poisoning, Loan programs_housing and community development, Loan programs_Indians, Low and moderate income housing, Public housing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 965
