FR940926-1-00005 FR940926-1-00003 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 34 CFR Chapter VI Reform of Federal Student Aid for Postsecondary Education and Training AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of regional meetings. SUMMARY: The Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education will convene four public meetings to obtain public comment for use in the development of policies relating to reform of Federal student aid for postsecondary education and training. DATES: Meetings will be held on October 5, 13, 28 and November 2, 1994. See Supplementary Information . ADDRESSES: Meetings will be held in Seattle, WA; Kansas City, MO; Boston, MA; and Atlanta, GA. See Supplementary Information. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For additional information about these regional meetings, call Jennifer Peck at (202) 708&hyph;5547. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. The Assistant Secretary would appreciate that persons who plan to attend a regional meeting notify the Department by calling (202) 260&hyph;8462. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In order to increase the opportunity for public participation in the development of policies relating to the reform of Federal student aid for postsecondary education and training, the Assistant Secretary is convening a series of meetings in different parts of the country and invites individuals and representatives of groups involved in student financial assistance programs to attend these meetings. The Secretary particularly encourages students, legal assistance organizations that represent students, institutions of higher education, guaranty agencies and lenders to attend and participate in these meetings. These regional meetings are convened to discuss only reform of Federal student aid programs for postsecondary education and training. To facilitate discussion, the Assistant Secretary has identified three major areas for discussion: (a) Can Federal student aid be better targeted to ensure access to postsecondary education? (b) Can postsecondary vocational education and training better meet the needs and objectives of students and institutions? (c) Can regulatory and administrative simplicity help institutions better fulfill their educational missions and target their resources on educational rather than administrative tasks? More specifically, the Assistant Secretary seeks comments, ideas, and suggestions on the following issues: (a) Would providing a larger amount of aid to poor students improve access and encourage persistence in postsecondary education? (b) Would establishing a guaranteed amount of Federal aid that would be available to every individual promote better awareness of and access to postsecondary education? (c) Would a merit-based supplement to need-based aid encourage students to excel academically and better position them to reap the rewards of postsecondary education? (d) How can the Department of Education better interact with the States and other Federal agencies to improve access to and excellence in postsecondary education? (e) What strategies for skills training and workforce preparation are most effective? (f) How should the Federal government support basic education for disadvantaged adults? (g) Should there be separate student aid programs for vocational study compared with collegiate programs? How would a vocational program be defined? (h) What is the best way to coordinate among various local, State, and Federal programs that offer vocational education? (i) Would different rules and regulations for different groups of institutions assist in providing institutions the flexibility to accomplish their educational mission? (j) How could administrative workload be reduced while maintaining or improving accountability to taxpayers? (k) What information is essential to collect from institutions and students to ensure accountability and integrity of programs, while reducing the overall reporting burden? (l) What performance measures should the Department use as a measure of institutional ability to reduce the regulatory burden of administering the student aid programs? Participants are welcome to raise other issues relating to Federal student aid programs in addition to the above questions. The dates and location of the four regional meetings appear below. (a) October 5, 1994, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m., University of Washington, Husky Union Building (HUB) Auditorium, Seattle, Washington. (b) October 13, 1994, 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., Kansas City Convention Center, Bartle Hall, 301 West 13th Street, Room 1204&hyph;North Side, Kansas City, Missouri. (c) October 28, 1994, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m., Northeastern University, the Student Center Ballroom, Boston, Massachusetts. (d) November 2, 1994, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m., Georgia State University, The Urban Life Conference Center, Atlanta, Georgia. If you wish to provide written comments, you may bring your comments to the meetings or send them to Lynn Mahaffie, 600 Independence Avenue, SW., ROB&hyph;3, Room 4082, Washington, DC 20202, FAX number (202) 708&hyph;9107. (Authority: 20 USC 1001, et seq.) Dated: September 20, 1994. David A. Longanecker, Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23665 Filed 9&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
