FR941205-2-00080 FR941205-2-00045 The Put and Call Options Questionnaire for Registered Personnel is administered by the broker-dealer firms who certify to the Exchange that the applicant has satisfactorily completed the examination. All six examinations are specifically designed for Amex membership applicants in order to test the applicant's knowledge in a variety of areas, including general trading principles and procedures as well as specific Amex rules and policies. 2. Statutory Basis The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5), and 6(c)(3)(A) in particular in that the rule change is designed to examine the training, experience and competence of applicants for Amex membership and verify such applicant qualifications for Exchange membership. In addition, the proposed rule change serves to protect investors and the public interest by helping to assure member competence. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received written comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;46 and should be submitted by December 27, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29787 Filed 12&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
