FR941117-2-00133 FR941117-2-00091 The commenter, however, is concerned that if the proposed rule imposes solicitation-related trading restrictions on market makers who are physically present in a trading crowd on a continual basis, this would significantly affect such market makers' ability to fulfill their market making functions under CBOE rules. According to the commenter, such an interpretation conceivably could preclude any number of market makers in a given trading crowd from trading in their appointed option classes for an undetermined amount of time in instances when a solicited transaction never materializes into an actual order in a trading crowd. The commenter also expressed concern that the terminology used in the CBOE's proposal is vague or undefined, making it difficult for the Exchange to enforce the rule consistently. Specifically, the commenter believes the rule should define what comprises ``all of the material terms'' of an order, what establishes an order as ``imminent,'' and the length of time that trading restrictions remain in effect following a solicitation. In its response, the CBOE addresses each of the commenter's concerns. 10 With respect to the commenter's concern that the CBOE proposal ignores market makers continuously present in a trading crowd, the CBOE states that for purposes of its proposed rule, a member's location at the time a solicitation is received is irrelevant. The proposed rule applies to all members, including market makers, whether or not continuously present in a trading crowd, and whether or not present in the crowd at the time of the solicitation. 10 See letter from Joanne Moffic-Silver, supra note 6. As for the commenter's contention that the proposal's reach is too broad if it is meant to apply to market makers continuously present in a trading crowd, the CBOE notes that the only transactions prohibited by its proposed rule are those that are based on knowledge of the terms (which requires knowledge of the price of both the original and responsive solicited order) of an imminent, undisclosed solicited transaction. Thus, general solicitations of interest that do not specify all material terms, or other solicitations that do not result in express or tacit agreement on all material terms of a trade, including price, do not give rise to trading restrictions under the rule. Further, trades not based on undisclosed knowledge of a solicitation are not restricted. Regarding the commenter's contention that the terms ``material'' and ``imminent'' as used in the proposal are undefined and vague, the CBOE responds that similar terms and concepts are used in the regulatory circulars of the CBOE and other exchanges prohibiting front running of block transactions. According to the CBOE, many of the principles in the proposed rule are derived from the frontrunning context, where compliance and enforcement has not been difficult. Similarly, the CBOE contents, compliance and enforcement should not be difficult in the context of solicited transactions. IV. Discussion The Commission finds the proposed rule change consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange. Specifically, the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of Sections 6(b)(5) of the Act, because the proposal is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, and protect investors and the public interest. The Commission believes that it is appropriate to permit solicitation between potential buyers and potential sellers of options in advance of the time they send actual orders to the trading crowd on the Exchange. Complex options orders, such as spreads, straddles, and combination orders, as well as stock-option orders and large-sized orders, often require the ``advance shopping'' that is characteristic of a solicited transaction. Therefore, the Commission agrees with the CBOE that such interactions between buyers and sellers and the resulting solicited transactions can enhance liquidity and depth at the CBOE by bringing orders to the floor that might otherwise be difficult to effect.
