FR940505-1-00445 FR940505-1-00012 (5) (i) Prohibitions. Should the Administrator make a determination of nonconformity under paragraph (e)(4) of this section: (A) The Secretary of State of California, the California Department of Motor Vehicles, its employees, and any other persons representing the State of California are prohibited from registering any vehicle covered by this nonconformity unless evidence is presented that the required remedies have been performed on that vehicle; and (B) Operators of motor vehicles covered by this nonconformity are prohibited from registering the vehicle without first obtaining the required remedies for their vehicle. (ii) The penalties contained in Section 43016 of the California Health and Safety Code for the failure by a vehicle owner to have needed repairs made to a recalled vehicle shall apply to the failure by a vehicle owner to have needed repairs made to a recalled vehicle under paragraph (e) of this section. (f) I/M-based selective recall requirements. (1) Liability for I/M-related repairs. (i) Except as noted in paragraphs (f)(1) (v) and (vi) of this section, the manufacturer of a vehicle shall be responsible for its repair sufficient for it to pass an emission inspection performed as part of a FIP I/M program, including the enhanced in-use I/M standards specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, and for obtaining official certification of the successful passage of the above emission inspection (i.e., repeat test) if: (A) That vehicle has failed an emission inspection performed as part of a FIP I/M program for the pollutant for which the I/M based selective recall liability threshold has been exceeded in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B) of this section; and (B) At least one model year's sales of that vehicle's exhaust engine family has exceeded a liability threshold for either HC or NO X emissions, as defined in paragraph (f)(4) of this section. (ii) This liability shall begin 30 days after receipt of notification of exceedance of a liability threshold from the Administrator. (iii) (A) The vehicle manufacturer shall be liable to remedy the defects and for the repairs necessary for the vehicle to pass all aspects of an emission inspection which is part of a FIP I/M program applicable to that vehicle at the time of the failure of the I/M emission inspection referred to in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) of this section, regardless of whether the liability threshold for only one of the two pollutants was exceeded or both were exceeded. (B) At minimum, manufacturers must allow the repairs required under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section to be performed at any of its manufacturer authorized repair facilities. Nothing here shall be construed to limit the performance of such repairs to only manufacturer dealerships. (iv) In performing the repairs conducted under this section, the manufacturer shall promptly schedule and expeditiously repair the vehicle. In doing so, the manufacturer shall provide a loaner vehicle of equivalent or better quality free of charge to the owner of the vehicle being repaired: (A) During the period of time when the vehicle is at the manufacturer authorized repair facility whenever the repairs will require more than one day to complete, or (B) Starting 14 days after the vehicle owner initially contacted the manufacturer authorized repair facility regarding the repair of the vehicle and continuing to the time the vehicle is delivered to the vehicle owner along with official certification that the vehicle has successfully passed the repeat emission inspection, if the vehicle has not already been so delivered by this time. (v) (A) In lieu of performing the repairs required in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, a manufacturer may purchase the vehicle and remove it from use in California. (B) The manufacturer's responsibility for performing the repairs required in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section ends if the vehicle owner declines to sell the vehicle to the manufacturer at a price equal to Average Retail Value listed in the N.A.D.A. Official Used Car Guide published by the National Automobile Dealers Used Car Guide Co., 8400 Westpark Dr., McLean, VA 22102&hyph;9985 for the month containing the date of the emission inspection failure referred to in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) of this section and for the smallest geographical area covered by the above Guide which contains the area covered by the FIP I/M program. (vi) Exempted repairs. (A) Manufacturers are not responsible for repairs to vehicles to which there has been obvious abuse or tampering, as defined in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section and determined by the FIP I/M program test provider. (B) Manufacturers are not responsible for repairs of vehicles that have exceeded their useful life. (2) Applicable enhanced in-use I/M standards. (i) (A) The enhanced in-use I/M standards for exhaust HC emissions specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall be substituted for the exhaust HC emission standards specified in appendix 2 of ยง52.2963 for all vehicles of an exhaust engine family if at least one model year's sales of that exhaust engine family has exceeded a liability threshold for HC emissions, as defined in paragraph (f)(4) of this section. (B) The enhanced in-use I/M standards for NO X emissions specified in paragraphs (c) of this section shall be substituted for the NO X emission standards specified in appendix 2 of ยง52.2963 for all vehicles of an exhaust engine family if at least one model year's sales of that exhaust engine family has exceeded a liability threshold for NO X emissions, as defined in paragraph (f)(4) of this section. (ii) This substitution shall begin 30 days after the date on which notification from the Administrator of the exceedance of the liability threshold is received by the manager of the affected I/M test facility. (3) Notification to Vehicle Owners. Immediately following the failure of an emission inspection for a pollutant (i.e., HC or NO X ) by a vehicle for which the FIP I/M program test provider has received notification of exceedance of a liability threshold per paragraph (f)(2) of this section for that pollutant, the certifed emission inspector shall: (i) Determine whether or not the vehicle has been obviously abused or tampered with, per paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, (ii) If the vehicle was not obviously abused or tampered with, inform the vehicle owner (or the vehicle operator present at the test) that the vehicle manufacturer is responsible for remedial repairs, and
