FR941028-1-00023 FR941028-1-00004 G. Special Temporary License, Registration or Principal Listing Procedures The Commission is also proposing, in §36.6, to allow special procedures that would be available to a person associated with an FCM or IB who limits his or her activities to certain specified instruments. If this rule were to be adopted, the Commission would expect to set forth in an Appendix A to Part 36 those instruments to which the special registration procedures would apply. An instrument would be included in such an Appendix A only upon petition by a contract market demonstrating that it is not contrary to the purpose of the Act and the registration rules promulgated thereunder or to the public interest to permit special temporary license, registration or principal listing procedures for persons licensed with another federal financial regulatory authority and involved only with that instrument. Although to obtain a temporary license, such persons would have to certify that they are not subject to statutory disqualification under Section 8a(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 12a(2), the National Futures Association (``NFA'') could, for example, waive the fingerprint requirement. Further, the Commission notes that although proficiency testing requirements are governed by NFA Rules 401 and 402 and interpretive notices related thereto, such a contract market petition could also address whether alternative proficiency testing requirements would be appropriate. Registration, of course, could continue to be denied under Sections 8a(3) or 8a(4) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 12a(3) or 12a(4). If the Commission were to approve the contract market petition, NFA could then adopt and submit for Commission approval special registration procedures to govern those persons involved only with the particular instrument that is the subject of the petition. The Commission, nonetheless, wishes to make clear that a contract market seeking special registration procedures with respect to persons limiting their activities to a particular new instrument may consult with NFA and develop such procedures to be submitted in conjunction with the contract market application for simultaneous consideration by the Commission. Such NFA rules could vary depending upon the instrument involved and would be considered by the Commission on a case-by-case basis. The Commission would expect to include in Appendix A to Part 36 those instruments covered by the pending petitions of the CBOT and the CME to which Part 36 applies. This authority would be comparable to that already established under Part 3 of the Commission's regulations. See Commission Rule 3.12(j), 17 CFR 3.12(j) (1994). The Commission requests comment on these special registration procedures, in particular their practicability. H. Risk Disclosure The Commission is proposing, in §36.7, to permit accounts to be opened for section 4(c) contract market transactions without furnishing an eligible participant with the basic risk disclosure statements applicable generally to non-exempt futures and option contracts under Commission Rules 1.55, 1.65, 33.7, and 190.10, 17 CFR 1.55, 1.65, 33.7, and 190.10 (1994), or the Commission's newly-adopted generic risk disclosure statement. 46 These basic risk disclosure statements are intended to provide a brief description of some of the risks attendant to futures and options trading and are designed to be understood by all customers. Since section 4(c) contract market transactions would be entered into only by sophisticated or high net worth persons or those engaged in the futures industry, and since the products themselves may be different from traditional futures and option contracts, the Commission believes that it may be appropriate to substitute for standard disclosure statements such disclosure as may be appropriate to the customer's expertise and financial capacity, tailored to the particular product. Therefore, in lieu of requiring a specific statement or format, the proviso to proposed §36.7(a) would require an FCM or, in the case of an introduced account, an IB, to furnish an eligible participant with disclosure appropriate to the particular instrument and the eligible participant prior to the eligible participant's entry into the first section 4(c) contract market transaction involving a particular instrument. 46 59 FR 34376 (July 5, 1994). This statement currently can be used in the U.S., in the United Kingdom, in Ireland and in Belgium. Several other jurisdictions are considering its adoption. In this regard, the Commission notes that Rule 1.55(f), 17 CFR 1.55(f) (1994), currently states that furnishing the required disclosure statement under that rule does not relieve an FCM or IB from any other disclosure obligation it may have under applicable law. 47 The Commission further notes that exchanges with non-traditional trading systems have required, on their own initiative, special risk disclosures applicable to such systems. 48 The Commission further notes that in order to qualify for the exemption of swap agreements under Part 35 of its rules, an agreement must be entered into by an eligible swap participant, the definition of which is closely followed by proposed Rule 36.1(c)(2), and there are no specific disclosure requirements under Part 35 of the Commission's rules, 17 CFR Part 35 (1994). 49 The Commission therefore preliminarily believes that it is striking the appropriate balance in proposed Rule 36.7 with respect to disclosure in light of the eligible participants and products involved. The Commission requests comment concerning the risk disclosure requirements for section 4(c) contract market transactions. 47 The Commission notes that proposed §36.7(b), which provides that ``[t]his section does not relieve a futures commission merchant or introducing broker from any other disclosure obligations it may have under applicable law,'' is included as a reminder that Section 4b of the Act requires all material information to be disclosed. The fact that other proposed sections of Part 36 do not have a similar ``catch-all'' provision should not be interpreted to mean that the Act or Commission regulations do not apply to those sections. 48 See CME Rule 577 and New York Mercantile Exchange Rule 6.22, which address the risk disclosure requirements applicable to the users of the GLOBEX and ACCESS electronic trading systems, respectively. See also Commission Rules 4.7 and 4.8, 17 CFR 4.7 and 4.8 (1994), wherein the Commission has provided exemptions from disclosure, reporting and recordkeeping requirements for CPOs privately offering commodity pools to certain highly-accredited investors and for CTAs providing commodity interest trading advice to such persons. 49 See also Part 34 of the Commission's rules, 17 CFR Part 34 (1994), regarding regulation of hybrid instruments. I. Suspension or Revocation of Section 4(c) Contract Market Transaction Exemption Proposed §36.8 mirrors the requirements for exemptive relief under Section 4(c) of the Act, namely that any exemption must be consistent with the public interest and the purposes of the Act. If the Commission determines otherwise, §36.8 provides that, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, the exemption may be suspended or revoked.
