FR940706-2-00148 FR940706-2-00089 The HOPE for Elderly Independence Program is intended to demonstrate that effectively targeted and tailored supportive services, coupled with tenant-based rental voucher assistance, can help frail elderly persons continue to live independently in a cost efficient way and prevent premature or unnecessary institutionalization. Effective delivery of supportive services is the critical element in a successful program. Supportive services for the frail elderly are coordinated by a PHA through a service coordinator and a professional assessment committee (PAC). The PAC is competent to appraise the functional abilities of frail elderly persons with respect to the performance of normal daily living activities. The service coordinator is skilled and trained in dealing with the frail elderly, is a member of the PAC, and is responsible for assuring, through case management, that program participants are linked to the supportive services they need to continue independent living. (i) A service coordinator's training, educational, and work experiences must meet the following minimum guidelines: (A) A Bachelor of Social Work or degree in a related field such as gerontology, psychology or counseling is preferable; a college degree is fully acceptable. However, individuals without a degree but with appropriate work experience may be hired. A PHA may hire a person without a degree, with appropriate justification. (B) The service coordinator must be trained in the aging process, elder services, disability services, eligibility for and procedures of federal and applicable State entitlement programs, legal liability issues relating to providing service coordination, drug and alcohol use and abuse by the elderly, and mental health issues. This requirement is not a prerequisite for hiring. However, training requirements, if not met at the point of hiring, must be satisfied within one year. (C) Two years of experience in social services delivery with senior citizens or demonstrated working knowledge of supportive services and other resources for senior citizens in the jurisdiction where the demonstration is located. (D) Ability to advocate, problem-solve and provide results for the elderly served. (E) Demonstrated writing and organizational skills. (ii) A service coordinator performs the following functions: (A) Consults with frail elderly tenants, service providers, owners and other appropriate persons to identify the particular needs and characteristics of frail elderly persons. (B) Builds professional relationships with agencies, service providers and volunteers in the community to secure ongoing provision of supportive services and other necessary items for the program. Shops to determine the best value in service pricing to assure individualized, flexible and creative services for the frail elderly. May set up a directory of service providers. (C) Screens applicants for the HOPE for Elderly Independence Program, reviews any comments from applicants' physicians and the adequacy of applicants' informal support network (i.e., family and friends available to the applicant to assist in meeting daily living needs), conducts preliminary assessments of frailty, refers potentially eligible applicants to the PAC. (D) Educates program participants on such issues as application procedures, service availability, and client rights providing advocacy as appropriate. Assists participants in making their own choices, refers and links participants to service providers. These are, for example, case management, personal assistance, homemaker assistance, meals-on-wheels, transportation, counseling, occasional visiting nurses, preventive health screening and legal advocacy. (E) Helps build informal support networks with neighbors, friends and family, with the objective to provide only those services necessary to maintain independence and to avoid dependence. If necessary, assists participants with the decision to move to a higher level of care. (F) Ensures that the services included in participants' case plans are provided on a regular, ongoing and satisfactory basis. Completes and maintains case files for the PAC including records of assessments, case plans, referrals, case monitoring, and reassessments. Keeps the PAC and the service providers informed of the progress of participants. Recommends reassessments as necessary. (G) Educates other PHA staff on issues related to aging in-place and services coordination to help them assist other frail elderly program participants.
