FR941107-2-00040 FR941107-2-00010 DOC Position : The Department's practice is to calculate credit expenses exclusive of VAT. (See the discussion of our VAT methodology in the preliminary determination (59 FR 31204, 31205, June, 17, 1994.) Theoretically, there is an opportunity cost associated with any post-service payment. Accordingly, to calculate the VAT adjustment argued by Hevensa would require the Department to calculate the opportunity costs involved with freight charges, rebates, and selling expenses for each reported sale. It would be an impossible task for the Department to attempt to determine the opportunity cost of every such charge and expense. Comment 6 : Hevensa argues that the VAT methodology employed by the Department in its preliminary determination distorted the Department's calculations by inflating_and possibly creating_the dumping margins found on Hevensa's sales. The petitioners argue that the VAT methodology employed in the preliminary determination is consistent with the Department's practice. DOC Position : We agree with petitioners. As we explained in our preliminary determination, we multiplied the foreign VAT rate by the price of the U.S. merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market VAT was applied to foreign market sales, and we added this product to the U.S. price. The Department also deducted from the USP and FMV those portions of the respective home market tax and the USP tax adjustments attributable to expenses. This methodology was adopted by the Department to comply with Federal-Mogul Corp. and Torrington Co. v. United States , 834 F. Supp. 1391 (CIT 1993) and has been the Department's practice since this ruling. See also, Avesta Sheffield, Inc. v. United States , 838 F. Supp. 608 (CIT 1993). Comment 7 : The petitioners argue that the Department should calculate duty drawback on only those export shipments of silicomanganese that correspond to valid ``Admission Temporal par Perfectionsmiento Activo (ATPA)'' permits of the Venezuelan government. Hevensa concedes that its ATPA had lapsed for the period from June 29, 1993, through November 2, 1993. However, it argues that it is eligible for duty drawback on all exports after November 2, 1993, and that it has the right to request the Venezuelan authorities to modify its documents to apply other shipments against the ATPA. DOC Position : We agree with the petitioners. The record demonstrates that Hevensa was only authorized duty drawback on the particular export sales for which an ACTA was in effect at the time the silicomanganese was exported. Accordingly, we have calculated duty drawback adjustments for only such sales. Comment 8 : The petitioners argue that the Department should base the adjustment of FMV for royalties on the amount of the fee for services that had been established between Hevensa and the provider of the technical services and which Hevensa had accrued during the POI.
