FR940128-2-00012 FR940128-2-00005 In cases where we made price-to price-comparisons, we compared U.S. sales to home market sales made at the same level of trade, where possible, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.58 (1993). In addition, we disregarded home market sales of odd-length merchandise because we determined that these sales were made outside the ordinary course of trade. We also disregarded certain sales to end user customers, because we found at verification that the dates of sale for these transactions were outside the POI. We adjusted the reported home market data for errors and omissions found at verification. We then calculated FMV based on packed F.O.B. prices charged to unrelated customers in the home market. We made deductions, where appropriate, for discounts and rebates. We also made deductions, where appropriate, for inland freight. We deducted home market packing costs and added U.S. packing costs, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. Pursuant to 19 CFR 353.56(a)(1) and 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2), we made circumstance-of-sale adjustments, where appropriate, for differences in bank charges and credit expenses, adjusted as described above. Currency Conversion Because certified exchange rates from the Federal Reserve were not available, we made currency conversions based on the official monthly exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the International Monetary Fund. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we verified information provided the respondent by using standard verification procedures, including the examination of relevant sales and financial records, and selection of original source documentation containing relevant sales information. Critical Circumstances Petitioners allege that ``critical circumstances'' exist with respect to imports of WSSP from Malaysia. Section 735(a)(3) of the Act provides that critical circumstances exist if we determine that there is a reasonable basis to believe or suspect that: (A)(i) There is a history of dumping in the United States or elsewhere of the class or kind of merchandise which is the subject of the investigation, or (ii) The person by whom, or for whose account, the merchandise was imported knew or should have known that the exporter was selling the merchandise which is the subject of the investigation at less than its fair value, and (B) There have been massive imports of the class or kind of merchandise which is the subject of the investigation over a relatively short period. Regarding a history of dumping, petitioners have argued that the existence of U.S. antidumping orders on WSSP from Taiwan and Korea is sufficient for the Department to find a history of dumping in this case. However, the Department's practice in this area is to consider only those orders on subject merchandise from the country under investigation as sufficient evidence of a history of dumping. Consequently, because there have been no antidumping orders on WSSP from Malaysia, we find no history of dumping. In determining whether any importer had knowledge of dumping, we normally consider margins of 25 percent or more sufficient to impute knowledge of dumping under section 735(e)(1)(A) of the Act when USP is based on purchase price. Because the final dumping margin for KT is less than 25 percent, we do not impute importer knowledge of sales at less than fair value, under section 735(a)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act. Since the criteria necessary to find the existence of critical circumstances under section 735(a)(3)(A) are not present, we do not need to determine whether imports of subject merchandise have been massive over a relatively short period, in accordance with section 735(a)(3)(B) of the Act. Accordingly, we determine that critical circumstances do not exist with respect to imports of WSSP from Malaysia. Interested Party Comments Comment 1: Petitioners argue that KT was unable to substantiate its cost data at verification. As a result, petitioners contend that these data are unusable and the Department is required to reject KT's cost data completely and base the final determination on BIA. Petitioners maintain that, under the statute and the Department's regulations, the Department must use BIA to set antidumping duty margins whenever a respondent ``refuses or is unable to produce information requested in a timely manner and in the form required, or otherwise significantly impedes an investigation'' (see, section 776(b) of the Act). Petitioners further assert that the Department must also use BIA if it is ``unable to verify the accuracy of the information submitted'' by a respondent (see, section 776(c) of the Act).
