FR940513-0-00069 FR940513-0-00018 One clarifying change and one technical change were made with respect to the third example in the tiered-partnership rules (relating to the independent chain approach). The clarifying change was to state that the upper-tier partnership separately allocates to its upper-tier partners the items allocated to the upper-tier partnership by the lower-tier partnerships. This change emphasizes that, as a practical matter, partnerships would not otherwise be able to demonstrate that the requirements of the fractions rule are complied with. The technical change, which is related, is to provide that for purposes of applying §1.704&hyph;2(k) under the independent chain approach, minimum gain chargebacks are taken into account on an if-and-when basis. Absent this change, no tiered-partnership structure in which a lower-tier partnership incurred nonrecourse debt would be able to comply with the fractions rule. This is because §1.704&hyph;2(k) would be treated on a prospective basis as giving rise to: (1) an allocation of a decrease in minimum gain to the upper-tier partnership (and, in turn, an upper-tier QO partner) from one lower-tier partnership lacking sufficient income and gain to effect a minimum gain chargeback; and (2) a corresponding minimum gain chargeback by the upper-tier partnership using income and gain allocated to the upper-tier partnership by the other lower-tier partnership. K. Effective Date The final regulations retain December 30, 1992, as their general effective date, i.e., the date the proposed regulations were published in the Federal Register . However, the final regulations also permit reliance on the proposed regulations during the window period beginning December 30, 1992, and ending on May 13, 1994. The regulations provide transition rules for partnerships commencing after October 13, 1987, property acquired by partnerships after October 13, 1987, and partnership interests acquired by qualified organizations after October 13, 1987. Special Analyses It has been determined that this Treasury decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, the notice of proposed rulemaking preceding these regulations was submitted to the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Deane M. Burke, Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Passthroughs and Special Industries), Internal Revenue Service. However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects in 26 CFR Part 1 Income Taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR part 1 is amended as follows: Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 is amended by adding an entry in numerical order to read as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣* Section 1.514(c)&hyph;2 also issued under 26 U.S.C. 514(c)(9)(E)(iii). *␣*␣* Par. 2. Section 1.514(c)&hyph;2 is added to read as follows: §1.514(c)&hyph;2. Permitted allocations under section 514(c)(9)(E). (a) Table of contents. This paragraph contains a listing of the major headings of this §1.514(c)&hyph;2. (a) Table of contents. (b) Application of section 514(c)(9)(E), relating to debt-financed real property held by partnerships. (1) In general. (i) The fractions rule. (ii) Substantial economic effect. (2) Manner in which fractions rule is applied. (i) In general. (ii) Subsequent changes. (c) General definitions. (1) Overall partnership income and loss. (i) Items taken into account in determining overall partnership income and loss. (ii) Guaranteed payments to qualified organizations. (2) Fractions rule percentage. (3) Definitions of certain terms by cross reference to partnership regulations. (4) Example.
