FR940516-1-00032 FR940516-1-00001 (3) The pool's major commodity trading advisors and the operators of the pool's major investee pools; and (4) Any principal of the foregoing. (u) Reporting to pool participants. A statement that the commodity pool operator must provide all participants with monthly or quarterly (whichever applies) statements of account and with an annual report containing financial statements certified by an independent public accountant. (v) Voluntary information. If any information, other than that required by the Commission, the antifraud provisions of the Act, or any federal or state securities laws and regulations, is provided, such information: (1) May not be misleading in content or presentation or inconsistent with required disclosures; (2) Shall be subject to the antifraud provisions of the Act and the regulations thereunder and to rules regarding the use of promotional material promulgated by a registered futures association, pursuant to section 17(j) of the Act; and (3) May only appear following the related required disclosures, unless otherwise specified in this rule. (w) Material information. This section does not relieve a commodity pool operator from any obligation under the Act or the regulations thereunder, including the obligation to disclose all material information to existing or prospective pool participants even if the information is not specifically required by this section. ยง4.25 Performance disclosures. (a) General principles and definitions. (1)(i) Capsule Performance: Unless otherwise specified, the disclosure of the performance of a pool must be net of any fees, expenses or allocations to the commodity pool operator and include the following information. (A) The name of the pool; (B) A statement as to whether the pool is: ( 1 ) Privately offered pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933; ( 2 ) A multi-advisor pool as defined in ยง4.10(h); and ( 3 ) A limited risk pool as defined in 4.10(i); (C) The date of inception of trading; (D) The aggregate gross capital subscriptions to the pool; (E) The pool's current net asset value; (F) The largest monthly draw-down, during the most recent five calendar years and year-to-date, expressed as a percentage of pool net asset value; the month and year of the draw-down must be specified. (G) The worst continuous peak-to-valley draw-down during the most recent five calendar years and year-to-date, expressed as a percentage of pool net asset value, indicating the months and year of the draw-down (for example, a peak-to-valley draw-down of ``4 to 8&hyph;91/25%'' means that the peak-to-valley draw-down lasted from April to August of 1991 and resulted in a twenty-five percent cumulative draw-down;) and (H) The annual and year-to-date rate of return for the pool, computed on a compounded monthly basis, except that performance of the pool offered must include monthly rates of return. (ii) Unless otherwise specified, the performance of accounts must include: (A) The name of the commodity trading advisor or other person trading the account and the name of the trading program; (B) The date on which the commodity trading advisor began trading client accounts and the date when client funds began being traded pursuant to the trading program; (C) The number of accounts directed by the commodity trading advisor pursuant to the trading program specified as of the date of the disclosure document; (D) The total assets under the management of the commodity trading advisor and in the trading program specified, as of the date of the disclosure document; (E) The largest monthly draw-down for the trading program specified during the most recent five calendar year and year-to-date expressed as a percentage of client funds. The month and year of the draw-down must be specified;
