FR940610-1-00023 FR940610-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Parts 27 and 29 Airworthiness Standards; Fiscal Year 1997 Rotorcraft Research and Development Initiative, Program Identification AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Call for Part 27 and 29 Research and Development Program Proposals. SUMMARY: This notice announces a call for proposals that will define the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Aircraft Certification Service, Rotorcraft Directorate Research and Development (RE&D) initiative for Fiscal Year (FY) 1997 by defining and documenting specific, potential RE&D program proposals. The call for proposals will focus on Aircraft Certification RE&D programs that support activity related to FAR Parts 27, 29, and associated operations Parts. Other FAA requirements such as flight standards, air traffic, or airway facilities will not be addressed. The FAA is soliciting the public sector to ensure that proposed Rotorcraft RE&D requirements will have relevant, practical applications and will be cost effective. DATES: The call for proposals will be open until close of business July 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration, (FAA), Mr. Mike Mathias, Rotorcraft Standards Staff, Fort Worth, Texas 76193&hyph;0111. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Mike Mathias, Aerospace Engineer, Rotorcraft Standards Staff, FAA, Rotorcraft Directorate, Fort Worth, Texas 76193&hyph;0111; telephone (817) 222&hyph;5123. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Each FY the FAA prepares an RE&D program plan that includes new (and amended) RE&D proposals. The Aircraft Certification Service's Rotorcraft Directorate is responsible for preparing its part of the overall FAA submittal. The philosophy of the RE&D process is to create an atmosphere that will promote the identification of requirements by any person or organization in the government or private sector. This makes the RE&D process more responsive to public sector needs. Within the Aircraft Certification Service, the RE&D process places increased emphasis on FAA Aircraft Certification Directorate and Division level participation in identifying new requirements and in sponsoring and monitoring the resulting RE&D projects. Therefore, as part of the overall FAA and Aircraft Certification initiative, the FAA's Rotorcraft Directorate is undertaking a directly-related initiative specifically for the rotorcraft community. It has the same basic mission, goals, and procedures as the agency-wide initiative. The Rotorcraft Directorate will implement its segment of the FY&hyph;97 submittal by identifying, describing, evaluating, and cataloging potential RE&D requirements (i.e., proposals) for potential sponsorship and incorporation into the overall FAA FY&hyph;97 RE&D submittal. This will result in a coordinated FY&hyph;97 rotorcraft requirements package that will be assigned to the appropriate FAA RE&D provider organizations when approved and when funds are allocated by the budget process. It should be stressed that the proposals that are evaluated as a result of this notice, if accepted, will not be funded until the overall FAA FY 97 RE&D submittal is funded, (i.e., at least two (2) years after their original submittal on 10/15/94) and that reprogramming of limited RE&D resources before then is highly unlikely. Also, the accepted proposals will have to compete for resources with other requirements identified for RE&D by other FAA activities. Nonetheless, the need clearly exists to identify Rotorcraft Certification RE&D needs to compete for the agency's RE&D resources. As a matter of information, there are four primary FAA RE&D supplier organizations: (1) The Technical Center (ACD) in Atlantic City, New Jersey; (2) the Research and Development Service (ARD) in Washington, DC; (3) the Office of Environment and Energy (AEE) in Washington, DC; and (4) the Office of Aviation Medicine's Civil Aeromedical Institute (AAM/CAMI) in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. These organizations perform the RE&D on programs that are approved and funded through the process. Although not mandatory, the format of Figure 1 for RE&D proposals is preferred:
