FR940112-0-00106 FR940112-0-00023 B. Public Meeting The process of developing the DOT&hyph;400 series cargo tank motor vehicle specifications and of updating the MC 331 and MC 338 cargo tank motor vehicle specifications has extended over more than ten years. During this time, the process has been conducted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, with the attendant advantage of offering ample time for manufacturers and users to comment on proposed changes and to provide alternative means of achieving enhanced safety of cargo tank motor vehicles in hazardous materials service. Some major issues, however, remain unresolved. These issues pertain to structural integrity, accident damage protection, use of dual function pressure relief devices, and ASME certification of low pressure cargo tank motor vehicle manufacturers. Changes endorsed several years ago are now being questioned by some industry members. In addition, RSPA received several petitions for rulemaking raising certain issues not previously addressed. RSPA will conduct a public meeting, in an effort to resolve these issues. The following issues will be discussed at the times noted: Date: February 7, 1994 9 a.m. until 12 p.m. MC 331 and MC 338 Specifications Structural integrity. Several commenters have expressed concern over the application and combination of loadings used to determine the effective stress at any given point on a cargo tank motor vehicle. Based on industry's experience in design, operation, maintenance and repair of high pressure cargo tank motor vehicles, RSPA solicits information on loading combinations that may be encountered during the operation of these tanks. Date: February 7, 1994, 1 p.m. until 5 p.m. and February 8, 1994, 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. DOT 406, DOT 407 and DOT 412 Specifications 1. Structural integrity. Several commenters have expressed concern over the application and combination of loadings used to determine the effective stress at any given point on a cargo tank motor vehicle. Based on industry's experience in design, operation, maintenance and repair of cargo tank motor vehicles, RSPA solicits information on loading combinations that may be encountered during the operation of these tanks. 2. Accident damage protection. Several commenters have stated that it is not possible to meet the prescribed accident damage protection requirements. RSPA solicits information on alternative means to provide cargo tank motor vehicles with adequate bottom, rollover, and rear-end protection. 3. Dual function pressure relief devices. Several commenters have stated that it is not possible to design dual function pressure relief devices. However, advertisements in trade magazines indicate that such vents are available. RSPA solicits data on the development and availability of dual function pressure relief devices. 4. ASME certification of low pressure cargo tank motor vehicle manufacturers. The Cargo Tank Manufacturers Association (CTMA) submitted for RSPA's consideration a quality control program for manufacturers of low pressure DOT 406 cargo tank motor vehicles as an alternative to requiring each manufacturing facility to have ASME Certification. Copies of the CTMA proposal are available in RSPA's Docket Unit. RSPA solicits specific comments on the adequacy of the CTMA proposal; particularly in the areas of manufacturing quality control and independent inspection. Information received at the public meeting and in response to the NPRM will be used in the development of the final rule under Docket HM&hyph;183C. However, RSPA may make certain issues subject to a separate rulemaking action. C. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This rulemaking is exempt from review by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866. Although the June 12, 1989 final rule was significant under the regulatory procedures of the Department of Transportation (44 FR 11034), this document is not significant because it does not impose additional requirements and has the effect of extending a compliance date. This rule, in fact, provides regulatory and economic relief in some areas. The original regulatory evaluation of the final rule was not modified because this final rule does not impose additional requirements and does not make substantive changes to the final rule. Executive Order 12612 This final rule has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 (``Federalism''). The Hazardous Materials Transportation Act contains an express preemption provision (49 App. U.S.C. 1804(a)(4)) that preempts State, local, and Indian tribe requirements on certain covered subjects. Covered subjects are: (i) The designation, description, and classification of hazardous materials; (ii) The packing, repacking, handling, labeling, marking, and placarding of hazardous materials; (iii) The preparation, execution, and use of shipping documents pertaining to hazardous materials and requirements respecting the number, content, and placement of such documents; (iv) The written notification, recording, and reporting of the unintentional release in transportation of hazardous materials; or (v) The design, manufacturing, fabrication, marking, maintenance, reconditioning, repairing, or testing of a package or container which is represented, marked, certified, or sold as qualified for use in the transportation of hazardous materials. This final rule concerns the manufacturing requirements for packagings represented as qualified for use in the transportation of hazardous materials. This final rule preempts State, local, or Indian tribe requirements in accordance with the standards set forth above. The HMTA (49 App. U.S.C. 1804(a)(5)) provides that if DOT issues a regulation concerning any of the covered subjects after November 16, 1990, DOT must determine and publish in the Federal Register the effective date of Federal preemption. That effective date may not be earlier than the 90th day following the date of issuance of the final rule and not later than two years after the date of issuance. RSPA has determined that the effective date of Federal preemption for these requirements will be 90 days after publication in the Federal Register . Thus, RSPA lacks discretion in this area, and preparation of a federalism assessment is not warranted. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This rule applies to manufacturers of DOT specification cargo tank motor vehicles.
