FR940216-2-00026 FR940216-2-00015 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Program Background and Objectives Grants covered by this announcement will be supported by SPRANS funds set aside under the Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant in the category of special MCH improvement projects (MCHIP) which contribute to the health of CSHCN and their families. The purpose of these grants is to help eliminate overlap and fragmentation of services to children and their families through creation of new community service systems, working together with health, education and social service professionals. Applications are solicited for projects which: (1) Demonstrate the ability of health, social service and education professionals to work together in communities to foster successful physical, social and emotional growth for children and their families; (2) Assist in the development of curricula at institutions of higher learning, based on best practices learned in community settings; and (3) Disseminate a collaborative model of personnel training and service delivery at the regional, State and national levels. Grantees are expected to work collaboratively with the Commission on Leadership in Interprofessional Education to field test model curricula. The Commission, an organizational unit of the Association of Teacher Educators which grew out of a March, 1990, symposium cosponsored by MCHB, the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education, and the American Academy of Pediatrics, focuses on the study of ways to produce a new generation of interprofessionally oriented leaders in health, teaching, administration, social work, and other human service professions whose members possess the knowledge, skills and values needed to create new community service systems for children and their families. Preference for funding will be given to applicants with prior experience linking health, education and social service professionals together with policy makers in State and local health and education agencies and private sector organizations to solve complex problems facing children and their families that require collaboration. This means that approved applicants with such experience will be funded ahead of other categories or groups of applicants. Applicants will use guidelines adapted from the FY 1993 SPRANS Field-Initiated Project subcategory to prepare their applications. These guidelines will be included with the grant application materials. Information in this announcement, such as application receipt dates, will supersede that contained in the guidelines. Time does not permit a formal comment period on the category and preferences described above. Any comments which members of the public wish to make should be submitted to: Chief, Grants Management Branch, at the address listed in the ADDRESSES section.
