FR940616-2-00136 FR940616-2-00092 The U.S. Government reserves the right to reject any or all applications received. USIA will not pay for design and development costs associated with submitting a proposal. Applications are submitted at the risk of the applicant; should circumstances prevent the awarding of a grant, all preparation and submission costs are at the applicant's expense. USIA will not award funds for activities conducted prior to the actual grant award. Review Criteria USIA will consider proposals based on the following criteria: 1. Quality of Program Idea Proposals should exhibit substance, originality, rigor, and relevance to the Agency mission. They should demonstrate the matching of U.S. resources to a clearly defined need. 2. Institutional Reputation/Ability Institutions should demonstrate their potential for effective program design and implementation and provide, if available, evidence of having conducted successful programs. If an applicant has previously received a USIA grant, responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants, as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts (M/KG), will be considered. Evaluations of previous projects may also be considered in this assessment. 3. Project Personnel Information provided regarding the thematic and logistical expertise of project personnel should be relevant to the proposal at hand. In addition to English teaching specialists, applicants for this grant should have involved, on a consultative basis, individuals with Middle Eastern and conflict resolution expertise. Resumes or C.V.s should be summaries appropriate to the specific proposal and should not exceed two pages each. 4. Program Planning A detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive rigor and logistical capacity. 5. Thematic Expertise The proposal should demonstrate the organization's expertise in the subject area and its ability to share information effectively. 6. Cross-Cultural Sensitivity/Area Expertise Evidence should be provided of sensitivity to historical, linguistic, religious, and other cross-cultural factors, as well as relevant knowledge of the target geographic area/country. 7. Ability To Achieve Program Objectives Objectives should be realistic and feasible. The proposal should clearly demonstrate how the grantee institution will meet program objectives. 8. Multiplier Effect Proposed programs should strengthen mutual understanding and should contribute to maximum sharing of information and the establishment of long-term institutional and individual ties. 9. Cost-Effectiveness Costs to USIA per exchange participant (American and foreign) should be kept to a minimum, and all items proposed for USIA funding should be necessary and appropriate to achieve the program's objectives. 10. Cost-Sharing Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through private sector support as well as through direct funding contributions and/or in-kind support from the prospective grantee organization and its partners. 11. Follow-On Activities Proposals should provide a plan for continued exchange activity (without USIA support) which ensures that USIA-supported programs are not isolated events. 12. Project Evaluation Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the project. USIA recommends that the applicant discuss the evaluation methodology chosen and the techniques which will be employed to assess the effectiveness of the project and the correspondence between observable outcomes and original project objectives. Grantees will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is concluded or quarterly, whichever is less frequent. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency which contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the American Government. Awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress and allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about September 16, 1994. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: June 11, 1994. Barry Fulton, Deputy Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14693 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
