FR941107-2-00062 FR941107-2-00024 Notice of Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Construction of a Subregional Long-Term Wastewater Project by the City of Santa Rosa in Sonoma County, California AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, San Francisco District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the proposed Santa Rosa Subregional Long-Term Wastewater Project (Project). The purpose of the Project is to provide for effluent disposal from the Subregional Sewerage System wastewater treatment facilities operated by the City of Santa Rosa. The Project would implement a program to dispose of tertiary treated wastewater from system members and customers through the year 2010. The City of Santa Rosa has applied for a Department of Army (DA) permit for authorization to discharge dredged and fill material, and to work in navigable waters of the United States in association with construction of the Project. The DA permit application process, scoping process, and preparation of the Draft EIS will be conducted by the Regulatory Branch of the San Francisco District. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, San Francisco District, Regulatory Branch, 211 Main Street, San Francisco, California 94105&hyph;1905. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions about the proposed action and Draft EIS can be answered by Wade Eakle at the Corps of Engineers (Telephone 415&hyph;744&hyph;3325, ext. 222). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Proposed Action The Corps of Engineers has received an application for a Department of the Army permit from the City of Santa Rosa to discharge dredged and fill material, and to work in navigable waters of the United States in association with construction of a Subregional Long-Term Wastewater Project. Project implementation could include construction of embankments to create a wastewater storage reservoir; construction of a groundwater infiltration basin; construction of pipelines to distribute reclaimed water; construction of irrigation drainage facilities; and construction of berms of create or restore wetlands. The Laguna Wastewater Treatment Plant operated by the City of Santa Rosa provides tertiary treatment for approximately 16 million gallons of wastewater per day (mgd) average dry weather flow (ADWF) from the Subregional Sewerage System. This results in an average annual flow of 7,000 million gallons (mg). Wastewater flows are projected to increase to approximately 22.5 mgd ADWF by the year 2010, including consideration for lower flows due to water conservation. This results in an average annual flow of 9,800 mg. Disposal of treated wastewater from the Laguna plant is through agricultural irrigation, created wetlands, urban irrigation, and discharge to the Russian River through the Laguna de Santa Rosa. Ordinarily, discharge to the Russian River is limited to a maximum of 1 percent of river flow (5 percent with the permission of the California Regional Water Quality Control Board), and storage is provided to hold treated wastewater so that maximum legal discharge is not exceeded. However, due to a combination of conditions which may occur during the October 1&hyph;May 14 discharge season, discharge to the Russian River may exceed the legal maximum.
