FR941230-2-00066 FR941230-2-00046 COMPETITIVE IMPACT STATEMENT Pursuant to Section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act (``APPA'' or ``Tunney Act''), 15 U.S.C. ยง16(b)&hyph;(h), the United States submits this Competitive Impact Statement relating to the proposed Final Judgment submitted for entry in this civil antitrust proceeding. I Nature and Purpose of the Proceeding On December 5, 1994 the United States filed a civil antitrust complaint pursuant to Section 4 of the Sherman Act as amended, 15 U.S.C. 4, against the defendants Classic Care Network, Inc; North Shore University Hospital; North Shore University Hospital at Glen Cove; Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center; Central Suffolk Hospital; Good Samaritan Hospital; Huntington Hospital; John T. Mather Memorial Hospital; and South Nassau Communities Hospital. The complaint alleges that beginning at least as early as April of 1991, and continuing at least until January of 1992, the defendants created a joint sales agency, the purpose and effect of which was to eliminate discounting on inpatient hospital rates to licensed health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and to limit discounting on outpatient hospital rates to HMOs and managed care plans in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 1. As a consequence of this arrangement, HMOs that operated in Nassau and Suffolk counties were prevented from contracting with the defendants for competitive rates for inpatient hospital services and both HMOs and managed care plans were limited to contractual discounts on outpatient rates of no more than 10% off any defendant hospital's established rate for any outpatient procedure. The complaint seeks injunctive relief to prevent the defendants from continuing to participate in, or entering into any unlawful agreements between themselves or with any competing hospitals that would restrain price competition for the delivery of inpatient or outpatient hospital services to purchasers of those services, such as HMOs and third-party payers, and that would ultimately raise the prices that individual consumers pay for health insurance coverage. On December 5, 1994 the United States and defendants filed a Stipulation pursuant to which the parties consented to entry of the attached proposed Final Judgment. This Final Judgment, as explained more fully below, enjoins the defendants from entering into agreements between themselves or any competing hospital in Queens, Nassau, or Suffolk Counties that would eliminate or reduce price competition in connection with the provision of inpatient or outpatient hospital services to purchasers of those hospital services. The United States and defendants have stipulated that the proposed Final Judgment may be entered after compliance with the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act unless the government withdraws its consent. Entry of the proposed Final Judgment would terminate this action, except that the Court would retain jurisdiction to construe, modify, and enforce the proposed Final Judgment and to punish violations thereof.
