FBIS3-26348 "drchi025_m_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 Military Major Military Regions See Personnel Changes HK0402135894 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO in Chinese 4 Feb 94 p 10 HK0402135894 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By reporter Han Chien-hua (7281 0494 5478): "Li Laizhu Appointed Beijing Military Region Commander"] [Text] Communist Chinese official sources confirmed yesterday that the post of Beijing Military Region commander had been taken over by Deputy Commander Li Laizhu. This personnel change in a major military region indicates that Communist China has quietly launched major personnel changes in local military commands in the wake of the Third Plenary Session of the 14th CPC Central Committee, held at the end of last year. A few days ago, Li Laizhu accompanied Jiang Zemin, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, on an inspection tour of Shanxi in his capacity as commander of Beijing Military Region. In its report, the official XINHUA News Agency has confirmed that former Beijing Military Region Commander Wang Chengbin has left office and his post has been taken by Deputy Commander Li Laizhu. A Beijing source pointed out: The new wave of military personnel changes is the largest since the reorganization of major military region leadership in July 1990. In addition to making the ranks of officers younger in average age and raising their level of professional competence, it is chiefly aimed at consolidating Central Military Commission Chairman Jiang Zemin's status among local army units. Last June, Jiang promoted seven senior generals at one go. In conjunction with the personnel changes in local military commands, this is aimed at maintaining stability in the post-Deng Xiaoping era and making prior arrangements. It is pointed out that there have been high-level personnel changes in four military regions. These are: --Beijing Military Region: Li Laizhu takes over from Wang Chengbin as commander; --Shenyang Military Region: Political Commissar Song Keda no longer holds his post; --Nanjing Military Region: Fang Zuqi takes over from Liu Anyuan as political commissar; --Chengdu Military Region: Former Political Commissar Zhang Gong no longer holds his post, which reportedly is taken by Zhang Zhijian, deputy commander of Beijing Military Region. Moreover, personnel reshuffles are also being conducted among leaders of the Navy and the Academy of Military Sciences.
