FBIS4-42581 "drweu108_q_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-108 Daily Report 5 Jun 1994 TURKEY Government Begins Talks on Karkuk-Yumurtalik Pipeline Government Begins Talks on Karkuk-Yumurtalik Pipeline Prime Minister Comments TA0506115494 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1000 GMT 5 Jun 94 TA0506115494 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Text] Prime Minister Tansu Ciller has said that it will be possible very soon to pump out the oil in the Karkuk-Yumurtalik for restoration purposes. Answering reporters' questions at the prime minister's residence, Ciller said they have been trying to explain to the world why it is necessary to pump the oil out of the Karkuk-Yumurtalik oil pipeline in spite of the embargo imposed on Iraq, and added: A unity of understanding has been developing in world public opinion in recent months. Stressing that the oil pipeline should be considered one of Turkey's investments, Ciller said: The embargo is not imposed on Turkey. There is oil in the pipeline and some of that oil belongs to us. We have to pump out this oil in order to repair, restore, and conduct maintenance work, and we are explaining this to the world. In my last visit to the United States, I discussed this issue. In the past, the issue was being assessed within the framework of the embargo. I see a slightly different approach developing now. I am very hopeful on this issue, and I believe it will be possible to conduct repair work in the near future. In answer to a question, Ciller said discussions on the oil pipeline are being conducted in various circles, including with the UN secretary general, and added: The world has become a smaller place. Turkey has led the world in certain issues. We sided with the human rights issue when Iraq was the aggressor. That decision was right then, but the decision on the oil pipeline is the right one for now. The embargo is not imposed on us, but it is destroying our investments -- millions of dollars of investments. We cannot allow these investments to be wasted. The world also should not allow this. I think we have explained our situation satisfactorily.
