FBIS3-14798 "drsov039_b_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Further Reaction to Duma Amesty Decision Reported Gorbachev Says Decision Premature LD2502161094 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1402 GMT 25 Feb 94 LD2502161094 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Former president of the USSR Mikhail Grobachev believes that the State Duma's resolution on political amnesty was discussed with President Boris Yeltsin beforehand. In an interview with Interfax on Friday he noted that the speaker of the parliament's lower chamber Ivan Rybkin insisted on taking this decision, and, in Gorbachev's opinion, "this decision is too serious not to have been discussed with the president beforehand." Gorbachev says that the fact that in his speech to the Federal Assembly on the following day Yeltsin did not mention the subject of amnesty confirms his version. Gorbachev pointed out that he had always favored that the coup plotters face a trial, a trial which would be open and complete, "otherwise we will not learn the lessons of the August 1991 events." At the same time, he said, if the State Duma's resolution really promotes national accord, he is ready to understand and accept that. Gorbachev noted that he is ready to support the decision if the State Duma, all political movements of the country and Russian society will act jointly for the sake of accord, for the rescue of Russia, as it was declared after the adoption of the amnesty resolution. "Even though all this concerns me directly, because the creation of the State of Emergency Committee inflicted a unrepairable damage to the country and to me personally, I put the interests of Russia higher," he stressed. However, Gorbachev did not rule out that the State Duma's decision would finally lead to further confrontation. (The full text of the interview given by M. Gorbachev to Interfax will be published in one of the next editions of "Interfax-Exclusive").
