FBIS3-29102 "dreas031_c_94033" FBIS-EAS-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 North Korea Reportage Surrounding Kim Chong-il's Birthday Birthday Celebrated Abroad SK1502124294 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1021 GMT 15 Feb 94 SK1502124294 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Pyongyang, February 15 (KCNA) -- Celebration meetings were held in different countries on the birthday of the dear leader Comrade Kim Chong-il. A meeting was sponsored by the Pakistan-Korea Friendship Association in Islamabad on February 9. Speaking at the meeting, general secretary of the Pakistan People's Party Rafiq Ahmad Sheikh said: "The dear leader His Excellency Kim Chong-il is deeply respected not only by the Korean people but also by the Pakistani people. "He has made all efforts for world peace and security and for the happiness and prosperity of the world progressive people." The minister of state for finance and economy, Makdoom Shahibdeen, said in his speech: "The Korean people have registered miraculous achievements in all fields of politics, economy and culture under the wise leadership of His Excellency Kim Chong-il. "The Pakistani Government will further strengthen cooperation with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in the political, economic and cultural fields in the future." A meeting was held in the building of the Socialist Party of Peru on February 7. Addressing the meeting, general secretary of the party Luis Mateo Munoz said: "The dear leader Comrade Kim Chong-il is an outstanding thinker and theoretician, a prominent political activist and the people's leader who has developed and enriched the chuche idea and defended and glorified Korean-style socialism centred on the popular masses, to which the chuche idea is applied. "Korean-style socialism has become a beacon for the world people aspiring after independence." Meetings were also held in Maputo under the cosponsorship of the Maputo City Committee of the Frelimo Party (Mozambique Liberation Front Party) and the Mozambican Committee for Friendship with the People of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and at the House of Culture in Cerven Brjag City, Bulgaria, under the cosponsorship of the city council and the Bulgaria-Korea Friendship Association.
