FBIS4-38926 "drsov107_r_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-107 Daily Report 28 May 1994 Azerbaijan Mamedov Seeks Apology From Authorities Mamedov Seeks Apology From Authorities 944K1332C Baku ZERKALO in Russian 28 May 94 p 2 944K1332C Baku ZERKALO Russian CSO [Unattributed report: "Etibar Mamedov Demands Apology"] [Text] "My return to the National Assembly will be possible only after the authorities deliver to me an apology for their insults. But if the parliament accepts my resignation, the interests of the Party of National Independence of Azerbaijan [PNIA] in the National Assembly will be represented by two deputies--Shadman Guseynov and Firudin Dzhalilov," PNIA leader Etibar Mamedov told journalists immediately after relinquishing his deputy credentials and leaving the house of parliament on 25 May. He stated at this session that the monopolies that control Azerbaijan's oil industry were presently not affording any opportunity for a contract to be signed with the consortium of Western oil companies in the shortest time frame. With respect to establishment of the opposition National Resistance Movement [NRM], E. Mamedov stated that this movement was organized with a single aim--to prevent Russian troops from coming into the republic. "Had President Geydar Aliyev announced 18 May the inadmissibility of this action, no one would have created the NRM," the opposition leader noted. He also refuted information to the effect that the NRM had called upon the army and students to engage in civil disobedience. "Intransigence of the opposition or of the authorities in Azerbaijan is today intolerable," the parliamentarian stated. Regarding the question of signing the Bishkek Protocol, E. Mamedov noted that a unified point of view had not been formulated among the structures of power. In particular, the president and speaker of the parliament supported its adoption, while the prime minister, minister of foreign affairs, and deputy speaker categorically rejected such a possibility. Etibar Mamedov stated that the return of 15 people's deputies to the parliament was at their own initiative, since no one from the leadership entered into negotiations or tried to reach compromise with them. On the contrary, they were subject to sharp criticism.
