FBIS3-20736 "jpeer008__s94001" JPRS-EER-94-008-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 10 March 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Slovenia Seeking SFRY Succession Talks 94P20457A Ljubljana DELO in Slovene 10 Feb 94 p 1 94P20457A Ljubljana DELO Language: Slovene Article Type:CSO [Article by Bozo Masanovic: "Succession Talks Must Continue"] [Text] (From our correspondent) Geneva, 9 February -- Slovenia wants to resume the negotiations on the division of the assets of the former Yugoslavia. In a special memorandum addressed to Lord David Owen and Thorvald Stoltenberg, copresidents of the peace conference, it states that the FRY [Federal Republic of Yugoslavia] must be prevented from employing obstructionist tactics at the next session of the working group on succession. By rehashing the debate on the definition of the property of the former federation, the FRY delegation seeks to delay the division of assets among six successor states. Slovenia is proposing a four-point agenda. At the meeting with Owen and Stoltenberg, Dr. Bebler [Slovene ambassador to Switzerland] explained how Slovenia proposes to get the succession talks out of deadlock. At the same time he expressed the opinion that to renew this process it is necessary to secure the support of the copresidents and the United Nations Security Council, which could, by adopting a resolution, threaten the FRY with extension of the present economic sanctions to include the property of the former federation in foreign countries if the FRY delegation continues its delaying tactics. These assets abroad could be frozen or put under the control of the United Nations or the countries on whose territory the property of the former Yugoslavia is located until the succession issue is resolved. Bebler said that without a clear threat we cannot expect progress at the negotiations, which are becoming futile. Thorvald Stoltenberg, who listened carefully to the Slovene ambassador, promised to review the Ljubljana proposals. He and Lord Owen will study the recommendation to call up the next round of negotiations on the division of the "inheritance" of the former federation and proposed their ideas for unblocking the process. The working group on succession of the former Yugoslavia, headed by Danish Ambassador Alf Joensson, was supposed to meet in Geneva in the middle of February, but this deadline is probably unrealistic.
