FBIS4-37421 "drnes119_s_94007" FBIS-NES-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 Iran Bomb Explodes in Crowded Shrine in Mashhad Bomb Explodes in Crowded Shrine in Mashhad Delegation Sent To Investigate LD2006173694 Tehran IRNA in English 1628 GMT 20 Jun 94 LD2006173694 Tehran IRNA English BFN [Text] Mashhad, Khorasan Prov., June 20, IRNA -- A special delegation commissioned by the Interior Ministry left Tehran for this northeastern border city to probe into the bomb blast at the Mausoleum of Imam Reza (AS) [peace be upon him] this afternoon in which at least 70 pilgrims were killed and over 114 were injured. While here, the delegation which comprises officials and experts of the Interior Ministry, will look into the circumstances of the blast. Latest reports indicate that many of the injured are in critical condition and that the death toll is likely to rise in coming hours. Relief operations are under way and medical teams are rushing to the scene of the incident. An informed source said here Monday that among those injured are several women and children and five Indian nationals. Law enforcement forces here announced they have arrested a number of individuals suspected of being involved in the bomb blast at the mausoleum of Imam Reza (AS) today. A source close to the law enforcement forces said that the forces would employ all their might to chase and smash the network of criminals. A special squad has been formed here to render help to those injured in the incident. An official at governor general's office regretted that there were several women and children among those injured. In addition to the loss of life the bomb blast caused it has also inflicted damage to the mausoleum building as well. Technical experts are assessing the extent of damage to launch repair works. The interior of the mausoleum which has decoration with mirrors has been damaged and it seems that some of those injured have been wounded due to the falling mirror pieces. Informed sources say that the bomb blast has caused no damage to the tomb.
