FBIS4-56345 "drlat085_s_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-085 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 Uruguay Bishops Warn of `Dangerous Divisions in Leadership' Bishops Warn of `Dangerous Divisions in Leadership' PY2904234994 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1653 GMT 29 Apr 94 PY2904234994 Madrid EFE Spanish BFN [Text] Montevideo, 29 Apr (EFE) -- The Uruguayan Episcopal Conference today disseminated a document warning politicians of "dangerous divisions in leadership" and of the difficulties created in taking dynamism away from government work. The bishops issued a document entitled "Values, Base of Our Development," asking candidates in the 29 November elections to issue "proposals and programs with clarity and sincerity." According to the bishops, the "positive economic indicators" have not reached the country's poor. The document was signed by all bishops. It was the result of a compromise between different Church groups in one of the most secular countries in Latin America. The Church's political weight is quite small in Uruguay, a country with an entrenched liberal tradition. This situation is made clear by the total lack of weight of a political party with Catholic traditions and the great number of agnostic and lay candidates. The bishops' declaration does not side with any party or candidate, but warns that "the internal logic of Uruguayan electoral democracy carries an ethical commitment involving all participating groups and individuals to accept and help the candidate gaining the most votes, even after reasonable compromises and agreements are closed, to be able to implement the program chosen by the people." The bishops pointed out that the electoral year "is an occasion to meditate together about our country and to put the election at the service of common good." The document asks for "a review of the public education system, to guarantee respect for all family heads," insisting on the need for a pluralistic public school system, a school system that is secular for laymen, Catholic for Catholics, and Jewish for Jewish people. The document concludes by reiterating "the decisive importance of human life's ethical and spiritual dimension, which is the solid foundation upon which all structures of coexistence are based: family as well as political, juridical, economic, social, labor, and cultural organizations, in all their manifestations."
