FBIS4-21418 "jpten010___94003" JPRS-TEN-94-010 JPRS Environmental Issues 8 March 1994 CHINA China Rejected Chemical Waste Exported by South Korean China Rejected Chemical Waste Exported by South Korean Company 40101005A Beijing CHINA DAILY [NATIONAL] in English 8 Mar 94 p 3 40101005A Beijing CHINA DAILY [NATIONAL] English CSO [Text] Chemical wastes that have been parked in limbo for the past five months in Jiangsu Province have all been sent back, the Shanghai-based Wenhui Daily reported on Sunday. The chemical wastes, imported under the guise of ``industrial-use fuel,'' were believed to be harmful to the environment. While the wastes remained at the Shangyuanmen berth in Jiangsu's capital, Nanjing, vigilant environmental monitoring ensured that the water in that stretch of the Yangtze River and the nearby Shangyuanmen Water Plant were not contaminated by the chemicals, the newspaper reported. The ``fuel'' was sold to the Shanghai Huafu Industrial and Commercial Company for $27 per ton through a contract with a South Korean company signed last August. According to the contract, 200,000 tons industrial fuel were to be imported between 1993 and 1995. The first batch of ``fuel'' arrived at the Nanjing port last September. But inspections showed that most of the 1,288-ton shipment was harmful chemical wastes. Customs officials at Nanjing Port sealed up the cargo immediately and asked the importers to return the wastes. After half a year's negotiation, the South Korean company eventually agreed to take back the wastes. But that was not the end of the story. According to Saturday's China Environment News, a representative from the company in South Korea declared that they had sufficient evidence to show that it was their Chinese counterpart who asked to buy chemical wastes from South Korea. The Chinese side, however, said that it was the Korean company who violated the contract. A spokesman from the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) reiterated that the event was a typical trans-national waste-dumping incident. He said that NEPA has taken actions against companies that profit by importing and processing harmful waste from other countries. In March 1991, NEPA and the General Administration of Customs prohibited the import of industrial wastes harmful to the environment. The regulations have been enforced in many parts of the country and have played a big role in preserving the environment. As one example, Southeast China's Fujian Province has several times rejected attempts to import overseas rubbish into the province. (CD News)
