FBIS4-49109 "drchi085_p_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-085 Daily Report 2 May 1994 Central-South Region Guangzhou Welcomes Foreign Investment in Real Estate Guangzhou Welcomes Foreign Investment in Real Estate HK0205151294 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in English 1230 GMT 2 May 94 HK0205151294 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE English BFN [Text] Guangzhou, May 2 (CNS)--Mayor of Guangzhou, Mr. Li Ziliu, told the press yesterday that real estate in the capital of Guangdong Province was developing in a healthy way and there was much room for foreign investment in this sector. Mr. Li said he hoped that foreign investors would not slow their pace of investment in this industry. Mr. Li pointed out that the real estate market in the city last year, owing to the macro control and adjustment as well as the implementation of the value added tax, had seen a slump for a certain time, but its transactions had not suffered from a big fluctuation with the floor area of newly completed commodity housing for the year being put at 3.7 million square metres, 50 percent up over the year before and that of its sales exceeding 2 million square metres, earning RMB [Renminbi] 4.8 billion, over 60 percent up. The mayor said that development of the real estate industry in the city last year was on the whole good and healthy and, being situated near Hong Kong and Macao, office buildings, factory buildings and residential blocks in Guangzhou all were in great demand and the city was considered a keen place for making investment in this industry by both domestic and foreign businessmen. In addition, with the raising of the living standard, residents' purchasing ability for residential property would also be enhanced, offering powerful support to the development of this industry. Mr. Li pointed out that Guangzhou would develop into an international megalopolis within 15 years and its urban area would be enlarged by 2.7 times. The city would launch a number of construction projects including transformation of the old urban area, underground railways projects and residential building projects and legislation on the real estate industry in the city had been improving, creating good conditions for foreign investment in this sector there.
