FBIS4-12298 "drnes067_s_94003" FBIS-NES-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 Iran Velayati Interview Sums Up African Tour Velayati Interview Sums Up African Tour LD0604112094 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0930 GMT 6 Apr 94 LD0604112094 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Interview with Foreign Minister Velayati by unidentified correspondent upon Velayati's return on 6 April from visiting African countries--recorded] [Text] [Correspondent] Please tell us what issues you discussed and what agreements you reached during your tour of some African countries? [Velayati] In the name of God, the compassionate, the merciful. Before the revolution, the regime did not pay much attention to ties with Africa in its foreign policy. After the revolution, for various reasons, that attention was considerably increased. There was first the expansion of diplomatic ties. The next step was the expansion of cultural, economic, commercial, and industrial ties. By the expansion of industrial ties, I mean those countries are eager to use Iran's industrial goods. During that period there were very good examples of cooperation with those countries in that field. The inception of temporary or permanent trade and industrial exhibitions in some countries was one of the first steps taken and was very successful in those countries. One of the main reasons for the extraordinary welcome by all the African countries in which we opened exhibitions is that not many countries can compete with Iranian prices, while the quality of our goods is relatively high, particularly the quality of goods offered there. In some commercial and economic fields, the private sector could definitely be more active, and in some other fields the public sector. Without exception all the African countries we visited asked for the expansion of economic and commercial cooperation. [Correspondent] To what extent could cooperation with Africa help our presence on the international scene? [Velayati] Because of the end of the cold war, some Western countries are today interfering more blatantly in the internal affairs of Third World countries, particularly African countries, without any consideration for their endemic characteristics. They have disturbed the situation in some African countries. The people of Africa are wise to this and, therefore, seek cooperation with countries that have particularly more influence on the international scene. [Correspondent] Thank you very much. [Velayati] Thank you.
