FBIS4-42770 "drweu110_h_94023" FBIS-WEU-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 GERMANY Daily on Summit, Attitudes to EU Daily on Summit, Attitudes to EU AU0706121294 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG in German 7 Jun 94 p 4 AU0706121294 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG German BFN ["kas"-attributed commentary: "A Summit in the Lowlands"] [Text] At the German-Spanish summit in Schwerin, Helmut Kohl will perhaps complain to his friend [Spanish Prime Minister] Felipe Gonzalez that Gonzalez could have spared him a lot of trouble about the new European Union [EU] Commission president, if Gonzalez had run for this office himself in time. The Spaniard, on the other hand, could admit that the chief's chair in Brussels would have promised him a brighter future than the fate of his minority government, which is darkened by corruption scandals. In fact, the two Euroenthusiasts, who have been inseparable for years, must now seriously discuss disturbances in their relationship. Until recently Gonzalez favored Ruud Lubbers as Commission president, when Kohl, together with Mitterrand, had already dropped the Dutchman. It is questionable whether Spain will now turn toward Belgium's Jean-Luc Dehaene. There are enough signals of bitterness in Madrid about the reckless rotation of the German-French axis. At the summit in Granada in 1993, Gonzalez agreed with Kohl on a three-part coordination of the three consecutive EU presidencies of the three countries. Now he, as the junior partner, must realize that the two seniors first agreed on the further enlargement of the EU without him. Spain's resistance against EU enlargement had caused outrage in Bonn, the echo of which has not yet vanished. The EU's enlargement to the north and the east makes Madrid fear that Brussels' generous subsidies for the south, of which Spain gets the lion's share, might abate. Since the establishment of a competitive economy is, however, lagging behind because there is a lack of capital and innovation, Madrid will have to ask for help for a long time to come.
