FBIS3-51141 "drlat010__a94027" FBIS-LAT-94-010-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 January 1994 ANNEX Cuba Book Institute President Cited on 1993 Achievements PA0901183694 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 2044 GMT 4 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA0901183694 Havana PRENSA LATINA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Amelia Roque] [Text] Havana, 4 Jan (PL) -- One of the Cuban Book Institute's [Instituto Cubano del Libro, ICL] main achievements during 1993 was the marketing of approximately 270 books in the domestic market and the printing of an additional 100 to be sold in Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. In an interview given to PRENSA LATINA, ICL President Pablo Pacheco has explained that during the current economic crisis, book publishing has continued despite limited paper and supplies available to the national printing press industry. The ICL increased jointly the use of coeditions with the Universities of Guadalajara, Mexican National Autonomous, Valle, Cali, Colombia, and with Venezuelan firms such as Pomaire. The following books resulted from this joint effort: Yellow Submarine [Submarino Amarillo] (an anthology of Cuban stories), A Group Advances Quietly [Un Grupo Avanza Silencioso] (a selection of young Cuban poets), and stories by narrator Onelio Jorge Cardoso. During the past year, Cuban publishing houses distributed the following books on the island: The American Expression, by Jose Lezama Lima (Cuban literature); The Cat and the Mouse, by Gunter Grass (art and literature); The Religious System of the Afro-Cubans, by Romulo Lachatanere (social sciences), and scientific-technological publications. Comparing the amount of books printed in 1993 to previous years-- 2,500 editions were printed in 1989--the ICL president said the crisis hindered the printing press, not intellectual activity. This is confirmed, he said, by the numbers of international awards received by writers of the island. For example, Eliseo Diego received the "Juan Rulfo" Latin American and Caribbean Award; a poetry book by Jose Perez Olivares received the Spanish "Rafael Alberti" Award; Daniel Chavarria, an Uruguayan who resides in Havana, received the Mexican Planeta Novel Award, among others. Pacheco also mentioned the New Pines Collection [Coleccion Pinos Nuevos]--which promotes 100 unpublished Cuban authors--sponsored by Argentine intellectuals, headed by Aurelio Narvaja, the Colihue Publishing Firm director, cultural promoter Monica Sorin, and several authors. Approximately 600 original texts were received for this collection, the expert added. Pacheco also revealed that those books will be presented at the Sixth International Book Fair in Havana next February. Pacheco believes last year's most important achievement was the implementation of a new financing system that will allow the institute's free convertible currency revenues to be used to print Cuban material for sales abroad. Previously, the institute only had the government's support. The current self-financing program will allow the institute to have a publishing program that has possibilities for growth once Cuban books reenter the international market, Pacheco concluded.
