FBIS4-26340 "drchi119_n_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-119 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 Economic & Agricultural Foreign Reserves Expected To Stabilize Yuan Foreign Reserves Expected To Stabilize Yuan HK2106070594 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST (BUSINESS POST) in English 21 Jun 94 p 4 HK2106070594 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST (BUSINESS POST) English BFN [By Renee Lai] [Text] A senior official of the People's Bank of China expects the yuan to remain stable because of the country's strong foreign exchange reserves and its ability to control soaring prices, and has dismissed concern about further depreciation. Worries have been lingering that the Chinese currency will decline further following its effective 33 per cent devaluation against the U.S. dollar since January 1, when Beijing scrapped the two-tier yuan rate. The yuan has been trading in a tight band of seven to 8.6 to the dollar. Tan Zhuohuai, vice-director of the central bank for Guangdong province, gave the assurance to foreign investors at a seminar yesterday in Hong Kong. He said a fall in the yuan would depend on the result of China's fight against inflation and the management of its forex reserves. Mr Tan described China's economic policy as "neither a control, nor an easing", but a combination of both measures. He said price rises were inevitable under the reforms, but it was necessary to keep them at an appropriate level. Beijing had shown its ability in containing price increases through the 13 per cent price rise last year, which had been largely controlled by the government. Mr Tan cited China's foreign assets of more than U.S.$200 billion and forex reserves of $29 billion last year as evidence of sufficient backup. Chinese banks had a forex balance of about $4 billion. That strength was underscored by the fact that the yuan had been picking up since the start of the year. "The ultimate aim of foreign exchange management is to relax control, allowing the yuan to be an international currency and freely convertible," Mr Tan said. China had lifted forex control on current accounts such as imports and exports, while its grip remained tight on capital accounts. Meanwhile, Mr Tan said China had adjusted its structure of fund allocation to cash-strapped state-owned enterprises. "It is not a question of a credit squeeze or an easing of liquidity now, but a selective policy to guarantee the liquidity of key enterprises," he said. He pointed to key infrastructure projects, more efficient enterprises and purchases of foreign trade products and agricultural products as priorities. Dong Xinbao, professor of Tsinghua University's School of Economics and Management, said the investment environment in China was better than last year.
