FBIS4-26890 "drchi124_p_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-124 Daily Report 22 Jun 1994 Central-South Region Hainan Governor Chairs Executive Meeting Hainan Governor Chairs Executive Meeting HK2706152894 Haikou Hainan People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 22 Jun 94 HK2706152894 Haikou Hainan People's Radio Network Mandarin BFN [Text] The 36th provincial people's government executive meeting was convened on the morning of 21 June and was chaired by Governor Ruan Chongwu. The meeting discussed a draft of the Hainan Special Economic Region Regulations on Protection of Old People, People Injured on the Job, and Unemployed People. It also made proposals on levying civil aviation and airport management and construction fees. Executive Vice Governor Wang Xiaofeng; Vice Governors Wang Xueping, Mao Zhijun, and Liu Mingqi; and provincial people's government Secretary General Cui Hongjun attended the meeting, which also was attended as guests by persons in charge of various provincial people's government departments and units concerned. The meeting adopted in principle and decided to promulgate as a provincial government order for implementation the abovementioned Hainan Special Economic Region Regulations on Protection of Old People, People Injured on the Job, and Unemployed People. The promulgation of these regulations is believed to be exerting a positive impact on the development of the province's social security system. Since becoming a province, Hainan has witnessed rapid aviation and civil aviation development. In order to further strengthen the province's airport management and construction, and to introduce airport management and construction fees, the meeting deliberated and studied all the relevant issues in this regard and decided to levy airport management and construction fees on foreign and domestic flight routes, well as foreign and domestic passengers. However, no airport management and construction fees will be levied on flight routes inside the province. The airport management and construction fees thus collected are to be used for improving airport safety facilities, airport technical renovation, as well as the construction of new airports.
