FBIS4-38272 "drnes125_n_94001" FBIS-NES-94-125 Daily Report 29 Jun 1994 LEBANON Hizballah Leader on Prisoner Exchange With Israel Hizballah Leader on Prisoner Exchange With Israel NC2906103394 Kafr Killa Voice of the South in Arabic 0930 GMT 29 Jun 94 NC2906103394 Kafr Killa Voice of the South Arabic BFN [Text] In an interview with the NATIONAL NEWS AGENCY, Hizballah Deputy Secretary General Shaykh Na'im Qasim answered a question on prisoner exchange with the Israelis. He said that in the past an international organization, the United Nations, intervened and sent a personal envoy--Gian Domenico Pico--to discuss the issue of POW's between the Lebanese and Israelis. He added: This effort stopped long ago and we consider that any neutral party acceptable to us, be it regional or international, is suitable to discuss the release of POW's held in Israel. Qasim went on: We have said it before; we hold two prisoners and are ready to swap them with prisoners and detainees held in Israeli and South Lebanese Army jails but Israel is blocking this move. He noted that Mustafa al-Dirani's abduction has achieved nothing for Israel as regards airman Ron Arad. Answering a question on Hizballah's view of the two indictments against [leader of the dissolved Lebanese Forces Party] Samir Ja'ja', he said: The measure was good and we call for strengthening the domestic arena to rally all resources in the face of Israel. Assessing Hizballah's experiment in the Chamber of Deputies, he said parliament is a propaganda and political podium that contributes to supporting resistance and deals with problems in areas near the Israeli border. The Hizballah deputy secretary general said the party has opened a dialogue with the Christians that is still in progress. He added that every Lebanese has the right to live in Lebanon and express his view quite freely. Should General Michel 'Awn, Raymond Iddih, or former President Amin al-Jumayyil decide to return to Lebanon, they would be returning to their homeland, he said.
