FBIS4-11393 "drlat080_r_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-080 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 Peru General Questions Red Cross `Meddling' General Questions Red Cross `Meddling' PY2504203194 Madrid EFE in Spanish 2041 GMT 24 Apr 94 PY2504203194 Madrid EFE Spanish BFN [Text] Lima, 24 Apr (EFE) -- Today General Alfredo Rodriguez labeled as "impertinent" the attitude of the International Red Cross in areas of conflict, adding that Red Cross meddling in the region where the military have launched a counterterrorist offensive is jeopardizing operations. Gen. Rodriguez, who is leading the counterterrorist offensive launched against the Shining Path on 5 April in the jungle area of Leoncio Prado Province, explained that the Army has been supplying local information to the Red Cross, but "we have detected certain things that don't seem to be quite all right." As an example of such things, the general wondered how the International Red Cross knew where the troops would go in. "I am not making any charges, because I have no hard evidence, but they do go in, they talk to subversive leaders, and come back with information," Gen. Rodriguez said, according to local Sunday newspapers. The general made this statement to the Congressional Human Rights Committee and to Attorney General Blanca Nelida Colan in Tingo Maria, capital of Leoncio Prado Province, where the offensive is taking place. Rodriguez added that according to his sources, International Red Cross personnel ask Shining Path militants whether their leaders have talked to them about the Red Cross, and whether they have told them that "we can help you." Rodriguez indicated that information was being "distorted" with a view to make the Army appear to be the "bad guys," adding that the International Red Cross should "redesign its policy." He also objected to the International Red Cross attitude toward arrested Shining Path members who are brought in for questioning. According to the general, Red Cross personnel insist on being allowed to talk to them as soon as they are arrested, without waiting for the 15-day period legally allotted for the investigation. The general explained that although the invitation to the Red Cross to visit the area of conflict in Leoncio Prado is still open, Army patrols will have to accompany Red Cross personnel because the place is dangerous.
