FBIS3-41613 "jpten004___94083" JPRS-TEN-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 17 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Modernization Reducing Pollution at Perm Oil Refinery PM1611115793 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 0600 GMT 11 Nov 93 PM1611115793 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the ``Novosti'' newscast: Video report from the Permnefteorgsintez Association by Mikhail Klepov and Boris Petukhov, identified by caption; figures in brackets denote broadcast time in GMT in hours, minutes, and seconds] [Text] [060810] [Klepov over video of small stream followed by Permnefteorgsintez oil refinery installations] Not so long ago this stream, the Pysh, used to be aflame. Oil refinery waste flowed into it and was set alight to prevent it from reaching the Kama river. There was even a special position for this purpose, whose holder was described as the ``incendiary.'' With the commissioning of pumping stations the situation has changed. Now there are fish in the stream. Air pollution monitoring has been stepped up. Discharges of noxious chemicals into the atmosphere have been halved in recent years. Sudden blowouts are a thing of the past. Hothouses where flowers are grown have appeared literally under the flares. The air in the production units is much cleaner now. Modern production lines are being introduced here. An automated motor oil and solvent packaging line is in operation. Russia's first line packaging bitumen for the construction industry has just gone into operation. The Association is unstinting with hard currency earned from the sale of its output when it comes to retooling and modernization. All this helps to increase production efficiency and improve the ecological situation. Nonetheless, many problems remain. Noxious discharges into the atmosphere have not yet been reduced to the permissible limit; substantial amounts of petrochemicals still collect in the soil; not all the waste is yet being recycled. All these issues are being addressed by the collective in cooperation with scientists and health and hygiene service staff. Great hopes are being pinned on the modernization of the enterprise. A decision to this effect has been taken by the Russian Government. [060940] [video shows detailed views of exterior, interior of Permnefteorgsintez refinery installations, motor oil and bitumen packaging lines]
