FBIS3-36335 "drsov024_c_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 Federal Assembly Duma Defense Committee Begins Outlining Plans PM0302153194 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 3 Feb 94 p 3 PM0302153194 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Vladimir Yermolin report: "`Military Package' Laws in Line for Clarification. State Duma Defense Committee Starts Work"] [Text] On Tuesday [1 February] a session of the State Duma Defense Committee was held at which the main areas of the committee's activity, its structure, and the plan of its work for February were discussed. A final decision on the main issues was postponed until Thursday. In this case, the postponement is due to the sheer volume of questions under discussion -- basically, the main issue revolves around conceptual approaches toward legal support for Army reforms. Three main directions have been defined in the committee's work -- in the sphere of defense security, regulation of the Armed Forces' activity, and social protection for servicemen. Let us not go into detail for the time being, let us note merely that the parliamentarians proceeded from the formula proposed by Committee Deputy Chairman Aleksandr Piskunov that they should first of all plan what the Duma absolutely must do during its allotted two years. The priorities included an analysis of the Russian Federation president's annual message about the state of the country and preparation of conclusions regarding the part dealing with defense, work on the defense sections of the federal budget, amendments to the Russian Federation laws "On Defense" and "On Military Service Obligation and Military Service" in accordance with the new Russian Federation Constitution and the experience of the implementation of these laws, and also a whole range of problems to do with social support for servicemen and military pensioners. The plan for February includes work to clarify the laws in the "military package," hearings into the state of preparation and implementation of the START I Treaty, and hearings into the prospects for the ratification of START II. New draft laws include "On States of Emergency," "On the Sale of Released Ministry of Defense Assets and Military Property," and "On Martial Law." The Army's mobilization readiness, the troops' morale, and a number of other questions also fall within the committee's purview. Party bloc disagreements did take place, but Committee Chairman Sergey Yushenkov, like, incidentally, the other committee members, did not wish to aggravate relations. Everyone agreed that it was necessary to dispense with the organizational prelude and get down to actual lawmaking as soon as possible. Admittedly, a hitch nevertheless occurred when Yevgeniy Loginov, representative of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia (and Yushenkov's deputy) started talking about the need first and foremost to define a position with regard to the military doctrine, the present provisions of which, in his view, suit specific political imperatives but not Russia's strategic interests. Supported by his party colleague Georgiy Lukava, he proposed that the committee members agree with the claim of the Geopolitics Committee to be the highest authority in the expert analysis of draft laws affecting the state's strategic interests. However, there was no polemic, because every committee has the right to state its opinions about a particular matter, and as far as the military doctrine is concerned, at some time or another they will have to come back to it anyway in their work on the Russian Federation president's annual message.
