FBIS4-18058 "drsov083_e_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-083 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs G-7 Asked For $20 Billion in Economic Aid G-7 Asked For $20 Billion in Economic Aid LD2904104894 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0639 GMT 29 Apr 94 LD2904104894 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Vasiliy Golovnin] [Text] Tokyo April 29 TASS -- Japan is the first of the world's seven leading industrialized nations to get, ahead of the G-7 summit in Naples, an official document prepared in Kiev, Ukraine, which asks the group of seven countries for massive economic assistance. The document was delivered to Tokyo by First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Nikolay Makarevich, who revealed to the press that Ukraine was expecting subsidies amounting to nearly 20 billion dollars. Informed diplomatic sources told ITAR-TASS that during his Tokyo visit from April 26-28 Makarevich met Deputy Foreign Minister of Japan Hiroshi Fukuda and representatives of the ministries of foreign trade and industry. During these first bilateral working consultations the parties discussed aspects of economic aid to Kiev and future bilateral relations. Tokyo welcomed on the whole Ukraine's intention to open its embassy in Japan, but no specific accords were reached. No specific decision was made concerning President Leonid Kravchuk's visit, which Japan asked to schedule for the beginning of next year because its present diplomatic schedule for this year is overcrowded. Japan and Ukraine agreed to continue consultations between their foreign ministries and arrange a return visit by the Japanese deputy foreign minister for the end of this or the beginning of next year, diplomatic sources said. Considerable attention during the Ukrainian deputy minister's visit was drawn to the document, brought by him, concerning economic cooperation between Kiev and the leading industrialized countries. The draft protocol,which is now being circulated to the other members of the groups of seven countries ahead of their July summit in Naples, contains Ukraine's request for major assistance in overcoming its present energy crisis, switching to a market economy and stabilising currency. Nikolay Makarevich told journalists that according to estimates, Ukraine will need at least 20 billion dollars in subsidies to accomplish its outstanding tasks. This amount includes coverage for the losses Ukraine sustained as a result of U.N. sanctions against Serbia, the cost of freezing the Chernobyl nuclear power station, as well as expenses connected with the withdrawal and elimination of nuclear weapons.
