FBIS3-35193 "drnes035_k_94007" FBIS-NES-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 IRAQ Daily Says Saudis, Iranians `Smuggling' Sheep JN1802152194 Baghdad AL-JUMHURIYAH in Arabic 13 Feb 94 p 2 JN1802152194 Baghdad AL-JUMHURIYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Latif al-Tayyib] [Text] The Interior Ministry emphasized that some Arab and foreign quarters are involved in smuggling sheep and certain items of state property out of Iraq. Staff General 'Abd-al-Jawad Dhanun, the ministry's senior undersecretary, said that specialized authorities in the Iraqi border posts caught large numbers of sheep set to be smuggled abroad. He said the sheep are smuggled to Jordan first as a transit point, and then are smuggled to the agent Saudi regime, which is trying, through various means, to undermine the Iraqi economy. The second destination of smuggling is the Autonomous Region. He added that a number of criminals steal state property and private vehicles, in collusion with the Iranian regime, which hates the Iraqi people, to smuggle the property and vehicles to Iran through various channels. He said that, through their sabotage actions, the Saudi and Iranian regimes have proven once again their direct involvement in the imperialist-Zionist scheme led by the United States and Zionism with the aim of undermining Iraq's capabilities and weakening its steadfastness in face of the unjust siege imposed on our steadfast people. These two regimes want to increase the suffering of the people of Iraq. He added that the Saudi agent regime concentrates on female sheep in a dirty attempt to reduce the number of these animals, which are important to Iraq's national economy. This scheme has increased the meat prices in all governorates despite the fact that the Interior Ministry allows the movement of sheep between governorates, except these near the borders, in order to secure red meat. The free movement of sheep is also designed to help secure a balance in the availability of meat in all governorates in accordance with their population, and with special emphasis on Baghdad Governorate because a huge number of people live in the capital in comparison with other governorates.
