FBIS3-43107 "jpust005___94031" JPRS-UST-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 10 February 1994 ENGINEERING AND EQUIPMENT AVIATION AND SPACE TECHNOLOGY Acoustic Diagnostic Methods in New-Generation Aerospace Equipment Development 947F0031A Moscow VESTNIK MASHINOSTROYENIYA in Russian No 10, Oct 93 pp 3-5 947F0031A Moscow VESTNIK MASHINOSTROYENIYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by A.G. Bratukhin, O.M. Gradov, Scientific Research Institute of Nondestructive Testing; UDC 629.735:620.179.16] [Abstract] The emergence of new-generation aerospace equipment, e.g., super- and hypersonic aircraft, space shuttles, cryoplanes, etc., calls for developing new materials and their manufacturing and processing technologies as well as methods of identifying the flying vehicle status during operation. The problem of developing new methods of nondestructive testing of welds is especially acute in aerospace engineering. Acoustic testing based on the integral link between the metal structure and its mechanical and acoustic characteristics is one of the most promising methods whereby the material structure fully determines its physical and mechanical properties, such as ductility, strength, thermal conductivity, etc., while also determining the characteristic features of elastic vibration generation and propagation, i.e, the propagation velocity, damping factor, acoustic emission intensity and its spectral composition and phase correlations, etc. In particular, attention is focused on ultrasonic and acoustic emission methods and their advantages. A block diagram of the general acoustic testing principle and a block diagram of a new-generation acoustic diagnostic complex are cited, and the acoustic data processing methods are described. Such a real-time computer-based system may be placed on-board an aircraft but it may be more efficient as a means of incoming and final inspection. A plan for further development of acoustic diagnostic methods is outlined. Figures 4; references 1.
