FBIS4-60183 "drnes099_j_94010" FBIS-NES-94-099 Daily Report 21 May 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Reaction to Al-Bid Secession Call Noted Reaction to Al-Bid Secession Call Noted Unionist Grouping Condemns Move JN2105193694 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1700 GMT 21 May 94 JN2105193694 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Text] The Yemeni Unionist Grouping Party has announced its rejection of the criminal al-Bid's proclamation of secession, calling it a catastrophe for the homeland. Brother 'Umar al-Jawi, secretary general of the party, in a statement carried by AFP, termed al-Bid's secessionist decision a dangerous and catastrophic move. Meanwhile, the Democratic Nasirite Party, the National Democratic Front, and the Socialist Nationalist Party, today came out strongly against the traitor al-Bid's declaration of secession. They emphasized that a rabid, bloody gang within the ranks of the Socialist Party afflicted with megalomania has no business determining the fate of the Yemeni people. They described this gang as a spiteful group with a black history of scheming against our people. A joint statement issued by the three parties today said they, along with all the worthy and good Yemeni citizens, stand for keeping the Yemeni unity intact and take the side of its defenders. They place themselves, the statement added, at the disposal of the unionist leadership to defend the gains of the homeland -- unity and democracy. Yemeni unity was made possible by the will of the entire people of the country and their sacrifices and struggles. The statement said the people will adhere to their unity for all time and urged all the honest and good forces to chase the secessionist gang and keep it from realizing a separatist scheme funded from across the border -- not even on a single inch of Yemeni territory. The three parties called on unionists and good citizens to give every support to the unionist leadership to safeguard this splendid, historic achievement. Meanwhile, the three parties have cabled the brother chairman and members of the Presidential Council about their strong condemnation of al-Bid's secessionist move. Along with all our Yemeni people, the cable read, we are on your side as a symbol of unity and democracy and national sovereignty and legality.
