FBIS3-37940 "drsov037_v_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 Lithuania Foreign Minister on Border Violation by Russians WS2302174094 Tallinn BNS in English 1344 GMT 23 Feb 94 WS2302174094 Tallinn BNS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Vilnius, Feb 23, BNS -- "The border was of course violated in this case," Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gylys said, commenting on unauthorized transit of a Russian echelon through Lithuanian territory Feb. 19. The Russian echelon crossed the Lithuanian border from the side of the Kaliningrad region last Saturday [19 February] without any official permission of Lithuanian authorities and even without an advance warning. The train carried 26 infantry fighting vehicles, which were escorted by armed Russian soldiers. The Russian servicemen did not have special permissions for carrying weapons on Lithuanian territory. Lithuanian authorities let the echelon pass, to avoid any accumulation of military equipment near the state border. Lithuanian border officials followed the echelon until it crossed the country's eastern border and entered Belarusian territory. On Tuesday, Gylys called in Nikolai Obiortyshev, Russian ambassador to Lithuania, to explain the incident. "I spoke with Ambassador Obiortyshev, we analyzed the happening and I asked that the Russian side pay attention to this unpleasant event and that such cases are not repeated again," Gylys told Lithuanian TV. Judging from the interview, Lithuania did not register any official protest over the incident. The Lithuanian minister noted that Lithuania and Russia do not have any treaties on military transit. Russian military transit from the region is carried out in accordance with the established order of Russian transit from Germany via the Mukran-Klaipeda ferry. But Gylys pointed out with satisfaction that Russian transit is mainly outward bound, i.e. moves from the region to Russia. The minister said "only fuel and other goods, food but not weapons, not soldiers" move in the direction of Kaliningrad.
