FBIS4-18958 "drweu070_n_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-070 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Norway `Social Democrats Against EU' Launch Campaign Brochure `Social Democrats Against EU' Launch Campaign Brochure PM0804113094 Oslo AFTENPOSTEN in Norwegian 7 Apr 94 p 2 PM0804113094 Oslo AFTENPOSTEN Norwegian BFN [Gunnar Magnus report: "Social Democrats Against the EU: Welfare Policy at Risk"] [Text] At a press conference in Oslo yesterday the Social Democrats Against the EU [European Union] (SME) made public a brochure containing their arguments against EU membership and their vision of a social democratic Norway. "It will be more difficult to realize the Labor Party's program if we join the Union," former Minister Tove Strand Gerhardsen said. She said that the EU gives the highest priority to the fight against rising prices, while any growth in the number of jobs is to happen through the market. In the event of Norwegian EU membership, the Norwegian authorities will not be able to make use of public budgets in the fight against unemployment, she said. According to Strand Gerhardsen, it will also be more difficult to carry on Norway's social welfare polices if we are to make a contribution to the EU budget of between 13 and 17 billion kroner, in her estimate. "We cannot take the initiative internationally -- build bridges -- if we have not won approval for this in the Union," Strand Gerhardsen added. He said that if we remain outside the EU, then Norway will be able to go its own way to a greater extent and be a source of environmental inspiration, for example. Strand Gerhardsen also has reservations about the decisionmaking process in the EU, because it is not sufficiently open or democratic. Finn Erik Thoresen said that the EU represents a lack of freedom for the trade union movement. In its brochure the SME stresses that its opposition to the EU is the result of current circumstances -- against the background of the Maastricht Treaty and today's EU. Strand Gerhardsen was open to the idea of membership of a pan-European EU, but said that such a community could not be built on the Maastricht Treaty.
