FBIS4-219 "drafr065_c_94010" FBIS-AFR-94-065 Daily Report 4 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Holomisa Promises To Disarm SADF Citizen Force Holomisa Promises To Disarm SADF Citizen Force MB0404153294 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1428 GMT 4 Apr 94 MB0404153294 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Report by Ben Maclennan] [Text] East London April 4 SAPA -- President F W de Klerk should tell kwaZulu Chief Minister Mangosuthu Buthelezi to stop his nonsense because the African National Congress was not prepared to postpone the election, Major-General Bantu Holomisa said on Monday. Gen Holomisa, who heads Transkei's Military Council and is also a senior ANC candidate for the National Assembly, was speaking to about 4,000 people at an ANC rally in a sports stadium at Duncan Village, East London. The rally was shifted at the last minute from a venue in a community hall when it became clear that the hall could not accommodate the number of people who wanted to hear him. Gen Holomisa said kwaZulu was under President de Klerk's jurisdiction. "He must not create an impression that kwaZulu is an independent state. It is him personally who must see there is stability in that area." The ANC was not impressed by Mr de Klerk's attempts to draw its president Mr Nelson Mandela and other people into the conflict. "All he must do is to tell Buthelezi that the nonsense must stop now, and it must stop as soon as possible, because we are not prepared to postpone the elections in South Africa because of one man." Gen Holomisa also said under a new government, all weapons, which had been handed over by the state to whites "under the pretext of self defence", would be confiscated and returned to armouries. This included weaponry issued to SADF [South African Defense Force] Citizen Force Commandos. It was these weapons which had been used to kill people in Bophuthatswana. There were also people in the community who owned illegal weapons. "We must come up with a campaign to make sure we demilitarise our population," he said. Ordinary citizens who had licensed private firearms would be allowed to keep them.
