FBIS3-30549 "dreeu025_i_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Shelling of Sarajevo Market Kills Dozens Evacuations Begin AU0602145894 Paris AFP in English 1439 GMT 6 Feb 94 AU0602145894 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Sarajevo, Feb 6 (AFP) -- The UN and Red Cross Sunday [6 February] began to evacuate 58 wounded people, including 30 survivors of Saturday's attack on a crowded Sarajevo marketplace and Friday's attack on a food line in suburban Dobrinja. Armoured troop transport vehicles bearing red crosses drew up at Sarajevo airport where a plane from the International Committee of the Red Cross and two U.S. hospital planes waited on the runway. Some 60 wounded people and their relatives -- about 100 people in all -- would be flown out of the besieged Bosnian capital Sunday, said the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (HCR) coordinator for medical evacuations, Dr. Genevieve Begkoyian. Thirty of them were wounded in the Friday and Saturday attacks in Sarajevo and Dobrinja, while the remaining 28 were already on HCR lists of seriously ill and wounded waiting to be evacuated before the latest atrocities occurred. The planes were to fly their human cargo to a U.S. hospital near the Rhein Main U.S. airbase, near the German city of Frankfurt, Begkoyian said. A spokesman at a military airport in Ramstein, Germany, said a U.S. plane carrying a dozen people seriously wounded in the marketplace attack was expected to land there at around 4 p.m. The wounded would then be taken to the US military hospital in Landstuhl, near the western town of Kaiserslautern. He was unable to say if the plane, which carried eight doctors, nurses and evacuation specialists when it left for the Bosnian capital, would return to Sarajevo after depositing the wounded. Some of the wounded in Sarajevo were to be evacuated to Italy on a French plane, he added. In the Croatian capital Zagreb, officials said a 60-bed U.S. mobile army surgical hospital (MASH) erected at Zagreb airport was ready to take in Sarajevo wounded, if asked, but that no decision had been made for the moment. Most of the wounded that could be moved would probably be flown to Italy and Germany, Colonel Stewart Watkins, commander of U.S. forces in ex-Yugoslavia, told reporters.
