FBIS3-5378 "dreas045__a94001" FBIS-EAS-94-045-A Document Type:Daily Report 8 March 1994 ANNEX Japan Economic Leaders on U.S. Decision on Super 301 OW0503100994 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 5 Mar 94 Morning Edition p 5 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0503100994 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] The United States has decided to reinstate the Super 301 provision of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act (which identifies nations engaging in unfair trade practices and imposes sanctions on them). Economic leaders have voiced their strong dissatisfaction. Gaishi Hiraiwa, chairman of the Federation of Economic Organizations of Japan; Kosaku Inaba, chairman of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry; and Osamu Uno, chairman of the Kansai Economic Federation each said: "This apparently runs counter to the spirit of GATT." Masaru Hayami, chairman of Japan Association of Corporate Executives, said: "This runs counter to the spirit of free trade." Takeshi Nagano, president of the Japan Federation of Employers' Association, said the leaders also expressed concern that such action "will be dangerous to relations between Japan and the United States," and noted the need to quickly improve relations between the two. As far as countermeasures are concerned, Mr. Hiraiwa said some economic leaders hoped the United States "will take action cool-headedly. Mr. Nagano said others stressed the need for Japan to work out concrete measures to reduce its trade surplus, saying: "Japan should throw the ball back to the United States soon." Mr. Hiraiwa stressed: "Japan needs to expand domestic demand and implement clear and quick action on deregulation and promoting market opening." Mr. Hayami said: "Japan's efforts must address two issues: First reducing the current account surplus, second narrowing the disparity between domestic and overseas prices." He called on the government to promote such measures as a target for reducing the current account surplus which is linked to the gross domestic product (GDP). There was also the feeling that private companies should try to improve relations with the United States. Mr. Inaba said one of the suggestions was for "Japan and the United States to hold industry-to-industry consultations in controversial areas of trade. Mr. Hayami said others saw the need for the private sector to make additional efforts to voluntarily increase imports through international procurement and improved distribution and transaction practices." Mr. Uno said that leaders were critical, however, of attempts to set numerical targets in the microeconomy, saying: "Methods like managed trade should be eliminated."
