FBIS3-27133 "drchi034_w_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Local XINHUA Official Warns Foreigners on `Intervention' HK1802031094 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 18 Feb 94 p 2 HK1802031094 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Linda Choy] [Text] Senior Hong Kong-based Chinese officials yesterday repeated a warning against foreign intervention in Hong Kong affairs. That came after Australian officials proclaimed support for the electoral reforms of the Governor, Chris Patten. Qin Wenjin, a deputy director of XINHUA (the New China News Agency), said the question of Hong Kong remained an issue between China and Britain prior to the changeover. After 1997, it would become purely an internal matter of China. "We have told the world time and again that no third country should have the right to make irresponsible comments or indiscreet remarks on the question of Hong Kong." Mr Qin was referring to praise by Australian Foreign Minister Gareth Evans for the political reform proposals of Mr Patten. The Governor also received a similar reception at his meeting with other Australian ministers yesterday Mr Qin described Mr Patten's speech on Asia's human rights situation as "a tragedy" arising from misunderstanding. The Asian region had been subjected to colonial rule and its human rights sit uation and democracy should be developed step by step according to the development of individual areas. Mr Qin said. Mr Patten is now in Melbourne on the final leg of his official tour of Australia. He flew from Canberra yesterday where he held meetings with the Governor-Ceneral of Australia Bill Hayden, the Parliamentary Joint Standing Committee and the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Trade. Mr Patten also had a working lunch with senior academics of the Australian National University in Canberra. Last night, he was guest of honour at a dinner hosted by the Victorian State Minister for industry and employment, Philip Gude. Today Mr Patten will visit several prominent companies trading in Hong Kong and the Asian region as well as delivering what is being heralded as a significant address to the Committee for the Economic Development of Australia.
