FBIS3-4728 "dreas040_m_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 Thailand Mongolia's Gombosuren Outlines ASEAN Hopes BK2802032294 Bangkok THE NATION in English 28 Feb 94 p A7 BK2802032294 Bangkok THE NATION Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Mongolia plans to apply to join the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) within three years, the visiting Minister for External Relations Tserenpilyn Gombosuren said yesterday. He believed joining the regional grouping would stimulate the development of his country, which switched from a socialist system to democracy in 1990. "Our external relation's interest is to join Asean within three years, but it depends on the agreement of Asean members," Gombosuren told THE NATION. Gombosuren is accompanying Mongolian President Punsalmaagiyn Ochirbat on a three-day official visit which concludes today. In talks with Prime Minister Chuna Likphai, Ochirbat raised his government's interest in joining Asean, attending the Asean Regional Forum and joining the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (Apec) forum. [passage omitted] "We can see in Europe and North America that regional organizations play a vital role in stimulating political and economic development," said Gombosuren. "We feel this kind of cooperation is very important. We do not have to copy it, but take it as an example and develop model suitable to our region." The minister said his government has attached great important to this visit--the president's first trip abroad -- because Thailand is a country with an outstanding record of success in social and economic development. In a joint statement issued at a press conference in Pattaya, both sides agreed that the Asia Pacific region and the world have now moved into a new era in which countries enjoy much-improved relationships and greater cooperation. They also recognized the trend toward regional consolidation and peaceful resolution of disputes and that an unprecedentedly favourable environment now exists for both bilateral and multilateral cooperation among countries in the region.
