FBIS3-7765 "dreeu039_i_94020" FBIS-EEU-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Maglaj Radio Operators Report `Final Hell' AU2602183894 Paris AFP in English 1816 GMT 26 Feb 94 AU2602183894 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Sarajevo, Feb 26 (AFP) -- Residents of the besieged Moslem-held town of Maglaj pleaded Saturday for UN forces to protect the 35,000 civilians there, in reports received from ham radio operators inside the town. The operators, speaking on Radio Sarajevo, said "defense lines are burning. It's the the final hell." They said two ground-to-ground missiles had hit Maglaj Saturday. Serbs and Croats are attacking the northern Bosnia town. The appeals of the isolated Moslem pocket against an offensive by better-armed Serbs recalled those of ham radio operators last year from the eastern pockets of Gorazde and Srebrenica. [passage omitted] Meanwhile, 10 mortar rounds hit the southern city of Mostar Saturday but UN officials said the Moslem-Croat ceasefire was generally holding. Ham radio operators speaking on Radio Sarajevo said Croats were also firing anti-aircraft weapons. The operators said UN special envoy Yasushi Akashi would be visiting Mostar over the next few days. Akashi's office in Sarajevo said the UN envoy was planning to visit the war-ravaged southern city of Mostar on Monday, but that the trip had not received final confirmation. [passage omitted] The radio Saturday reported tank and mortar fire on the northern and southern parts of the city. UN humanitarian aid to Maglaj has been restricted by the fighting. UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) spokesman Kris Janowski said this week that Maglaj was "the most desperate place in Bosnia food-wise and in every other way." [passage omitted] The ham radio operators said Serb helicopters were flying over the town in defiance of the NATO-enforced no-fly zone over Bosnia. They said no NATO planes were in the skies. A UN spokesman meanwhile reported heavy shelling Monday in the northern Bosnian town of Maglaj, in the first western confirmation of intense fighting there. UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR) spokesman Canadian Lieutenant-Colonel Bill Aikman said he could not provide more details since the closest UN observers were three kilometres (two miles) from the town. [passage omitted]
