FBIS3-31376 "dreeu033__a94002" FBIS-EEU-94-033-A Document Type:Daily Report 17 February 1994 ANNEX Bulgaria NATO Planes Reportedly Refuel in Sofia AU1602115894 Sofia BTA in English 1054 GMT 16 Feb 94 AU1602115894 Sofia BTA Language: English Article Type:BFN [From BTA press review] [Text] Sofia, February 16 (BTA) -- "NATO Aircraft Refuel at Sofia," runs a front-page headline in the KONTINENT daily. Citing a well-informed source, the paper says that "in the dead period between 0200 and 0400 hours, NATO cargo planes refuel at Sofia Airport." A Hercules plane was reportedly seen too. According to the publication, people living in the neighbourhoods around the airport have confirmed they have been disturbed by "the unbearable noise of turbo-prop engines" for two weeks now. An anonymous air traffic control expert monitoring military and civil aircraft is cited as saying that refuelling at Sofia Airport does not run counter to any international agreement. He added that NATO found it less expensive to refuel planes in Sofia, rather than at other airports in the Balkans. There is no information about defence supplies being loaded on NATO planes, Captain Tsvyatko Donchev, head of the Defence Ministry Press Centre, told the paper. According to KONTINENT, he neither denied nor confirmed the reports about refueling NATO aircraft. Sofia Airport Director General Khristo Donchev pointed out that no military or civil airplane could land without permission by the Transport Ministry's Civil Aviation Department. Kerosene tanks are allowed entry only if accompanied by documents permitting it, he is cited as saying. Mr. Donchev has no information about such documents having been issued. "The silence of the Foreign Ministry and the institutions concerned with the refueling of NATO aircraft could be explained by Bulgaria's joining the Partnership for Peace Plan, the framework document of which was signed by President Zhelyu Zhelev the day before yesterday at NATO Headquarters in Brussels," the paper writes in conclusion.
