FBIS3-1672 "drchi039_e_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 Southeast Asia & Pacific Singapore's Lee Kuan Yew, Delegation Visit Tianjin OW2402195494 Beijing XINHUA in English 1456 GMT 24 Feb 94 OW2402195494 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tianjin, February 24 (XINHUA) -- Gao Dezhan, secretary of the Chinese Communist Party Tianjin Municipal Committee, and Zhang Lichang, mayor of Tianjin, met here today with Lee Kuan Yew, Singaporean senior minister. Lee and his party arrived here this afternoon. This is his first Tianjin visit. During the meeting, Gao said that the investment environment in this biggest industrial city in north China is very good, and the fields for foreign investment are broad. He expressed his hope that Tianjin would further its economic cooperation with Singapore. Lee said that the expressway linking Beijing and Tianjin has brought the city closer to China's capital, thus giving impetus to its development. Singapore will help Tianjin's economy through making investment here. His advance party, a Singaporean industrial and commercial observation group, consisting of officials of some governmental departments and heads of large-sized enterprises, arrived here yesterday. Lee and his party, during their visit here, will observe Tianjin's investment environment and hold talks concerning cooperation in fields of economy and trade, science and technology and urban construction. The Singaporean businessmen today started their talks with their Chinese counterparts here about cooperation in areas such as real estate development, building materials production and port construction. Agreements on a number of cooperative projects and joint ventures were signed today. By the end of last year, 148 enterprises had been set up in the city by Singaporean businessmen, according to the city's foreign economic and trade committee. The contracted volume of investment by these enterprises has reached 178 million U.S. dollars, which ranks 6th among 77 countries and regions investing in Tianjin.
