FBIS3-60724 "jptnd002___94052" JPRS-TND-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 18 January 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA UKRAINE Defense Minister, Officials Inspect Nuclear Facilities LD1612211293 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 2035 GMT 16 Dec 93 LD1612211293 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By UKRINFORM correspondent for TASS] [Text] Kiev December 16 TASS -- The press release circulated here on Thursday [16 December] described as not conforming to reality the reports by some mass media about the critical condition of nuclear facilities on Ukrainian territory. The press release was issued following an inspection tour of units and facilities of the strategic missile forces by Ukrainian Defence Minister Vitaliy Radetskyy accompanied by officials responsible for the maintenance of nuclear facilities. On a commission from the Ukrainian president, they visited depots for temporary storage of nuclear warheads removed from missiles to assess their condition. ``There actually are certain maintenance problems,'' said Vladimir Mityuk, commander of the 43th Army of the strategic missile forces, who took part in the trip. ``And this is quite explicable. But there are no grounds to lay it on thick. The situation on nuclear facilities is fully under control, and we have all necessary means and resources for this. Any attempts at drawing an analogy to Chernobyl or anything of the kind is absolutely inadmissible,'' he stressed. According to Valeriy Vasilyev, commander of Ukraine's strategic air forces, the nuclear ammunition is presently ``preserved reliably.'' Although the air forces also face certain problems, the situation is still far from critical. Such assertions do not conform to reality, he noted. The press release quotes Radetskyy as saying a package of documents has been prepared for discussion at the proposed meeting with the Russian defence minister. The main thing, he believes, is the mutual desire of the two sides ``to find a constructive solution to all existing problems.'' The press release assesses the present state of Ukrainian nuclear facilities as satisfactory. Additional measures are being taken ``to maintain nuclear warheads in proper conditions and to provide strategic troops with all necessary things.''
