FBIS4-13158 "drnes074_l_94003" FBIS-NES-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 ISRAEL Cabinet To Warn PLO on Cooperation With Hamas Cabinet To Warn PLO on Cooperation With Hamas TA1704113394 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew 1100 GMT 17 Apr 94 TA1704113394 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Hebrew BFN [Text] The cabinet today decided to warn the PLO against cooperating with Hamas [Islamic Resistance Movement], in the wake of reports on possible cooperation between the two organizations. This was reported at the close of the weekly cabinet session. Our political correspondent Shlomo Raz reports that the cabinet approved the issuance of 20,000 work permits for Palestinians, mainly in farming. The laborers will be 35 years old, or above. The cabinet also approved the allocation of 30 million shekels for government-initiated projects and social welfare payments for the Palestinians in the territories. For the time being, the closure will continue indefinitely. Knesset Member Ori Or, chairman of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee, said today that the cooperation announced by Hamas and Fatah in the territories is not an agreement between the leadership of the two organizations. These are understandings made by local Gaza activists. The understandings were made because some Hamas members are hoping for jobs in the autonomy administration, and in view of the interest shared by both organizations to prevent bloodshed in Gaza. Ori Or further said that there are serious difference among Hamas members. Activists in the territories claim that they should take part in the PLO administration in order to survive when autonomy is established. At the same time, some of the organization leaders believe that terror is the only path to be pursued. Likud has called on the prime minister to stop negotiations with the PLO if it does not immediately stop cooperating with Hamas. Likud faction chairman Moshe Qatzav stated it is now clear that the working assumption of the Oslo agreement, according to which the PLO would fight Hamas, is silly.
