FBIS4-15309 "drsov068_i_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-068 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 CENTRAL ASIA Kazakhstan President Nazarbayev Wants To `Step Up' Economic Reforms President Nazarbayev Wants To `Step Up' Economic Reforms LD0604104394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0926 GMT 6 Apr 94 LD0604104394 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Gennadiy Kulagin] [Text] Almaty 6 April, TASS -- Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev spoke of the need for streamlining the earlier government anti-crisis programme and perking up economic reform at a meeting on Tuesday with other republican leaders on the eve of his visit to Japan. Following the introduction of national currency four and a half months ago, the Kazakh leader and the government issued over 200 decrees, decisions and instructions of normative and executive nature. However, the president claims, there is no system and purposefulness in implementing mapped-out measures. Activities of ministries and the government are not coordinated enough to draft normative and executive documents and to organise their practical implementation. Nazarbayev made some important proposals aimed at accelerating the compilation of a programme to step up reforms. In the president's opinion, prime attention should be given to raising prestige and improving the operation of executive organs and state bodies of administration. The president noted that it is necessary to synthesize all channels of financial aid from international organisations and foreign countries received under the state's auspices by areas, economic sectors and social spheres of the republic as well as to hammer out the main principles and mechanisms of its use, including state structures and other institutions responsible for the implementation of projects and the return of credits and loans received for their implementation. The president also noted the expediency to compile indicative five-year plans starting with 1995, to step up support for privatisation processes and holding structures giving them greater freedom of actions, to promote the development of consumer goods production, to boost volumes of processing agricultural produce and to restructure the operation of the statistical system which orients itself, as before, only on the state sector and, therefore, does not give a real picture of the republican economy. The president specially stressed that, taking into consideration the present situation and still entertaining hopes for the integration within the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Republic should rely, above all, on its own capabilities. Kazakhstan must survive in any case, using its own potential. The programme to pep up the economic reform will be adopted in April after its improvement. The president also plans this month to examine issues of privatisation, adjustment of social programmes, housing policy and a drive against crime.
