FBIS4-65245 "drweu093_j_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-093 Daily Report 12 May 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY MSI's Rauti Defends Values of Fascism MSI's Rauti Defends Values of Fascism LD1205165494 Paris France-2 Television Network in French 1100 GMT 12 May 94 LD1205165494 Paris France-2 Television Network French BFN [Text] In Italy, Prime Minister Berlusconi has said that the neofascist ministers in his government should not be regarded as such, but rather as men of the Center-Right, or even the Center-Left. This does not seem to be the opinion of the deputy leader of the neofascist party, which held a meeting yesterday, and which has not given up its attachment to the memory of Mussolini. Alain de Chalvron is in Rome: [de Chalvron] Scarcely had the government been put together when the neofascists of the MSI [Italian Social Movement] gathered for a little meeting to prepare for the European elections. The hardliners were here: the guest of honor was Pino Rauti, the party's second in command, previously the leader, removed by Fini. For him, and for all the others there, there should be no false modesty: [Begin Rauti recording] We are the defenders of values that existed before fascism, and during fascism, and they have the right to exist after fascism. These are the values that we fought for. The (?youngest people) in the post-fascist period, I myself in the fascist period, in the last phase of the war, in the Italian social republic [sentence as heard]. The battle is one over values and spirituality, rather than over the economic aspects of life and existence. The defense of the family, the defense of (?the faith), the defense of traditional values -- many things. I don't think all of this was perfect in the fascist regime, but nevertheless it was a trend (?to be defended). The doctrine of fascism is not dictatorship. Dictatorship was a necessity of the other postwar period; it was the personality of Mussolini; there was the great world crisis after the economic crisis in the United States, and many things that made fascism an authoritarian phenomenon. [end recording] [de Chalvron] With all due respect to Fini, the great burnisher of the MSI's image, and to Berlusconi who is saying today that his allies are by no means neofascists, there is certainly a whole tendency within the National Alliance which looks back to the past and is proud of it.
