FBIS3-39799 "drweu035_h_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 GERMANY Kinkel Praises Russia for Bosnian Initiative AU2102143494 Hamburg WELT AM SONNTAG in German 20 Feb 94 p 2 AU2102143494 Hamburg WELT AM SONNTAG Language: German Article Type:BFN [Siegmar Schelling report: "Kinkel Praises Russia for Its Bosnian Initiative"] [Text] Bonn -- FRG Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel (Free Democratic Party of Germany) thinks that Serbia's yielding in Sarajevo is due to the "seriousness of the NATO ultimatum," the "initiative" of Russian President Boris Yeltsin, and Washington's "more intensive involvement." In an interview with WELT AM SONNTAG, Kinkel stressed that the Serbs' giving in is "a great success for NATO. I am sure that the Serbian besiegers of Sarajevo would not have reacted in this way without the massive NATO threat." NATO is "firmly determined to maintain its ultimatum and to really get down to business if the conditions are not fulfilled." Kinkel praised the Russian initiative for Bosnia. For Bonn it "has always been particularly important that Russia be included in the political solution." With his initiative, Yeltsin has "leaned far out of the window. If the Serbs do not fulfill their promises made to Yeltsin, they would lose their last advocate." The more intensive involvement of the Americans, who are now ready "to fully join in and make use of their influence on the parties to the conflict, in particular on the Muslims," also speaks for the possibility of a political solution. Kinkel said that now it is very important to "make use of the momentum." If, as a goal for the near future, it becomes possible to achieve UN administration for the area of Sarajevo, this could be the beginning of a new stage to come to a political solution in the end. The decisive thing will be whether one can make it clear to the parties to the conflict, the Serbs, Croats, and Muslims: "Only if they join in and are ready for a peaceful solution will such a solution be possible." However, the minister warned against precipitate euphoria: "We have been disappointed and led by the nose too often." It cannot be ruled out, either, that the Serbs will now try to shift their heavy weapons from Sarajevo to another battlefield in Bosnia. If this is done, one "must think again about how they can be prevented from doing that." Germany has "a not unimportant share" in the latest development, Kinkel said. Chancellor Kohl was in permanent contact with Russia's President Yeltsin; he himself was partly in direct contact with his Soviet counterpart Kozyrev. There were also permanent contacts with Washington and the European partners. Kinkel stressed that in the overall context Bonn can only play a mediating role, "because we cannot send German soldiers directly to the area of crisis for constitutional and historic reasons."
