FBIS4-18017 "drsov083_r_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-083 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 Azerbaijan Gazanov Comments on New U.S. Ambassador Gazanov Comments on New U.S. Ambassador 944K1123C Baku AZERBAYDHJAN in Russian 23 Apr 94 p 3 944K1123C Baku AZERBAYDHJAN Russian CSO [Report by Fazil Aleskeroglu: "Unity of Outlook and Positions Needed"] [Text] The meeting between Minister of Foreign Affairs Hasan Hasanov with the new U.S. ambassador to Azerbaijan, Mr. Richard Dale Kozlaric, lasted more than two hours. Unfortunately, to journalists' questions the ambassador gave only one reply--that all aspects of Azerbaijani-American relations have been discussed meticulously and in detail and a mutual understanding has been reached that...in order to achieve complete clarity, many additional meetings will be needed, which will indeed be held. He added that he would refrain from answering other questions until he presents his credentials to the head of the republic. So it was the minister who ended up answering many questions. First and foremost, he appraised highly the fact of appointment of Mr. Kozlarich as the U.S. Ambassador to Azerbaijan. The head of the foreign policy department emphasized that this appointment is a very positive fact and undoubtedly will facilitate rapprochement between our countries. "I have known Mr. Kozlarich since 1992. I have a good impression of him. The ambassador has had a very long and serious diplomatic career. At the time he was dealing with all issues associated with the republics of the former Union. The positive impression I developed then was reaffirmed during our current meeting. The main point is that he is a man with a long service in diplomacy, well informed on the subject of Armenian aggression. All of this is evidence that the U.S. State Department, by appointing him the ambassador to Azerbaijan, counts on positive changes in the resolution of many issues. They sent here a person who is a man of goodwill, is sincere, and has a good grasp of the situation. Much will also depend on us, however. Because as a rule an ambassador interacts with everyone: the population, the government, and journalists. Our republic, which is engaged in a war against Armenian aggressors, desperately needs unity; unity of outlook and position of both the government and the opposition. This is the only way we can get out of the crisis situation in which we currently find ourselves. The minister also was asked how he feels about the proposal of some U.S. senators and congressmen to invite Ter-Petrosyan, as the most democratic of the presidents of the countries of the former Union, to America. Hasan Hasanov characterized this proposal as primarily another action of the Armenian lobby, and emphasized that it is seriously erroneous. In the minister's opinion, the head of a republic that conducts an aggressive, bloody war that violates all human rights on the occupied territory, conducts regular ethnic cleansing, and violates all international norms and universal moral norms, cannot be considered a democrat. Especially considering that he also is de facto commander-in-chief of the Armenian armed forces.
