FBIS3-60375 "jpten002__l94033" JPRS-TEN-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 25 January 1994 WEST EUROPE REGIONAL AFFAIRS EC Evaluates European Air Quality Program BR2812160793 Brussels RAPID Database in English 21 Dec 93 BR2812160793 Brussels RAPID Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [EC press release No IP/93/1226: "Air Quality for the Year 2000--European Commission Welcomes Industry Programme on Car Emissions"] [Text] [European Community] Commissioners [for Industrial Affairs] Martin Bangemann and [Energy and Euratom Supply] Abel Matutes today met senior members of the European Automobile Manufacturers Association (ACEA) and the European Petroleum Industry Association (Europia). They discussed the progress made so far in the European programme on air quality, emissions, fuels and engine technologies (EPEFE/Auto/Oil programme). The programme, carried out in collaboration with ACEA/Europia, was initiated by the [EC] Commission in the context of its new approach of a multifaceted, coherent strategy towards vehicle emission reduction measures for and beyond the year 2000. This strategy will include the development of air quality objectives and an assessment of the cost-effectiveness of the different measures. All parties acknowledged the important contribution that the programme will make to providing scientific data for an emission policy in the European Community for the year 2000, through its investigation of the effects of fuel specifications and engine technologies on vehicle exhaust emissions. The Commission confirmed its commitment to develop air quality objectives and to assess future trends in air quality for a range of pollutants. The two industries reiterated the programme's aim of providing the European Commission with the necessary information for it to propose emission limit values for passenger cars, light duty and heavy duty vehicles as well as motor fuel specifications (both gasoline and diesel) for the year 2000. The commissioners emphasized the need for the expeditious conclusion of the tripartite programme in the light of the Commission's legislative timetable. The commissioners, speaking also on behalf of Mr Yannis Paleokrassas [EC Commissioner for Environment, Nuclear Safety, and Civil Protection], welcomed the industries' concern about the need to continue to improve the environmental performance of their products. The three parties each expressed their appreciation of the degree of trust which has been built up through the on-going tripartite (Commission/ACEA/Europia) consultations since autumn 1992.
