FBIS3-29553 "dreas035_i_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 Cambodia Further on Results of Anlung Veng Offensive Tie Banh: Attacks to Continue BK2102120094 Phnom Penh CAMBODIA TIMES in English 13-19 Feb 94 p 4 BK2102120094 Phnom Penh CAMBODIA TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [By M.H. Tee: "Move on Khmer Rouge Positions Continue"] [Excerpts] PHNOM PENH -- The Royal Army's concerted push towards Khmer Rouge positions through out the country is expected to continue until April when several key guerilla positions are to be captured. Defence Minister Tie Banh told The CAMBODIA TIMES that the Royal Army was pushing forward to all of the Khmer Rouge positions in the country and not just Anlung Veng. It was learnt that the push has resulted in severe casualties on both sides, although most of the government soldiers were injured by mines, booby traps and other hazards in addition to accidents. At least 70 government soldiers have been admitted to the army hospital in the capital here with injuries suffered mainly from mines and booby traps. Very few of the soldiers were injured in the exchange of fire with guerillas. Although military sources said that guerilla casualties were very much higher, it could not be determined as to what the actual figures are. Most of them were either dragged away by comrades or were left in dense foliage. Morale among the government troops were also reportedly high when the initial push reportedly met with little resistance. In this instance, the government was right when it said that there was no large scale clashes but mere skirmishes. [passage omitted] Diplomatic sources said that the outcome of the battle depended very much on the morale of the troops, the command structure, as well as how cohesive the various armies which merged into the Royal Army. It is no secret that some of the guerillas are fighting hard and have been in high spirits as they have been well paid and fed by their commanders. Although the same is probably true with the Royal Army, it is certainly more difficult given the strength of the army and the Royal Government's own financial constraints. [passage omitted]
