FBIS3-45051 "drchi008_n_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 Economic & Agricultural PBOC Allows HK Currency in Shenzhen, Zhuhai HK1101061294 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO in Chinese 10 Jan 93 p 1 HK1101061294 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By Hsu Yun-teng (1776 0061 7506): "People's Bank of China Specially Permits Continued Circulation of Hong Kong Currency in Shenzhen and Zhuhai"] [Text] When interviewed by this reporter by telephone yesterday, an authoritative senior official of the People's Bank of China [PBOC] pointed out: A compromise has been made between the group of officials who advocate banning the circulation of Hong Kong currency in Shenzhen and Zhuhai and another group of officials who advocate allowing its circulation there. The two groups have agreed that "for a period of time to come, the PBOC will specially allow Hong Kong currency to circulate and be used in the areas of Shenzhen and Zhuhai." As for how many months or years that "period of time to come" means, he said: There is no specific timetable, which may be a very short period, or a very long one. He commented further, saying: The Bank of China Hong Kong Branch will soon participate in the issuance of Hong Kong currency. After Hong Kong is returned to Mainland China in 1997, Hong Kong currency will not be treated as foreign currency. This does not conflict with the existing prohibition. He anticipated that Hong Kong currency will probably be circulated and used in Shenzhen and Zhuhai for a considerably long time in order to facilitate the operations of people and enterprises there. He said: "In fact, it is unfeasible to ban the circulation of Hong Kong currency in Shenzhen and Zhuhai. Such being the case, it is unnecessary to insist on banning the currency there." Qin Chijiang, a director of the Financial Research Institute of the PBOC, also confirmed the correctness of the above remarks and the consensus reached within the PBOC. The news gives evidence to an exclusive report by this newspaper, which revealed a few days ago that the Shenzhen Branch of the PBOC had insisted that such a ban was unfeasible, and that it would "omit" concrete measures for carrying out the ban in its report for submission to its Beijing head office. In addition, this newspaper also exclusively disclosed that Yin Jieyan, director of the State Administration of Exchange Control, had secretly visited Shenzhen a couple of days ago, and, after his return to Beijing, tried to persuade policymakers at the PBOC not to forcibly ban the circulation of Hong Kong currency in the areas of Shenzhen and Zhuhai.
