FBIS4-65449 "drweu096_p_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-096 Daily Report 17 May 1994 GREECE `New Ideas' in U.S. Package `New Ideas' in U.S. Package NC1705183094 Athens I KATHIMERINI in Greek 17 May 94 p 6 NC1705183094 Athens I KATHIMERINI Greek BFN [Report by correspondent Alexis Papakhelas from Washington] [Text] U.S. President Bill Clinton's government has actively intervened in the mediation efforts for Skopje by promoting an overall package solution and the name "North Macedonia." U.S. Presidential Envoy Matthew Nimetz has presented the U.S. package of "new ideas" to both sides. Nimetz is also trying to convince the Greek community's leadership on the need to compromise, and to focus on the name "North Macedonia." U.S. officials said that President Clinton asked Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou, during their recent telephone conversation, to study seriously the U.S. proposals. According to the same officials, Papandreou agreed to submit a reasonable alternative solution. The White House has taken the Greek prime minister's promise very seriously and believes that it is possible to reach a compromise by June. President Clinton's close associate George Stephanopoulos told private station MEGA that (during their telephone conversation) Clinton "encouraged Papandreou to proceed with a swift solution to the problem." Stephanopoulos stressed that "the United States has submitted some new ideas and is now waiting for the Greek proposals." He added: "The United States believes the more comprehensive a solution is, the better." UN mediator Cyrus Vance met Ambassador Khristos Zakharakis, the Foreign Ministry secretary general, in New York yesterday. According to reliable information, Vance is trying to determine Greece's real intentions on the name issue. In the first phase, concerning Skopje's name, he tried to determine whether the Greek side would prefer a geographical or a national definition before the term "Macedonia." Diplomatic observers believe Vance considers the solution of a composite name as a given, but has abandoned the term "Nova Majedonia" because he knows that it has been identified with negotiations of former Prime Minister Konstandinos Mitsotakis' government. The same observers appear pessimistic about the outcome of the New York talks. They note that both sides may accept the principle of a "package solution," but point out that it would be very difficult to agree on a compromise solution on the name issue.
