FBIS4-346 "drafr068_a_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-068 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda Kigali Erupts in Violence; Ministers Killed Kigali Erupts in Violence; Ministers Killed Further on Kidnappings AB0704143394 Paris AFP in French 1334 GMT 7 Apr 94 AB0704143394 Paris AFP French BFN [Text] Kigali, 7 Apr (AFP) -- Three Rwandan ministers opposed to President Juvenal Habyarimana who died yesterday, and three UN military observers posted to guard them, were today "kidnapped" by elements of the Presidential Guard, a spokesman of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda [UNAMIR] disclosed. The kidnapping of the ministers and the UN observers is "a reprehensible act that we view with utmost concern," the spokesman added. The three ministers, who were kidnapped at their homes with their families in some cases, were Information Minister Faustin Rucogoza, Agriculture Minister Frederic Nzamurambaho, and Labor Minister Landouald Ndasingwa, the UNAMIR spokesman specified. Mr. Rucogoza is a member of the Republican Democratic Movement, the main Rwandan opposition party, and Mr. Nzamurambaho belongs to the Social Democratic Party while Mr. Ndasingwa leads the Tutsi branch of the Liberal Party. The government formed in July by President Juvenal Habyarimana included ministers from the opposition. The "broad-based" interim government, which was expected to have been put in place early this year, was also expected to include members of the Rwandan Patriotic Front, a former armed rebel movement of the minority Tutsi ethnic group. Sporadic shooting continued to be heard in several districts of Kigali this afternoon but no casualty list has been drawn up on these clashes which, apparently, involve youths and the Army, UNAMIR added. The UNAMIR spokesman also disclosed that the Presidential Guard today, without explanation, denied his organization access to the spot where the Rwandan president's plane crashed yesterday evening. Consequently, the UN office in Kigali is unable to confirm the Rwandan Defense Ministry's statement according to which the presidential plane was shot down by "unidentified armed elements."
