FBIS4-27785 "dreas108__a94016" FBIS-EAS-94-108-A Daily Report 4 Jun 1994 ANNEX Japan LDP, SDPJ Delegations To Visit DPRK LDP, SDPJ Delegations To Visit DPRK OW0406123994 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 4 Jun 94 Morning Edition p 7--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0406123994 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Text] At a time when international tensions are mounting over the issue of North Korea's suspected development of nuclear weapons, the opposition Liberal Democratic Party [LDP] and the opposition Social Democratic Party of Japan [SDPJ] plan to send their respective delegations to North Korea in June. They plan to send their delegations with the aim of "opening the way for a dialogue between Japan and North Korea through parliamentary diplomacy" since no governmental contacts between the two countries have been made since the Japan-North Korea normalization talks were broken off. While some officials in the government and some members in the two parties are concerned about sending the delegations to North Korea, saying, "Their visits to North Korea would be exploited by North Korean propaganda, thereby incurring a backlash from the United States," others are pessimistic about their visits to North Korea, saying, "Since it is a delicate time, North Koreans will guard against the delegations." The LDP will send Taku Yamasaki, former director general of the Defense Agency, and Yoichi Tani, former director general of the Hokkaido and Okinawa Development Agency, on 14 June to Pyongyang. They hope to hold talks with North Korean Premier Kang Song-san, but their itinerary has yet to be decided. Yamasaki says, "If the talks are held, we would tell the premier that North Korea needs to clear up suspicions over North Korea's development of nuclear arms through consultations with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)." North Korea has accepted Yamasaki's visit to North Korea. Commenting on North Korea's acceptance of this visit, a senior LDP member sees the acceptance as "North Korea's signal that it hopes to improve relations with Japan." Another senior LDP member, however, says: "There is a question of whether their visit to North Korea is timely or not. They may merely listen to what North Koreans advocate without advocating anything to them." The SDPJ will send Hajime Fukada, director general of the Organization Bureau, and others to Pyongyang on 11 June and they will stay there until 14 June. The SDPJ delegation is likely to be composed of three peorsons. The SDPJ views their visit to North Korea as an opportunity to lay the groundwork for a visit by a party delegation led by chairman or secretary general to North Korea. The SDPJ delegation intends to avoid making any proposal to break the deadlock over the nuclear issue.
