FBIS4-61124 "drsov086_n_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-086 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 Turkmenistan New Religious Structure To Function Under President New Religious Structure To Function Under President PM0305124394 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA in Russian 30 Apr 94 p 2 PM0305124394 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA Russian BFN [Report by Aleksandr Bushev: "Qadi Appointed To Be Responsible for Religious Affairs"] [Text] Ashgabad -- Just four years ago, there were only 16 mosques functioning on Turkmenia's [Turkmenistan's] huge territory; now 180 have been built, and around another 100 are in the completion stage. What is going on? After all, everyone -- from the famous Arminiy Vamberi to the travelers of our century -- has unfailingly talked of the Turkmens as one of the peoples least disposed to religious dogmatism? Fears are idle -- fundamentalism will not cross into Turkmenia. The policy of building a secular society proclaimed by President S. Niyazov recently received further confirmation. Gathering a large number of believers around a banquet table on a small strip of grass outside the city, the Turkmen President announced his model for relations between the people and the religious aristocracy. "There are people who want religious rites and customs to be inculcated in everyone on a compulsory basis," Turkmenbashi complained. "This is heard especially frequently from the clergy. But Turkmens have never allowed anyone to force them to do anything." Formerly, leadership of religion in the republic has been exercised by the Council for Religious Affairs under the Cabinet of Ministers, retained from Soviet times. S. Niyazov announced the decision to create a new structure. Henceforth, there will be something like a committee or ministry for religion, but this time under the country's president. It will be headed by the supreme religious official -- the qadi of all Turkmenia. His deputy will be the leader of the Turkmenistan Orthodox churches. Both are to be assigned a ministerial salary of 1,000 manats, and, like all Turkmen ministers, they will travel in state "Volvos." At the conclusion of the meeting religious figures appealed to the Almighty to bless the Turkmen leader.
