FBIS3-52043 "drlat019__a94008" FBIS-LAT-94-019-A Document Type:Daily Report 28 January 1994 ANNEX Brazil Sao Paulo Mayor Suggests Senator Passarinho for President PY2601133794 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 25 Jan 94 p 7--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY2601133794 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] Sao Paulo -- Mayor Paulo Maluf believes Senator Jarbas Passarinho (PPR-PA [Progressive Renewal Party-Para]) is "a great candidate for the presidency of the Republic because he is the only Brazilian who has been minister four times -- in the labor, education, social welfare, and justice portfolios." Maluf avoided talking about his own possible candidacy for Planalto Palace, preferring instead to commend the president of the CPI [Congressional Investigating Committee] on the budget scandal, stressing that Passarinho was elected senator three times, and Para State governor and Congress president. "Very few people in this country have Passarinho's political background. If our party chooses him as a candidate, he will win the election. He is austere and competent," Maluf said, without explaining what that would do to his candidacy. "It is the party that will decide who the candidate will be. If the party chooses Passarinho, I will campaign for him morning, afternoon, and night." Carnival Asked how he would take it if the PPR chose him as presidential candidate instead of Passarinho, Maluf said: "The problem is undefined because I did not tell the party that I wanted to become a candidate." Recalling the lyrics of Chico Buarque of Holland's song, Maluf said he is getting ready "for the arrival of carnival." The mayor said he will make a decision on an eventual candidacy after February. "We still are in January. Let us wait for February. People say that Brazilian history begins after carnival." Lula [Inacio Lula da Silva] Maluf avoided attacking Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso, with whom he participated in a luncheon at the house of actress and former Deputy Ruth Escobar on 23 January. His criticism was once again directed at Lula. "I think Lula is inadequate to become president. First he should be a candidate to San Bernardo City Hall. He should be a mayor for four years and then he should be a gubernatorial candidate. If he is a good governor for four years he could become a presidential candidate. He does not have the executive experience to become president," Maluf said. In Maluf's opinion, "the PT [Workers Party] should elect Mercadante (Deputy Aloizio Mercadante) who is a university professor and has experience, or even [Luiza] Erundina, who already has been [Sao Paulo State] governor."
