FBIS4-18090 "drweu062__a94028" FBIS-WEU-94-062-A Daily Report 31 March 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Anti-Mafia Commission Members Resign Anti-Mafia Commission Members Resign BR2503135194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 2115 GMT 24 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2503135194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "Anti-Mafia Commission Members Resign, Back Violante"] [Text] (ANSA) Rome, March 24 -- Two members of parliament's joint Anti-mafia Commission, including its vice chairman, resigned Thursday [24 March] in support of the commission's chairman, Luciano Violante, who stepped down yesterday after the commission became embroiled in an electoral dispute because of ongoing investigations. The vice chairman of the commission, Socialist Senator Maurizio Calvi, and Republican Senator Giovanni Ferrara Salute both announced they were resigning to protest the "attacks" by Silvio Berlusconi against Violante and therefore against the entire commission. Berlusconi, leader of the right-wing Forza Italia coalition, had requested Violante's resignation after the Turin daily, LA STAMPA quoted the commission chairman as saying that a top executive of Berlusconi's media, retail and advertising empire may be under investigation in Catania for alleged links with the mafia. The Catania public prosecutor's office has been investigating ties between organized crime, business, politicians and freemasonry. Violante, a member of the Democratic Party of the Left, denied the statements published by LA STAMPA but agreed to step down because, he said, he did not want the commission's work and its stature to be undermined. (The Catania prosecutor's office has refused to release information about the investigations and today reiterated it would not confirm or deny whether the executive, Marcello Dell'Utri of the Publitalia advertising agency, was under investigation. "If we deny we have to intervene because when we do not deny, people think we are confirming," said one Catania magistrate.) A third commission member, the Lower House Left Democrat MP Gaetano Grasso, also resigned later, saying that "the attack against Violante...raises doubts on the entire commission and the work it has carried out over the years." All the commission members belonging to the Progressive Alliance later announced they, too, were resigning in support of Violante and to protest the allegations made by Berlusconi. Five of the nine resigning members belong to the Democratic Party of the Left, the others are from the Democratic Alliance, Network, Green and Communist Refoundation parties.
