FBIS3-7386 "dreas059_d_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 South Korea UN Official on Council Nuclear Statement, China SK2703031294 Seoul YONHAP in English 0301 GMT 27 Mar 94 SK2703031294 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] United Nations, March 26 (YONHAP) -- The U.N. Security Council retreated from a resolution to a statement by the council president in its first-step action on North Korea's nuclear issue due to China's opposition, officials here said Saturday. "Chances are six to four that the action by the Security Council will be in a form of president's statement," said an official at the South Korean mission to the United Nations, "this change, after the council went as far as distributing the draft of the resolution, is intended to secure China's participation." Chinese representative Chen Jian had spoken against adoption of the resolution at a closed-door council meeting on Friday and insisted on a president's statement instead with more weight on positiveness and objectivity, according to the officials. The United States is somewhat neutral on whether it should be a resolution or a statement, but England and France are demanding a resolution. A heated debate is predicted at another closed-door session to convene on Monday. But the contents, be it resolution or statement, will not differ significantly since the resolution from the beginning did not contain any sanction measures. "Even if the council decides to issue a statement, the contents will not be much different from a resolution if it specifies the deadline on by when North Korea has to allow nuclear inspections, " the official said. The five permanent members of the council moved quickly after Pyongyang denied access to a team of International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors to core sites of its suspected nuclear development earlier this month. It was initially thought that the council would pass the resolution within this week giving North Korea one month to reallow IAEA inspection on the sites. "China has indicated it is willing to participate if it's a council president statement," said the South Korean official, "it's important to include China in the council's action since sanctions are impossible without Beijing's cooperation." "It's Seoul's position that it wouldn't mind whether it's a statement if it means China's participation," he said. The situation is a repeat of April last year when the council opted for a statement instead of a resolution at China's opposition. The president's statement is likely to come out this week, and the council will move up to a resolution if North Korea does not accept IAEA resolution by a set time, officials said.
