FBIS3-22686 "jptep008___94046" JPRS-TEP-94-008 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 16 March 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Ufa Inhabitants' Health Endangered by Dioxin PM1703095994 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 16 Mar 94 First Edition p 2 PM1703095994 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report under "Nature Conservation" rubric: "Ufa Remains a Place Dangerous to Life"] [Text] Research by scientists has shown that in individual parts of Ufa the maximum permissible concentrations of an extremely toxic substance -- dioxin -- in the air exceed the norm by tens of times. In the area where the "Khimprom" Production Association, which produces herbicides, is located this figure is equal to almost 20,000 times the maximum permissible concentration. Newborn babies take in up to 80 times the maximum permissible concentration of dioxin every day with their mother's milk. The republic's gene pool is perishing catastrophically. Mothers' milk and the blood and adipose tissue of the inhabitants of Bashkortostan are literally "larded" with toxic substances in quantities dangerous to life. This has been stated by Gennadiy Minin, the republic's chief state physician. Misfortune came to the land of Bashkortostan in April 1990. Unpurified waste and drainage water from Ufa's "Khimprom" flowed into the city water intake, poisoning thousands of cubic meters of drinking water with phenol. Knowing nothing, almost all the residents of the city with a population of 1 million used poisoned water for a long time. Then a large amount of dioxin was discovered in the water, the air, and the soil. Despite the city folk's protests, "Khimprom" is continuing to poison the environment or, rather, what is left of it. In addition, one more installation in Ufa has been discovered which is surreptitiously destroying nature and people with dioxin -- an experimental plant for the production of herbicides. Equipment to analyze the content of dioxin in the environment was purchased abroad at tremendous expense. But this is not the first year that it has been lying totally inactive. Taking advantage of the lack of control over it, the Bashkortostan State Committee for Ecology and Nature Use is squandering huge sums allocated to nature conservation. But a start has not been made on resolving the "dioxin problem" in the republic.
