FBIS4-43918 "drweu121_h_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-121 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 GERMANY Tietmeyer Warns Against Haste in Monetary Union Tietmeyer Warns Against Haste in Monetary Union AU2106203594 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG in German 21 Jun 94 p 24 AU2106203594 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG German BFN [Article by "H.M.": "Tietmeyer Warns Against Excessive Haste"] [Text] Gotha -- The current stage of preparations for European monetary union entail laying the appropriate economic foundations. The turmoil in the European Monetary System [EMS] over the past few years has made it perfectly clear that the EU [European Union] requires extensive economic and economic policy convergence to achieve stable monetary union. That is what Bundesbank President Tietmeyer stated at a business conference in Gotha staged by the Bavarian and Thuringian Governments in conjunction with the EU Commission. Karl-Heinz Wessel, chairman of the Bank Association, rejected criticism that the banks were being too cautious in eastern Germany. Tietmeyer asserted that the strict fulfillment of the convergence criteria contained in the Maastricht Treaty must take priority over the time-frame that has been envisaged. Until the completion of monetary union, exchange rate movements must be possible, because monetary union can only be successful in the long term if there are reasonable exchange rates at the outset. There is too much of a danger that a monetary union that is commenced with excessive haste and overlooks actual facts will turn into a inflationary community that will ultimately collapse. With regard to preparations for monetary union, Tietmeyer is of the opinion that at the present time the credibility of the monetary, economic, and fiscal policies of member states is being put to the test. European integration will only proceed if all the countries display the right degree of political will and create the necessary economic conditions. Only a lasting convergence geared toward stability within the EMS can, in conjunction with progress in political integration, create sound foundations for monetary union and, at the same time, act as a pointer for the future European central bank. Conscious of their central importance for the economy and society, west German banks were very quick to set themselves the task of restructuring the east German economy. That was how Karl-Heinz Wessel, president of the Federal Association of German Banks, responded to the criticism that the banks were too cautious about issuing loans in the new laender. By the end of 1995, over 6 billion German marks [DM] will have been invested in 1,100 east German businesses; 21,000 employees have found modern, well paid, and secure jobs in the new laender. The figures for the loans issued also speak for themselves. By the end of 1993, the total credit volume amounted to almost DM100 billion. The west-east transfer of capital of DM37 billion contained in these figures does not even take into account the loans directly granted to east German companies by west German branches. According to Wessel, loans granted to companies amounted to DM57 billion at the end of 1993; in 90 percent of the cases, the loans were unsecured. Another factor checking development is the low level of equity on the part of east German companies and the banks have also become active in this field. Parallel to developing their credit business, the banks have also extensively acquired stakes in firms. By the end of 1993, they held stakes in 189 companies. In addition, the banks are under obligation to use their share of the "bank billions" to acquire stakes in medium-size companies. This undertaking will be realized by the end of the year.
