FBIS4-44342 "drweu125_q_94011" FBIS-WEU-94-125 Daily Report 25 Jun 1994 TURKEY Security Officials Impound Smuggled Arms Security Officials Impound Smuggled Arms NC2806203994 Istanbul SABAH in Turkish 25 Jun 94 p 17 NC2806203994 Istanbul SABAH Turkish BFN [Report by Adnan Gerger: "The Set-3 Operation in Ankara"] [Excerpts] Ankara--Security units have impounded 14 Kalashnikov rifles and 18 other firearms in an operation in Ankara. The officials have ascertained that the arms were secretly brought into Turkey from Iraq. Acting on information, the police organization has taken wide-scale measures against possible terrorist activities in Ankara and Istanbul. The police units in the two cities have been placed on a state of alert. Officials of the police department on smuggling and illegal arms in Ankara received information that preparations were made to smuggle arms into Turkey some time ago. They investigated the matter and established that the attempt to smuggle arms into Turkey had international connections. The police organization then launched a secret operation, which was code named as "Set-3." [passage omitted] The case was relentlessly pursued by officials for 10 days. It ended in the Yenimahalle quarter of Ankara. Two persons arrived in Ankara yesterday in a car loaded with arms. They drove to the Yenimahalle quarter of the city. However, something went wrong with their appointment and they tried to drive away. That was when the "Set-3" officials arrested them. The police discovered 14 Kalashnikov rifles and 18 automatic handguns, most of which were 9 mm, in secret compartments of their car. The scope of the operation broadened and the police in Ankara were alerted after the impounding of the Kalashnikov rifles and handguns. The teams of the General Directorate of Police Smuggling and Intelligence Department, Antiterrorist Department, and Intelligence Department participated in the operations. The two suspects, whose names have not been disclosed, refrained from giving detailed information on their activities during their first interrogation. However, the officials have established that the sale of the arms took place in Saudi Arabia. They were then smuggled into Turkey from Iraq. The police officials are trying to establish whether or not the two suspects are linked with the Workers Party of Kurdistan or the IBDA-C [Islamic Great Eastern Raiders Front]. Meanwhile, considering the possibility that the arms have been smuggled into Turkey for terrorist activities either in Ankara or Istanbul, they have launched operations against many suspected cell houses.
