FBIS4-27113 "dreas104_c_94015" FBIS-EAS-94-104 Daily Report 28 May 1994 North Korea No Mediator Seen Needed for Talks With U.S. No Mediator Seen Needed for Talks With U.S. SK2805055994 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0545 GMT 28 May 94 SK2805055994 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["Unseemly Act of Puppet" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, May 28 (KCNA) -- The South Korean puppet foreign minister, Han Sung-chu, recently flew to a Southeast Asian country and entreated it to play "the role of a mediator between the United States and the DPRK in the solution of the nuclear issue of the North", according to a report. Lurking behind it is a sinister attempt of the puppets to create complexity by inveigling "a mediator" into the DPRK-U.S. talks for the solution of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. The DPRK-U.S. talks has not made a smooth progress because the United States reversed the New York agreement and deliberately laid obstacles to the solution of the nuclear issue. There is no doubt that a bright prospect will open before the talks, if the United States stop the international campaign for pressure on the DPRK and sincerely approach the DPRK-U.S. talks, though belatedly, and the South Korean puppets do not try to thrust its nose into it and obstruct it. Hence, it is as clear as noonday that no "mediator" is needed between the DPRK and the United States in solving the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. Han Sung-chu, however, brought forward the question of "mediator" who is not needed at all in the solution of the question during his foreign trip. This shows well how persistently the puppets are trying to put a spoke in the wheel of the DPRK-U.S. talks again. Facts clearly prove that the Kim Yong-sam group is, indeed, a group of traitors who are working round the clock to encumber the DPRK-U.S. talks for the solution of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula, roaming aimlessly. The South Korean puppet clique must stop the anachronistic act, squarely facing the trend of the times.
