FBIS3-37317 "drsov032_a_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Notes Progress in Settlement LD1602110194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0955 GMT 16 Feb 94 LD1602110194 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Andrey Naryshkin] [Text] Zagreb February 16 TASS -- "Problems linked with the normalisation of the situation around Sarajevo are extremely difficult. They call for serious efforts by all the sides involved, but some progress is already showing up. The sides involved in the conflict are beginning to think more in terms of peace and not military confrontation," special envoy of the Russian president, Deputy Foreign Minister Vitaliy Churkin told a press conference here on Thursday [as received] after his trip to Sarajevo. While in the Bosnian capital, Churkin met leaders of the Muslim community and commanders of the Bosnian Serb army, as well as representatives of the command of the U.N. Forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Russian special envoy said that the U.N. Forces were successfully establishing control over the heavy armaments of the conflicting sides, emplaced around Sarajevo. "It is difficult to say for sure that this process will be completed within 2-3 days," Churkin noted, "but the actions of the sides are reassuring." The Russian diplomat again stressed the immutabilty of Russia's stand. He said that NATO air strikes at positions of the Bosnian Serbs could be considered only as an extreme measure, permissible in an emergency situation. "In any case," he stressed, "it is necessary to realise that this step will escalate the Bosnian conflict." Touching on the possibility of a Russian military contingent taking part in the NATO-planned operation, Churkin noted that there was no reason for this. He does not think it possible that Russian soldiers could be sent to an area, where their lives and safety will be in danger, as a result of a decision adopted without Russia's participation. The special envoy of the Russian president will arrive in Belgrade from Zagreb today.
