FBIS3-30271 "dreeu021_i_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Karadzic Expects Conflict To Be Settled `by War' AU0102135894 Paris AFP in English 1334 GMT 1 Feb 94 AU0102135894 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Belgrade, Feb 1 (AFP) -- Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic said he expected the Bosnian conflict to be settled by war, in a statement Tuesday [1 February] to the Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA. "The international community is going to allow the conflict to be settled by war, which means that the world will give Moslems credit for land acquired through fighting. This same principle should be adopted for the Serbs," he said. The military headquarters for the self-proclaimed Serb republic of Bosnia on Monday decided to mobilize "everyone able to be mobilized, including women," in order to "end the war as quickly as possible." A reorganization of the army, as well as the introduction of "stricter measures regarding deserters" were decided by the chief of staff of the Bosnian Serb army. Karadzic, quoted by SRNA, said Bosnian Serbs' military goals were to "modernize its army, increase its efficiency, ensure the defense of our republic and vanquish our enemies." This required "the entire nation to mobilize for work or war," he said. Bosnian Serb military commanders have repeatedly charged that the Moslem-majority Bosnian Government Army is preparing a large-scale offensive for the spring. The Bosnian Serb leader also repeated his opposition to reopening the airport at Tuzla, the Moslem-controlled city in northeastern Bosnia. "Any reopening of Tuzla airport is not motivated by humanitarian reasons but by military reasons," he said. The stage for more fighting was set after the last attempt to negotiate a settlement to the Bosnian conflict, two days of talks by the warring parties in Geneva last month, failed to make any progress. European Community negotiator David Owen at the time said the sides appeared to be gearing for new offensives after the winter, after 21 months of war.
