FBIS3-36443 "drsov025_b_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Rejects CIS Interparliamentary Assembly LD0502151694 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1420 GMT 6 Feb 94 LD0502151694 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The leader of the Russian Liberal Democratic Party's faction in the State Duma Vladimir Zhirinovskiy sees no sense in the Russia's participation in the CIS Interparliamentary Assembly. He has voiced this view in an interview with INTERFAX on the eve of a two-day session of that CIS body, opening in St. Petersburg on February 8. "The Interparliamentary Assembly is an alien body, we have Russian parliament and do not need anything more", the leader of the second largest Duma faction remarked. "The assembly's founder Ruslan Khasbulatov is in the "Lefortovo" jail, that's where the whole assembly belongs, there are vacant cells there", he said. Zhirinovskiy stressed that, the assembly and other CIS bodies consolidate "the dismemberment of Russia's territory". The LDP leader, as he has repeated over and over again, regards the entire territory of the former Russian Empire, Finland included, as genuinely Russian land. In his opinion, Russia should stay out of pacts with the states that dropped out of the USSR. In his opinion, these countries should rejoin Russia as provinces, because such an ally for Russia would be, as he put it "a chimera beyond control." "No power can be stable without a single center", Zhirinovskiy claims. When the Duma discussed on Friday whether to send a delegation to St. Petersburg or not, Zhirinovsky spoke out sharply against the Russian parliament's participation in the CIS body. The lawmaker Vyacheslav Marychev (St. Petersburg), suggested sending there those who "pounded Russian Parliament" in October 1993. "Let Lukin (Yavlinskiy's bloc -- IF) and Braginskiy (the "Russia's Choice bloc -- IF) go there, for Zyuganov and Rybkin there is nothing to do there", he declared. During the crisis in Moscow last October, the Duma Speaker Ivan Rybkin and the leader of the Communist Party's faction Gennadiy Zyuganov were inside the White House together with the deputies of the Supreme Soviet, dissolved by Boris Yeltsin's decree. Despite resistance from the Zhirinovskiy's faction, most lawmakers decided to send a delegation of five Duma members with Rybkin at the head to St. Petersburg. A delegation of the Federal Assembly, the Upper House of the Federation Council, will be led by its Speaker Vladimir Shumeyko. Both leaders figure in the list of candidates to the post of Chairman of the CIS Interparliamentary Assembly.
