FBIS4-11502 "drlat082_r_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-082 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 Peru Ex-President Garcia Reportedly To Reorganize APRA Ex-President Garcia Reportedly To Reorganize APRA PY2704232394 Lima EXPRESO in Spanish 15 Apr 94 p A6 PY2704232394 Lima EXPRESO Spanish BFN [Text] Agustin Mantilla Campos, former interior minister under the APRA [American Popular Revolutionary Alliance] administration, will reportedly be the new APRA secretary general. This was supposedly the order given by ex-President Alan Garcia Perez to a group of APRA leaders who held a meeting in Cartagena, Colombia, last week. This information was disclosed by a source in that political organization. The leaders who attended the meeting include Jorge del Castillo and former Ministers Gustavo Seberbein and Mercedes Cabanillas, among others. The source said that Garcia is trying to maintain the party's leadership in the hands of people in his complete confidence, and that he will channel the necessary resources to them to keep the organization "afloat" until "his return." Garcia reportedly told them: "I want you to keep the party, like a boat, afloat. When I return I will make it into a frigate." The idea that Mantilla would take over the party leadership has been talked about for the last few months, especially after he was released. But this possibility ended when the Supreme Court annulled that decision and sentenced him to eight years in prison, which he is now serving. But according to legislation, Mantilla could be released on parole after serving 24 months of his sentence. He may therefore be released in May, which is the month when the APRA will elect its new leadership. It has also been reported that the Garcia supporters are paving the way within the party for getting Mantilla elected. The source noted that this is reflected in the elections of the district executive committees and the systematic separation of leaders or militants who disagree with this strategy. The source added: "Everything is handled in such a way as to obey the guidelines given by Alan Garcia. Therefore, there is no doubt that Mantilla, unless something unexpected happens, will be the APRA leader in the next few months."
