FBIS4-47541 "jpust013___94094" JPRS-UST-94-013 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 23 June 1994 LIFE SCIENCES BIOTECHNOLOGY In Vitro Immunization of Human Peripheral In Vitro Immunization of Human Peripheral Blood Lymphoid Cells by Staphylococcal Anatoxin 947C0130E Moscow BIOTEKHNOLOGIYA in Russian No. 4, Apr. 93 pp. 41-44 947C0130E Moscow BIOTEKHNOLOGIYA Russian CSO [Article by M.P. Potapnev, Ye.V. Ruksha, Scientific Research Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion at the Belarussian Republic Ministry of Public Health, Minsk; UDC 57.083.3] [Abstract] The limitations on using immune donor B-lymphocytes (due to a limited range of antigens or pathogens allowed for human immunization) which produce antibodies of a given specificity--the first stage in human monoclonal antibody production--and known advantages of in vitro immunization prompted attempts to engineer a human hybridoma which produces antibodies to the staphylococcal anatoxin (SA) and examine the optimum conditions for in vitro human lymphocyte immunization. To this end, the blood of healthy donors without the specific antibodies to the staphylococcal anatoxin according to the rabbit blood erythrocyte hemolysis reaction was used. The procedure of in vitro immunization of human peripheral blood cells with the staphylococcal anatoxin was improved using lymphocytes separated from monocytes and cytokins, i.e., interleukin-2 products. The immunized human lymphocytes were subsequently used for constructing a heterohybridoma whereby B-enriched fraction cells were fused with the mice myeloma. An ELISA method was developed for assessing the secreted specific antibodies and an ELISPOT method--for determining the antibody-producing cells. The findings confirm the expediency of in vitro immunization for obtaining hybridomata which are producers of human MCAs to microbial antigens. The authors are grateful to Zh.A. Strezh and A.V. Voznyuk for biotesting of the IL-2 and IL-6 activity and to V.D. Zobnin for phenotype research assistance. Figures 1; tables 2; references 15: 3 Russian, 12 Western.
