FBIS3-45019 "drchi008_g_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 Sub-Saharan Africa Qian Qichen Begins African Visit Background on Qian HK1001060094 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in Chinese 0938 GMT 9 Jan 94 HK1001060094 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By reporter Li Wei (2621 0251): "Qian Qichen Starts a Visit to Six African Nations"] [Text] Beijing, 9 Jan (ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE)--Qian Qichen, Chinese vice premier and foreign minister, will start his foreign visits in the new year and set off tomorrow to visit six African countries: Ethiopia, Eritrea, Sudan, Kenya, Madagascar, and Mauritius. He will exchange opinions with leaders of the six countries on the international situation, African affairs, bilateral relations, and other issues of common interest. The Chinese foreign minister has been faithfully and creatively performing his duties and carrying out intense diplomatic activities. Last year, he not only received foreign counterparts at home, but also made 10 visits to foreign countries to attend international conferences. In particular, he accompanied PRC President Jiang Zemin when he attended the informal Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation organization summit meeting, and held an official meeting with U.S. President Clinton in Seattle, then he accompanied Jiang Zemin on his visit to Cuba, Brazil, and Portugal. Strengthening and developing unity and cooperation with Third World countries is a basic foothold of China's independent and peace-oriented foreign policy. At the beginning of the new year, Qian Qichen's visit to the six African countries demonstrates this. Qian Qichen has mentioned many times that China attaches importance to friendly cooperation with the African countries, and always respects and supports their decisions to select their own political systems and develop paths according to their own national conditions. On the eve of his visit to African countries in early 1993, he particularly stressed that it is not good to neglect Africa or try to impose one's own ideas on Africa. People should care about Africa, and respect the choices made by the African nations and their people. It was learned that before Qian Qichen became China's seventh foreign minister in 1988, he had already visited 21 of the 53 African countries.
