FBIS4-36100 "drnes109_d_94002" FBIS-NES-94-109 Daily Report 5 Jun 1994 Libya Arabs, Foreigners To Register at Security Centers Arabs, Foreigners To Register at Security Centers LD0506220294 Tripoli Libyan Television Network in Arabic 1930 GMT 5 Jun 94 LD0506220294 Tripoli Libyan Television Network Arabic BFN [Text] The General People's Committee for Justice and General Security announces that a process to compile and register names of Arab brothers living in the Great Jamahiriyah has begun. It is in implementation of the provisions of Law No. 3 for 1423 [1994] on the people's committees and Article Four of the Security and Police Law. Based upon that, all Arab brothers living inside the Great Jamahiriyah are requested to go to their local popular security centers, according to their place of residence, to implement the registration procedures. The General People's Committee for Justice and General Security urges all Arab brothers residing in the Great Jamahiriyah to complete these procedures in order to organize their economic, professional, handicraft, and trade activities, or their work for popular sectors and others. No facilities will be made for those who do not register their residence in the popular security center of their district and will be subject to measures outlined by legislation in force. The last date for registration will be at the end of the month of Hanibal [August]. The General People's Committee for Justice and General Security also announces that the process to compile and register names of foreigners residing in the Great Jamahiriyah has begun. It is in implementation of Article Two of the provisions of law No. 3, 1423 [after the Prophet's birth] concerning people's committees, and Article Four of the Security and Police Law. Based on that, all foreigners living in the Great Jamahiriyah are requested to head to local popular security centers in their place of residence to implement these procedures. All measures related to any of them performing any professional, handicraft, or trade activities, or continuing to work for general popular sectors will be stopped if they do not present proof or registration in the authorized security center. In addition, they will be subject to other punishments outlined by legislation in force. The last date for registration is the end of the month of Hanibal, 1423.
