FBIS4-68454 "jpusr049___94005" FBIS-USR-94-049 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 12 March 1994 UKRAINE POLITICAL AFFAIRS Law on Local Elections Law on Local Elections Decree on Implementation 944K0900B Kiev HOLOS UKRAYINY in Ukrainian 12 Mar 94 p 10 944K0900B Kiev HOLOS UKRAYINY Ukrainian CSO [Text of decree] [Text] Decree of the Supreme Soviet of Ukraine on the Procedure for the Entry Into Force of the Law of Ukraine "Elections of Deputies and Chairmen of Village, Town, Rayon, City, City Rayon and Oblast Soviets" The Supreme Soviet of Ukraine decrees: 1. The entry into force of the Law of Ukraine "Elections of Deputies and Chairmen of Village, Town, Rayon, City, City Rayon and Oblast Soviets" as of the day of its publication. 2. That the authority to create election commissions and electoral precincts in accordance with Article 52 of the Law of Ukraine "Elections of Deputies and Chairmen of Village, Town, Rayon, City, City Rayon and Oblast Soviets," by authorization of the Soviet, is exercised by the chairman of the Soviet, together with the credentials commission, and on questions of deputy activity and ethics, with the heads of the other standing commissions of the Soviet, until the formation of the executive committees of the oblast, Kiev and Sevastopol city, rayon, Kiev and Sevastopol city rayon Soviets. That it is established that the chairmen of the village, town, rayon, city, city rayon and oblast Soviets are granted the same authority as is held by a deputy to the corresponding Soviet. The guarantees that are held by the deputies of the Soviets extend to those officials as well. 3. To authorize the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of Ukraine: --to establish the forms of election documents and the type of ballot box, and to define the procedure and time periods for the safekeeping of election documents, in accordance with Articles 52 and 53 of the Law of Ukraine "Elections of Deputies and Chairmen of Village, Town, Rayon, City, City Rayon and Oblast Soviets"; --to develop an estimate of the expenditures connected with the preparation and conduct of elections; --to provide for the publication of this Law in mass circulation. 4. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is to: --provide financing for the coming elections of deputies and chairmen of local Soviets out of the funds of the state budget of Ukraine, and to provide the corresponding logistical support for the election campaign; --prepare and submit for the consideration of the Supreme Soviet of Ukraine proposed changes and amendments in legislation that arise out of the Law of Ukraine "Elections of Deputies and Chairmen of Village, Town, Rayon, City, City Rayon and Oblast Soviets." 5. That the local Soviets, in accordance with this Law, will define the number of electoral districts, form the election commissions and carry out measures to create the necessary conditions for their effective operation. 6. That the Law of the Ukrainian SSR "The Elections of Deputies of Local Soviets of People's Deputies of the Ukrainian SSR" is considered to be no longer valid with the entry into force of the Law of Ukraine "Elections of Deputies and Chairmen of Village, Town, Rayon, City, City Rayon and Oblast Soviets." Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of Ukraine I. Plyushch City of Kiev, 24 February 1994
