FBIS3-58891 "drweu016__a94009" FBIS-WEU-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 January 1994 ANNEX Belgium Deputy Prime Minister Coeme Resigns BR2101144494 Brussels BELGA in French 1203 GMT 21 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2101144494 Brussels BELGA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed MJN/PHF: "Resignation: Coeme Says He Is `Sickened'"; as released by Brussels BELGA Database] [Text] Brussels 21 Jan (BELGA) -- Here is the full text of the statement made by Guy Coeme at noon on Friday [21 January] after the announcement that he is resigning as deputy prime minister, minister of communications and public enterprises. "I have decided, as a free man, to resign my ministerial duties. "I believed, wrongly, that a man who is innocent has nothing to fear. "I believed, wrongly, that I could continue working in peace while defending myself. "I am having to face harassment, which is growing by the day; political harassment, as this affair has now become political; and media harassment fueled by rumors, lies and slander. "I am sickened. Now that this climate has been created, I find that I can no longer continue to discharge my ministerial duties in peace. "I am quite clear in my mind. I do not want the government to suffer. I do not want my party to suffer and, more generally, I do not want the population to suffer because I am unable to work under normal conditions in the service of the people. Freed of these duties, I will be able to devote all my energies to defending myself and revealing the truth. My innocence will be proved. "Before the special committee, I will attest that there has been no wrongdoing, no unjust acts, that I have nothing to reproach myself for. My conscience is clear. "I thank all those who have supported me and who have treated me correctly. I thank the prime minister, Mr. Philippe Busquin, my party president. "I also thank with all my heart all those who trust in me; I will continue to fight with them for the ideals we share. "I will be back."
