FBIS3-56724 "drsov012_d_94015" FBIS-SOV-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 Regional Affairs Tatarstan President Likely To Run for Parliament MK1401134094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 14 Jan 94 p 2 MK1401134094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Dmitriy Lukashev report in the "Tataria" column: "Repeat Elections Will Be Held in March If a Treaty Between Tataria and Russia Is Signed"] [Text] The Russian Central Election Commission has ruled that repeat elections in Tataria will be held on 13 March. The republic's citizens are to elect deputies to the State Duma in five single-seat constituencies and to the Federation Council in a two-seat constituency. Under the current election statute, the candidates are to raise the requisite number of signatures for registration again. Local observers believe that this time the republic's leadership has no reason to block the elections: After 12 December, when 12.9 percent of the electorate turned out at the polling stations, the local authorities had grounds to say that "the people are with us, not with Moscow." It is even accepted that someone from among the supreme leadership in the republic may want to run for the Federation Council, possibly President Shaymiyev himself. Furthermore, it is not ruled that the ongoing reformation of the representative and executive bodies in Tataria will end with the calling of elections to the local National Assembly, also on 13 March. This option is being discussed in the lobbies of the republic's Supreme Soviet and it will possibly be submitted to the deputies at the Supreme Soviet session scheduled for the second half of January. As for Mintimer Shaymiyev himself, he attended the Federation Council session on its first day as an observer. In an interview with SEGODNYA the Tatarstan president said that the repeat elections will be held in the republic provided the treaty between Russia and Tataria is signed before 13 March. "Otherwise the people of Tatarstan will simply have no reason to go to the polls," Mr. Shaymiyev said.
