FBIS4-49164 "drchi085_w_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-085 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO AFFAIRS Hong Kong Expatriate Civil Servants Excluded From Lu Ping Meeting Expatriate Civil Servants Excluded From Lu Ping Meeting HK3004062494 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 30 Apr 94 p 1 HK3004062494 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST English BFN [By Fung Wai-kong] [Text] Expatriate civil servants have been shut out of an all-important meeting next week between the government staff and Lu Ping, the top Chinese official in charge of Hong Kong affairs. They have been given the cold shoulder by the increasingly assertive Preliminary Working Committee, which has set up talks between Mr Lu and representatives of at least five of the most influential groups for local staff. The Association of Expatriate Civil Servants was not invited, even though it had already lodged a request through the local branch of XINHUA (the New China News Agency) to meet Mr Lu, director of the State Council's Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office. The most influential of the five local groups are the Senior Non-Expatriate Officers' Association (SNEOA) representing mainly middle-ranking officials, and the Hong Kong Chinese Civil Servants' Association, which speaks for about 90,000 local staff of all ranks. The chairman of the SNEOA, John Luk Woon-cheung, revealed that the invitation to meet Mr Lu had been made informally by officials of XINHUA. "We have been in good contact with the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, but it will still be good to see Mr Lu in Hong Kong," he said. The executive committee will meet during the week to decide what messages they will convey to Mr Lu. Expatriate civil servants were disappointed that they were being left out of the talks. Governor Chris Patten has already been snubbed by Mr Lu, who has decided he had no time to spare in his hectic schedule. Expats' chairman Royston Griffey said it would be unfortunate if they were barred from the dialogue between civil servants and the incoming sovereign power, because they formed a significant part of the administration and would remain so even after 1997. "It's important to break the ice in our relations as soon as possible," Mr Griffey said, referring to the lack of a response from XINHUA to earlier requests for a meeting. Mr Lu's decision to meet local staff associations was further evidence of an effort by China to marginalise Mr Patten from the process of planning the government of the future Special Administrative Region. Mr Patten said on Wednesday that if Mr Lu's schedule was too busy to meet him, it must be too busy to meet any senior civil servants. However, the Governor's spokesmen, Mike Hanson, said the Government did not feel that the scheduled meeting next Saturday was a further snub to Mr Patten. Rather it was good for Mr Lu to hear all shades of opinions, including those of the civil servants associations. "The Government has no difficulty about these contacts," said Mr Hanson. In Beijing, Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office deputy director Wang Feng-chao again urged all civil servants, including expatriates, to stay on after 1997. He reiterated that only the principal official posts as defined in the Basic Law had to be filled by Chinese citizens. The other posts remained open to all.
