FBIS3-16483 "drsov052_e_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Stresses Need for `Solid Investments' LD1603191294 Kiev UKRINFORM in Russian 1537 GMT 16 Mar 94 LD1603191294 Kiev UKRINFORM Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by UKRINFORM correspondent Aleksey Petrunya] [Text] Kiev, 16 Mar -- Ukraine's President Leonid Kravchuk today received former U.S. President Richard Nixon who is on a private visit to Ukraine. A whole range of issues, touching upon the development of Ukrainian-U.S. relations, were discussed during the conversation. In particular, the possibilities and specific ways of attracting U.S. private capital in Ukraine's economy were discussed. Leonid Kravchuk informed the guest about the political and economic situation in Ukraine and about the progress of the reform. He pointed out that no matter what credits are granted by foreign countries, Ukraine's economy cannot be revived without solid investments. For its part, Ukraine will do everything possible to create the necessary conditions for the protection of investments, emphasized the president. Ukraine's legislation, too, serves this purpose. Richard Nixon extended Leonid Kravchuk the best wishes from U.S. President Bill Clinton. He highly assessed the results of the recent visit by the president of Ukraine to the United States and the agreements achieved in the course of the visit. The United States attributes great importance to relations with Ukraine and to the consolidation of its independence and regards it as a good partner in various spheres, emphasized Richard Nixon. I arrived in Ukraine to obtain, so to say, first-hand information about the situation in your country and to report on everything I saw and heard here to Bill Clinton upon my return to the United States. Leonid Kravchuk asked Richard Nixon to give his best wishes to U.S. President Bill Clinton and declared that he recalls his visit to the United States and his meetings with the U.S. President with great pleasure.
