FBIS3-23039 "jptot008__l94001" JPRS-TOT-94-008-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 1 March 1994 TERRORISM HIGHLIGHTS: 11-17 February TERRORISM HIGHLIGHTS: 11-17 February 11111111 11111111 Article Type:CSO Editor's Note: The FBIS Terrorism Desk welcomes suscribers' comments and suggestions at (703) 733-5512. Highlights and major incidents in this edition of the FBIS Terrorism Report include: Egypt On 9 February, Cairo's AL-AHALI ran a lengthy interview with the Islamic Group's official press spokesman abroad. In the interview, he describes U.S. attempts to contact the group, strongly condemns tourism in Egypt, and outlines plans for a "campaign against investment." Five days later, the Islamic Group fired on a bus carrying Romanian engineers in Asyut. The group's statement said the attack is part of its "campaign against foreign investors and tourists." France The Corsican National Liberation Front (FLNC) announced on 17 February that it was resuming its military activities after an eight-month truce. Iran/Europe AL-NAHAR paper from Jerusalem cites a report circulating among "West European intelligence agencies" warning of Iranian cells arriving in Europe to carry out operations. Israel/Palestinians Hamas offered to provide "protection and weapons" to any Palestinian collaborator who kills his Israeli contact. Lebanon Palestinian Ghalib Husayn al-Jamal is accused of running a "terrorist academy" in Burj al-Barajinah. Libya/ANO Milan's CORRIERE DELLA SERA reports that al-Qaddhafi met with Abu-Nidal in December, agreeing to give the Abu Nidal Organization $50,000 for operations against the Israeli-PLO agreement. Peru A Shining Path dissident faction has formed the "People's Liberation Army." Meanwhile, Lima's EXPRESO publishes the text of a 3 February Shining Path directive to "strive for a peace agreement." Serbia/International The chairman of the Serb Royalist Movement said that if NATO launches air strikes on Bosnian Serb positions on 20 February, "a special unit" would attack UNPROFOR. Also, Serb military leader Manojlo Milovanovic said that all foreigners in Serb-held territory would be taken hostage and possibly killed in the event of a NATO air strike. Sudan A Cairo opposition paper quotes National Islamic Front official al-Sanussi: "If the signs of this apostasy begin to appear on our land, they must consider their ambassadors and nationals as our `hostages' while we consider that all our brothers residing in their countries are offering sacrifices to God." Turkey The military wing of the PKK took credit for planting a bomb in an Istanbul train station. The bomb killed 40 army officer cadets who were waiting for trains to take them on weekend leave.
