FBIS4-33675 "drlat112bb_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-112 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS OAS Meeting Views Haiti Sanctions, Other Issues OAS Meeting Views Haiti Sanctions, Other Issues Uruguay's Abreu on Chile's Mercosur Entry PY0906151494 Madrid EFE in Spanish 2021 GMT 8 Jun 94 PY0906151494 Madrid EFE Spanish BFN [Text] Montevideo, 8 Jun (EFE) -- Today, Uruguayan Foreign Minister Sergio Abreu said the Chilean proposal to establish, along with the Common Market of the South (Mercosur), a free trade zone "needs to ripen." The minister said he hopes this proposal "will not harm the trade benefits established for the signatory countries of the Asuncion Treaty," which in March 1991 gave rise to Mercosur -- comprising Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. While in Belem do Para (Brazil), where he is participating in the OAS General Assembly, Abreu told the Montevideo newspaper EL OBSERVADOR ECONOMICO that the Chilean proposal to join Mercosur within a free trade zone has in principle been well received by the Uruguayan Government. Chilean Foreign Minister Carlos Figueroa announced on 6 June in Belem do Para that, within 10 years, his country will establish a free trade zone with Mercosur. Today, he formalized the proposal in a document he presented in Buenos Aires to Argentine Foreign Minister Guido Di Tella, the current Mercosur council president. Abreu stressed: "The Chilean proposal needs to ripen because it only expresses a political will. A concrete proposal is required on the deadlines and the scope of the association sought by the government of President Eduardo Frei." The Chilean announcement was well received from a political viewpoint because it is a step forward in the regional economic integration. It is necessary to hear the proposal's technical aspects before giving an official response. Abreu admitted that any proposed "violation" of the common external tariff system, which the four Mercosur partners will strenuously attempt to establish next month, would be unacceptable. He added that the Uruguayan viewpoint is shared by Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Amorim. Uruguay considers unacceptable any trade agreement which enables another country to have privileged access to the seizable Argentine and Brazilian markets without paying the same common external tariff that must be borne by the two other Mercosur members.
