FBIS3-32357 "drlat025_f_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 El Salvador Cristiani: U.S. Embassy Official's Departure Violated Law PA0402192394 San Salvador Radio Farabundo Marti Network in Spanish 1800 GMT 4 Feb 94 PA0402192394 San Salvador Radio Farabundo Marti Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Daisy Villalobos from the "Facing the Moment" newscast] [Text] The Salvadoran Government will lodge a formal protest with the U.S. Government for violating immigration procedures in the case of Major Ismael Lopez, President Alfredo Cristiani stated on 4 February. The U.S. officer, who is accused of killing a Salvadoran bodyguard last January, was taken out of the country illegally by U.S. Embassy officials who flew him in an aircraft to Panama. On Tuesday, Salvadoran Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Salaverria said the diplomatic mission violated the country's laws. [sentence as heard] Today, President Cristiani abandoned the foreign minister's position, and he said a protest will be forwarded to the U.S. Government. [Begin Cristiani recording] A protest will be submitted to the U.S. Government, because the country's immigration laws have been violated with the departure of Major Lopez. We cannot tolerate this, regardless of who has diplomatic immunity. We feel that our country is willing to respect all international laws. There was no reason why Maj. Lopez was taken out of the country without going through the country's immigration procedures. This is the statement that will be sent to the State Department. We are demanding that the U.S. Government, in keeping with international agreements, impose penalties on those people responsible for violating the country's immigration procedures. [end recording] According to the president, the diplomatic mission also ignored a series of legal procedures with which it should have complied before taking the U.S. officer out of national territory. The head of state also said instructions have been issued to control the exits and entries of all types of aircraft. Regarding compensation for the relatives of the victim, the Salvadoran president said his government has included this in the protest note, because the judge in charge of the case in the United States must be made aware of this. The U.S. Embassy has announced that Maj. Ismael Lopez will be tried by a military court in the United States. In this respect, President Cristiani said the government has requested the presence of a representative of the District Attorney's Office as an observer at Maj. Lopez' court-martial.
