FBIS3-26745 "drchi030_n_94020" FBIS-CHI-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 Economic & Agricultural Official Views Restricting `Breaks' for Foreign Investors HK1402063094 Beijing CHINA DAILY (BUSINESS WEEKLY) in English 13-19 Feb 94 p 1 HK1402063094 Beijing CHINA DAILY (BUSINESS WEEKLY) Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Jin Man: "Unity Urged in Policies on Business"] [Text] With China coming closer to reentering the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (Gatt), the central government has renewed its call for local authorities to stop granting freewheeling financial breaks to foreign investors. A high-ranking government official said it is a top priority to unify China's trade policies this year in line with the demand of Gatt, the world trade body. Over the past few years confused foreign investors have complained about the discrepancies between central and local government policies. Because of this uncertainty, a number of potential investors have shied away from the Chinese market. On the other hand, many foreign businesses have taken advantage of generously preferential local policies to make piles of money. "We wouldn't like to see either of these cases in the future," said the senior government official, who asked not to be named. China is expected to resume its contracting party status in Gatt by 1995, but when it does it will be barred from allowing policies to vary from region to region. The government official said China is prepared to unify policies soon for the same industries, but not for regions. "We will convert a certain amount of special economic zones to free trade areas, which are accepted internationally," the official said, adding that all other regions will enjoy equal treatment in the same commercial sectors. The change will most benefit China's vast inland regions, which have trailed behind the coastal areas in attracting foreign investment. Wu Yi, Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Co-operation, noted that although foreign investment last year grew faster in the hinterlands, the bulk was still concentrated in the coastal regions. Wu said more than 120 countries and regions had invested in China by the end of 1993. They focused on energy, light industry, electronics, machinery, textiles and garments, metallurgy, building materials and real estate. Foreign businesses have also sought a larger share of China's service markets, which are nowhere near as developed as those in the West.
