FBIS4-50272 "drchi095_e_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-095 Daily Report 14 May 1994 Southeast Asia & Pacific Wu Bangguo Meets Ho Chi Minh City Party Secretary Wu Bangguo Meets Ho Chi Minh City Party Secretary OW1605122594 Shanghai People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 14 May 94 OW1605122594 Shanghai People's Radio Network Mandarin BFN [From the "Morning News" program] [Text] Wu Bangguo, member of the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau and secretary of the Shanghai Municipal CPC Committee, met with a Ho Chi Minh City party and government delegation led by Vo Tran Chi, member of the Political Bureau of CPV Central Committee and secretary of Ho Chi Minh City Party Committee, at Xijiao guesthouse on the afternoon of 14 May. During the meeting, Wu Bangguo briefed the Vietnamese visitors on Shanghai's development. Wu Bangguo said: Shanghai adheres to Comrade Deng Xiaoping's theory on building socialism with Chinese characteristics, persistently carries out reforms, and opens itself wider to the outside world. In recent years, its economic development has been better than anticipated. Wu Bangguo pointed out: On the road of advance, Shanghai persistently takes economic construction as its central task; builds both material and spiritual civilizations, and attaches equal importance to both; and assumes an overall point of view in handling the relationship between development and stability. He said: Shanghai keeps to a socialist orientation and places emphasis on two things: One is to maintain the predominance of public ownership. The other is to maintain the predominance of the system of distribution according to work and taking the road of common prosperity. Wu Bangguo said: Shanghai is eager to promote cooperation between the two cities. The two cities are mutually complementary to a great extent in economic development. Shanghai is willing to strengthen its cooperation and exchanges with Ho Chi Minh City in the economic, trade, and scientific and technological fields. Vo Tran Chi expressed his admiration for Shanghai's development. He hoped that the two cities would develop their cooperation and exchanges rapidly.
