FBIS3-19253 "drweu050_h_94012" FBIS-WEU-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 GERMANY CSU, FDP Disagree Over Foreign Policy AU1403140294 Berlin DIE WELT in German 14 Mar 94 p 2 AU1403140294 Berlin DIE WELT Language: German Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Dispute Over Germany's New Role"] [Excerpts] Berlin -- A dispute has broken out within the coalition over Germany's future role in foreign and security policies. On the weekend, Christian Social Union [CSU] politicians demanded that the government change its course and emphasized their right to cocreate European policy. The Free Democratic Party [FDP] sharply rejected their coalition partner's initiative yesterday. [passage omitted] CSU Land Group Chairman Michael Glos stressed that the "key problem" is that Europe is a giant in terms of economy, but a dwarf politically. Glos said it is "intolerable" that the Social Democratic Party [SPD] still opposes an amendment of the constitution that would allow German forces to participate in missions outside NATO territory. According to FDP Secretary General Werner Hoyer, the CSU's shooting forward in foreign policy matters is a mock attack. The CSU is "deeply at odds" in European policy and presents "completely differing positions to the outside," Hoyer said. Thus, the Maastricht Treaty bears Waigel's signature on the one hand, while on the other Bavarian Minister President Edmund Stoiber (CSU) "takes every opportunity to spoil this agreement and the European idea." Hoyer said that a calm course and predictability are especially important now if one wants to achieve something for Germany in terms of foreign policy. The CSU's demands have also been criticized by SPD Bundestag Group Chairman Hans-Ulrich Klose. He strongly rejected Waigel's demand for a quick association of the East European reform states up to full membership in NATO and the European Union (EU). The EU is in a difficult position at the moment: "We do not want a mega-EU," Klose said at the Spring Conference of the Political Club of the Tutzing Protestant Academy. He said he does not see any chance for countries like the Ukraine to be accepted in the next 15 years.
