FBIS4-30230 "dreas122_a_94019" FBIS-EAS-94-122 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Fujii Refuses To Give Details on Planned Tax Hike Fujii Refuses To Give Details on Planned Tax Hike OW2406033294 Tokyo KYODO in English 0319 GMT 24 Jun 94 OW2406033294 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, June 24 KYODO -- Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii on Friday [24 June] shunned calls for specific figures and dates on a consumption tax hike to offset income tax cuts in a planned tax reform. "As financial authorities, we want a conclusion that will not lead to untreated issuance of deficit-covering bonds," Fujii told reporters after a cabinet meeting. But, apparently backing off from recent comments he made directly urging specific figures and dates, Fujii did not elaborate on reported discussions between the coalition parties and the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to put off the decision on the scale and dates for the tax hike. The proposed offsetting tax hike has become the controversial policy issue for the SDP considering returning to the coalition government which fell to a minority rule after the party seceded from the coalition in late April. The tax reform plan of continuing tax cuts and hiking the consumption tax was proposed separately on Tuesday by panels of the government and the ruling parties without figures and dates for later political decision. Meanwhile, Fujii also checked top-level political developments by urging the tax reform be made into bills by the end of this month to enact into law by the year-end. "We must keep the deadline," he said, referring to Japan's promise made in the March market-opening package. Turning to currency exchange rates, Fujii described the statement by U.S. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen as "meaning heavy." The statement, issued Wednesday, a day after the dollar plunged against the German mark and the yen, said, "we continue to be in close communication with our G-7 (Group of Seven) partners, and we continue to be prepared to act as appropriate." Asked why the United States is not jointly intervening as it did in May, Fujii said, "we are taking all possible measures at every level." The U.S. dollar tumbled below 100 yen in New York on Tuesday for the first time in the postwar period to hit a global low of 99.85- 99.95 yen. It is now trading nervously around 101 yen with dealers saying that the market is testing the G-7 accord for joint moves to stem excess volatility. They said the Bank of Japan alone has made noticeable intervention against the yen's rise.
