FBIS4-44908 "jpjst022__l94017" JPRS-JST-94-022-L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 4 January 1994 NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGIES Construction of Yamanashi Maglev Train Experimental Line Construction of Yamanashi Maglev Train Experimental Line Begins 94FE0364B Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 4 Jan 94 p 2--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0364B Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN Japanese CSO [Text] Nagoya -- Tokai Passenger Japan Railway Co., Ltd. (JR Tokai), and Japan Railway Technical Research Institute (JRTRI) have jointly embarked on the production of the first three-car maglev train vehicles to be tested on the Yamanashi Maglev Experimental Line as the next step in the commercialization of the maglev railway, with an expected train speed of as high as 500 km/h. In the spring of 1995, the vehicle construction will be completed, and in the spring of 1996, tests will begin in order to gradually increase the train speed. The vehicles under construction were designed to be lightweight and compact based on technologies developed on the Miyazaki experimental line and through the fusion of airplane and railroad-car technologies. The vehicles will be articulated cars, and two aerodynamic designs will be tested for the train's front shape: the "aero-wedge shape" designed by JRTRI, and the "double-cusp shape" designed by JR Tokai. Car bodies will be made of an aluminum alloy. The superconducting magnet-carrying bogie car -- the heart of the maglev car, which transmits levitative and propulsive forces to the vehicle -- is also equipped with supporting and guiding wheels, which are necessary when moving at slow speeds. The braking device is an energy-saving, power-regenerative brake. In addition, there is a multiple brake system consisting of coil-shorting brakes and power-generation brakes, as a back-up to increase safety. In the spring of 1995, the production of vehicles for the second train, consisting of five cars, will begin. In FY96, tests will be conducted for two trains passing each other in opposing directions, and the final decision for commercialization will be made in FY98. Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd., and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., are in charge of manufacturing the aero-wedge-shaped and the double-cusp-shaped cars, respectively, and Nippon Sharyo Ltd. is building the middle car with only passenger seats. The total production outlay is ¥5.5-5.6 billion.
