FBIS3-41870 "jptnd003___94029" JPRS-TND-93-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 31 January 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA ISRAEL Inspection of Nuclear Facilities Said Key to Peace NC2312120893 Cairo AL-AHRAM in Arabic 20 Dec 93 p 9 NC2312120893 Cairo AL-AHRAM Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Editorial: ``The Middle East and Nuclear Arms''] [Text] In a step that is no less important than the step taken to issue a resolution supporting the process of finding a political settlement in the Middle East, the UN General Assembly adopted a new resolution supporting the establishment of a nuclear weapons free zone in the Middle East. This should be preceded by a major step: Nuclear countries in the region should agree to submit their installations to supervision by the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA]. The importance of such a step is that it befits the spirit of peaceful settlement that is taking root in the region despite the obstacles and hindrances it is encountering. It also confirms that nuclear superiority naturally contradicts the desire to establish peace and stability. It can be said that this resolution contains both implicit and explicit support for Egypt's policy on this matter, which is based on rejecting violence and superiority, as well as removing all weapons of mass destruction from the Middle East. President Mubarak has always had a positive call in this field. Despite the fact that the resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly was not unanimous, it expressed the desire of the world's countries to get rid of all kinds of highly destructive weapons. Of course, Israel's stand is believed to be the cornerstone in the process of turning this resolution into a tangible reality. It is the only state in the region that has nuclear reactors and exceptional capability in the nuclear field. All international circles believe it is highly likely that Israel has nuclear weapons. Its stand is based on not allowing any kind of international supervision of its installations. This is a regrettable state of affairs that contradicts everything Israel sometimes claims regarding its commitment to a political settlement of its problems with its Arab neighbors. Israel's agreeing to allow the IAEA to inspect its installations is crucial to the establishment of peace and stability in the region. In addition, such a step would change the international resolution into a tangible reality.
