FBIS3-6299 "dreas051_a_94011" FBIS-EAS-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan `No Major Progress' Expected From Moscow Visit OW1603092694 Tokyo KYODO in English 0853 GMT 16 Mar 94 OW1603092694 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 16 KYODO -- Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata leaves for Russia on Saturday [19 March] for talks with Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev, but no major progress on a long-standing bilateral territorial dispute is expected from the meetings. All indications are that Tokyo and Moscow will achieve no major breakthrough on the territorial row during Hata's three-day visit, since the new Russian parliament is dominated by ultrarightists and conservatives opposed to returning the four disputed islands in question to Japan. Hata is scheduled to meet Chernomyrdin and Kozyrev on Monday. Government sources said Hata is likely to agree to Japanese financial and technical assistance for the construction of radioactive liquid waste disposal facilities to avert further dumping of such waste by Russia into the Sea of Japan. They said the foreign minister, who doubles as deputy prime minister, will also strongly press Russia to exert its influence over North Korea toward a resolution of the nuclear issue. A meeting with Russian President Boris Yeltsin is seen as unlikely since Hata's visit coincides with Yeltsin's vacation. The sources said Hata will agree to provide Russia with additional humanitarian assistance and will convey Japan's readiness to help train Russians to acquire a basic knowledge of the market economy system and in business management. To that end, Japan plans to establish several "Japan Center" facilities in such cities as Moscow, Vladivostok and Khabarovsk. In addition, hundreds of young Russian entrepreneurs will be invited to Japan. Hata is expected to face calls from the Russian side for the Group of Seven major industrialized nations to be expanded to a Group of Eight to include Russia.
