FBIS4-13945 "drnes080_j_94003" FBIS-NES-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Saudi Arabia Police Arrest 5 Human Rights Activists in Ha'il Police Arrest 5 Human Rights Activists in Ha'il NC2504110794 Paris AFP in English 1001 GMT 25 Apr 94 NC2504110794 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Nicosia, April 25 (AFP) -- Saudi police arrested five political rights activists in the northern town of Ha'il at the weekend, a London-based Saudi human rights group said Monday [25 April]. The Committee for the Defence of Legitimate Rights said the five teachers and Muslim clerics supported its calls for political reforms in the kingdom, which has no parties and is governed according to Islamic principles. A statement from the committee sent to AFP said police also arrested the son of Muhammad al-Massari, one of the group's founders, on Saturday. Anwar Muhammad al-Massari, 19, was arrested "to put pressure on his father," who left Saudi Arabia to relaunch the committee in London, the committee said. His father, a physics professor at Riyadh University, was arrested in May 1993 with a group of other Saudi intellectuals only days after the group was set up. He was held for five months without charge, said the group, which is banned in Saudi Arabia and is pressing for freedom of speech and association. On Saturday, Arab diplomats in Riyadh said Gulf Arab states had reservations about a US document calling on them to encourage pluralism and democracy as the basis of future relations in the Middle East. The document, presented to the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) in February, said Washington wanted to see participants in the multilateral Middle East peace talks "encourage individual and collective freedoms and pursue democracy and pluralism." Foreign Ministry officials from GCC members Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman met in Riyadh on Saturday to discuss the document. Of the six GCC states, only Kuwait has a freely elected parliament with various political groups represented. The other five have specially-appointed consultative assemblies. US Secretary of State Warren Christopher is to visit Riyadh as part of a Middle East tour starting Tuesday [26 April].
