FBIS3-7845 "dreeu040_i_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Air Strikes Not To Affect UN Forces AU0103115094 Paris AFP in English 1128 GMT 1 Mar 94 AU0103115094 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Sarajevo, March 1 (AFP) -- UN forces in Bosnia are planning to continue their operations without any major changes, despite NATO's downing of four Serb planes, a UN spokesman said here Tuesday. UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR) spokesman Bill Aikman said there would be "no major change in our operations" after NATO planes Monday shot down four Serb jets bombing a factory in Novi Travnik in central Bosnia. UNPROFOR commander for Bosnia British General Michael Rose had said Monday that the NATO intervention to enforce a no-flight zone over Bosnia should not affect the UN mission on the ground, which is a humanitarian, peacekeeping effort. Aikman confirmed that jets had bombed Monday a second site, in Bugojno, 20 kilometres (12 miles) south of Novi Travnik, which is about 70 kilometres (42 miles) northwest of Sarajevo. He did not provide further details. He said that while a ceasefire was generally holding in Sarajevo there had been "several incidents worth mentioning," namely reports of trench-digging by mainly Moslem government troops in attempts to advance their lines. Aikman said one site of the advance was in the Jewish cemetery area in southern Sarajevo, a site where both French and Russian UN troops are present. He said the attempted Bosnian advances had drawn rifle fire from Serb forces besieging Sarajevo and added that Rose was "very concerned (about the ceasefire violations) and will be taking it up with senior officials" on both sides. He also reported that a Bosnian electrical repair crew had been shot at by Serb troops on Monday. Ukrainian UN troops protecting the repair mission had returned fire and a civilian bystander was wounded in the incident, he said. A Moslem-Croat ceasefire in central Bosnia was "holding but that there were some incidents," he said. There was an "honest effort" by both sides, however, to observe the truce. Aikman said that on Monday, 14 artillery rounds had fallen near Tuzla airport in northern Bosnia. The airport has been shelled almost daily since UNPROFOR said in February that it planned to open it to humanitarian flights in March.
