FBIS3-15600 "drsov045_d_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 Regional Affairs Soskovets Comments on `Siberian Agreements' Proposals PM0703134594 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 6 Mar 94 p 2 PM0703134594 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Aleksandr Golyayev: "In Siberia Too an Owner Must Be an Owner"] [Text] The Russian regions belonging to the "Siberian agreements" association have elaborated a package of proposals for the government on changes to the foreign economic activity mechanism. Returning Friday evening from a routine session of this association, in a talk with journalists First Vice Premier Oleg Soskovets noted the fairness of the Siberians' demands. "They still have no right to export or to form banks, which are all in Moscow, particularly oil banks. The situation must be rectified. There is nothing more terrible than the centralization of finances. There are strong people and science in Siberia -- an enormous potential and the world's richest region are in such a lamentable state. There is no logic to it." "Today over 60 percent of the regions live on subsidies from the center. There should be a very balanced policy for transferring powers to the localities. The management of property locally through instructions from Moscow, as some departments are doing, is impermissible and unnecessary. It is property which is the main priority for local organs. The enterprise collectives must be the genuine owners and really feel that they are the owners. That will be both rational and respectful with regard to people and to the labor collective which in this instance workers for itself, for the interests of the region, and ultimately for the state. So far," the first vice premier stressed, "we treat property formally. I hope that the second stage of voucher privatization will make it possible to remove many so far unresolved questions." "What is your attitude toward the appearance of questions in the press asking `Who is Oleg Soskovets working for?'" "Of course it is unpleasant but not because they have pointed a finger at me. Someone is trying to `make politics,' resorting to utterly incorrect facts and interpreting them as they want."
