FBIS4-20783 "jpnea019___94045" JPRS-NEA-94-019 JPRS Near East & South Asia 8 March 1994 SOUTH ASIA INDIA Chandra Shekhar Fears GATT Means Loss of Sovereignty Chandra Shekhar Fears GATT Means Loss of Sovereignty 94AS0235L Madras THE HINDU in English 8 Mar 94 p 16 94AS0235L Madras THE HINDU English CSO [Article: "Chandra Shekhar Sees Threat From GATT"] [Text] New Delhi, March 7. The former Prime Minister and Samajwadi Janata Party leader, Mr. Chandra Shekhar, today reiterated his opposition to the new economic policies and threatened to launch a campaign against the new GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) regulations throughout the country. To begin with, the party will hold a rally in the Capital on March 18, the concluding day of the Budget session of Parliament. Addressing a press conference here today, Mr. Chandra Shekhar said the Government's acceptance in principle of the new GATT regulation was a logical culmination of the policy of liberalisation initiated in the early Eighties. Dismissing the contention by senior Ministers that the Government's representatives in the Uruguay Round had done their best, Mr. Chandra Shekhar said the new regulations would "jeopardise the nation's sovereignty and integrity." Seeking to draw parallels with the experience of the former Soviet Union, Mr. Chandra Shekhar said the pressures form the industrialised West could even lead to the "disintegration of the country." "Nowhere has the surrender of sovereignty been so total and the sacrifice of national interest so brazen as in the case of the Government agreeing to the Dunkel Draft." Stressing the need for popular resistance to the Government, Mr. Chandra Shekhar said that while he welcomed all shades of political opinion in the resistance movement, he wanted the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) to be kept away. "Their swadeshi slogan now and their total support to the new economic policies when it was announced in Parliament do not get along with each other," he added. Referring to the Janata Dal, the former Prime Minister sought to blame the V.P. Singh camp for having rejected his appeal for unity of the Dals. Asked whether he would participate in the `gherao of Parliament' proposed by the Janata Dal, the former Prime Minister answered in the negative. Mr. Chandra Shekhar made it plain today that since the Janata Dal had rejected the Ghaziabad unity proposal of the various Dal factions, he was left with the only option of reviving his Samajwadi Janata Party.
