FBIS4-26189 "drchi118_v_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 TAIWAN SEF Official `Displeased' With Qiandao Lake Executions SEF Official `Displeased' With Qiandao Lake Executions OW2006005894 Taipei China Broadcasting Corporation News Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 18 Jun 94 OW2006005894 Taipei China Broadcasting Corporation News Network Mandarin BFN [From the "Hookup" program] [Text] According to a mainland-based source, the three defendants in the Chientao [Qiandao] Lake case may be executed by shooting on 20 June. After hearing the news, Hsu Hui-yu, secretary general of the Strait Exchange Foundation [SEF] replied helplessly: The case may end up this way -- with no definite answers. Hsu Hui-yu said: The issues concerning the Chientao Lake case will not be resolved through hastily shooting and executing the three defendants, but through investigating and clarifying the truth of the case and on paying compensation for losses. Hsu Hui-yu believed: Resolving these issues is more realistic than holding routine or high-level talks. The mainland's Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Strait [ARATS] has written three letters to the SEF within two or three days, proposing to hold, at an early date, a second set of Ku- Wang [Ku Chenfu-Wang Taohan (Gu Zhenfu-Wang Daohan]) talks, a second set of Chiao-Tang [Chiao Jenhe-Tang Shupei (Jiao Renhe-Tang Shubei]) talks, and a fifth round of routine consultations. Hsu Hui-yu indicated: According to SEF-ARATS agreements on contacts and talks, it is necessary for both sides to hold talks. However, the problem at present is the agenda. We cannot simply say hello, rush through the meetings, and bid one another goodbye. Hsu Hui-yu indicated: On the one hand, the mainland wants to hold talks with Taiwan. On the other, it has not responded to the issues of settling the aftermath of the Chientao Lake case. We really find it hard to understand this situation. Recently, the ARATS has successively facsimiled three letters to the SEF, urging high-level SEF-ARATS talks. Commenting on the situation, SEF officials indicated: The aftermath of the Chientao Lake case has yet to be resolved. The mainland should at least express its sincerity in settling these issues before the SEF and the ARATS can properly hold follow-up consultations and high-level talks.
