FBIS4-40578 "drsov117_a_94037" FBIS-SOV-94-117 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Three Russian aviation groups will operate under the U.N. Three Russian aviation groups will operate under the U.N. aegis. PM1706111794 Moscow TRUD in Russian 17 Jun 94 night edition p 3 PM1706111794 Moscow TRUD Russian BFN [Report by Vladimir Sarishvili under "In Nearby Foreign Countries" rubric: "Risk Is Too Great"] [Text] Tbilisi -- Let us omit the details of the story as a result of which your correspondent was the first Georgian journalist to get hold of a document sent from the Armenian Supreme Council and meant only for internal use in Georgia's supreme legislative organ. Sooner or later it would have become public property. We decided that sooner was better than later. We know that, under a government edict [ukaz], recommissioning work has been under way at Metsamor AES [Nuclear Electric Power Station] for over a year now. Moreover, despite the recommendations of international organizations (the International Atomic Energy Agency, Framatome, and so on) it is envisaged that demothballing will be carried out within a compressed time scale. This was a forced decision, because Armenia has been facing an energy disaster for several years now, and the shipment of energy sources across Azerbaijani and Georgian territory has been made extremely difficult because of terrorist acts and the general unstable situation in the region. But the blood in our veins runs cold from the risk factors listed in the document. The reactors at the Metsamor AES (of the water-cooled, water-moderated 440/230 type) are known for their imperfection and unreliability in operation. Furthermore, in the event of an accident there are no protection measures in the form of a containment vessel or underground drop-down mechanisms [mekhanizmy podzemnogo obrusheniya]. The problem of burying the radioactive waste remains an open one. Under the station there is a multilevel artesian well from which water is distributed throughout the region. Bearing in mind the current military situation in the region, the danger of terrorist acts is quite real. The document, signed by S. Shaginyan, chairman of the Armenian commission for the protection of the environment and natural resources, says the following: "Total economic blockade has put Armenia under the threat of extinction.... Sensible warnings about the danger of starting up the AES receive no response. The situation has now gotten out of control, and the threat of an ecological explosion has become real." In the light of all the aforementioned risk factors it becomes clear that starting up the AES cannot be considered Armenia's internal affair. Georgian ecologists are ready to sound the alarm. We possess another document, signed by Professor Tamaz Chelidze, director of the Georgian Academy of Sciences Geophysics Institute. It says that, according to a seismic zoning map in existence since 1989, the site of the Armenian AES falls into the category of a zone with a 9-point seismic risk. This figure speaks for itself. We can add to it that the AES is capable of meeting only 25 percent of Armenia's needs -- and then only for electricity; other energy sources will still have to be imported. So it is not too clear whether starting it up is economically advantageous. But something else is clear: When a baby dies from the cold in front of your eyes (and this has happened many times in both Armenia and Georgia), you will not only start up the AES but you will also open up a Pandora's box. But maybe there is still a chance to take safety measures?
