FBIS4-14114 "drnes082bb_94003" FBIS-NES-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 Inter-Arab Affairs Arab Justice Ministers Council Holds Session Arab Justice Ministers Council Holds Session Iraqi Minister Urges Help Against Sanctions JN2704133994 Baghdad INA in Arabic 1000 GMT 27 Apr 94 JN2704133994 Baghdad INA Arabic BFN [Text] Cairo, 27 Apr (INA)--Shabib al-Maliki, minister of justice and leader of the Iraqi delegation to the meetings of the 10th session of the Arab Justice Ministers Council, has asserted that Iraq, under His Excellency President Saddam Husayn, is very interested in promoting and enhancing joint Arab action in all areas. In a speech delivered to the Arab Justice Ministers Council in Cairo, the minister said Iraq will keep Arab reconciliation at the top of its political agenda despite the circumstances of the embargo clamped on it. The embargo, the minister noted, will not distract Iraq from its pan-Arab role of defending the interests of the Arab nation and its fateful causes. Shabib al-Maliki explained to the Arab justice ministers that Iraq has fulfilled its commitments per the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, particularly Resolution 687, Paragraph 22 of which provides for the expeditious lifting of the sanctions clamped on Iraq. The justice minister urged Arab and international peoples, as well as the advocates and champions of justice, to strongly demand that the UN Security Council comply with its own resolutions and honor its commitments to Iraq, including the commitment to lift the embargo clamped on its mujahid people. This, he noted, is dictated by humanitarian and pan-Arab duties, not to mention the requirements of Arab solidarity. Al-Maliki said the tenets of fairness, which the Arab justice ministers enthusiastically promote in the Arab homeland, are being disturbed in terms of international relations. These tenets are enormously jeopardized. This compromises the stability of world peoples in general, and the Arab people in particular, because Arab and international developments have made it easy for the forces of aggression and colonialism to transgress against Iraq and the Arab nation. The justice minister commended the fair-minded and honorable people who have begun an effort to uphold right and promote common pan-Arab interests to sincerely and conscientiously express their solidarity with Iraq, demanding that the unfair, aggressive, and unjustifiable blockade enforced against it be revoked.
