FBIS3-58439 "drweu009_o_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 CYPRUS Turkish Cypriot New Policy Guidelines Reported NC1201215494 Nicosia KIBRIS in Turkish 12 Jan 94 p 3 NC1201215494 Nicosia KIBRIS Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Report by Basaran Duzgun] [Text] The Republican Turkish Party and Democrat Party coalition government is working intensively to determine the policy to be followed on the Cyprus problem. The Council of Ministers will meet under President Rauf Denktas on Thursday [13 January] to determine the policy course to be followed on the Cyprus problem. The Turkish Cypriot side's views will be clarified on the eve of the Ankara summit in February. New Image A source close to the presidential office told our paper that the new government is thinking of approaching the Cyprus problem by displaying a new image and that this idea has been endorsed by President Denktas. Our source said that the new image is being conceived in the form of "We are ready for an agreement if the Greek side is ready too." New Mandate for Denktas It is expected that during its Thursday meeting the Council of Ministers will decided to reappoint President Denktas as negotiator. As will be remembered, President Denktas had resigned as negotiator over differences of opinion with the Eroglu government. Fundamental Guidelines Will Be Determined The Council of Ministers meeting to be chaired by President Denktas will also determine the fundamental guidelines that the Turkish side will insist upon during the talks. Sources close to the government summed up these guidelines as follows: "To exert efforts to achieve a mutually acceptable solution to the Cyprus problem. To continue with the talks within the framework of the UN goodwill mission. To defend the submission of the solution to be achieved to a referendum without fail. Not to reject territorial adjustments, but to approach them within the framework of the criteria set down in the 1977 Denktas-Makarios high-level meeting. To defend partnership in sovereignty, and in that context the Swiss model."
