FBIS3-33222 "drlat035_e_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA Costa Rica Figueres Supports Free Trade Negotiations With Mexico PA2002214094 San Jose LA REPUBLICA in Spanish 10 Feb 94 p 4A PA2002214094 San Jose LA REPUBLICA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Jose Alberto Briceno] [Text] Economy Minister Roberto Rojas has announced that on 8 February the government contacted Jose Maria Figueres to ask him his opinion on the free trade treaty negotiations with Mexico. By presidential order Rojas spoke with Figueres' economic advisers in order to inform the Mexicans [of Figueres' views]. "The president-elect's position is very important to us because he has made statements to the effect that he wants to reach an agreement with the approval of the private sector, which has been our policy," Rojas said. On 9 February Rojas met with President Calderon and assured him that he expected white smoke from the following week's talks [with Figueres' advisers]. Calderon pointed out that with Figueres' approval he will be able to guarantee his Mexican counterpart, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, that the agreement will be confirmed by the Legislative Assembly without any problem whatsoever. The agreement has been held back by farm-related regulations, specifically those that would give Costa Rican meat, sugar, and milk access to Mexico's market of 90 million consumers. On 11 February Luis Tellez, Mexico's Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, is expected to arrive in Costa Rica, and on 14 February Rojas will travel to Mexico City to continue the process with his counterpart, Jaime Serra Puche. Rojas warned that agreements have already been reached on issues such as intellectual property, investments, and a well-balanced tariff package. Mexican producers will receive the same protection given to Costa Rican producers. "We are guaranteeing an active system to resolve any expropriations that may emerge." In the industrial sector, he said, there is consensus regarding the disproportional tariff system and a temporary solution has been established through the original regulations. The idea, he concluded, is to have products such as textiles accepted as if they were local raw material from the countries that signed the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): United States, Mexico, and Canada.
