FBIS4-32159 "dreeu119__a94011" FBIS-EEU-94-119-A Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 ANNEX Czech Republic Democratic Union Issues Founding Manifesto Democratic Union Issues Founding Manifesto AU1906115494 Prague CTK in English 1842 GMT 18 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1906115494 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Prague June 18 (CTK) -- The Democratic Union (DEU) will seek enactment of the non-proscription of the crimes of communism, says a manifesto of the new right-wing party which was officially constituted today. The manifesto also calls for barring former higher Communist Party officials, agents of the secret police (StB) and members of extremist parties and movements from civil service. It stresses that "the tyranny of the StB minority nomenklatura" had been continuing because no essential attempt had been made to settle accounts with the totalitarian past. Espousing fundamental liberal democratic values, the DEU will assert a new concept of politics as an activity which is not "dirty," but which will restore people's civic self-confidence and interest in commitment in public affairs, the manifesto says. DEU was registered as a political party at the beginning of March. The idea to establish a new right-orientated party appeared for the first time last September in an article signed by Josef Kudlacek, publisher of the right-orientated daily CESKY DENIK. In it he criticised the policy of the strongest Czech party, the Civic Democratic Party (ODS) of Premier Vaclav Klaus. Kudlacek then wrote that the creation of the new party was "an opportunity for this country, an opportunity to prevent the left from seizing power again in the next elections." He also said that "unless a new right-orientated party is established, our country will be faced with the tragic Polish turnabout." The party today elected Alena Hromadkova its chairwoman. Hromadkova, 51, is a sociologist and economist by education. She had never been a member of any party. She signed the Charta 77 human rights manifesto. She was one of its spokeswomen in 1991.
