FBIS4-38347 "drsov104_e_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-104 Daily Report 31 May 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Turkish Delegation Arrives for Talks in Kiev Turkish Delegation Arrives for Talks in Kiev Demirel Holds News Conference TA3105112994 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 0700 GMT 31 May 94 TA3105112994 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report] [Text] President Suleyman Demirel has declared that Turkey's current difficulties should not prevent it from exploiting the opportunities it encounters while a new world is being established. Demirel stated: Turkey should not drown in daily problems or stop seeing what is in front of it. Demirel, who is currently visiting Ukraine as the official guest of Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk, held a news conference at his residence in Kiev yesterday and commented on Turkey's foreign policy and his contacts. TRT correspondent Yavuz Yorulmaz reports from Kiev: [Begin Yorulmaz recording] In his news conference, Demirel explained that Ukraine is an important country because of its natural resources and its geographical position. If Ukraine fails in its goals, Demirel noted, the world will be faced with attempts to reactivate the old Soviet system. Stressing that Turkey wants to continue its good relations with the newly independent former Soviet republics, Demirel noted that Turkey has enjoyed goodneighborly and friendly relations with Ukraine for 70 years. Demirel remarked that Turkey has not yet reached the desired level of cooperation with Ukraine, adding that his visit is aimed at further developing the existing opportunities for cooperation even further. Within this framework, Demirel recalled, a protocol was signed on the construction of the Ceyhan-Samsun oil pipeline, and this project will enable the transportation of Middle East oil through Turkey to Ukraine via the Black Sea, and from there to Europe. Demirel said: This benefits Turkey. It is an extremely interesting project. As it stands, there is an oil pipeline from Yumurtalik to Kirikkale. We can join Kirikkale to Samsun and this matter is solved for the beginning. The project to construct an oil pipeline for 40 million tonnes, which was proposed by them, is an extremely important project. We will only charge transit fees. Demirel said that during his contacts, he had the opportunity to discuss the situation of Crimean Tatars with Ukrainian officials. Noting that the Crimean Tatars were mistreated during the Stalin period and the world remained a spectator to this situation, Demirel remarked that it is Turkey's duty to extend a hand to these people at a time when they want to resettle in their motherland. Tomorrow morning Demirel will proceed to Moldova, the second leg of his tour. [end recording]
