FBIS4-10868 "drlat075_s_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-075 Daily Report 9 Apr 1994 Uruguay Minister Promotes Trade in Egypt, Morocco Minister Promotes Trade in Egypt, Morocco PY1804184294 Montevideo EL PAIS in Spanish 9 Apr 94 p 15 PY1804184294 Montevideo EL PAIS Spanish BFN [Text] Foreign Minister Sergio Abreu will sign a memorandum of commercial understanding with Egypt and a document formally closing the Uruguay Round of the GATT talks during a tour of African Mediterranean countries that he will begin this weekend. The commercial agreement with Egypt will permit a broadening of Uruguay's export market, particularly in the area of agriculture. Abreu said that a protocol is being finished to permit the export of Uruguayan meat to Egypt. Abreu added that he will take advantage of the opportunity to prepare President Luis Alberto Lacalle's trip to Egypt, which is scheduled for June. The foreign minister will then travel to Marrakech, Morocco's capital, to participate in the formal closing of the Uruguay Round of GATT talks. Abreu said that the GATT talks will formally conclude on 15 April, and that he will attend the closing ceremony as the Uruguay Round president. The foreign minister also said that he held a meeting with representatives of the country's entrepreneurial chambers. Abreu said those meetings are routinely held in order to inform entrepreneurs of the international situation and the country's relations with other countries. "Representatives of entrepreneurial chambers come to the Foreign Ministry once a month, and here they receive information about Mercosur [Common Market of the South] and GATT, the country's bilateral negotiations, and the call to Montevideo of Uruguayan trade attaches for the exchange of information," Abreu said. The minister said his ministry has established this mechanism in order to coordinate the operation of the private and public sectors. "We want the Foreign Ministry to become an instrument promoting the country's presence in the world. We want this ministry to become what we call Uruguay's grand multinational," Abreu concluded.
