FBIS4-22261 "jpusr034___94037" FBIS-USR-94-034 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 6 April 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Nizhniy Novgorod Election Scandal Outlined Nizhniy Novgorod Election Scandal Outlined 944K0980A Moscow ARGUMENTY I FAKTY in Russian No 13, Mar 94 p 2 944K0980A Moscow ARGUMENTY I FAKTY Russian CSO [Unattributed article under the rubric "Provinces": "Scandal in Nizhniy Novgorod"] [Text] In one of the largest regions--Nizhniy Novgorod--free expression of citizens' will seems to have been overshadowed by a scandal. Those involved in it are not ordinary candidates: They are D. Bednyakov, acting mayor of Nizhniy Novgorod; Ye. Krestyaninov, a senator and former oblast soviet chairman; and indirectly--Governor B. Nemtsov. The scandal began to flare up when D. Bednyakov and Ye. Krestyaninov both decided to run for city mayor. The governor supported the latter. Apparently for this reason the rivals accused them both of corruption and connections with the mafia. Apparently not wishing to participate in a slugfest, Ye. Krestyaninov removed himself from the mayoral race, and the elections did not take place altogether. D. Bednyakov, however, also was running for the oblast Duma. Elections in his Electoral District No. 3 were declared invalid, however, since fewer than 25 percent of valid ballots had been cast. Later, in clear violation of procedure, a recount was conducted and... found a sufficient number of votes. The initial data were destroyed. The procuracy began an investigation. This actually was the high point of the scandal. It was preceded by another, however--abuses that occurred during the privatization of GAZ [Gorkiy Auto Works], the largest Russian automotive giant. The plant leadership was accused of illegally buying up vouchers for subsequent privatization. Governor B. Nemtsov, among others, brought up the subject of the illegality of such operations. Whether by accident or not, after this incident allegations of corruption began to fly with respect to both the governor and his confederates. At the same time, the GAZ leadership openly supports acting Mayor D. Bednyakov. So far, however, the fight for influence in the oblast has been contained in the boundaries of election-related scandals.
