FBIS3-24515 "jpust006___94046" JPRS-UST-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 09 March 1994 EARTH SCIENCES Energy Losses in Radiation of Gravity Waves Accompanying Fast Movements of Sources 947N0019C Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK FIZIKA ATMOSFERY I OKEANA in Russian Vol 29 No 6, Nov-Dec 93 pp 739-743 947N0019C Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK FIZIKA ATMOSFERY I OKEANA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by V. A. Gorodtsov, Mechanical Problems Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences; UDC 551.466.8] [Abstract] The integral characteristics of the field of internal waves generated by rapidly moving bodies in fluids with different stratifications can be evaluated without full solution of the problems involved in flow around bodies. The following aspects of the problem are examined: wave losses for uniformly horizontally moving bodies; waves at surface of homogeneous fluid and at interface of two fluids; waves in homogeneously stratified unbounded fluid; internal waves in stratified waveguide with horizontal boundaries. The high-velocity asymptotic form of wave resistance is of the power-law type with respect to velocity (resistance is inversely proportional to the square of the Froude number), other than for the case of movement in the maximum stratification zone and at a great distance from it in a deep fluid. In the first case (such as during movement of a fluid along the surface, through the density jump and in a uniformly stratified unbounded fluid) a logarithmic dependence on the Froude number is added. In the latter case it becomes exponential. The method used also is applicable for other wave types. With respect to the distribution of radiated energy by different modes, an analysis indicates a slowness of dropoff of the contributions with an increase in the mode number in situations close to homogeneous stratification. With a sufficiently strong localization of stratification only the lowest modes can be significantly generated. References 5: 3 Russian, 2 Western.
