FBIS3-16975 "drsov055_c_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 Federal Assembly `Major Forces' in Duma `Skeptical' of NATO Partnership PM1803171494 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 18 Mar 94 p 3 PM1803171494 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Vladimir Yermolin report: "'Partnership for Peace': The Duma Doubts: Is It Really Partnership?"] [Text] The State Duma has held hearings on the question of Russia's affiliation (or nonaffiliation) to the "Partnership for Peace" program. The hearings were conducted on the initiative of the parliamentary Defense Committee under the chairmanship of Sergey Yushenkov. The position of the Foreign Ministry and the Defense Ministry was unambiguous: Joining in the "Partnership for Peace" program is in the interests of Russia and its security. For example, Major General Pavel Zolotarev, representative of the Russian Federation Defense Ministry, stressed that this option will lead "from political containment by means of deterrence to political containment by means of cooperation." The advantages are obvious: It will enable Russia to demonstrate to the whole world its political will for the active building of collective security, the anti-Russian forces seeking to isolate our country in the international arena will be neutralized, effective mechanisms for the containment of troops will be created, a single approach to the assessment of a threat to Russia's security will be elaborated, full strategic partnership will be established, the system of joint peacemaking operations will become more effective, cooperation in the field of combatting nuclear terrorism and industrial catastrophes can be rehearsed, and so forth. In any event, as the representatives of the Foreign Ministry and Defense Ministry stressed, "to disregard" the "Partnership for Peace" program would mean for Russia quite simply a disastrous self-isolation from the processes of the pan-European search for collective security. If we ignore the NATO countries' initiative the result may be that our country will eventually find itself isolated. Vladimir Lukin, chairman of the Duma International Relations Committee, and Konstantin Zatulin, chairman of the Committee on CIS Affairs, expressed a critical view of the idea of Russia's participation in the "partnership." They expressed the fear that "one side may be able to impose its diktat" given the conditions proposed by NATO. In Lukin's opinion, involvement in the "partnership" would wreck "our strategic intentions to create security structures within the CIS framework." The overall course of the hearings showed that there are major forces in the State Duma who are skeptical of Russia's involvement in the "Partnership for Peace" program.
