FBIS3-9346 "dreeu056__a94030" FBIS-EEU-94-056-A Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 ANNEX Poland Ukraine's Zlenko Visits, Meets With Officials `Close Partnership' Sought LD2103212694 Warsaw PAP in English 2117 GMT 21 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY LD2103212694 Warsaw PAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Warsaw, March 21 -- Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Anatoliy Zlenko, on a two-day visit to Poland, and his Polish counterpart Andrzej Olechowski declared Monday that Poland and Ukraine -- which are strategic partners -- will strive for "close partnership", trying to intensify mutual contacts in the coming months. The ministers made the declaration following their face-to-face meeting during which they also signed a declaration on principles of shaping the Polish-Ukrainian partnership and an inter-governmental agreement on the protection of graves and memorials to victims of war and repression. Zlenko and Olechowski stressed a strategic dimension of Polish- Ukrainian partnership. Minister Zlenko added that intensified Polish-Ukrainian relations might play an important role in the region and in entire Europe. The ministers also touched upon European security and international situation. Minister Olechowski was invited to pay a visit to Ukraine. A meeting between the prime ministers of the two countries is also scheduled to take place soon but its exact date is not known yet. The foreign ministers decided to set up a team of experts responsible for preparing a timetable and drafts of Polish-Ukrainian cooperation. Olechowski will appoint an expert in a week's time. The respective ambassadors of Poland and Ukraine will also participate in the work of the team. The face-to-face meeting was followed by Polish-Ukrainian plenary talks co-chaired by the two ministers. The talks focused on bilateral political and economic relations and transborder cooperation. In the evening Zlenko met with representatives of Polish- Ukrainian Economic Chamber and Polish businessmen.
