FBIS3-23338 "jptot011__l94001" JPRS-TOT-94-011-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 15 March 1994 FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 4-10 March FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 4-10 March 11111111 11111111 Article Type:CSO Editor's Note: The FBIS Terrorism Desk welcomes suscribers' comments and suggestions at (703) 733-5512. Highlights and major incidents in this edition of the FBIS Terrorism Report include: Algeria According to LE FIGARO, Sayah Attia is the new chief of the Armed Islamic Group (GIA), replacing Mourad Si-Ahmed, who was killed by Algerian security forces in February. Cyprus/U.S. A Greek-speaking caller made a bomb threat against the plane transporting U.S. State Department representative Robert Lamb from Larnaca to Vienna. The plane took off after a search. The press report did not note whether the threat targeted Lamb specifically. Egypt The Islamic Group again took credit for shooting at two "tourist trains" en route from Cairo to southern Egypt. Germany/U.S. STERN magazine reports that "top terrorist" Johannes Weinrich planned to assassinate former president Ronald Reagan. Germany/Libya The Cologne BKA office has obtained documentation of Stasi logistical support for Libyan terrorist acts. Israel Police arrested Kahana Hay's Binyamin Kahana and David Axelrod, along with Kakh spokesman No'am Federman, for refusing to turn in their weapons. Lebanon "Military experts" told AFP that Hizballah's military operations have been "more professional" since a new Iranian Revolutionary Guards team arrived in Lebanon two months ago, and that Hizballah is using more sophisticated weapons, such as Sagger anti-tank rockets. On 9 March, the army defused a 6-kg bomb near the French Cultural Center in the Christian area of Kasrawan. Authorities arrested three people. Middle East AL-QUDS AL-`ARABI newspaper publishes an interview with suspected terrorism financier 'Usamah Bin-Ladin. Palestinians A member of Hamas' 'Izz-al-Din al-Qassam squads tells Israeli newspaper MA'ARIV about squad organization and his experiences in the squads. Palestinians/U.S. Hamas distributed a leaflet in the occupied territories containing a "veiled warning" that Brooklyn could be the site for acts of revenge for the Hebron massacre. Russia FBIS has obtained TV news footage of an improvised explosive device seized from a passenger at Nizhniy Novgorod Airport. See "Selected Video Reports" section. The deputy chairman of Bashkortostan's parliament was killed by a bomb planted at the door to his house. Saudi Arabia/Ethiopia Three Ethiopians hijacked a Saudia airliner on 8 March, demanding to fly to Italy. The plane landed in Kenya, where police captured the three. Tajikistan Several gunmen shot and killed Vice Premier Nazarshoyev in his home on 10 March. The procurator's office blamed "the gang headed by Mullo Kasym." Turkey/Germany The Dusseldorf Higher Regional Court sentenced four PKK members on charges of membership in a terrorist organization.
