FBIS4-64700 "drweu088_q_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-088 Daily Report 5 May 1994 TURKEY Human Rights Activist Says Torture Common Human Rights Activist Says Torture Common AU0605095694 Hamburg DIE WOCHE in German 5 May 94 p 17 AU0605095694 Hamburg DIE WOCHE German BFN [Interview with Ercan Kanar, president of the Istanbul Human Rights Association, by Dirk C. Fleck; place and date not given: "Torture Is an Everyday Occurrence in Police Life"] [Text] [Fleck] Mr. Kanar, is Turkey a state that uses torture? [Kanar] Torture is an everyday occurrence in police life. Torture is used in every interrogation. The problem is only to prove it. The IHD [Istanbul Human Rights Association] knows of 500 cases that occurred in 1993 in Istanbul alone. These instances of torture were confirmed by doctors. [Fleck] How is torture done? [Kanar] By electrical shocks, hanging, blows to the soles of one's feet and genitals, treatment with ice water. The clothes of the prisoners are removed and ice water is poured over the people. Ice water also makes the swelling from the blows go down. [Fleck] How many of the tortured prisoners come to you? What can you do to help? [Kanar] The people who are tortured are told in prison that they must fear for their lives if they go to a lawyer. If someone still has the courage to do so, we inform the international human rights organizations and try to take the matter to court. The cases that we know about do not tell anything about the reality in our prisons. It is extremely difficult to get a certificate from a doctor, particularly for people who are detained for political reasons. According to the law, they may be taken to a doctor only after 15 days. Usually, they are tortured during the first three days. When the doctor comes, the wounds have mostly healed. The real rate of torture in Istanbul is probably something like 5,000 cases a year. [Fleck] What are the difficulties that you yourself have to fear? [Kanar] My colleagues and I are under constant observation, our offices are searched arbitrarily by police, any step that we take is watched, our telephones are bugged. Over the past two years, eight IHD members were killed. Again and again our lawyers are imprisoned and detained for up to three months -- and that during pending lawsuits. [Fleck] What will happen to the Kurds, who are waiting for deportation in Germany, as soon as they return to Turkey? [Kanar] Kurds, in particular, are in extreme danger in our country. Any Kurd who is deported from a country of the European Union ends up in prison first. Anyone who is known to the police as someone who demonstrated for democracy and human rights abroad will almost certainly be subjected to heavy torture. The countries of the European Union know that, but obviously they are applying a double standard to human rights issues.
