FBIS3-13415 "drnes049_l_94010" FBIS-NES-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 ISRAEL Rabin Reportedly Not To Evacuate Hebron Settlers TA1303095994 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT in Hebrew 13 Mar 94 pp 1, 15 TA1303095994 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Report by political correspondent Shim'on Schiffer] [Text] Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin does not intend to do anything about evacuating the Jewish settlers from Hebron and transferring them to Qiryat Arba' or other locations. Rabin believes that such a move would set a dangerous precedent that would serve as an incentive for the Palestinian terrorist organizations operating against the settlements in the territories. Rabin transmitted his position on the matter to U.S. Administration sources with whom he spoke over recent days. In the prime minister's view, a decision to evacuate the Hebron settlers would also lead to the opening of the Israeli-PLO agreement, which is contrary to Israel's current interest. A majority was developing in the cabinet last week for evacuating the settlers in Hebron, mainly for security reasons. The United States is exerting pressure on Rabin to take a series of steps to make it easier for 'Arafat to return to the negotiating table following the Hebron massacre. The U.S. Administration is pressuring for a withdrawal of the IDF [Israel Defense Forces] from Hebron's central bus station. The Americans claim that if Rabin cannot evacuate the settlers, then he can at least make a gesture to the Arabs in Hebron, and evacuate the central bus station area, which the IDF took control of several months ago. Rabin has so far also rejected this U.S. request, claiming that planned Palestinian retaliation against the Hebron settlers is prohibiting any thinning of forces or a withdrawal from the bus station. Rabin made it clear to the Americans that he cannot and will not do anything beyond what he has already done to tighten supervision over the settlers. In talks the prime minister will hold in Washington this week, he will also raise the issue of growing military cooperation being between Russia and Syria, in the wake of recent reports reaching Israel that Russia has renewed contacts with Syria, offering it sophisticated military equipment. Rabin is due to inform the cabinet today of steps he intends to take to outlaw Kakh and Kahana Hay, based on Attorney General Mikha'el Ben-Ya'ir's opinion, presented to the prime minister over the weekend. The opinion advocates measures to declare them terrorist organizations under the antiterrorism law.
