FBIS4-30809 "dreeu104_i_94021" FBIS-EEU-94-104 Daily Report 27 May 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA UN Says Muslim Offensives Triggering Clashes UN Says Muslim Offensives Triggering Clashes LD2705235894 Belgrade TANJUG in English 2234 GMT 27 May 94 LD2705235894 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN ["Pool item"] [Text] New York, May 27 (TANJUG) -- Bosnian Moslem offensive operations in central and northern Bosnia have triggered clashes with the Serbs in the areas of Maglaj, Olovo and Gradacac, U.N. spokesman for peacekeeping operations Fred Eckhard said at a regular press briefing on Friday. There is fighting also around Bihac in the west, where Serb forces are supposed to be attacking, Eckhard went on to say. He explained that talks were still in progress on the withdrawal of Bosnian Serbs from the exclusion zone around Gorazde in the southeast, but so far without any concrete results. He noted there was no deadline or ultimatum for the withdrawal. Earlier this year, Moslem forces had mounted a strong offensive from Gorazde, which should have been demilitarized a year ago together with five other U.N.-designated safe areas in Bosnia. When the offensive was on the verge of collapse, the international community stepped in and ordered air strikes against the Serbs. Bosnian Moslem ambassador to the United Nations Muhamed Sacirbej has written to the U.N. Security Council, accusing Secretary-General Butrus Butrus-Ghali of putting an equation mark between the Bosnian Moslems and Serbs. Sacirbej took exception to Butrus-Ghali's blaming both the Serbs and the Moslems for failing to honour their undertakings in connection with the safe area of Gorazde, and called for bombing the Serbs who he said understand only the language of threats and force. Sacirbej explained that the cease-fire agreement for Gorazde, reached in Belgrade in mid-April by Bosnian Serb President Radovan Karadzic and the U.N. secretary-general's special envoy Yasushi Akashi, was not binding on the Moslem side which had not taken part in the talks.
