FBIS3-53508 "drnes011_p_94008" FBIS-NES-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 SOUTH ASIA Afghanistan Saudi King Warned by Hezb-e Eslami Leader BK1701144694 Hong Kong AFP in English 1432 GMT 17 Jan 94 BK1701144694 Hong Kong AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Terence White] [Excerpts] Kabul, Jan 17 (AFP) -- The first relief convoy of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in nearly three weeks arrived in Kabul on Monday, delivering 20 tonnes of medical supplies to the besieged city. The supplies come at a crucial time as Kabul's hospitals and clinics reported at the weekend that nearly 6,000 people had been treated for wounds sustained in fighting between troops loyal to Afghan Government troops and mojahedin under ex-communist general Abdol Rashid Dostam. The convoy, consisting of seven vehicles, made it to the Afghan capital under a light dusting of snow and the sporadic exchange of small arms fire and artillery bombardments around the city. [passage omitted] The Red Cross vehicles were able to make the dangerous overland journey from the Pakistan border to the capital because of good relations with the warring factions, said Kabul's Red Cross chief Peter Stocker. "Through our humanitarian work, carried out both inside and outside Kabul, we have reliable contacts enabling us to obtain security guarantees," Stocker said. The Red Cross convoy brought with it badly needed antibiotics, dressings and general medicines. Volunteer workers of the Afghan Red Crescent Society unloaded the medical supplies in Kabul, which will be distributed to the 23 hospitals and clinics in and around the capital which are supported by the ICRC. With the arrival of winter, the arrival of the convoy, which included four land cruisers, was welcomed as a valuable asset to the ICRC here, enabling the organization to expand its operations to cope with the fighting now in its 17th day. The Red Cross also evacuated seven foreigners from Kabul by road Monday, including six Indonesians, among them three children aged 12 and under, and a German businessman who was said to represent a satellite-telephone company. Meanwhile, in the northwestern Pakistani city of Peshawar, the powerful Hezb-e Eslami faction, which has been fighting the government alongside Dostam's forces, accused Saudi Arabian intelligence Monday of maligning its leader Golboddin Hekmatyar. Hekmatyar, who is also prime minister, has long been at odds with President Borhanoddin Rabbani and his ally and former defense minister Ahmad Shah Mas'ud. Hezb leader Nawab Salim in a statement advised Saudi Arabia's King Fahd to "bridle" his intelligence and "enslaved media" and stop "interferring" in Afghanistan's internal affairs. The statement said the Saudi regime was propagating "fake fatwas," or religious rulings, against the Coordination Council of Islamic Revolution (CCIR), which includes Hezb, Dostam's Junbish movement and other mojahedin groups.
