FBIS3-29279 "dreas032_a_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 February 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Ambassador: Relations With U.S. Not `Matured' OW1602044194 Tokyo KYODO in English 0254 GMT 16 Feb 94 OW1602044194 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, Feb. 15 KYODO -- The relations between Japan and the United States have not yet become matured as evidenced by last week's failure to reach a bilateral trade agreement, the Japanese ambassador to Washington said Tuesday [15 February]. Takakazu Kuriyama told a press conference that mutual distrust over setting objective criteria to measure progress in opening Japan's markets led to the collapse of the Japan-U.S. trade talks last Friday in Washington. "As long as we could not reach an agreement due to a lack of trust, it cannot be said that (the relationship) has become one of adults," Kuriyama said. Kuriyama said Japan needs to make its markets more open and transparent to raise the level of trust in trade "to the same as that of politics and securities." Asked what course the two nations are likely to take on the trade problems, he said "both sides should make efforts to sit down at the negotiating table seriously." Kuriyama also said it is "not appropriate" for the U.S. to think of imposing sanctions against Japan only because Japan does not make a compromise. The two nations have remained at loggerheads over the interpretation of the application of "objective criteria." Washington says such criteria are necessary to measure how much Japan's markets will be actually opened to U.S. products. Japan, whose huge trade surplus has long frustrated U.S. Governments, rejects setting numerical targets, on the grounds that it would go against the principle of free trade and result in managed trade. Although the trade talks broke down without agreement on the criteria, some Japanese media praised Japan's government's stance of rejecting the U.S. demand, saying the two nations' relations had "matured" because Japan could finally say "no." Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa said at a press conference after the talks with President Bill Clinton that "I believe and hope that (the U.S.) will not resort to unilateral actions that would contravene GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) rules." U.S. officials have warned, however, of retaliation against Japan, such as reviving the "Super 301" provision, before the Group of Seven industrial countries convenes its annual summit in Naples in early July.
