FBIS3-33533 "drlat037__a94027" FBIS-LAT-94-037-A Document Type:Daily Report 24 February 1994 ANNEX Cuba Sentiment Against Cuban Blockade `Growing' PA1902131794 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 0117 GMT 17 Feb 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA1902131794 Havana PRENSA LATINA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [By Roberto Gili Colom] [Text] Havana, 16 Feb (PL) -- Representatives of the Cuban immigration community in the United States agree that opposition to the U.S. blockade against Cuba is growing within that sector because it is considered an obsolete policy. In statements to PRENSA LATINA, Journalist Francisco Gonzalez Aruca said the most influential media in the United States as well as an important sector of the Cuban immigrant committee "consider the blockade to be an obsolete policy." "Little by little the more moderate segment of the U.S. Cuban community is expressing its rejection of this measure," said Aruca, director of Radio Progreso Alternativa in Miami, Florida. On Monday, Havana announced a meeting it calls "The Nation and the Immigrant Community." It will be held during the last week of April with the participation of approximately 200 representatives of the Cuban community residing in other countries. According to analysts, the blockade imposed by Washington on the island for three decades could be one of the subjects discussed. Aruca agreed with other immigrants who were asked about this issue, meaning that, for the time being, a policy change is difficult "because there is still no group strong enough to bring about that change in the United States." He said: The influence exerted by the most conservative segment of the community, led by the right wing of the Cuban-American National Foundation (FNCA) which favors the blockade, is equally considerable. Another Cuban immigrant, ARIETO magazine director Andres Gomez, said: "The FNCA favors maintaining that policy because it coincides with its own interest." "Unquestionably the group within the U.S. Cuban community which favors a suspension of the blockade has grown in recent years, and states its position more openly," he said. There are those who advocate the unconditional elimination of the blockade; others endorse it up to a certain point so as to negotiate the rest later on, Gomez said.
