FBIS3-25995 "drchi022_t_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 Northwest Region Xinjiang Public Security Official Stresses Stability HK0102135794 Beijing RENMIN GONGAN BAO in Chinese 25 Jan 94 p 3 HK0102135794 Beijing RENMIN GONGAN BAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By Adhuresidi (7093 0008 6757 3583 6007 2251), deputy chief of Xinjiang Public Security Department: "Stability Must Overwhelm Everything"] [Text] An important concept in volume three of the "Selected Works of Deng Xiaoping" is "stability stands above all else." To adhere to the party basic line for 100 years without wavering, it is imperative to consolidate and develop the political situation of unity and stability. Without political stability, reform, opening up, and economic construction would all be out of the question. Furthermore, the results already gained would also be lost. To consolidate and develop the stable political situation is not only the objective need of social and economic development but the aspiration and basic interest of Chinese people of all nationalities. Xinjiang is located on the motherland's northwestern frontier, sharing its border, which stretches some 4,000 km, with eight neighboring countries. With the deepening of reform and the expansion of opening up, Xinjiang's economy has become increasingly prosperous with each passing day and it has become an important part of the Eurasian continental bridge. However, with the tremendous changes in Eastern Europe in recent years, the ambition of hostile elements from outside our borders in their attempt to separate Xinjiang has expanded with each passing day. Those separatist forces openly clamor: "Oppose socialism" and "religion stands before Marxism-Leninism," in an attempt to separate the motherland and Xinjiang and to sabotage nationality solidarity. Consequently, their reactionary nature has been fully revealed. This being the case, it is imperative for us to further strengthen the struggle against separatism, sternly crack down on various criminal activities, and adhere to doing two types of work simultaneously, attaching equal importance to both. We must adhere to the four cardinal principles, resolutely eliminate all factors which lead to confusion, and even turmoil, to safeguard social stability and ensure the further in-depth development of socialist economic construction. The stability of the political situation is the prerequisite for rapid economic growth. In turn, economic prosperity will inevitably promote social stability.
