FBIS4-42980 "drweu112__a94006" FBIS-WEU-94-112-A Daily Report 28 May 1994 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs EU Commission Praises U.S. Decision on China EU Commission Praises U.S. Decision on China BR0206143894 London REUTER Textline Database in English 28 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0206143894 London REUTER Textline Database English BFN [Unattributed article from Brussels EUROPE: "Commission Says U.S. Decisions Will Help China's Membership in GATT, Shares View That There Is No Direct Link Between Trade and Human Rights"] [Text] Brussels, 27 May (Agence Europe) -- The spokesman for the European Commission commented favorably on the decisions made by President Clinton extending certain trade measures (namely the clause of most favored nation [MFN]) towards China, and this from a dual point of view: - Anything contributing to the opening and liberalization of trade with China will facilitate China's membership in GATT. Sir Leon Brittan said on several occasions that the European Union favors this membership if the indispensable conditions are met. Two weeks ago, GATT Director General Peter Sutherland, after talks in Beijing, indicated that a lot of technical problems remained to be solved and that negotiations were difficult. At present, they may be accelerated; - The Commission shares the view that there should be no direct link between the respect of human rights and trade sanctions. Certainly, the fundamental objective of obtaining an improvement in matters of democracy and human rights remains valid, and some too serious offenses could not be tolerated. But in general the link must not be automatic. EUROPE adds that Mr. Sutherland recently declared that Taiwan's membership in the GATT has no connection with China's. According to him, Taiwan is a country in full expansion, its membership would boost the development of the world trade system, negotiations are being held in two separate groups, and Taiwan will be able to join as soon as it has obtained two thirds of the votes."
