FBIS3-40957 "jptac002___94071" JPRS-TAC-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Arms Control 8 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA UKRAINE Kiev Radio Quotes U.S. Ambassador WS1901204494 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network in Ukrainian 1900 GMT 19 Jan 94 WS1901204494 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN [Text] The negotiations held by the U.S., Russian, and Ukrainian presidents in Moscow could have failed to take place or become an unofficial meeting if it had not been for the courage displayed by Bill Clinton, Boris Yeltsin, and Leonid Kravchuk. This particularly applies to the Ukrainian president. This was declared by U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine William Miller at a press conference organized today at the American House by the mass media. The tripartite agreement adopted in Moscow is an extremely important document opening broad perspectives in the sphere of nuclear disarmament, he emphasized. William Miller told the journalists about the negotiation processes that led up to signing this document conducted by representatives of the three states to coordinate nuclear disarmament efforts. The drive in favor of reduction and, later on, elimination of nuclear arsenals began in the late 1960's. Following the demise of the Soviet Union, this process not only continued but also [word indistinct]. Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan [word indistinct] safe regions. Of all these countries, Ukraine is the most central to the United States of America since almost all nuclear missiles stationed on its territory were targeted at the United States. I am happy that people who live in our countries can sigh with relief, because the threat that used to hang over our heads has blown over, the ambassador said. He described as very important the fact that the three presidents reached an agreement on procedures for transportation to Russia of nuclear warheads deployed in Ukraine based on compensation and security assurances. Ukraine will receive 100 metric tons of uranium for its nuclear power plants as compensation for the removal of the warheads.
