FBIS3-15504 "drsov044_a_94027" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS ROK Denies North Korean Workers Seeking Asylum LD0703094694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0852 GMT 7 Mar 94 LD0703094694 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Ivan Zakharchenko] [Text] Seoul March 7 TASS -- The South Korean Foreign Ministry told ITAR-TASS there was no truth in recent Seoul press reports that many North Korean woodcutters working in Russia have been applying for political asylum in South Korea. The South Korean Ministry said cases of defection could be counted on the fingers of one hand. A competent source in the South Korean Foreign Ministry said about seventy North Koreans were seeking to settle in Russia for fear their flight to South Korea could spell out disaster for their families and relatives in North Korea. The same source said that under the South Korean Constitution all inhabitants of the Korean peninsula are regarded as citizens of the Republic of Korea. In this connection the Government of the Republic of Korea shows interest in the fate of northern compatriots. Seoul expects Russia to regard the North Korean workers who fled from the North Korean labour camps as refugees and, respecting their rights as such, not to deport them to North Korea. Seoul is now considering ways of bringing its internal regulations and provisions for Korean immigrants and defectors in line with international standards, the source said without specifying what changes will be made. The Seoul press alleged last month that between 100 and 150 North Korean workers escaped from Siberian woodcutting spells and asked for political asylum in South Korean diplomatic offices in Russia. North Korea rejected the allegations. This year three North Koreans were reported have reached South Korea from Siberia and obtained residence permits here. They had not approached either the embassy nor the South Korean consular offices in Russia.
