FBIS4-21169 "jptdd017__l94012" JPRS-TDD-94-017-L JPRS Narcotics 11 March 1994 INTERNATIONAL Finnish, St. Petersburg Police Agree To Boost Antidrug Finnish, St. Petersburg Police Agree To Boost Antidrug Cooperation 94WD0293A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 11 Mar 94 p 10 94WD0293A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Finnish CSO [Article by Sven Wikstrom: ``Finnish Central Criminal Police Department and St. Petersburg Militia Trying To Solve Narcotics and Personal Safety Problems''] [Text] Joutseno: The Central Criminal Police and the Militia of the St. Petersburg district made plans for closer cooperation on fighting drugs. Thirty-five police leaders and street level investigators have come together for a three day meeting in Joutseno to plan a joint effort to combat drugs and develop cooperation. This first meeting will end Friday [11 March]. Office chief Antti Turkama of the Central Criminal Police is promising more meetings and contacts in the future. ``An agreement in principle has already been made about a personnel exchange program. This will lead to narcotics investigators and lab personnel going for visits to familiarize themselves with the other agency's methods of investigation, equipment, and new narcotics.'' According to Nikolai Gorbachevsky, the commander of the Criminal Department of the St. Petersburg Militia, meetings between experts on other branches of criminal activity are also to be expected. The next ones will be between those specializing in violent crime. Officials are concerned about the increase in crimes of violence, against businessmen in particular, in Russia. The cooperation between these officials is made possible by a treaty between the two countries. According to the St. Petersburg Militia Criminal Department commander the federation government and the ministry currently encourage cooperation. In bygone times they prevented it. In Gorbachevsky's opinion St. Petersburg has not yet become a center for the international drug trade. ``We are heading toward that distinction. There are increasing numbers of drug users and the choice of available drugs is getting greater,'' says Gorbachevsky. The international drug mafia has also shown an interest in St. Petersburg, at the very least as a transportation link. The commander of the Narcotics Department of the St. Petersburg Militia, Anatoli Goncharenko, considers the area to be primarily a drug consumer concentration. Inexpensive drugs, derived from natural plants, are supplied from other parts of Russia. Synthetic drugs manufactured in laboratories, amphetamines, among others, make for a special problem in St. Petersburg. According to Goncharenko there are many unemployed or underemployed, highly educated chemists in St. Petersburg, who can supplement family incomes with drugs they can manufacture at their jobs. In addition to a 1000-kg cocaine shipment, the narcotics militia in St. Petersburg confiscated 1000 kg of other drugs. The major portion of these, however, are inexpensive plant-based drugs.
