FBIS4-8013 "dreeu068__a94001" FBIS-EEU-94-068-A Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 ANNEX Albania Berisha on Possible Greek-FYROM Compromise Berisha on Possible Greek-FYROM Compromise AU0804105694 Tirana ATA in English 1014 GMT 8 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0804105694 Tirana ATA English BFN [Text] Tirana, April 8 (ATA) -- In his interview with the Greek agency ANA, President Berisha expressed the belief that the Albanian-Greek relations will be further promoted in the future. "Albania and Greece have overcome crisis and are improving relations following the visit of the Foreign Minister Karolos Papoulias to Albania.... I believe that the strengthening of the identity of the minority and their integration are very important issues and should be carried forward. The Albanians do not hate the minority people. They respect them. For this reason, I believe that the Albanian-Greek relations will be further promoted in the future. The great number of the Albanian emigrants in Greece and the existence of a Greek minority in Albania should serve as a strong link between the two countries, he added. The situation regarding the rights of the Greek minority has been improved considerably after the days of communist regime, President Berisha said and vowed to respect them fully, including education, as envisaged in the charter of Copenhagen. Regarding the status of the Orthodox Church in Albania, he appreciated the performance of Archbishop Anastas, but considered unfair the previous insistence of the Greek Government on appointing the clergies in his own country. In Albania, he added, the church is independent of the state and any ethnic Greek can be elected to any post in the church. Commenting on the relations between Greece and The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), President Berisha said he does not support the Greek severe actions against FYROM and considered the achievement of a compromise as possible. The countries in the region "must understand that peace is very important not only for the two countries but for all the others in the region." He denied that Albania seeks either to (?destabilize or) to recompile the Balkan map through violence. He favours discussion for a solution to the problem of the ethnic Albanian in Kosova as well Albania's membership to the European Union. The presence of the Americans, Berisha said, is an important factor for the European stability.
