FBIS3-18907 "drweu047_a_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 AUSTRIA Wifo Report Shows Rising Optimism in Economy AU0903140994 Vienna DIE PRESSE in German 9 Mar 94 p 15 AU0903140994 Vienna DIE PRESSE Language: German Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Industry Growing Again; More Foreign Orders"] [Text] Vienna -- In January, business optimism about the economy improved again. Among the indicators used by the Wifo [Economic Research Institute] expectations regarding production were clearly more optimistic than three months ago: More companies expect an expansion instead of a decline in production over the coming months. Orders and capacity utilization are also assessed more favorably, a Wifo report on the economic development says. At the end of 1993, rising export orders stimulated industry. During the fourth quarter, industry produced 1 percent more than a year before. The recovery began in advanced sectors. Recovery in the Construction Sector In the fourth quarter -- for the first time since autumn 1992 -- exports also surpassed the level of the previous year (plus 1.5 percent). Exports to Western Europe were down, but this was offset by higher demand from the United States, Southeast Asia, China, and Eastern Europe. Domestic demand also developed in a relatively favorable manner at the end of 1993. Retail trade turnover remained stable in seasonally adjusted terms around the end of the year. The situation was particularly good in public works and foundation work; building construction also experienced an increase. As a result of the beginnings of an economic recovery, the labor market stabilized. In February, while unemployment was only slightly higher, employment was slightly lower than last year. If this trend continues, the unemployment rate might stay below the predicted value for this year. Declining Inflation Rate At the beginning of this year, inflation abated, falling from 3.5 percent to 3.1 percent in January. The increase in prices of industrial and retail goods, foodstuffs, and private services, in particular in tourism, decreased. The rise in petroleum tax and charges for some public sevices at the beginning of the year, on the other hand, accelerated inflation. In contrast to previous years, rates for some public service increased more strongly than the prices of private services. To what extent the participation in the European Economic Area has contributed to dampening inflation has not yet been investigated, according to Wifo.
