FBIS3-12717 "drnes043_j_94018" FBIS-NES-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Committee: Units' Return to Camps `Proceeding Well' JN0303175594 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1700 GMT 3 Mar 94 JN0303175594 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] The higher joint military committee, which is made up of the deputy chiefs of staff for operations and logistics, the heads of the Jordanian and the Omani military committees, and the U.S. and French military attaches, has held a meeting. It reviewed the military situation and the extent of the commitment to the implementation of the military document issued by the brother chairman and vice chairman of the Presidential Council on the need for the return of all military units to their positions before the crisis. The committee discussed the results of the field action and the extent of the military units' commitment to implementation through the reports submitted by the subcommittees supervising field activity. The higher joint military committee asserts that the return to previous positions is proceeding well in Ta'izz, Lahd, Abyan, and Ibb. The committee has great confidence that the leaders of the groups and units in the rest of the regions have started to return to the agreed-upon locations. The committee has decided to form a third subcommittee to supervise and monitor the return of units to their previous positions in Ma'rib and Shabwah. This subcommittee will start work tomorrow morning. The higher military committee urges the brother [words indistinct] maximum degree of cooperation to facilitate the work of the subcommittees by carrying out the decisions issued to them in executive orders from the defense minister and the chief of the General Staff. The higher military committee is working around the clock. It reassures the Yemeni people that there is a spirit of cooperation and accord between its sons and that everyone is concerned about the unity and cohesion of the Armed Forces to preserve Yemeni national unity.
