FBIS3-8893 "dreeu052_c_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Thai Deputy Prime Minister on Trade, Banking AU1603180894 Prague HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Czech 15 Mar 94 p 3 AU1603180894 Prague HOSPODARSKE NOVINY Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Interview with Thai Deputy Prime Minister Suphachai Phanitchaphak by "pen" in Prague; date not given: "Thailand Is Interested in Direct Trade With the Czech Republic"] [Text] "Although our mutual trade soared in recent years, I believe that the potential has not been exhausted," Thai Deputy Prime Minister Suphachai Phanitchaphak said in an interview for HOSPODARSKE NOVINY. In Prague, the Thai official discussed trade relations with Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, Finance Minister Ivan Kocarnik, and other representatives. "In the course of the talks, I have introduced some other commodities, like consumer goods, fruit, and several farm products. I also spoke about projects that might be of interest to Czech businessmen, that we invest in the development of the infrastructure--the railroads or road construction, for instance. We need chemicals. It would be expedient to found joint Czech-Thai ventures for the production and distribution of numerous items. I am thinking particularly of glass manufacturing, but also engineering and car-manufacturing projects." In the interview, the Thai deputy prime minister emphasized that he considers the conditions in the Czech Republic suitable for opening branch offices of Thai commercial banks that would not only support the financing of mutual trade, but also trade with third countries. "I used my sojourn for informative talks with the Komercni Banka. We also want to trade with the other countries of Central and East Europe, including CIS. We know that the Czech Republic has substantial experience on these markets, including banking experience. Thus, it could play the role of a mediator for Thailand. And, vice versa, Thailand has good contacts with the developing economies of Vietnam--for instance, Cambodia, Laos, and China. So, it could become a good basis for your activities on these markets. I also can imagine a free trade zone." Before his departure for Warsaw, Suphachai Phanitchaphak was also supposed to meet President Havel, who, however, fell ill with influenza.
