FBIS4-33244 "drlat107_b_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-107 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 Dominican Republic Foreign Secretary: Haitian Embargo Respected Foreign Secretary: Haitian Embargo Respected PA0306010694 Panama City ACAN in Spanish 2310 GMT 2 Jun 94 PA0306010694 Panama City ACAN Spanish BFN [Text] San Salvador, 2 Jun (ACAN-EFE) -- Today in El Salvador, Juan Aristides Taveras, foreign relations secretary of state, said his country has never violated the UN and OAS embargo on Haiti. At a news conference, Taveras added that his country knows Haiti "is not guilty of its poverty," but the Dominican Republic "has lent Haiti a hand" in only those areas permitted under the terms imposed by the international community. Taveras emphasized the UN as well as the OAS are aware of the fact that the Dominican Republic "has never violated the embargo." He added, however, "they continue to hold a grudge against us, which is unfair." Fernando Infante, Dominican ambassador to El Salvador, pointed out that his country disagrees with the embargo against Haiti because we "know it will fail to resolve Haiti's problems, but, as a UN member, the Dominican Republic has to obey and respect the UN decision." Infante stressed that his country opposes "any type of invasion" in Haiti, because invasions "have never proven beneficial anywhere." According to reports coming from Santo Domingo, Joaquin Balaguer's administration changed its mind from failing to comply with the UN and OAS embargo to accepting a tight embargo against Hait, an embargo that includes even foodstuffs and medicine. Foreign Secretary Taveras, who came to El Salvador to attend Salvadoran President Armando Calderon Sol's inauguration on 1 June, said the international community has never recognized the efforts his country made to help Haiti before the embargo went into effect. The official noted: "My country's government, in order to overcome this grudge against us, went to the extreme of asking the UN to send in advisers, supervisors, and technical experts who, in plainclothes, will help us ensure the embargo is not violated. Our Armed Forces are the ones who are currently supervising this task."
