FBIS4-39347 "drsov110_c_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 Federal Assembly Yeltsin to Submit Around 40 Bills to State Duma Yeltsin to Submit Around 40 Bills to State Duma LD0706195694 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1403 GMT 7 Jun 94 LD0706195694 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Presidential Bulletin" feature No. 108 598] [Text] About 40 bills will be soon submitted to the State Duma by the president to sustain the recent presidential economic decrees. The Duma speaker Ivan Rybkin told Interfax that the problem was discussed during his meeting with Russian President Yeltsin on Tuesday. Rybkin said under discussion was the upcoming debate in the State Duma of the country's federal budget for 1994 because, as he said, the country's finances are the main component part of the reforms. The budget will be debated in the second reading on Wednesday. Asked whether President Yeltsin made proposals concerning the budget, Rybkin said that the president and he agree that the budget should be balanced and the interests of everybody should be taken into account. Earlier in an interview Rybkin said that the bill on the Russian federal budget will be adopted in the second reading in June. Rybkin said that it is planned to increase subsidizing research work in line with the conversion program, as well as science, education, culture and the social sphere and channel for the purpose eight trillion rubles. Rybkin said that the Duma together with the government is searching for additional sources of profit, including from the arms exports. Asked how he assesses the recommendations on the need to increase expenditures for defense from 37 to 55 trillion rubles, Rybkin said that everyone may have a dream, but everyone must see the reality. IF Note: Chairman of the committee for budget of the Federation Council, Nikolay Gonchar on Tuesday asked deputies to support the proposal on increasing allocations for defense purposes. He said that late in April the Duma speaker Ivan Rybkin sent to President Yeltsin a letter where he explains the need to increase military spendings up to 55 trillion rubles. According to Gonchar, on May 6 the letter with Yeltsin's words on its "I consider it expendient to agree to defense amendments for the budget" was sent to Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin.
