FBIS3-46922 "dreas003__a94025" FBIS-EAS-94-003-A Document Type:Daily Report 5 January 1994 ANNEX Mongolia Prime Minister Jasray Grants Press Interview OW0101025094 Ulaanbaatar MONTSAME in English 1319 GMT 31 Dec 93 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0101025094 Ulaanbaatar MONTSAME Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Ulaanbaatar, December 31 (OANA-MONTSAME) -- An important step in strengthening the democratic state system in Mongolia, transition to a market relation has been made in 1993, said the Mongolian Prime Minister Puntsagiyn Jasray in his interview granted to the newspaper "MONGOL MESSENGER" the prime minister stressed that the first nationwide presidential elections have shown that a multiparty system is a reality in the political life of the country. As for the economics, in 1993 were solved major macroeconomic tasks. The inflation was checked and there is a tendency toward stabilizing the national currency rate, he noted. The programmes concerning the reorganization of economic structure of Mongolia have been worked out and approved. The cooperation of Mongolia with the International Monetary Fund other international financial organizations and donor countries is intensifying acquiring longterm intentive character. The regular third meeting of donor countries held in Tokyo with a success. The policy of opennes in the sphere of foreign relations is steadily going on. Briefly, the external favourable conditions for successful solution of economic tasks faced by us has been provided. The policy pursued by the Government of Mongolia in 1993 would be continued in 1994 as well. First of all, he pointed out, there is a purpose of ensuring and strengthening the economic stability in the country. He hoped that there would be provided proper conditions for stopping the decline of national production by restoration of domestic production and creation of favourable environment for investment. The Mongolian prime minister expressed confidence that Mongolia would be a reliable partner for those who are interested in cooperating with her.
