FBIS3-54887 "drsov002_a_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Diplomat Dismisses Comments by Lithuania's Landsbergis LD0301123694 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1131 GMT 3 Jan 94 LD0301123694 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature by Dmitriy Voskoboynikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy and others] [Text] Russia's Foreign Ministry is not inclined to "react in earnest" to the numerous declarations of the former chairman of Lithuania's parliament and now right-wing opposition leader, Vytautas Landsbergis. To argue with him is as pointless as with the Liberal Democratic Party leader, Vladimir Zhirinovskiy, said a high-ranking Russian diplomat dealing with Baltic problems in comments on recent statements by Landsbergis concerning relations with Russia. Speaking at a recent news conference in Vilnius, Landsbergis criticized the present Lithuanian leadership for its "policy of rapprochement with the East." According to Landsbergis, "the last few months fully revealed the aggressive nationalism of Russia, whose policy had been identical to that of Zhirinovskiy, who only speaks more openly." "Such escapades by Landsbergis are no longer surprising," said the Russian diplomat. "They have become so biased and subjective, that they can hardly be taken seriously, even in Lithuania itself," he said. According to the diplomat, Vilnius' current foreign policy is aimed only at normalizing relations with all countries, including Russia, and not at rapprochement with the East. From this point of view he noted "certain achievements gained by Lithuania's present leadership." "Neighboring countries should live in peace and cooperate on a mutually-beneficial basis. This is an axiom, and to dispute it is senseless," the diplomat said. According to him, "what motivates Landsbergis is largely political jealousy, since Lithuania's current president, Algirdas Brazauskas, has managed to achieve in the foreign-policy area much of what the right-wing radicals failed to achieve during their stay in power."
