FBIS4-65053 "drweu092cc_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-092 Daily Report 11 May 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Algerian Finance Minister Holds Talks Algerian Finance Minister Holds Talks LD1105134394 Algiers Radio Algiers Network in Arabic 1200 GMT 11 May 94 LD1105134394 Algiers Radio Algiers Network Arabic BFN [Text] Finance Minister Ahmed Benbitour is on the second day of his working visit to Brussels. He is due to hold talks with the European commissioner in charge of financial and economic matters and also his Belgian counterpart before heading for Washington later. Over to Rachid Benhmimid for more details: [Benhmimid] On the first day of his visit to Brussels, where he arrived yesterday from Paris, the Algerian finance minister held a press conference attended by a large number of international journalists. At this conference Mr. Benbitour presented a detailed report on the objective of his tour. He said: We have come to Brussels to explain the contents of the Algerian political and economic program to European circles and also to brief European political and financial circles on the progress of the talks with the International Monetary Fund on the rescheduling of Algeria's debts. We will also inform them that we have drawn up a program for economic revival. Benbitour added: We are hoping for comprehensive cooperation with Europe without having to ignore the financial aspect. [as heard] On the first day of his visit to Belgium, Benbitour met European Commission President Jacques Delors and (Manuel Marin), the commissioner in charge of cooperation and development and contacts with Belgian and European financial and business circles. After these meetings, the Algerian finance minister declared that he was given a very encouraging welcome and presented with a serious readiness to support Algeria. He also stressed the determined will he found at the European Union to offer Algeria significant financial and political support to help it implement its plan for economic revival and employment. Regarding his meetings with representatives of the world of finance and business, Benbitour talked about the importance of the messages that needed to be conveyed to the economic operators that had been offered opportunities on the Algerian market; he also stressed the importance of partnership. Benbitour is expected to leave later for Washington, the third leg of his tour, where he will meet IMF and World Bank officials and U.S. financial authorities. After Washington, Benbitour will go to Tokyo, the fourth and last leg of this tour.
