FBIS4-44925 "jpnea029___94005" JPRS-NEA-94-029 JPRS Near East & South Asia 11 April 1994 NEAR EAST EGYPT Growth in Relations With China Announced Growth in Relations With China Announced Status of Diplomatic Relations 94LD0043B Cairo AL-AKHBAR in Arabic 11 Apr 94 p 3 94LD0043B Cairo AL-AKHBAR Arabic CSO [Article by Sa'id Sunbul] [Text] The ambassador of China, Yang Fuchang, leaves Cairo at the end of this week to go to Beijing in order to participate in the reception of President Husni Mubarak during his visit to China before the latter part of this month. The Chinese ambassador in Cairo speaks fluent Arabic, and even speaks it with an Egyptian accent! He graduated from the Department of Arabic in Cairo University's College of Liberal Arts in the class of 1962. The ambassador told me that his country was being far-sighted when it encouraged the Chinese to study Arabic, realizing the importance of Egypt and the Arab world. This action took place right after our deceased President Nasir had met with the Chinese leader Chou En-lai at the Bandung Conference in 1954. In that year, the two leaders, during this meeting, agreed to establish cultural relations between the two countries, in spite of the fact that they did not have political relations. Shaykh Ahmad Hasan al-Baquri, now deceased, traveled to Beijing in 1955 at the head of an Egyptian cultural delegation. This was the first official delegation to visit China after its revolution against, and overthrow of, the regime of Chiang Kai-shek. During his stay in Beijing, Shaykh al-Baquri signed a cultural agreement with the Chinese Government, according to which the two nations agreed to an exchange of cultural relations. It was under the terms of this agreement that the Chinese Government, in 1956, sent five young Chinese to Cairo to study Arabic. Yang Fuchang, China's current ambassador [to Egypt], was one of these five young men. After this group, other groups of Chinese also came to Cairo to study Arabic, and this process continued. In the Chinese Embassy in Cairo there are about eight Chinese diplomats who read and speak Arabic. This ability of theirs enables them to really see what the situation in Egypt is and enables them to deal directly with the Egyptians instead of using interpreters. In spite of how important China is to us, our embassy in Beijing stills deals with Chinese officials and others by means of Chinese interpreters! I do not know why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Egypt does not draw upon the services of some Egyptians who read and speak Chinese. In my opinion, this is something that would help Egyptian diplomats to better perform their job. When I visited China in September of last year, I found out that the government and large companies in both Japan and Korea, during the last few years, had begun to send large numbers of young people to China to study and learn Chinese in order to make it easier for them to deal with China. China is the future. But the problem of dealing with China is that we do not know the language. I imagine that, during his visit to China, President Mubarak will give this matter in particular some of his attention, with the result being that there will be an increase in the number of groups of Egyptians being sent to China to study Chinese. Whoever speaks the language of a country can easily open the closed doors of that country!
