FBIS4-2850 "drchi072_k_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-072 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Customs To Shoot Smuggling Suspects Resisting Inspection Customs To Shoot Smuggling Suspects Resisting Inspection HK1404061694 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 14 Apr 94 p 3 HK1404061694 Beijing CHINA DAILY English BFN [By Liang Chao: "Customs Gets Tough: Smugglers Can Be Shot"] [Text] Violent and armed smugglers who refuse or resist Chinese customs examinations for contraband at sea will be shot, according to a new policy that takes effect this year, customs authorities warned. "While checking smuggling suspects and ships at sea, armed anti- contraband customs personnel can open fire on those who resist, try to escape from the examination by using violence, or try to recover their confiscated contraband or other smuggling evidence," an official for the Beijing-based General Administration of Customs (GAC) told CHINA DAILY yesterday. The new policy indicates that the Chinese government is intensifying its crackdown on the rising tide of smuggling along the country's south eastern coast, said the official, who declined to be named. To tackle the widespread problem of smuggling at sea, China's law since 1989 has authorized anti-smuggling inspectors to use weapons against violent and armed smugglers. But the use of weapons by customs personnel has been carefully controlled except in some dangerous circumstances. The GAC, to regulate its anti-smuggling efforts at sea, requires its staff to wear specified black uniforms and to show their identity cards when checking suspects. The inspectors should use designated anti-smuggling ships or high-speed motor boats flying China's national flag and bearing the customs insignia. The official also stressed that Chinese and foreign ships and crewmen have the right to refuse an anti-smuggling check at sea if the above stipulations are not followed by customs personnel. A few cases of misunderstanding or disputes over customs checking have been reported, as people generally are unfamiliar with the GAC's regulations on anti-smuggling checks. In addition, some unidentified agencies have illegally checked ships at sea by posing as Chinese customs officials. Earlier this year, China described some major achievements in its war against smuggling at sea, thanks to a large-scale joint operation launched in the southeastern region last year.
