FBIS4-48188 "drafr094_a_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-094 Daily Report 15 May 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda Shells Hit Kigali City Center Shells Hit Kigali City Center AB1505135894 Paris AFP in English 1325 GMT 15 May 94 AB1505135894 Paris AFP English BFN [By Annie Thomas] [Excerpts] Nairobi, May 15 (AFP) -- Fighting between Rwandan rebels and government forces intensified Sunday [15 May] in several districts of Kigali and in towns across the country, a UN spokesman in the capital said. Abdul Kabia, contacted by telephone from Nairobi, reported heavy clashes between the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and government troops in the eastern and southeastern suburbs of Remera and Kicukiro. Mortar shells also fell in the centre of the capital, he said. Fighting between the Tutsi-led RPF and the Hutu-majority government side was also raging in Ruhengeri, a northwest town still held by the regular army, and at Nkumba further to the north, Kabia said. Clashes were also reported at Bugesera, south of Kigali. The RPF claimed on Friday it had seized control of half the country. [passage omitted] Although the capital's streets are no longer littered with corpses, observers say that civilians trapped there now face a war of attrition where weapons, rather than political dialogue, will have the ultimate say. General Romeo Dallaire, head of the UN assistance mission in Rwanda, said the RPF, made up of soldiers trained in guerrilla warfare, realizes it stands to lose too much in an all-out assault on Kigali and has thus adopted a tactic of "isolation, harassment and infiltration." He said that by progressively wearing down their enemies, the rebels, who control large chunks of the northern and eastern parts of the country, hope to be able to tighten their stranglehold around Kigali by gaining ground from the southeast before launching a final assault. The RPF has been ransacking military bases, fighting for control of the road leading to the capital's airport, and lobbing mortars on the city centre where officials building are located. But some of the mortars, either accidentally or intentionally, have fallen on city streets or refugee centres, terrorising civilians already struggling to survive on little water and food. Meanwhile Dallaire is trying to broker a ceasefire among the warring parties while the UN Security Council is to vote next week on sending UN reinforcements to the war-ravaged country. The UN High Commissioner for Human Right, Jose Ayala Lasso, who visited Kigali last week, made an impassioned plea Friday for the world to end the "unimaginable human tragedy" in Rwanda. "The world must do something to halt this violence," Ayala said.
