FBIS4-47420 "jpust012___94174" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 June 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Effect of Secondary Dust Transfer of Radioactive Substances Effect of Secondary Dust Transfer of Radioactive Substances on Contamination of Settlements in Chernobyl Accident Zone 947C0233B Moscow GIGIYENA I SANITARIYA in Russian No. 5, May 93 pp 39-41 947C0233B Moscow GIGIYENA I SANITARIYA Russian CSO [Article by N.A. Loshchilov, V.A. Kashparov and V.P. Protsak (Ukrainian Agricultural Radiology SRI, Kiev) under the ``Radiation Hygiene'' rubric; received 5-27-92; UDC 614.73-07(477)] [Abstract] When planning measures aimed at decontamination of settlements in the territory contaminated with radioactive substances as a result of the Chernobyl AES(ChAES) accident one should take into account the possibility of secondary radioactive contamination caused by natural factors (wind transfer, horizontal migration with sewage etc.) or anthropogenic contamination. The authors studied the likelihood of secondary radioactive contamination of a decontaminated settlement when agricultural work is performed. Studies were conducted in a settlement located 45 km NNW from the accident power unit. During the period of studies there was no precipitation, and air and the soil humidity was low. Analysis of the obtained data showed that dust transfer of radioactive substances within a 5 km radius during agricultural work had no significant effect on secondary contamination of the settlement. It is concluded that natural factors and technogenic action on soil cover, including agricultural work, have no tangible effect on secondary radioactive contamination of decontaminated settlements located in a territory with [.sup]137[/]Cs contamination of up to 2 MBq xm[.sup]-2[/]. However, it is noted that in extreme situations (tornadoes, dust storms, forest fires etc.) dust transfer of radioactive substances can have substantial effect on secondary contamination of the territory and warrants additional studies. References 2.
