FBIS3-41102 "jptdd005__l94039" JPRS-TDD-94-005-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 1 February 1994 LATIN AMERICA VENEZUELA Foreign Minister Denies Increase in Drug Crops PA3001043994 Caracas EL DIARIO DE CARACAS in Spanish 26 Jan 94 p 23 PA3001043994 Caracas EL DIARIO DE CARACAS Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Foreign Minister Fernando Ochoa Antich denied statements by Colombian authorities regarding an increase in coca and marijuana crops on Venezuelan territory. He considered them to be "a campaign to discredit Venezuela's image." "I am concerned with such statements because possibly a few laboratories and coca crops exist in the Venezuelan border area--the country's most inhospitable zone (...) but to say that Venezuela is a country where cocaine and marijuana are extensively grown is to lie," the minister stated. Ochoa pointed out that "there has been a very conspicuous campaign of comments against Venezuela in the past days. As foreign minister, I categorically reject such comments." He added that "Colombia and Venezuela, as neighboring countries, have to review and reevaluate our bilateral policies. There are sectors in both countries that sincerely want integration. However, there are also sectors that maintain a radical position against Venezuela; I will always reject them." Omar Baralt, the head of the Venezuelan delegation at the Border Affairs Commission, also questioned Colombia's attitude regarding border issues and especially regarding the illegal trafficking of stolen vehicles. He said, "Colombia does not dare implement drastic measures" to stop this activity because "it fears the border will be paralyzed." Baralt explained that 80 percent of the vehicles in the border area are Venezuelan. His statements were made after the Border Affairs Commission presented a final report to Venezuelan President Ramon J. Velasquez after four years of work. Enrique Vargas, head of the Colombian delegation at the commission, emphasized that Colombia and Venezuela have worked jointly to identify more than 70 common problems. He said that "incidents that prompt friction are not good but they are inevitable."
