FBIS4-65789 "drweu100_n_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-100 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland Armed Forces, Ministry Agree on Funding Cuts Armed Forces, Ministry Agree on Funding Cuts 94EN0324C Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 20 Apr 94 p 11 94EN0324C Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Finnish CSO [Article by Riitta Vainio: "Defense Administration To Become More Efficient, Major Personnel Dismissals To Be Avoided"] [Text] Staff Headquarters and the Defense Ministry have found mutual ground on the development of new ways to administer the Armed Forces, and on the spending cuts that will result thereby. Elisabeth Rehn, the minister of defense, and Jan Klenberg, commander of the Armed Forces, made a joint presentation on the reorganization of Armed Forces administration during peacetime. The presentation included unveiling the program that will be followed in applying scientific principles of management to develop the Armed Forces. The program deals with developments to be implemented for the 21st century during the years 1996-97. The primary purpose in these implementations is not to decrease the number of employees, but deliberate reorganization of staff and operations. Up until now less than 200 employees of the Armed Forces have been dismissed from their jobs, mainly in the armories. Other dismissals were prevented by the government's job contract negotiations. The program that has now been adopted will mean a certain amount of staff transfers, according to Rehn, but hardly any dismissals. Personnel reductions will be achieved mainly by the natural departure from the work force by individuals. "The personnel will not come to suffer hard times," promised Rehn. According to Admiral Klenberg, clarity on the issue has been especially important for Armed Forces personnel. The agreed-upon program is not what everybody wanted, "but even a difficult decision is better than continued confusion on the issue," said Klenberg. After the government asked for designated funds, the defense ministry drafted a streamlining program for the land forces in 1992. This program would have closed 15 military bases. Staff headquarters agreed to the main points of the ministry spending cuts proposal. According to staff headquarters, the spending cuts are only part of the reason for reorganization. While the number of conscripts has been reduced from 40,000 to about 30,000, the organization is still dimensioned according to the higher number of conscripts. Concentrations and Transfers The Armed Forces Training Development Center will be moved to Tuusula in 1996. The operation of the Iisalmi, Kuopio, Vammala, and Ahtari armories will be changed according to scientific management principles in a way that has already been agreed upon. Land Forces Troop Units The training of reserve officers needs to be kept, principally, as one entity. Reserve officer training methods will be developed in Hamina. Part of the infantry training conducted in Oulu will be transferred to Kajaani. Conscript training will be terminated in Ylamylly, and be transferred to Kontioranta and Mikkeli. Infantry units in Helsinki will be consolidated. Field Artillery The main training center for the field artillery will be reorganized at the Niinisalo Field Artillery Brigade. The field artillery units will remain in the Light Infantry Brigade, Kainuu Brigade, Karjala Brigade, Armored Brigade and the Uusimaa Brigade. Antiaircraft The Kymi Antiaircraft Regiment will cease to operate as an independent unit. The Salpausselka Antiaircraft Batteries will become a unit within the Reserve Officer's Training Center. Combat Engineers Operations will be concentrated primarily in four units: in Sakyla, Keuruu, Valkeala, and Oulu. Combat engineer training in Kontioranta will be terminated during 1994. Signal Corps The training for the Signal Corps will be primarily concentrated in Riihimaki, Keuruu, and Oulu. Separate Signal Corps companies in Turku and Mikkeli will be terminated. Maintenance and Supply Maintenance and Supply training will be concentrated in Lahti. The Weapons Training site will be transferred from Kokkola to Lahti during 1996. Northern Defense Zone The training and maintenance and supply organization of the Northern Defense Zone will be concentrated at four bases including Kajaani, Rovaniemi, and Sodankyla. A unit for training infantry, combat engineer, and signal corps training will be formed in Oulu. Part of Oulu's training mission will be transferred to Kajaani. Northern Finland's Signal Corps Battalion will be reassigned to the Pohja Brigade by 1997. Eastern Defense Zone The training and maintenance and supply organization of the Eastern Defense Zone will be formed at eight different bases. The Kymi Antiaircraft Regiment will be terminated as an independent unit. The Salpausselka Antiaircraft Batteries will be an attached unit of the Reserve Officers' Training Center. Conscript training in Ylamylly will be terminated by the end of 1997. Parts of the Paratrooper and Military Police training, plus the Transport Flight Squadron, will be united to form a Special Forces Training Center in Utti in 1997. Western Defense Zone One infantry unit, (the Kaarti Light Infantry Regiment) will be formed in the Helsinki area. Scientific management practices will be applied to the operations of the Helsinki Antiaircraft Regiment. The antiaircraft training battery in Santahamina will be transferred to Hyryla. Scientific management practices will be applied to the Varsinais-Suomi Antiaircraft Regiment. The Signal Corps company there will be terminated in June of 1994. Scientific management practices will be applied to the Hanko Coastal Artillery Battery. The real estate on The Boulevard will be disposed of. Air Force The Transport Flight Fleet will be terminated by 1997. A transport flight squadron will be transferred to Tikkakoski, and a helicopter flight squadron will remain at Utti. Parts of the Scouting Flight Fleet and the Transport Flight Fleet will be reorganized as the Support Flight Fleet and based in Tikkakoski and Utti. Navy A study will be made on possible savings resulting from the proposed transfer of the Naval Combat Training Center to the naval units themselves. The gunship fleet, the guided missile array of the gunship fleet, and the Pansio guided missile service center will be terminated. Military Bands A supplementary report on military bands will be drafted before the end of 1994.
