FBIS4-66028 "drweu103_e_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-103 Daily Report 26 May 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Greenpeace Halts Trident Missile Firing Greenpeace Halts Trident Missile Firing LD2605212494 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 2043 GMT 26 May 94 LD2605212494 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By Charles Miller, Defence Correspondent, PA News] [Text] The Royal Navy was forced tonight to postpone the first launch of a Trident ballistic missile from a British submarine because of protests by Greenpeace, the anti-nuclear campaigners claimed. Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind was aboard the 16,000-ton HMS Vanguard submerged off the coast of Florida to witness the historic firing of the unarmed Trident II D-5 missile. But as Vanguard put its mast out of the water, Greenpeace activists converged on the area in inflatables, while their helicopter hovered overhead. "One of our merchant ships Solo was in the area and we were able to identify Vanguard's precise position when they put up its mast," said a Greenpeace spokeswoman in London. "We launched inflatables as well as the ship's helicopter and the test firing has had to be postponed." The Ministry of Defence [MoD] said it was awaiting information from its vessels in the area. Vanguard, first of the fleet of four Trident submarines and built by VSEL of Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria took missiles on board at the US facility at King's Bay, Georgia. Britain is buying 70 US missiles, which it will arm with British-manufactured nuclear warheads, to replace the existing Polaris system gradually from the end of this year. The aim of the first firing on the US range off Cape Canaveral was to prove that the crew could safely handle and operate the sophisticated missile system. The US Navy has successfully test fired 55 D-5 missiles after a disastrous first firing when the missile careered out of control like a giant Catherine Wheel firework. The MoD said later: "Due to the intrusion of a number of surface vessels that have sailed into the range area, the launch of the UK's first Trident II D-5 missile has been temporarily delayed." Greenpeace said a US Navy helicopter was attempting to force its helicopter out of the area.
