FBIS4-36713 "drnes113_r_94007" FBIS-NES-94-113 Daily Report 4 Jun 1994 India Customs Seizes Copies of Economic Magazine Customs Seizes Copies of Economic Magazine BK0806135894 Delhi THE HINDUSTAN TIMES in English 4 Jun 94 p 5 BK0806135894 Delhi THE HINDUSTAN TIMES English BFN [Text] New Delhi, June 3 (HTC) [HINDUSTAN TIMES correspondent] -- Customs officials this morning confiscated a consignment of a foreign magazine, which reached the cargo terminal's import division from USA, as "it had objectionable photographs of Indian flags being burnt". A consignment of about 300 copies of FAR EASTERN ECONOMIC REVIEW was confiscated by a customs inspector under the supervision of an Assistant Collector Bandana Deori. According to sources in the customs, the weekly magazine carried several photographs of mobs burning the Indian flag. The decision to confiscate the magazine was taken then and there as the magazine issue is a current one. When contacted the customs chief Anand Bordia said there are specific government notifications pertaining to a) news items or photographs distorting the Indian map b) news or photographs which may incite communal passion c) news items or insertions which can threaten the country's security and d) obscene literature. He said on these grounds the customs is empowered to confiscate any literature which is incoming or outgoing. Mr Bordia said whenever such `distortions' are noticed the customs sends the matter for opinion to the Ministry of Home Affairs [MHA]. In the case of the FAR EASTERN ECONOMIC REVIEW, the possible explanation of a quick decision to confiscate it was due to lack of time. He said the magazine is a current issue and since `abberation' conformed to the GOI [Government of India] notifications, the magazines were seized before sending the matter to MHA. Sources in the cargo division also informed that a huge consignment of another foreign magazine INDIA ABROAD was confiscated recently as it has objectionable news reports on the situation of the Kashmir Valley. Similarly, a book on Kashmir, published from United Kingdom, was also banned entry to India by the customs because of alleged inflammatory insertions about militant ravaged Valley.
