FBIS3-35262 "drnes036dd_94005" FBIS-NES-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 Palestinian Affairs Hawatimah: PLO Leadership Opposes Accord Referendum TA2202193394 Jerusalem AL-QUDS in Arabic 20 Feb 94 pp 1, 18 TA2202193394 Jerusalem AL-QUDS Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [By Rashid Hilal] [Excerpt] Damascus, Ramallah -- Nayif Hawatimah, secretary general of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, has affirmed that his faction will continue to participate in the current Palestine National Council [PNC]. He said, however, that this participation hinges on a call to rebuild all PLO institutions on a democratic and elected coalition basis and with national common denominators. In an interview with AL-QUDS, Hawatimah said that this basis will ensure a serious commitment to and compliance with the decisions of the PLO's legislative and executive institutions. Hawatimah disclosed that he had invited the Palestinian leadership to discuss the Oslo-Cairo agreement and hold a referendum over this agreement, but the invitation was turned down. Hawatimah said that he favors a historic settlement on the basis of two states -- one Arab Palestinian and the other Jewish Israeli -- in accordance with the Palestinian people's right to self-determination and the return of the refugees on the basis of UN Resolution 194. He added: This is what I asked for in my recent meetings with U.S. and Russian delegations in Damascus. He said: In these meetings I called on the delegations to cooperate with us in holding a Palestinian referendum, inside and outside the occupied territories, on the Oslo-Cairo agreement. Hawatimah said: We are calling for evolution toward popular legitimacy by convening popular conferences in the homeland and the diaspora. This should lead to the holding of a unified national conference which would draw up a political program and choose a new leadership -- in a spirit of democracy and criticism -- that enjoys the people's support. The conference would also elect a new National Council, which in turn would rebuild all PLO institutions on democratic and coalition bases. Hawatimah indicated that the Palestinian negotiating leadership is refraining from convening the current PNC because most of the council members oppose the Oslo-Cairo agreement. [passage omitted]
