FBIS4-63089 "drsov098_p_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-098 Daily Report 19 May 1994 CAUCASUS Armenia Official Sure Baku To Sign Cease-Fire Accord Official Sure Baku To Sign Cease-Fire Accord MK1905081794 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 19 May 94 p 1 MK1905081794 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Report Yuriy Golotyuk in the "Nagorno-Karabakh" column: "The Cease-Fire Agreement May Be Signed After All. Everything Depends on the Azerbaijani Side"] [Excerpt] As Armenian presidential aide Levon Zarubyan told SEGODNYA's correspondent yesterday, so far there is still a hope that the Azerbaijani side within the next few hours or days will sign an accord for a cease-fire in Karabakh and on military and technical aspects of disengagement of the warring sides. Because Russia, Armenia, and Nagorno-Karabakh have actually signed this document already, the accord will automatically come into effect. The presidential aide refused to say in how many days in this event Russian peace-keeping troops will appear in Karabakh, pointing out that "the document's details are confidential." Mr. Zarubyan stated that the proposed option for a Karabakh settlement "is generally very favorable to Armenia because it essentially attests to its military victories, whereas for Azerbaijan it highlights its military failures." The Armenian presidential aide suggested this was the reason for Azerbaijan's unwillingness to sign the accord. Other officials in Yerevan and Stepanakert yesterday refrained from comment on the results of a Moscow meeting between the defense department chiefs of Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Nagorno-Karabakh. On his return to Yerevan, Armenian Defense Minister Serzh Sarkisyan only stated the following, "God knows: Whether or not the Azerbaijanis will sign this document does not depend on us." He also voiced confidence that "the agreement will still be signed in the very near future." The diplomatic department is pinning serious hopes on a visit to Baku by Vladimir Kazimirov, the Russian president's special envoy, for talks on a settlement in Nagorno-Kazabakh. Yerevan believes that Mr. Kazimirov will possibly manage to sway the Azerbaijani side. [passage omitted]
