FBIS4-68764 "jpusr054___94029" FBIS-USR-94-054 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 19 April 1994 BALTIC STATES ESTONIA Rybkin: Finland Could Mediate Troups Dispute Rybkin: Finland Could Mediate Troups Dispute 94EN0318Z Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET in Swedish 19 Apr 94 p 5 94EN0318Z Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET Swedish CSO [Article by Maria Romantschuk: "Finnish Mediation Discussed During Rybkin's Visit"] [Excerpt] Ivan Rybkin, speaker of the Russian parliament's lower house, the Duma, thinks it would be good if Finland could mediate in the conflict between Russia and Estonia regarding the withdrawal of the Russian troops from Estonian territory. The question of troop withdrawals and potential Finnish mediation was on the agenda during the speaker's visit to Finland, which was concluded yesterday. "I think it would be quite good," said Speaker Rybkin and said that it could be useful to have a third party in the negotiations between Russia and Estonia. This, at least, was the conclusion that could be drawn from the not too complete interpretation of Rybkin's message. The negotiations between Russia and Estonia have not been completely suspended, but they also have not progressed. Russia has pledged to withdraw its troops from the Baltic states by the last day of August of this year. But no agreement with Estonia has been reached as yet. The fact that the troop withdrawal can be accomplished according to the established timetable is one of the conditions for Russia's acceptance by the European Council. The Russians have not submitted any actual appeal for mediation help, but the question was discussed with both President Martti Ahtisaari, Prime Minister Esko Aho, and Foreign Minister Heikki Haavisto. Rybkin did not want to enter into how the Finnish hosts reacted to the question. Aho has previously taken a reserved position on a potential mediation task, while President Ahtisaari has said that if Finnish advice is needed the question must be treated seriously. In any event, Ivan Rybkin is of the opinion that the sooner the Russian troops are gone from the Baltic the better. "Best of all would be if not a single Russian soldier remained outside the borders of Russia." [passage omitted]
