FBIS4-34145 "drlat116_k_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-116 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina `Minority' Status Considered for Falkland Islanders `Minority' Status Considered for Falkland Islanders PY1606032394 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1049 GMT 15 Jun 94 PY1606032394 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS Spanish BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, 15 Jun (NA) -- Foreign Minister Guido Di Tella has stressed that the proposal to compensate the Kelpers [preceding word in English] in an eventual change of sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands is part of a negotiation mechanism considered "normal" throughout the world. "It is not a question of making a payment in order to throw people out. I simply said that compensation could be given for the transfer (of sovereignty). This is quite normal throughout the world where this type of transfer has occurred. Although there have not been many such transfers, there has always been economic compensation," Di Tella said in a radio interview. The foreign minister had stressed in an interview that he granted to the British newspaper THE FINANCIAL TIMES that the Argentine Government would be willing to "consider financial compensation" for the Malvinas residents "in view of the psychological distress that would affect them when they handed over the sovereignty of the islands." In view of the repercussions regarding these remarks, Di Tella made it clear that the proposal to compensate the Kelpers [preceding word in English] "is part of a much more complex negotiation" between the involved parties. "The consideration that must be taken into account first is how to deal with the way of life of the islanders. If this does not come first, "the issue of compensation will seem to be offensive. The economic part, which also exists and which I believe to be very important, would come after that," Di Tella said when referring to the government's proposal. Through the constitutional reform that is under way, the 2,000 Malvinas residents could obtain the legal status of a "minority" and this would legally guarantee respect for their language, religion, and customs. This is established in a draft bill that the Foreign Ministry is studying and that the executive branch will presumably submit to the Constituent Assembly, which is sitting in the city of Santa Fe. The so-called Kelpers [preceding word in English] would then be considered Argentine citizens, although with the status of a "minority" with their own characteristics as is the case with the indigenous peoples or the members of some foreign communities. The initiative is being developed by officials, politicians, and technicians of the Foreign Ministry headed by Di Tella on the basis of a proposal made by Justicialist Party Deputies Carlos Branda and Florencio Acenolaza. Acenolaza is the president of the Foreign Relations Committee.
