FBIS3-51822 "drlat017_g_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Jan 1994 Guatemala Officials Comment on Violence, Urban Rebel Groups PA2501165894 Guatemala City PRENSA LIBRE in Spanish 24 Jan 94 p 3 PA2501165894 Guatemala City PRENSA LIBRE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Guatemalan Vice President Arturo Herbruger Asturias has said government security forces will have to "harden" their attitude in order to suppress groups that want to destabilize the state through violence. At a news conference, the Vice President said violent acts could definitely create chaos before the referendum. These are censurable terrorist acts that cannot be tolerated and the government has a duty to punish the wrongdoers, he added. The Army Rules Out Existence of Urban Guerrilla Force Army spokesman Edith Vargas de Marroquin denied the existence of an urban guerrilla force, but indirectly accused the insurgents of the terrorist attacks carried out 18th Street, Zone 1, on Wednesday and in front of Congress Sunday morning. "These attacks were perpetrated as the Poor People's Guerrilla Army (EGP) celebrates its anniversary and it is unfortunate that in order to make their presence felt they affect the lives of innocent people. In addition, it is irresponsible, because they employ methods that endanger the population," she said. The Government Rejects Congressmen's Allegations Presidential Secretary General Hector Luna Troccoli denied the allegations of several legislators who accuse the government and the Army of provoking the current situation. "These are absurd and irresponsible accusations, since not only the government, but the people themselves are asking for the legislators' resignations. Unfortunately, this is absurd and inhumane terrorism, since any differences can be resolved through dialogue," he added. Violent Acts Have International Impact For his part, Government Minister Arnoldo Ortiz Moscoso said these incidents occurred a few days before the referendum, which leads one to believe they could be fueled by radical groups that do not want a change in policy. Ortiz does not believe the violence is being promoted by legally registered political parties, or by popular groups. Visibly irritated, he said "the [responsibility for the] blood spilled should fall on the wrongdoers." He again pointed out that these incidents occurred at a time when the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG) and the government are getting ready to renew negotiations to end the more than 30 years of armed conflict. Unfortunately, this affects us internationally, he concluded.
