FBIS3-37225 "drsov031_a_94031" FBIS-SOV-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS German Parliamentarian Visits State Duma LD1402234094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1705 GMT 14 Feb 94 LD1402234094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Nikolay Kalintsev] [Text] Moscow, 14 Feb--The first working contact has been established between the State Duma and the German Bundestag. This was the main result of a visit to Moscow by Karsten Voigt, chairman of the German-Russian group in the FRG parliament, which ended today. The aim of the visit was to "establish links, immediately after the elections, with the political parties and groups in the State Duma that might become partners for FRG parliamentarians", Voigt noted in a conversation with an ITAR-TASS correspondent. Virtually the entire political spectrum in the Russian parliament, including the communists, was involved in his meetings. "As for Zhirinovskiy's party, it doesn't have any partners in the Bundestag. We hope that it will have none in the future either, although the elections to the FRG parliament in October this year might bring some surprises," the German parliamentarian stated. We, he continued, requested that a group be formed as soon as possible from among those deputies who are dealing with the FRG on links with the Bundestag. "As vice president of the North Atlantic Assembly--the NATO parliament," Voigt stressed, "I also requested that a delegation be formed to take part in its work with the rights of an associated member". This request also met with agreement. Representatives of the Russian parliament's committees for international issues and defense matters, he said, would take part in a seminar on security issues that the Assembly will hold in February this year. Voigt expressed the conviction that the cooperation that was developing between the State Duma and the Bundestag would "make a contribution toward the strengthening of good-neighborly relations between Germany and Russia, which are not subject to opportunism and are not directed against the interests of third countries." He thinks it would be possible to discuss both issues of bilateral political and economic cooperation and pan-European security problems during regular meetings.
