FBIS4-22376 "jpusr035___94021" FBIS-USR-94-035 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 8 February 1994 CAUCASUS AZERBAIJAN President Orders Talks With Western Oil Companies To Be President Orders Talks With Western Oil Companies To Be Expedited 944K0946E Baku AZADLYG in Azeri 8 Feb 94 p 5 944K0946E Baku AZADLYG Azeri CSO [TURAN report: "Order Given To State Oil Company To Expedite Talks With Western Companies"] [Text] The expediting of talks between the State Oil Company [SOCAR] and Western oil companies on the question of the exploitation of oil reserves in the Caspian Sea has been ordered via a directive from H. Eliyev. In the directive the direction of talks between the State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic and the Consortium of Western companies was applauded. Authority was granted SOCAR for the preparation and signing of an agreement on the exploitation of the "Azeri" and "Chyrag" oil fields. On Friday of last week Eliyev held a closed meeting in which the Prime Minister, the SOCAR leadership, and specialists in the petroleum industry participated. At the meeting, questions on the discussion of a joint project for the exploitation of the sea beds were examined. It is known that following preparations done with Western oil companies in October 1993 talks were broken off. SOCAR made known the fact that the "Manafov Plan" did not coincide with Azerbaijan's interests. In connection with this, the government issued a decree on granting all authority for conducting the talks to SOCAR. At the last meeting, the Company presented a packet of proposals for improving the "Manafov Plan." No information was given on the details of these proposals. It is hoped that differences in the basic ideas on exploitation and capital costs will be established. The contractor is trying to gain capital investment quickly; as for SOCAR, it is trying to gain the income stemming from the realization of the "Manafov Plan." The signing of an agreement by foreign companies on the exploitation of the Caspian oil beds "Azeri" and Chyrag" is to be extended for three years. In the opinion of experts, there is as much as three milliard barrels in the oil fields. According to the conditions of the contract, Western companies will receive 20 percent, and Azerbaijan 80 percent of the income.
