FBIS3-53878 "drnes014dd_94010" FBIS-NES-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 Palestinian Affairs Jibril, Habash on Geneva Summit, Syrian Position JN2001131494 Paris Radio Monte Carlo in Arabic 1200 GMT 20 Jan 94 JN2001131494 Paris Radio Monte Carlo Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Ahmad Jibril, secretary general of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine--General Command has said that at the [U.S.-Syrian] Geneva summit, the United States tried to neutralize the Syrian stand in order to impose the Gaza-Jericho agreement and strike at the alliance opposed to the short-term agreement between the PLO and Israel. Dr. George Habash, secretary general of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine [PFLP], believes that the Geneva summit results will not have a negative effect on the existing alliance between Syria and the Alliance of Palestinian Forces [APF] which is opposed to the Israeli Palestinian agreement. Habash's stand was revealed in an answer to a question by Salim Badawi related to the possible effect of the Syrian-U.S. summit on the opposition methods adopted by the PFLP: [Begin Habash recording] I do not think so. This is because our struggle in the PFLP, and this also applies to Hamas, is based on struggle inside the occupied territories. Concerning this issue, Syria is still strongly supporting the intifadah. Therefore, I do not believe that we are facing a great diversion between the APF and Syria. Moreover, we must consider that despite the Geneva summit, Syria continues to demand the implementation of all UN resolutions, not only with respect to the Golan but also with respect to Lebanon, and the occupied territories, including Jerusalem. This means that this issue will be a long drawn out one, especially since we must take into consideration the intransigent Israeli attitude. What was Israel's attitude throughout the summit and in its aftermath? Israel's answer was to hold a referendum. I see this as a kind of escape from the process on the Israeli track. [end recording]
