FBIS4-66016 "drweu103_q_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-103 Daily Report 26 May 1994 TURKEY Defense Minister Returns From NATO Meetings Defense Minister Returns From NATO Meetings TA2605185194 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1700 GMT 26 May 94 TA2605185194 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Text] National Defense Minister Mehmet Golhan has declared that in addition to the civilian sectors, the National Defense Ministry and the Chief of the General Staff's Office are seriously applying measures to curb expenditures. Golhan returned to Turkey after attending the NATO Defense Planning Committee and the Nuclear Planning Group spring meetings held in Brussels. In a statement at Ankara's Esenboga Airport, Golhan reported that, just like Turkey, almost all countries in the world are experiencing economic difficulties this year and consequently defense budgets are being cut. Golhan remarked that after improving its economy, Turkey can easily purchase the weapons and equipment it needs without grants or military aid. Commenting on the Defense Planning Committee meetings, Golhan explained that the agreements reached regarding the implementation of the decisions adopted during the NATO summit last January as well as the situation in the former Yugoslavia were reviewed and the NATO force goals for 1994 were approved. The work to be done to prevent the proliferation of mass destruction weapons was also assessed, Golhan reported. [Begin Golhan recording] The subject was extremely important for Turkey, because there are countries in our geographic region that want to buy these mass destruction weapons and even wish to possess the means to launch them. Therefore, this matter is being pursued with sensitivity. In my speech, I mentioned these issues and declared that we will always make constructive contributions to the work on the subject. [end recording] The defense minister remarked that the Nuclear Planning Group meeting focused on controlling the nuclear weapons in the world and removing their warheads.
