FBIS3-15617 "drsov045_v_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 Lithuania Iliescu, Delegation Visit, Meet With Officials WS0703210094 Vilnius ELTA in English 1748 GMT 7 Mar 94 WS0703210094 Vilnius ELTA Language: English Article Type:BFN [From "News Bulletin" No. 451] [Text] Vilnius, March 7, ELTA -- Romanian President Ion Iliescu arrived in Lithuania on a state visit on Monday [7 March]. Iliescu is accompanied by the Romanian state delegation including nine people, State Minister Teodor Melescanu and Trade Minister Cristian Ionescu among them. Iliescu was greeted by Lithuanian President Algirdas Brazauskas at the airport in Vilnius. Lithuanian Foreign Minister Povilas Gylys, Finance Minister Eduardas Vilkelis, Communications and Informatics Minister Gintautas Zintelis, Trade and Industry Minister Kazimieras Klimasauskas, Ambassador Justas Paleckis and Romanian Charge d'Affaires in Lithuania Nicolae Craciunas were present during the meeting ceremony at the airport. From the airport the high-ranking officials went to Antakalnis cemetry. Iliescu put flowers at the memorial for the defenders of Lithuania's freedom. In the Houses of Seimas [parliament] both the presidents had a half an hour lasting talk behind the closed doors. Both the delegations, headed by their state leaders, had a meeting at the President's Office. After the meeting Brazauskas was interviewed by Lithuanian and Romanian journalists and said that issues of foreign policies and internal affairs of the both countries were discussed during the meetings. He emphasized that the two countries had many similarities -- they had to solve problems in economy and privatisation. Brazauskas noted that the countries pursued the similar foreign policy. For example, both the countries preferred good relations with neighbouring states, Brazauskas said. Talking about Lithuanian economy Brazauskas noted that Lithuania had increased its export to the Central and Western European countries. He emphasized the aim of the three Baltic countries to achieve close cooperation and to become independent from the import of raw materials from the east. Brazauskas expressed a hope that Romanian businessmen who came to Lithuania together with their president would find their Lithuanian business partners. Iliescu noted that Lithuania and Romania were related by their common wish to establish good relations with their neighbouring countries and prevent them from becoming new centres of political tension in Europe. Iliescu talked about cooperation between Romania and Hungaria and Moldova. He admitted that Romania was particurlarly interested in the solving of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. He expressed a hope that the important problems for both the countries would be discussed at the Krans Montana Forum in Bucharest in April. Iliescu and members of the Romanian delegation also met with Seimas Chairman Ceslovas Jursenas and other officials. A dinner was given in the honour of Iliescu. During the dinner Brazauskas said: " Relations between Romania and Lithuania have got a new impulse - the visit led to signing the agreements between the two countries, the political agreement among them. These are the first steps of the close cooperation between Romania and Lithuania".
