FBIS3-16591 "drsov053_n_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 Turkmenistan Ukraine Vows To Pay Gas Debts; Russian Avtovazbank Ignored MK1703131094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 17 Mar 94 p 5 MK1703131094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Mekhman Gafarly under the "Cooperation" rubric: "Ashgabat Refuses To Sell Ukraine's Debt to `Avtovazbank.' Neither Does the Latter's Initiative Meet With Support in Kiev"] [Text] The POSTFACTUM news agency has learned from sources close to the government of Turkmenistan that Republic Vice Prime Minister Valeriy Otchertsov, in charge of financial matters, has declined to meet with Avtovaz president Petr Nakhmanovich, who has arrived in Ashgabat. Other high Turkmen officials also ignored the invitation for a meeting. P. Nakhmanovich's trip is known to be connected with Avtovazbank's intention to buy Ukraine's debt to Turkmenistan for gas deliveries that stands today at $800 million. Abad Kurbanmuradova, head of the trade department of Turkmenistan's cabinet, said in a POSTFACTUM interview regarding this that the question of Ukraine's settling its debt for Turkmen gas imports would be solved with the participation of the Ukrainian "Republic" corporation through which many Ukrainian enterprises effect economic relations with Turkmen enterprises. It is supposed that 30 percent of the debt will be paid to Turkmenistan in hard currency right away, while the balance will be paid in commodities in the course of 1994. Turkmen authorities have already agreed to carry out this project. Now it has been sent to the Ukrainian Government for approval. This information is also being confirmed in Kiev. The Ukrainian side declares that there have been no talks between Ukraine and Turkmenistan on reselling the debt. Thus, Avtovazbank's initiative has won no backing and only caused bewilderment in the capitals of both states. POSTFACTUM reports that according to a confidential source, no Avtovazbank chiefs had consulted Ukrainian authorities on the matter, and the Republic would have hardly opted for such a step anyway.
