FBIS4-14395 "drnes083_l_94001" FBIS-NES-94-083 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 ISRAEL `Peace Package' To Be Presented to al-Asad Detailed `Peace Package' To Be Presented to al-Asad Detailed TA2904105494 Tel Aviv HA'ARETZ in Hebrew 29 Apr 94 pp A1, A10 TA2904105494 Tel Aviv HA'ARETZ Hebrew BFN [Report by Aluf Ben and Gay Bekhor] [Excerpt] U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher will meet today twice with Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin and will hear from him the details of the "peace package" Israel is offering Syria. Christopher leaves for Damascus tomorrow to present the Israeli proposal to Syrian President Hafiz al-Asad. The following are the components of the peace package: an Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights; setting up of full peace and full relations; security arrangements on the Golan; implementation of the arrangements in stages over several years; an exchange of ambassadors between Damascus and Jerusalem after the initial withdrawal stage. Israel will suggest to Syria to start deliberations in joint working groups on the details of the arrangement. The package that will be handed over to Christopher will not detail the withdrawal line and will focus on Israel's security needs within the framework of the arrangement with Syria on the Golan, and in a parallel agreement to be signed with the United States, which will pledge to strengthen Israel. In his talks with Christopher, the prime minister will request that the Israeli-U.S. agreement will accord Israel security guarantees and will assure maintaining current aid levels, as well as the supply of advanced weaponry and intelligence information from satellites to the IDF [Israel Defense Forces]. The defense establishment is at present working on the list of requests to be made to the Americans. The package to be presented to Christopher will include the principles of each of the components of the arrangement. The security arrangement will include deep demilitarization of the Syrian side and less deep demilitarization by Israel, thinning out of forces on both sides, the setting up of early warning stations on the Golan, and deployment of an international force on the plateau to supervise the arrangement. Rabin will also reiterate his call to al-Asad to take public steps to assist in legitimizing the agreement among the Israeli public. Israel expects progress in the arrangement with Syria to bring about simultaneous progress in the peace process with Jordan, Lebanon, and the other Arab states, except for Iraq, Iran, and Libya. [passage omitted]
