FBIS3-17975 "drsov062_f_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-062 Document Type:Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 National Affairs UNIAR Reports List of People's Deputies Elected 27 Mar LD3003230594 Kiev UNIAR in Ukrainian 2035 GMT 30 Mar 94 LD3003230594 Kiev UNIAR Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN [Text] Kiev, 30 Mar -- List of people's deputies of Ukraine elected in the first round: Kiev: - Rusanivskyy Constituency No. 17--Volodymyr Lanovyy (chairman of an independent center of economic reform); - Syretskyy Constituency No. 15--Serhiy Holovatyy (People's Movement of Ukraine, chairman of the Ukrainian Lawyers' Association, deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine). Kiev Oblast: - Bilotserkivskyy Constituency No. 215--Volodymyr Kravchuk (collective farm chairman); - Myronivskyy Constituency No. 221--Anatoliy Danileyko (collective farm chairman). Crimea: - Bilohirskyy Constituency No. 37--Valeriy Horbatov (director of the Krupska agricultural firm). Volyn Oblast: - Volodymyr-Volynskyy Constituency No. 66--Oleksandr Skypalskyy (Union of Officers of Ukraine, chief of the main directorate of military intelligence under the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine). Dnepropetrovsk Oblast: - Vasylkivskyy Constituency No. 99--Yevhen Chulakov (Peasants' Party of Ukraine, deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine). Donetsk Oblast: - Artemivskyy Constituency No. 117--Volodymyr Cherepkov (Socialist Party of Ukraine, director of secondary school No. 5); - Horlivskyy Central Constituency No. 120--Heorhiy Vyshnevetskyy (Communist Party of Ukraine); - Druzhkivskyy Constituency No. 123--Kostyantyn Okhrimenko (Communist Party of Ukraine); - Novokramatorskyy Constituency No. 128--Oleksiy Shekhovtsov (deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine); - Krasnolymanskyy Constituency No. 130--Anatoliy Hunov (entrepreneur); - Krasnoarmiyskyy Constituency No. 150--Petro Symonenko (first secretary of the Communist Party of Ukraine). Zhitomir Oblast: - Olevskyy Constituency No. 195--Yuriy Spizhenko (health minister of Ukraine). Transcarpathian Oblast: - Rakhivskyy Constituency No. 172--Orest Klimpush (transport minister of Ukraine). Zaporozhye Oblast: - Vasylivskyy Constituency No. 189--Vyacheslav Velskyy (chairman of collective farm "Ukrayina"). Ivano-Frankovsk Oblast: - Tsentralnyy Constituency No. 196--Volodymyr Pylypchuk (Democratic association "Ukrayina", chairman of Ukraine's Supreme Council commission for economic reform); - Kaluzkyy Constituency No. 197--Volodymyr Mulyava (Democratic Party of Ukraine); - Kolomyyskyy Constituency No. 198--Pavlo Movchan (Democratic association "Ukrayina", deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine); - Dolynskyy Constituency No. 199--Stepan Volkovetskyy (Democratic Party of Ukraine, chairman of the oblast council of people's deputies); - Rohatynskyy Constituency No. 202--Roman Krutsyk (Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists, head of the oblast council department for issues of restoring the rights of the rehabilitated); - Tysmenytskyy Constituency No. 205--Yevhen Pronyuk (Ukrainian Republican Party). Lugansk Oblast: - Antratsytivskyy Constituency No. 241--Valentyn Yeskov (Communist Party of Ukraine, director of the overnight sanatorium of the "Antratsyt" production association); - Krasnodonskyy Constituency No. 243--Anatoliy Levchenko (Communist Party of Ukraine, team leader at the "Duvannaya" mine); - Krasnolutskyy Constituency No. 244--Oleksiy Dmytrenko (nonparty member, director of private firm "Fold"); - Sverdlovskyy Constituency No. 249--Viktor Tsybenko (Communist Party of Ukraine, head of preconscription training at secondary school No. 7 in the town of Sverdlovsk); - Bilovodskyy Constituency No. 253--Oleksandr Cherenkov (Communist Party of Ukraine, chairman of the Dzerzhynskyy collective farm); - Perevalskyy Constituency No. 255--Dmytro Petrenko (Communist Party of Ukraine, head of "LuganskUgleStroy" trust); - Starobilskyy Constituency No. 259--Yuriy Donchenko (Communist Party of Ukraine, deputy chairman of the oblast committee of the automobile transport and road workers trade-unions). Lvov Oblast: - Zaliznychnyy Constituency No.261--Stepan Khmara (Ukrainian Conservative Republican Party, deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine); - Lychakivskyy Constituency No. 263--Ihor Yukhnovskyy ("Nova Khvylya", deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine); - Pivdennyy Constituency No. 264--Viktor Pynzenyk ("Nova Khvylya", deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine); - Drohobytskyy Constituency No. 267--Les Tanyuk (People's Movement of Ukraine, deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine); - Chervonohradskyy Constituency No. 270--Yevhen Zherebetskyy (People's Movement of Ukraine); - Buskyy Constituency No. 272--Ihor Koliushko ("Nova Khvylya"); - Mostyskyy Constituency No. 278--Ivan Bilas (Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists); - Pustomytivskyy Constituency No. 279--Mykhaylo Kosiv (People's Movemen of Ukraine, deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine); - Sokalskyy Constituency No. 280--Yaroslav Kendzyor (People's Movement of Ukraine). Odessa Oblast: - Velykomykhaylivskyy Constituency No. 310--Mykhaylo Myaskovskyy (Communist Party of Ukraine, consultant of joint venture "Tira"). Poltava Oblast: - Kremenchutsko-Kryukivskyy Constituency No. 322--Hryhoriy Omelchenko (Union of Officers of Ukraine). Sumy Oblast: - Romenskyy Constituency No. 348--Volodymyr Marchenko (Socialist Party of Ukraine, deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine). Ternopol Oblast: - Podilskyy Constituency No. 357--Vyacheslav Chornovil (chairman of People's Movement of Ukraine, deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine); - Borshchivskyy Constituency No. 359--Mykola Horbal (Ukrainian Republican Party); - Zbarazkyy Constituency No. 361--Mykhaylo Ratushnyy (Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists); - Chortkivskyy Constituency No. 365--Yuriy Tima (Ukrainian National Assembly-Ukrainian National Self-Defense). Chernovtsy Oblast: - Kitsmanskyy Constituency No. 437--Heorhiy Filipchuk (Democratic association "Ukrayina"). Chernigov Oblast: - Borznyanskyy Constituency No. 445--Ivan Plyushch (chairman of the current Supreme Council of Ukraine); - Novhorod-Siverskyy Constituency No. 448--Leonid Kuchma (Inter- regional Bloc of Reforms, deputy to the current Supreme Council of Ukraine). This information was provided by the press center "Election-94."
