FBIS4-16312 "drsov073_d_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-073 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 Regional Affairs St. Petersburg TV Executives Investigated for Graft St. Petersburg TV Executives Investigated for Graft MK1404125094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 14 Apr 94 p 3 MK1404125094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Aleksandr Pozdnyakov report in the "Special Case" column: "A Criminal Case Has Been Opened Against the Russian State TV and Radio Company Petersburg-Channel 5. Mr. Pravdyuk Blames Everything on 'National-Patriots, Communists, and Above All Zionists'"] [Text] The St. Petersburg Main Internal Affairs Directorate's economic crimes department has presented to the city Prosecutor's Office the results of an examination into a statement by a group of State Duma deputies about illegal activity by Bella Kurkova, chairperson of the Russian State TV and Radio Company [RSTVRC] Petersburg-Channel 5; and her husband, Vadim Tareyev, with an inscription, "For initiating criminal prosecution." This action is based on testimony by Valeriy Mikhaylov, director of the joint stock company Commercial TV and Radio Center of St. Petersburg, who alleged that Mrs. Kurkova extorted sponsorship from him for Mr. Tareyev's private enterprise. According to Mikhaylov, "the Russian General Prosecutor's Office, which demanded part of the materials to be sent to Moscow for study," has also shown interest in the investigation results. The leadership of the RSTVRC Petersburg-Channel 5 has reacted in a peculiar manner. In an interview with the city daily VECHERNIY PETERBURG, RSTVRC First Deputy Chairman Viktor Pravdyuk put forward several mutually exclusive ideas as to who is to blame for the trouble that has occurred with the RSTVRC Petersburg-Channel 5 executives. Mr. Pravdyuk stated that "the provocation against St. Petersburg TV" was organized by former TV and Radio Company employees led by Mikhail Syroyezhin, Kurkova's former deputy for advertising. Viktor Pravdyuk said that the "provocateurs are national patriots and communists seeking to place TV broadcasting under their control at any price, and, most important, Zionists and the NTV company, which articulates their interests." The paradoxical thinking of Kurkova's first deputy, who has constructed an elaborate legend about Russian nationalists trying, with the help of Jewish money, to remove democrats from top executive positions at RSTVRC Petersburg-Channel 5, has surprised many observers. Even so, a measure of ambiguity in Mr. Pravdyuk's perception of reality may be due to the anxious anticipation of the results of an investigation into a criminal case which the St. Petersburg Prosecutor's Office is most likely to open against Mrs. Kurkova. Within the next few days documents will be presented to the Prosecutor's Office about foreign bank accounts held by some modest civil servants closely linked with the leadership of the State TV and Radio Company Petersburg-Channel 5.
