FBIS3-56485 "drsov011_e_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Parliament To Discuss Accord `Next Week' LD1601195294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1741 GMT 16 Jan 94 LD1601195294 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Anatoly Gordeyev] [Text] Kiev January 16 TASS -- Ukraine's political and public forces are not unanimous in assessing the results of the U.S.- Russian-Ukrainian summit in Moscow. The Ukrainian parliament expects to discuss next week the agreement signed at the tripartite meeting. However, some opposition deputies, largely representing parties and movements of radical nationalist orientation, have already denounced the agreement reached by the three presidents and labelled the results of the Moscow meeting as "betrayal of independent Ukraine's interests." Yuriy Kosenko, head of Ukraine's parliamentary commission for nuclear disarmament, also gave his view on the matter speaking on Sunday in the radio programme "Ukraine and the World." He said he would like to read the texts of the documents before coming up with any legal conclusions about their lawfulness or unlawfulness. This view was supported by Anton Buteyko, chief of the presidential international service, who spoke in the same programme. He emphasised that some ukrainian leaders had rejected the document they had never seen, since it was of a purely confidential character. Ukrainian Defence Minister Vitaly Radetskyy told reporters that the main issue to be addressed at present was deactivation of the nuclear weapons, which calls for immediate solution because the time of warheads safe keeping was expiring. According to Radetskyy, nuclear disarmament is not to affect in any way the level of defence capability of the Ukrainian armed forces. Moreover, security guarantees and Ukraine's territorial integrity and independence which to be ensured by the leading nuclear powers are designed to guarantee the republic's economic revival and integration into the European and World markets, as well as its recognition as an equal partner in cooperation for peace.
