FBIS3-25054 "drafr025_c_94017" FBIS-AFR-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Right Wing's Terreblanche Threatens `Total War' MB0502125494 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1221 GMT 5 Feb 94 MB0502125494 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Sipke de Vries] [Text] Lichtenburg Feb 5 SAPA -- Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging [Afrikaner Resistance Movement] (AWB) leader Eugene Terreblanche on Saturday [5 February] threw down the gauntlet to the African National Congress [ANC], promising "total war" if Afrikaners were not given their own republic. "Mandela, give us a volkstaat [homeland] or you'll have total war in South Africa," the AWB leader said at an Afrikaner Volksfront [Afrikaner National Front] (AVF) rally at the Lichtenburg showgrounds in the Western Transvaal. The 400-strong crowd cheered wildly when the AWB leader made his threat. Earlier, quoting private security companies, Mr Terreblanche said 41 bombs had exploded in the Western Transvaal in the past few days. "Professionals are destroying South Africa's railway tracks to fight the ANC.... More explosions will occur from tonight (Saturday)," he said. In a disparaging reference to the National Party (NP) election campaign to gain black votes, Mr Terreblanche said the NP had become "a party of kissing (black) girls and garden kaffirs". At the same rally AVF leader Tienie Groenewald said, evidently contradicting Mr Terreblanche, the AVF would use any peaceful means to achieve its goals. Pessimistic about the final round of talks between the Freedom Alliance, the government and the ANC on Monday, Gen Groenewald said he expected no settlement at the end of this negotiation phase. The AVF had been told that there would be no more concessions, he said. "We now have to face the reality of resistance," he said, stopping short of using the term armed resistance. Gen Groenewald conceded the government had made some concessions in the latest round of talks, but there had been no backing down by the ANC on the powers of regions which were unacceptable to the right wing. "But from Monday we will systematically put pressure on the ANC and the government to try and reach our objectives." The third speaker at the meeting, Conservative Party (CP) leader Ferdi Hartzenberg, said during a heavy downpour that the CP leadership would meet next Thursday to consider its options regarding the April elections. AVF convenor Gen Constand Viljoen, who was scheduled to have addressed the rally, did not arrive. No reason for his absence was given.
