FBIS4-6695 "dreas077__a94031" FBIS-EAS-94-077-A Daily Report 21 April 1994 ANNEX North Korea IAEA Says Letter `Positive' Toward Inspection IAEA Says Letter `Positive' Toward Inspection OW2104031594 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 21 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2104031594 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Japanese BFN [By Akio Tamesada; from NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 21 April Morning Edition] [Text] Vienna, 20 Apr -- An International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) source revealed on 20 April that the DPRK (North Korea) sent a letter to IAEA on 20 April indicating a positive attitude toward inspections of nuclear facilities at Yongbyon. While details are not available, the DPRK seems to have attached certain conditions. The IAEA started considering on 20 April whether or not to accept the North Korean proposal. A conclusion is expected to be reached in a few days. The IAEA inspected seven nuclear facilities in North Korea in early March. However, it was not able to inspect a nuclear fuel recycling facility, the "Institute of Radiation Chemistry," although the inspection had been previously agreed upon. Therefore, the IAEA has been demanding that the unfinished activities obstructed by North Korea during the March inspection be carried out fully. To sustain the reliability of data obtained during the last inspection, films and batteries of monitor cameras have to be replaced in early May. The IAEA will probably take this into consideration in its deliberation on the letter from the DPRK. The March inspections consisted of limited inspections to ascertain whether there had been any conversion of nuclear substances to military use since February 1993, after the IAEA's regular inspections were suspended. Therefore, even if additional inspections are carried out fully this time, they will merely mean the completion of the March inspections. The possibility of resuming special inspections and of implementing special inspections of two undeclared facilities suspected of being involved in nuclear weapons development remains uncertain.
