FBIS3-25696 "drafr038_c_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Pik Botha, OAU's Salim Discuss Mutual Relations MB2402203094 Johannesburg Channel Africa Radio in English 1600 GMT 24 Feb 94 MB2402203094 Johannesburg Channel Africa Radio Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the Channel Africa report program] [Text] The secretary general of the Organization of African Unity, Salim Ahmed Salim, has held talks with the South African Government. He's on the third day of a week-long visit to the country, and after the talks the South African Foreign Affairs Minister Pik Botha stressed that the country must not become a new headache for the rest of Africa. [Begin recording] [Botha] I would urge all South Africans to take note of the importance that Mr. Salim is attaching to this country. He has come here. He's a man with great problems himself that he must face in Africa, and he's come here with a top delegation because of his interest in us, because of the contribution that he wants to make to resolve our internal problems amongst the parties. And it is against this background that we have had a thorough exchange of the problems facing us, and I can say that I'm impressed with his objective and clinical analysis of the situation as he sees it. [Salim] We think that it is very important for the leaders of South Africa and for the people of South Africa to look and prepare beyond the coming elections. We want to see a strong South Africa. We want to see South Africa as being one of the key parts in the resolution of African problems -- not to be a focus of Africa's attention in resolving South African problems. We have had very, very useful, very extensive discussions with the minister. We have known each other for a long time. Those were difficult days, but it's such refreshing and such rewarding to come and discuss in an atmosphere of understanding, of concord, of almost identity of use on some or almost all the major issues that face our continent, and also that face South Africa. [end recording]
