FBIS4-56138 "dreeu103__a94020" FBIS-EEU-94-103-A Daily Report 25 May 1994 ANNEX Czech Republic Chile's Pinochet To Visit Arms Firm Chile's Pinochet To Visit Arms Firm No Contacts With Government Planned AU2605074994 Prague CTK in English 1705 GMT 25 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2605074994 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Prague, May 25 (CTK) -- Czech Premier Vaclav Klaus and Foreign Minister Josef Zieleniec today confirmed that former Chilian dictator Augusto Pinochet, currently the commander of the Chilean ground troops, would indeed come to the Czech Republic. At the same time they distanced themselves from his visit. Zieleniec said today that Pinochet's visit had nothing to do either with the Czech Government or with Czech authorities. He said a Chilean delegation is touring European countries to study the possibilities of military equipment purchases. The delegation is to come to the Czech Republic at the invitation of a commercial firm trading in arms. "There will be no contacts between Czech Government representatives and this delegation," Zieleniec told journalists. Zieleniec did not specify the firm which had invited the Chilean delegation. According to diplomatic sources it is the Omnipol joint stock company. The same sources told CTK that Pinochet would come to the Czech Republic on Monday [30 May] to stay for three days. CTK failed to contact Omnipol's representatives today. The Chilean Foreign Ministry today officially confirmed that Pinochet would visit some European countries including the Czech Republic and Slovakia. It refused, however, due to security reasons, to give any details about his trip, including the date of his departure and the precise number of the countries he intends to visit. Klaus told journalists the visit would take place "at the invitation of our firms. Not to Pinochet but to a Chilean military delegation which is coming to several European countries, including the Czech Republic, to buy some equipment." "As far as I know it is an exclusively private visit which is not being organized by any Czech state institution," Klaus said. Foreign Ministry spokesman Vit Kurfurst told CTK that the ministry had not invited Pinochet and had not participated in the preparation of his programme.
