FBIS3-5516 "dreas045_a_94045" FBIS-EAS-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Mieno Sees Need To Watch Interest Rate Trend OW0803024794 Tokyo KYODO in English 0216 GMT 8 Mar 94 OW0803024794 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 8 KYODO -- Bank of Japan (BOJ) Governor Yasushi Mieno said Tuesday [8 March] the central bank needs to keep a close watch on rising trends in long-term open-market interest rates. Short-term interest rates have stayed at low levels while long- term rates keep rising, Mieno was quoted as telling cabinet ministers concerned with the economy. His remarks were quoted at a press conference by Manae Kubota, director general of the Economic Planning Agency (EPA), at which she announced the agency's monthly economic report. She quoted Mieno as saying that market yields on long-term government bonds are on the rise, reflecting diminishing expectations of a fall in interest rates, the global uptrend in money market rates and the deteriorating supply-demand situation in the domestic bond market. Long-term government bond yields are also climbing in response to pickups in some parts of the nation's economy, Mieno was also quoted as saying. The latest EPA economic report described the current economic state as "generally sluggish although showing some brighter signs," an improvement from "general sluggishness" in the previous report. Mieno was also quoted as saying plus and minus factors are still conflicting in the Japanese economy. The BOJ will thus keep closely monitoring the trend in interest rates in steering the nation's monetary policy, he said. On Japan's money supply, Mieno said the key money supply growth gauge is staying at low levels. Meanwhile, EPA chief Kubota, referring to the latest economic report, said Japan's economy is heading in "a better direction." But she warned against excessive optimism on the outlook, saying the EPA will cautiously watch developments. Last summer, the EPA withdrew a statement that the economy had bottomed out. She said, "burgeoning buds in some part of the economy should be nurtured so that they become full blown."
