FBIS3-59769 "jpjst004__l94010" JPRS-JST-94-004L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 27 January 1994 Advanced Materials GIRI Nagoya Develops Integrated System for TiAl Powder Injection Molding/Vacuum Sintering 93FE0782F Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 24 Jun 93 p 8 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 93FE0782F Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] The Government Industrial Research Institute, Nagoya, has developed process technology in which a titanium-aluminum powder is injection-molded and sintered. This development is based on the development project entitled ``Super Environmentally Resistant Advanced Materials'' under MITI's Next Generation Industrial Basic Technology R&D System. It is a technique for freely deforming and processing intermetallic compounds, which are notoriously hard to process, into complex shapes. GIRI, Nagoya, established this technology in a series of manufacturing steps by first using an injection molding machine to mold commercial titanium-aluminum powder and then sintering it in a vacuum furnace. GIRI, Nagoya, plans to develop new materials in the future with this process. The Super Environmentally Resistant Advanced Materials Project is an eight-year project running from 1989 to 1996, and development proceeds through an industry-academia-government joint structure. The intermetallic compounds targeted for development are strong at high temperatures such as titanium-aluminum (1100°C), niobium-aluminum (1800°C) and the like. Their applications are likely to include aeronautics and space, such as the super plane that is expected to appear in the 21st Century, new forms of energy, etc. GIRI, Nagoya, conducted its R&D on injection molding and metallurgy with powders of intermetallic compounds based on the injection molding process for ceramics that it developed from 1981 through 1988. This new process consists bringing together commercially available titanium-aluminum powder, an injection molding machine used for plastics, and a vacuum furnace. Researchers mixed wax and resin as binders with the powdered alloy at 150°C, formed pellets, injection molded, removed the binder by evaporation, and sintered the product in a vacuum furnace. Injection molding of metal powders has been performed with stainless steel for use as parts in watches, etc., but this is the first time it has been accomplished with an intermetallic compound. Because the main goal of this project is not development of new materials, the sample pieces do have good material properties, but the fact that this manufacturing process enables titanium-aluminum injection molding is a major step forward. Researchers plan to continue studies from the standpoint of material properties by adding strengthening elements, etc., in the future. The features of this injection molding/sintering process are that the work environment is good, material losses are small, complex shapes are possible, etc. It is attracting attention as a new method to be used in place of precision casting.
