FBIS4-58647 "drnes088_m_94009" FBIS-NES-94-088 Daily Report 6 May 1994 JORDAN Paper Views Committee Meetings Paper Views Committee Meetings JN0605085194 Amman AL-RA'Y in Arabic 6 May 94 pp 1, 27 JN0605085194 Amman AL-RA'Y Arabic BFN [Editorial: "Developing a Fruitful Cooperation Away From Slogans"] [Text] Amidst the blizzard of the tempestuous political events in our region these days, an important event like the resumption of the Joint Jordanian-Egyptian Committee meetings seems like a peaceful island in a turbulent sea. This picture is strengthened by the fact that the meetings are being held in Amman away from slogans, fancy promises, and pan-Arab programs. Instead, these meetings are discussing and studying economic, trade, scientific, and cultural issues, including the establishment of joint ventures between the two fraternal countries, in an atmosphere of seriousness and close examination out of the limelight. In fact, this kind of bilateral Arab cooperation, which touches various parts of the economic and trade life, is not receiving enough attention by Arab observers. It has always been the practice, and our life is governed by practices, to hail only political developments, without paying any attention to events and developments that affect Arab citizens' daily life, despite the fact that any meaningful political changes or developments have economic contexts that affect the lives of Arab citizens. Within this context, the resumption of the Joint Jordanian- Egyptian Committee meetings following a five-year hiatus is truly an important development in relations between the two fraternal countries and in inter-Arab affairs. Such a development will naturally have a political impact resulting in further rapprochement, cooperation, and coordination between Amman and Cairo. Although these meetings focused their discussion and study on economic, trade, scientific, and cultural cooperation issues, political issues were not absent. This was made clear yesterday in the two lengthy speeches by Prime Minister Dr. 'Abd-al-Salam al- Majali and Jordan's great guest, Egyptian Prime Minister Dr. 'Atif Sidqi. The two speeches were marked with an objective view of the Arab nation's reality and a sincere desire to overcome the state of fragmentation, end differences, and direct greater attention to the ties of bilateral cooperation between the various Arab countries. Although it is clear that both Jordan and Egypt are facing difficult challenges and economic and political pressures here and there, that reality in particular provides the motive to develop bilateral ties, taking inspiration from the mutual interest of the leaders of the two countries, His Majesty King Husayn and His Excellency President Muhammad Husni Mubarak, to bolster these ties within the context of mutual respect and to develop the existing opportunities of cooperation and to explore further opportunities.
