FBIS3-16288 "drsov050_b_94020" FBIS-SOV-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Media Issues Government, ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Sign Contract PM1403135794 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 12 Mar 94 First Edition p 5 PM1403135794 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA's Status Determined"] [Text] A contract has been concluded between the Russian Federation Government and the ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA editorial office. It was signed 10 March in the Russian Federation Government House by V.P. Kvasov, Russian Federation minister and leader of the Russian Federation Government Apparatus, and ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Chief Editor N.I. Polezhayeva. These documents define the rights and duties of the Russian Federation Government as the newspaper's founder and editorial office. Perhaps for the first time relations between an official publication and its founder are built on a legal and civilized basis. Previously, as we remember, the operational administration of a newspaper right up to instructions over the telephone was considered normal. The editorial office's new charter and the above-mentioned contract unequivocally forbid the founder to interfere in the activity of the editorial office. And if we are speaking of control then the contract envisages it only in relation to finances. That is entirely natural inasmuch as the government will assign funds to its newspaper. But not 100 percent of the funds, as used to be the case, not to feed an expense mechanism, but in fact for finished output -- for the preparation, publication, and mass distribution of the state's official documents. But that does not mean that ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA can become a departmental bulletin. According to the contract the Russian Federation Government has the right to publish its own official materials in the newspaper free of charge. Federal and regional organs of executive power and the structural subdivisions of the government apparatus build their relations with the editorial office on a contract basis. With the signing of the contract ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA's status has been definitively determined as an official state publication.
