FBIS3-2743 "drchi048ka_94006" FBIS-CHI-93-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Intellectuals Demand Release of Political Detainees HK1103065294 Hong Kong AFP in English 0622 GMT 11 March 94 HK1103065294 Hong Kong AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 11 (AFP)--Seven intellectuals have sent a letter to President Jiang Zemin and the president of the parliament, Qiao Shi, demanding that they release political prisoners, professor Xu Liangying said Friday [11 March]. Xu, 74, a researcher at the Academy of Sciences, said by telephone that he and the other six mailed their appeal to the two leaders Thursday. Their petition was accompanied by a letter telling them to "pay serious attention to this question, which involves the future of the state." "Only respect for human rights and the guarantee of legal rights for all citizens can maintain social stability," the letter said. "If not," it added, "contradictions in the heart of society will become so severe as to risk leading to chaos, or even to an uncontrollable situation." The senders included a writer, a poet and five professors. "Recently, several interrogations and arrests have occurred in Beijing and Shanghai for ideological or speech reasons...and international opinion was shocked," they wrote. "China, as a permanent Security Council member and founding member of the United Nations, must set an example and respect human rights principles." "Therefore, we call for the authorities to courageously put an end to the custom, several thousand years old, of condemning someone for his ideas, his speech or his writing, and to free all citizens imprisoned for this purpose." The signatories included Xu's wife, Wang Laili, a history professor at the Academy of Social Sciences and Ding Zilin and his wife, Jiang Peikun -- both philosophy professors at the People's University of Beijing. Liu Liao, a professor of the capital's Normal School, also signed, as did poet Shao Yanxiang and writer Zhang Kangkang. Xu, who knows Jiang Zemin and Qiao Shi personally, declared that he did "not expect to have problems with the police because of this letter, which is aimed at reducing tensions within society." He added, however, that the telephone of Ding Zilin and his wife was cut off Thursday and that their home had been "surrounded by lots of people."
