FBIS4-1238 "drafr079_c_94072" FBIS-AFR-94-079 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA South African Press Review for 25 Apr South African Press Review for 25 Apr MB2504115694 MB2504115694 BFN [Editorial Report] THE STAR Johannesburg Blast `Last-Ditch Attempt by Fanatics' -- Johannesburg THE STAR in English on 25 April in a page-10 editorial says the 24 April bomb blast in the center of Johannesburg has "shaken the fledgling mood of marvelous optimism that swept South Africa after the IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party] breakthrough: we have reason to curse the brutal, ignorant criminals responsible for the outrage." "This bomb was another last-ditch attempt by fanatics to sabotage the transition the overwhelming majority of South Africans is committed to. It might not be the last act of terror in this period, but it does not signal the civil war or uprising that the doomsday prophets predicted for our moment of great change. The election is going ahead, miraculously, with the participation of all the most significant political parties in our country. This is an achievement of which the world is in awe: we have to keep our heads, and to see it through to completion." BUSINESS DAY New Style of Opposition Required -- Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English on 25 April declares in a page-16 editorial that the Democratic Party (DP) "has the vision required for opposition" role in the new South Africa. "Unlike the ANC, NP [National Party] and Inkatha, its prospects do not depend on inspirational leadership." However, the "nature of opposition politics will change significantly. The Westminster style of opposition will not be altogether appropriate in South Africa in the next five years." This period requires "nation building", and "the value of the DP lies in its ability simultaneously to oppose and help build, and to detect and strategically counter, as effectively as possible, threats to civil liberties." "It will have to use delicate judgment (totally lacking in the NP) to detect when the line is crossed between co-operation and compromise, and self-destructive appeasement. When that line is breached, in economics or civil rights, that is when to yell from the rooftops." SOWETAN SOWETAN Urges Votes for ANC, PAC -- A front-page "Comment", that continues on page 12, of Johannesburg SOWETAN in English on 25 April says that although the choice for black voters in this week's election "will be difficult," there is "an undeniable obligation to vote for the liberation organisations. The ANC and the PAC [Pan-Africanist Congress] are the only parties for whom our choice should be made. Regrettably, Azapo [Azanian People's Organization] is not standing. The liberation organisations were the engine in the struggle that brought about the first all-race democratic elections in SA. Not only did the leaders of these parties spend years in prison, they were subjected to all the terrible onslaughts used by apartheid to destroy entire communities and in the process, our beautiful land." "Mr F W de Klerk, although he represents the party that caused the damage in the past, will and must be recognised by history as an important catalyst in this momentous change. Some will also look on the IFP with a measure of unhappiness. But the fact that Dr Mangosuthu Buthelezi finally entered the race must reflect favourably on him."
