FBIS3-53048 "drnes007_l_94014" FBIS-NES-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 ISRAEL Kenyan President Moi Pays Official Visit Moi Praises Peace Accord EA1001112394 Nairobi Kenya Broadcasting Corporation Network in English 0400 GMT 10 Jan 94 EA1001112394 Nairobi Kenya Broadcasting Corporation Network in English 0400 GMT 10 Jan 94 Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] His Excellency President Daniel arap Moi yesterday said that the signing of the Middle East peace accord in September last year was an important milestone in the development of Israel. He said the historic occasion could only have been possible as a result of the courage and patriotism of the Jewish people. [passage omitted] President Moi was speaking at State House, Jerusalem, in Israel during a state banquet hosted in his honor by President Ezer Weizman of Israel. President Moi noted that his visit to Israel marks the first visit by a Kenyan head of state since independence 30 years ago. [passage omitted] President Moi looked forward to a fruitful cooperation and friendship between Israel and Kenya. President Weizman noted that since President Moi took over the leadership of Kenya, he has shown political wisdom and courage, thus making Kenya an island of stability and economic prosperity in the region. Noting that President Moi immensely contributed to the relations between Kenya and Israel, President Weizman said the visit to the Holy Land was the beginning of a new chapter in bilateral relations. [passage omitted] President Weizman said cooperation between the two countries was multifaceted. He pointed out that scientists from Kenya and Israel were working together on agricultural research. President Weizman further noted that the economic relations between the two countries had developed to a great extent but added that a lot could still be done. He expressed hope that when peace reigns in the Middle East, Israel will be a bridge of cooperation between Africa as a continent and the Middle East. [passage omitted]
