FBIS3-29602 "dreas035_k_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 Laos Indonesian Foreign Minister on Official Visit Alatas Concludes Visit 20 Feb BK2202002394 Vientiane Vitthayou Hengsat Radio Network in Lao 1200 GMT 21 Feb 94 BK2202002394 Vientiane Vitthayou Hengsat Radio Network Language: Lao Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] His Excellency [H.E.] Ali Alatas, foreign minister of the Republic of Indonesia, and his delegation concluded their visit to the Lao People's Democratic Republic [LPDR] on the afternoon of 20 February. They left Luang Prabang in northern Laos for Rangoon in the Union of Myanmar [Burma]. During his three-day visit to the LPDR, H.E. Ali Alatas was accorded a warm welcome by H.E. LPDR Foreign Minister Somsavat Lengsavat. The two sides held talks to exchange views on various international and regional issues of mutual concern and on the strengthening of friendly relations and cooperation between the two countries in the immediate future. The two sides held identical views on the positive trend regarding the development of relations and cooperation among the countries in Southeast Asia and the world. The two sides reiterated the intentions of their respective governments to strengthen bilateral relations and cooperation in the economic, trade, scientific, and technical fields in the common interest of Lao and Indonesian peoples. On the morning of 19 February, H.E. Ali Alatas and his delegation paid courtesy calls on H.E. LPDR President Nouhak Phoumsavan and H.E. Khamphoui Keoboualapha, deputy prime minister and chairman of the Committee for Planning and Cooperation. [passage omitted] Seeing off H.E. Ali Alatas and his delegation at Wattai Airport were H.E. LPDR Foreign Minister Somsavat Lengsavat; H.E. Kasman Pahala Siahaan, ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Indonesia; H.E. U Maung Maung Lay, ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Union of Myanmar to the LPDR; and a number of high-ranking cadres concerned.
