FBIS3-26365 "drchi025_o_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 REGIONAL AFFAIRS East Region Fujian Cracks Down on Rare Animal Trafficking HK0702004294 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in English 0522 GMT 5 Feb 94 HK0702004294 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Fuzhou, February 5 (CNS)--The Fujian authorities recently staged a campaign cracking down on the trafficking and smuggling of the state-protected rare species of animals and their parts, including rhinoceros horn and tiger bone. People found involved in such activities face harsh punishment. Deputy Director of the Fujian Wild Life Protection Fund Mr Bao Yingsen said that the trend of trafficking and smuggling rare species of animals had been on the rise in recent years. Incomplete statistics showed that a total of 520 cases of this kind were investigated and dealt with in the province last year alone with the seizure of a large number of items related to rare animals under state protection, including the skins of giant pandas, the skin and bones of tigers, a species of leopard, big lizards, rare species of cats, rhesus monkeys, pangolins and black bears, with all the confiscated items valued at over RMB 10 million [renminbi]. Illegal elements trafficking and smuggling rare species of animals for big profits mainly came from some ten provinces while others were Taiwan businessmen. The large-scale killing and poaching of rare species of animals has aroused serious concern. The fund joined forces with departments of forestry, public security and industry and commerce in launching a crack-down on these illegal activities, staging raids and sudden inspections on guesthouse, hotels, restaurants and agricultural and trade markets for the illegal handling of rare animals. They also dealt with the seized traditional Chinese ready- made medicines containing rhinoceros horn or tiger bone available in some drugstores and foreign-related guesthouses. The Fujian authorities investigated 84 guesthouses and hotels found illegally handling wild animals during last October alone with the seizure of some 700 wild animals under state protection and over 10,000 animals including masked civet cats and snakes, none of which belong to the key category of rare animals under state protection. A number of illegal elements were dealt with and punished. A criminal found guilty of profiteering by selling a giant panda skin was sentenced to 15 years imprisonment by the Dongshan County People's Court and was deprived of his political rights for five years.
