FBIS3-32929 "drlat032_g_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 Guatemala Quiche Base Commander on Arming Self-Defense Groups PA1602004494 Guatemala City SIGLO VEINTIUNO in Spanish 15 Feb 94, p 3 PA1602004494 Guatemala City SIGLO VEINTIUNO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Brigadier General Victor Augusto Vasquez Echeverria, commander of the military base in Quiche Department, said: "We will give Galil assault rifles to those who legally organize themselves to protect their properties." Following the attack carried out by guerrillas on the morning of 13 February, the majority of the store owners are furious because the insurgents' actions have only caused them losses, he said. "They have stated they intend to join the Civilian Self-Defense Patrols to oppose the instability caused by the insurgents. The Constitution allows civilians form groups to protect themselves from foreign forces," he pointed out. On the morning of 13 February, members of the Poor People's Guerrilla Army (EGP) used explosive charges to topple nine electric posts in Chichicastenango and Solola. According to Gen. Vasquez, the operation was carried out simultaneously by groups of four rebels, and authorities found propaganda at the sites from the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG) and the EGP alluding to the anniversaries of the two organizations. He said: "We have sent more than 200 soldiers to patrol the area as the inhabitants of the three affected departments have requested." The URNG operation was executed at a strategic point, since the posts that were blown down interconnected the electricity network between Quiche Department, Chichicastenango Municipality, and Solola Department. Up to yesterday, electrical power had not been restored in any of these places. Businesses opened as usual even though some products that required refrigeration were lost. Gasoline service stations used manual pumps, which caused a certain backlog of vehicles. Nothing like this has been experienced in this area since the beginning of the 1980's when guerrillas destroyed an electric power generator in the outskirts of Quiche. Unhappiness In the Area Quiche Governor Alfonso de Paz rejected these types of actions, which only serve to stop development. "It is regrettable that these acts are repeated in our department, which has suffered plenty of damage due to the domestic conflict," the governor said. Quiche belongs to Region No. 7, which is classified as one of the country's poorest. Extreme poverty is experienced in 95 percent of its 21 municipalities. Also, according to what the residents say, this area suffered constant Army bombings during the 1980's. Quiche Mayor Juan Jose Garzona also condemned the attack saying that these actions affect all residents of the department. "Market vendors and hotel owners have been affected. Several tourists left on Sunday morning because they were afraid of renewed guerrilla attacks," the mayor said. Up to now, the URNG has not claimed responsibility for the attack, but it has not denied it either.
