FBIS4-53185 "dreas096_m_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-096 Daily Report 17 May 1994 Thailand ROK Foreign Minister Begins Official Visit ROK Foreign Minister Begins Official Visit Arrives, `Optimistic' on DPRK Issue SK1805001694 Seoul YONHAP in English 0001 GMT 17 May 94 SK1805001694 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] Bangkok, May 18 (YONHAP) -- South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu remained optimistic Tuesday about North Korea's nuclear crisis despite news that Pyongyang already started unloading from its nuclear reactor, saying next North Korea-U.S. high-level dialogue could open early next month. "If the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) judges that the situation is not serious, even if it was improper for North Korea to start the nuclear rod discharging process without IAEA presence, the next North Korea-U.S. high-level talks will open," Han told accompanying South Korean reporters after his midnight arrival here. "The high-level dialogue, in that case, is likely early June, although there is still possibility that it may open late this month," he said as he arrived at the second stop of his Southeast Asian tour. North Korea had said it had to start removing the fuel rods from its 5mw reactor in Yongbyon by itself out of technical necessity. Han referred to "the line" that separates whether this removal process has gone far enough for South Korea, the United States and the IAEA to declare an end to diplomatic negotiation and take the matter to the U.N. Security Council. This line, he said, remains uncrossed as long as North Korea's activities so far at the reactor have not destroyed chances of IAEA's random selection and safekeeping of the fuel rods for measurements sometime later. "The entire mood of the international community will change if North Korea has crossed this line," Han told reporters. "I believe that even China will react negatively if such event occurs," said the foreign minister. The IAEA will ultimately decide whether Pyongyang has stayed within this boundary, he said. The agency's inspection entered Pyongyang on Tuesday via Beijing for a week-long check of North Korea's controversial nuclear program. The team will come out of North Korea mid-way through the inspection if it finds North Korea in violation of safeguards on the nuclear reactor, he said. "This entire issue of fuel rod discharging is entirely different in nature of the problem. So far, North Korea was charged with not doing something it is supposed to do. But the changing of the rods is about North Korea doing something it is not supposed to do. It's that much more serious," said Han. Asked about North Korea-U.S. Working-level contact on the nuclear problem, he said Seoul and Washington will be able to get a sense of where the situation stands on the fuel rods while the IAEA is inside North Korea. "If the IAEA report is positive, North Korea and the United States could make contacts although they don't necessarily have to be working-level meetings," he said.
