FBIS3-40012 "drweu038_e_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Tories Face `Big Losses' in EP Elections PM2502133494 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 24 Feb 94 p 12 PM2502133494 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Phillip Johnston, George Jones and Boris Johnson, EC Correspondent in Brussels: "Holidays Vetoed as Tories Are Put on Euro-Poll Stand-By"] [Text] Cabinet ministers and Conservative MPs have been warned not to book early summer holidays because they will be needed for a Tory fightback in the run-up to the June 9 elections to the European Parliament [EP]. A report yesterday predicted that the Conservatives were facing big losses in the Euro-elections -- a critical mid-term test for Mr Major and his Government -- with the Liberal Democrats set to win their first seats. In an attempt to provide the maximum opportunities for campaigning, the Government has decided to call a two-week Commons Whit recess from May 27 to June 13. It will means Parliament will not be sitting in the 10 days up to the elections. At a political session of the Cabinet yesterday, Sir Norman Fowler, the Tory party chairman, said everybody from Cabinet ministers to backbench MPs should get out and about in the country during the recess and galvanise support. Later, Mr Hurd, Foreign Secretary, attempted to distance Tory MEPs [member of the European Parliament] from their alliance with Continental Euro-federalists, on the eve of today's potentially embarrassing publication of the Christian Democrat [CD] manifesto for the Euro-elections. He has written to all Tory backbenchers, insisting on the distinct Conservative status of the 32 MEPs, as their CD allies announce commitments to the single currency, full Euro-federalism, and the Social Chapter. In his letter, Mr Hurd attempts to dismiss the alliance with the European Peoples' Party [EPP] (Christian Democrats), initiated after the fall of Lady Thatcher in 1990, as a mere convenience. He stresses that the MEPs' alliance with the EPP does not imply membership of the party; though Euro-sceptics such as Lord Tebbit have complained that Tories in Strasbourg, led by Sir Christopher Prout, are listed as "EPP" in all handbooks. Projected results for the European elections were published yesterday by the Electoral Reform Society [ERS], based largely on the outcome of last May's county council elections. Predictions have been made difficult by the addition of six seats and subsequent boundary revisions in many of the 84 constituencies. The Conservatives fared badly when the European elections were last fought on 78 constituencies in 1989, losing 13 seats and ending up with 32 to Labour's 45. On the new boundaries, the ERS expects the Tories to do even worse, losing a further 12 seats and leaving them with 20. Labour is predicted to gain eight to 53 and the Liberal Democrats, who have no seats, to win 11.
