FBIS3-38664 "drweu025_b_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 BENELUX Netherlands Van Baal Appointed UN Chief of Staff in Bosnia BR0402142594 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT in Dutch 4 Feb 94 p 6 BR0402142594 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "General Van Baal Becomes UN Chief of Staff in Bosnia"] [Excerpt] From 1 March onwards, the Netherlands will be represented in the top military command of the UN's Bosnia-Herzegovina forces. Brigadier General A. Van Baal has been appointed by Defense Minister Ter Beek to the position of command chief of staff, succeeding Ramsey from the United Kingdom. Van Baal (47) will become second in command to British General Rose, UNPROFOR [UN Protection Force] commander in Bosnia. After six months, another Dutchman will take over the position for another half year. Van Baal will be staying at the UNPROFOR headquarters at Kiseljak next weekend, to get acquainted with Rose, who recently succeeded General Briquemont from Belgium. Van Baal, an artillerist, is currently commander of the 43rd mechanized brigade at Havelte. He has also been head of the army staff's organizational department in the Hague. Van Baal is regarded as a rising star within the army. He will have the daily command of 460 troops of different nationalities, including 60 Dutchmen. From the headquarters in Kiseljak, the chief of staff will act as the deputy commander of the Bosnia-Herzegovina command. Together with the commander, he is in charge of the overall coordination of all troops in Bosnia. They frequently consult with political and military leaders from the contending parties, such as the Bosnian Serb leaders Karadzic and Mladic. The command is also responsible for the protection of food convoys organized by the UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees). The Dutch-Belgian transportation battalion in Central Bosnia, the UNHCR's only military transportation unit, also comes under the command. [passage omitted]
