FBIS3-32950 "drlat032_o_94010" FBIS-LAT-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 Colombia Further Reportage on Visit by Peru's Fujimori Signs Agreements, Concludes Visit PA1602034494 Lima Global de Television Network in Spanish 0100 GMT 16 Feb 94 PA1602034494 Lima Global de Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "Global TV News" newscast] [Text] President Alberto Fujimori today concluded a two-day official visit to Colombia, where he signed with President Cesar Gaviria a document to create the Binational Neighborhood Commission in a ceremony at the Narino Presidential Palace. The commission will be in charge of reinforcing and improving bilateral relations and cooperation between the two countries. Gaviria and Fujimori also signed a joint statement to strengthen the relations between the two countries, and contribute to the peaceful solution of regional and international problems. The two presidents advocated the defense of participatory democracy in the hemisphere. The last day of Fujimori's official visit began with a meeting with Colombian businessmen at the Tequendama Hotel, where Fujimori is lodged. The Peruvian ministers and delegates that accompanied Fujimori also attended the meeting. The meeting's main topic was Peru's reincorporation into the Andean Pact and the problems caused by the differences in tariffs in the two countries. Although not anticipated in the official agenda, Gaviria and his wife, Milena, invited Fujimori to walk through Ciudad Bolivar, Santa Fe de Bogota's largest human settlement, to observe up close the government's education and food programs. The local residents welcomed the visitors with great excitement. Stopping on his walk through the area, Gaviria thanked Fujimori for reaffirming his support for Gaviria's candidacy for the position of OAS secretary general. [Begin recording] [Unidentified reporter] How did you receive President Fujimori's announced support for your candidacy for OAS secretary general? [Gaviria] I am grateful for this support for an aspiration that has not yet crystallized. I thank President Fujimori and the Peruvian people for this gesture of trust in me. [Reporter] What does this meeting with the Colombian president mean to you, Mr. Fujimori? [Fujimori] It is very fruitful in terms of experience and cooperation. As you can see for yourselves, the similarities between the peoples of Colombia and Peru are interesting and must be taken advantage of. [Reporter] Will you invite the Colombian president to Peru so he can see the Peruvian people's struggles? [Fujimori] I hope he will be able to visit Peru in the remaining five or six months of his term. [end recording]
