FBIS4-34061 "drlat115_m_94012" FBIS-LAT-94-115 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 Brazil Mato Grosso do Sul Landowner Demands Eviction of Settlers Mato Grosso do Sul Landowner Demands Eviction of Settlers PY1406155094 Sao Paulo AGENCIA ESTADO in Portuguese 2039 GMT 10 Jun 94 PY1406155094 Sao Paulo AGENCIA ESTADO Portuguese BFN [Report by Antonio Jose do Carmo] [Text] Ribas do Rio Pardo, 10 Jun (AE) -- One year after the invasion of 83,000 hectares of a eucalyptus reforestation area in the Mato Grosso do Sul county of Ribas do Rio Pardo, 150 km from Campo Grande, the landowner has filed a request with the courts demanding the restoration of his right to possession of the land, and the eviction of at least 1,000 families who have settled on the ranch, building fences, planting grass, and feeding cattle. Industrialist Leo Chueri, the landowner, said the hundreds of intruders are ranchers and owners of small estates in Sao Paulo State. The announcement of their possible eviction has increased tension among settlers. Contrary to other movements that remain organized behind unions and church leadership, the Ribas de Rio Pardo settlers are not organized. Each one chose an area according to his own economic capacity, hiring armed foremen to guard their sites. The Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (Ibama) and the National Land Reform and Settlement Institute have both produced reports saying that the land is inappropriate for agriculture. Yet cattle breeders have succeeded with their grass plantations. The elite of intruders, who are also called the "landowners," even include a deputy whose name is on the official list submitted by the ranch owner. Roberto Razuk (PMDB) [Brazilian Democratic Movement Party] is considered the strongest invader of the ranch. He maintains an armed group. The deputy could not be found to comment on the accusation. Judge Raul Roveda, of Ribas de Rio Pardo, ordered the removal of settlers from 18,000 hectares. This area was occupied by hundreds of families of itinerant workers who were hired by the Union of Rural Workers of Ribas de Rio Pardo. Most of them claim to have no land on which to graze the cattle they are now grazing on the abandoned reforestation project land. The landowner, however, claims that "the courts can be human only with men, women and children; the cattle must be put on the highway."
