FBIS3-5624 "dreas046_a_94019" FBIS-EAS-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 March 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Reportage on Kajima-Nakamura Scandal Continues Diet To Start Arrest Deliberations OW0903005494 Tokyo KYODO in English 0010 GMT 9 Mar 94 OW0903005494 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 9 KYODO -- The lower house steering committee is scheduled to convene a closed-door session at noon Wednesday [9 March] over a request by prosecutors to arrest former Construction Minister Kishiro Nakamura on suspicion of bribery, Diet officials said. Nakamura, 44, a main opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) member of the House of Representatives, is suspected of taking a 10 million yen bribe from leading construction firm Kajima Corp. in January 1992, according to documents submitted to lower house speaker Takako Doi. The House of Representatives is expected to hold a plenary session as early as Thursday to decide whether to give the go-ahead to Nakamura's arrest, political sources said. Parties within the ruling coalition government and the opposition Japanese Communist Party are expected to agree to the arrest of Nakamura, the sources said. LDP head Yohei Kono on Tuesday said the LDP will not pursue party interests in considering the prosecutors' request to arrest Nakamura. At the closed-door session, Justice Minister Akira Mikazuki will brief committee members on the matter, the officials said. On Tuesday, the cabinet of Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa asked the House of Representatives to decide on the prosecutors' request for arresting Nakamura. Diet permission is required for the arrest of parliamentarians while the legislature is in session. The Diet is currently in a 150-day ordinary session that started in late January. Prosecutors applied for a warrant of arrest for Nakamura from the Tokyo District Court after Nakamura repeatedly refused to voluntarily face questioning. The cabinet decided to send to Diet the arrest request issued by Tokyo District Court Judge Kohei Ikeda.
