FBIS4-65290 "drweu094_n_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-094 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland Conservatives, Center Split on EU Policy Conservatives, Center Split on EU Policy 94EN0318B Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET in Swedish 18 Apr 94 p 5 94EN0318B Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET Swedish CSO [Article by FNB: "Kivela Fears Collision With Center"] [Excerpts] The brewing dissatisfaction within the Conservatives Party over the Center politicians' actions, primarily on the European Union [EU] issue, on Sunday [17 April] caused open expressions from the party leadership as well. Party secretary Pekka Kivela said in a speech in Kouvola that the major government parties will very soon end up on a collision course, unless it is possible to find a common view. The crash is looming due to the Center's acrobatics on the EU issue as well as to statements by Center politicians regarding increased taxation. Kivela said that Center Party statements favoring a postponement of EU membership "from a factual viewpoint means a rejection of membership." At the same time the Center Party's finance minister is taking a negative standpoint on the need for tax cuts and in favor of increased taxation of business activity through a higher energy tax, among others. "Finland's EU membership is a necessity if a favorable economic development is to be assured in the future. Increased taxation would, in turn, lead to undermining of the positive turnaround in economic development that has already happened. The Conservative Party cannot be a part of promoting such a policy," Kivela stated. The Conservative Party therefore takes for granted that the government should without delay make a decision about the date for the national referendum on the EU and about the compensating national subsidy measures in connection with the EU agreement. Decisions must also be made in May about the budget framework for next year, so that measures for easing income taxes can be carried out even this year. [passage omitted] EU Report Needed Member of parliament Tarja Halonen (Social Democrat) demands a short, balanced, comprehensive study of the negotiating result with the EU and its effects. But the government itself should also take a position on such a study, she says. In Halonen's opinion, the Finnish Government, compared to the government of the other applicant nations, has acted in an unusually self-satisfied manner. In Sweden, for example, one has tried harder to keep the Riksdag up to date during the negotiations. Halonen also wonders how the government, with its internal confusion, will even be able to come to a decision on the EU question. [passage omitted]
