FBIS3-54961 "drsov003_b_94048" FBIS-SOV-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military & Space Issues Ministry's Poverty Jeopardizes Military Production PM0501100194 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 2100 GMT 28 Dec 93 PM0501100194 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By Mikhail Zotov and Valeriy Rekuta from Moscow Radio Technical Plant; from the "Novosti" newscast] [Text] [Zotov] This half-empty hall once housed a unit for the installation of electronics in missiles. Now Grundig color television sets are being assembled here in a remote corner. And although the Moscow Radio Technical Plant still does not have a signboard, this once-secret military facility is not secret any more. In the kingdom of defense agencies everything is topsy-turvy nowadays. More than 70 percent of the plant's output consists of civilian goods and only 30 percent is military output. The military output includes the renowned electronics for the super-modern air defense missile complexes which are superior to Western counterparts. Incidentally, the plant, which is now a leasehold enterprise, could end the production of all military output without any financial or legal liability even if this were to the detriment of the country's defense capability. After all, there is still no law on state orders. There are other reasons, too. So, for example the plant received nothing from the sale to China of several air defense systems apart from down-filled jackets and some bedding which the workers immediately dubbed "foot cloths." [M. Milovanov, Moscow Radio Technical Plant general director, identified by caption] We want to survive and we are doing our utmost to ensure that we do. The plant management is constantly in an impossible situation as a result of Defense Ministry defaulting on payments; 1993 is drawing to a close and we are still owed 7.352 billion rubles [R]. We in turn owe our suppliers R1.5 billion. [Zotov] The work force of this plant, which posseses unique military technologies, is barely managing to get by thanks to the production of own "Yunost" color television sets and the assembly of German TV sets. It could be that they will usher in the next New Year minus missile complexes, but in down-filled jackets and with Grundig television sets. [Video shows interior, exterior of plant, TV set assembly, missile complexes being assembled and tested, interview with director, more footage of production facilities.]
