FBIS3-39662 "drweu034__a94029" FBIS-WEU-94-034-A Document Type:Daily Report 18 February 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City District Attorney Responds to Berlusconi's Criticism BR1502142294 Milan CORRIERE DELLA SERA in Italian 14 Feb 94 p 1--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1502142294 Milan CORRIERE DELLA SERA Language: Italian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Borelli: Berlusconi Is Wrong"] [Text] Milan -- Silvio Berlusconi pointed an accusing finger at the Milanese judges following the arrest of his brother, Paolo. [District Attorney] Saverlo Borelli replied: Cavaliere [Berlusconi nickname], you are making a mistake. The attorney said: "I understand that when such a close relative is affected, the family cannot feel too much warmth for the magistrates. In the case of Paolo Berlusconi, however, we had all the evidence, serious evidence too, enabling us to make the arrest. He himself has admitted to most of this evidence." From Arcore [Silvio Berlusconi's residence], for the time being there is a simple "no comment" in response to the latest sally of the Clean Hands. Meanwhile, the judges continue their examination. After being accused of corruption, Paolo Berlusconi risks facing another charge, again involving the Cariplo [Savings Bank of the Provinces of Lombardy] pension fund money, since he acquired three houses built by the Cantieri Riuniti Milanesi's. Borelli said: "Paolo Berlusconi has admitted to converting the stocks, for which he took brokerage fees and which in reality were the proceeds of corruption, by using invoices for nonexistent operations for a total of around 1 billion lire [L]." As a result, the builder, the president of Edifnord, may now also have to face charges of false company reports. The judges appear to have decided to take a closer look at the Cantieri Riuniti Milanesi's accounts and those of its affiliated companies to see which budgets may have been falsified. Any possible fresh accusations will depend on what these investigations turn up. Paolo Berlusconi's lawyers, after issuing a number of versions, spoke again on Saturday [12 February] of a "commission." The district attorney, however, did not have too many doubts: "Commission in the affairs of a public entity amounts to corruption."
