FBIS4-43559 "drweu118_h_94019" FBIS-WEU-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 GERMANY Trade Unions Demand `Economic Impulses' From Kohl Trade Unions Demand `Economic Impulses' From Kohl AU1706154894 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU in German 17 Jun 94 p 1 AU1706154894 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU German BFN [Report by Jutta Roitsch: "DGB Demands Signal From Kohl Even Before the Election"] [Excerpts] Berlin, 16 Jun -- The Federation of German Trade Unions [DGB] Congress in Berlin on Thursday [16 June] noted that its trade unions are determined to practice solidarity with the unemployed. The trade unions promise "that one of the focal points in wage policy will be the fairer distribution of available work." In return, they have demanded from the Federal Government a "program for economic impulses" even before the Bundestag election in October. "When it is true that there is enough work in this society, then it has to be organized," Hermann Rappe, chairman of the IG Chemie, the trade union of the chemical industry, said by way of explaining a notice of motion. Then it must be decided how and where the work is done and how this work should be paid. The Federal Government must show its determination to do something against mass unemployment this year. "If it does not, if there is no initiative to fight unemployment, then the trade unions can call for political change," Rappe, who is also a Bundestag deputy for the Social Democratic Party of Germany [SPD], said. The employment signal which the DGB expects from the Kohl government also includes, among other things, that public investments, particularly in the spheres of transport, environment, and energy, be made earlier than planned. [passage omitted] A premiere, which was much applauded by the delegates, took place on Wednesday afternoon. The DGB Congress was for the first time addressed by a spokesman for the Alliance 90. Ludger Volmer praised the "productive relationship between closeness and distance" and said that he was hoping that talks would continue under the new DGB chairman. One of the last politicians to convey a greetings message on Thursday afternoon was Gregor Gysi, of the Party of Democratic Socialism [PDS]; when he took the floor, the delegates of the IG Chemie left the room in protest. [passage omitted]
