FBIS3-35072 "drnes034dd_94005" FBIS-NES-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 Palestinian Affairs Fatah Committee Accuses Baraq of Blocking Progress PM1702160494 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 17 Feb 94 p6 PM1702160494 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Rashid Khashanah: "Fatah Central Committee: Baraq Blocks Way to Progress in Taba Negotiations"] [Text] Tunis -- President Yasir 'Arafat yesterday received the ambassadors of the Arab and foreign states accredited to the PLO in Tunis. The Palestinian news agency WAFA said the meeting dealt with the latest political developments, the current Palestinian-Israeli negotiations which have so far led to the signing of the Cairo agreement, the obstacles still preventing progress, and implementation of the Declaration of Principles and the need to honor the dates stated therein. It added that the meeting "also covered the economic situation in the occupied Palestinian territory and the aid needed for its reconstruction and development." Meanwhile, Fatah's Central Committee yesterday attacked Israeli Chief of Staff General Ehud Baraq and the other generals of the military establishment, maintaining that "they found that the opportunity was right for them to pounce on the political process on security grounds." The movement's central internal bulletin, which appears biweekly under the name of Fatah, said yesterday that Baraq and the military "were surprised by the Oslo agreement, which was signed without their knowledge and without consultation with them." The bulletin, which expresses the views of Fatah's Central Committee members, said that "Baraq spread his staff into the negotiation process in such a way as to block any possibility of progress in Taba. He succeeded in blocking even the deadline set for the signing of an agreement on withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and Jericho area." It also attacked Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin for responding to the generals' position. It said that "the timetable stipulated in the Declaration of Principles agreement is no longer sacrosanct to Rabin. Army complications are beginning to go some way in influencing the concept of withdrawal from Gaza." It stressed that in the view of the chief of staff and the military establishment, the agreement does not mean withdrawal from Gaza but rather a redeployment within the strip "to defend the borders against foreign threats and guarantee security of the settlements." It added that he instructed his followers in the Israeli negotiating delegation to impose that concept of withdrawal. It also attacked the Israeli military establishment for refusing to recognize the PLO as the Palestinian people's representative "even though the majority of Israeli politicians, foremost among them Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres, understood the significance of recognizing the PLO and Peres instructed his ambassadors and his UN representative to hold contacts with the ambassadors of the state of Palestine and with the PLO office directors and its observer at the United Nations, reflecting that understanding."
