FBIS4-12292 "drnes067_o_94003" FBIS-NES-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 SYRIA Al-Asad: U.S. Bows To Israeli Pressure Al-Asad: U.S. Bows To Israeli Pressure NC0604143694 Paris AFP in English 1355 GMT 6 Apr 94 NC0604143694 Paris AFP English BFN [Report by Elias Tohme] [Text] Damascus, April 6 (AFP)--President Hafiz al-Asad has criticised the United States for bowing to Israeli pressure in the Middle East peace process, a Syrian official said Wednesday. Al-Asad accused US President Bill Clinton of going back on what was agreed during their summit in Geneva on January 16, the official said, asking not to be named. "The Geneva summit brought us hope that we could advance the peace process," he said. "But nothing has been done because of Israeli intransigence and the Zionist lobby which is preventing the United States from playing an effective role," he added. Al-Asad voiced the criticism during a meeting with Egyptian President Husni Mubarak in Cairo on Tuesday, warning the peace process was in crisis "because of irresponsible Israeli positions," the official said. After the talks Mubarak called on all parties in the stalled Arab-Israeli talks to "show flexibility" and said he hoped the negotiations would resume at the end of April in Washington. Syria maintains there has been no progress following talks between Syrian and Israeli leaders in January and February in Washington because the United States did not put any pressure on Israel. A foreign ministry spokesman said: "Syria committed itself to the peace process in the hope that the US administration would keep to its promises and play its role as an honest partner. "But that role has never been put into action on the ground," he said, adding Syria would not give into blackmail. Damascus has accused Washington of blackmailing it by refusing to remove Syria from a list of countries known to be sources for drug- traffickers. Damascus said it had made considerable efforts to end drug- trafficking, particularly in Lebanon's al-Biqa' valley, but the US decision means Syria will be unable to receive certain aid handouts. Meanwhile, in Washington senior Israeli Labor Party official Nissim Zvili said the US administration backed Syria's call for a full Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights. "They (the United States) completely support Syria on the sovereignty issue. It is not easy for us," he said, adding Israel was not ready to trade the plateau for peace. President Bill Clinton's administration has sought to mediate differences between the two sides over the strategic land seized by Israel in the Middle East war in 1967.
