FBIS3-10402 "drlat044_o_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Colombia Church Clarifies Conduct PA0603144194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0000 GMT 5 Mar 94 PA0603144194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Raul Gutierrez; from the "24 Hours" Newscast] [Text] Monsignor Pedro Rubiano, Bishops Conference president, has issued an official communique on behalf of the Catholic Church regarding the confrontation between bishops and the Prosecutor General's Office. Monsignor Rubiano sent a letter to Government Minister Fabio Villegas and Prosecutor General Gustavo de Greiff today to clarify the conduct of certain bishops in Apartado and San Gil. This communique has been issued at a time when the prosecutor general has questioned recent contacts between several bishops in various regions of the country with subversive groups, particularly the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and the National Liberation Army. The church has assumed a position, and the government, specifically the prosecutor general and the attorney general, another. Here is Raul Gutierrez with a report: [Begin recording] [Gutierrez] In his letter to Villegas, Monsignor Rubiano asks him to indicate before the Bishops Permanent Committee how the bishops' conduct has interfered with the peace process or the justice system. [Rubiano] Bishops do not collaborate with guerrillas; what we try to do is accomplish a mission, namely, to make room so that Constitutional Article 22 is complied with. [Gutierrez] In his letter to Prosecutor General de Greiff, Monsignor Rubiano asks him to draw a line to separate pastoral duties from politics. Meanwhile, Manizales Bishop Monsignor Jose de Jesus Pimento said de Greiff was too hasty. [Pimento] It was all a mistake by Prosecutor de Greiff, who has expressed his political view. The bishop he has mentioned has engaged in pastoral talks. He works in a very difficult area and has talked with the guerrillas to urge them to change their attitude. [Gutierrez] The Government Minister will meet with the bishops during the week of 7 March. [end recording]
