FBIS4-42926 "drweu112_n_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-112 Daily Report 12 May 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * EU Membership Poll: Drop in Youth Support * EU Membership Poll: Drop in Youth Support * SDP Position on Referendum 94EN0350B Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 12 May 94 p 7 94EN0350B Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Finnish CSO [Article by Unto Hamalainen: "SDP Backs Finland's Membership in EU"] [Text] The SDP (Social Democratic Party) unreservedly backs Finland's membership in the European Union [EU]. A decision will be made at a meeting of the party executive committee to be held at Finlandia House next Wednesday [18 May]. Challenge To Be Seized "The SDP's position is clear: Membership in the European Union is a big challenge for Finland, an opportunity that must be seized now," the executive committee says in a draft of its position paper that was discussed at the SDP executive committee meeting on Wednesday. The position paper was drafted by the integration committee, headed by MP Erkki Tuomioja. According to the committee's draft, the SDP will also support expansion of the EU in the future. The SDP supports "an open union of European countries that meet the prerequisites for membership and are committed to democracy." According to the draft, EU membership must not be allowed to become an issue that divides the nation. The Union must be developed in an open and democratic direction. Parliamentarianism Must Be Strengthened "For the same purpose too, we must continue to pursue constitutional reform that strengthens parliamentarianism in Finland before membership is implemented," the SDP thinks. If the party executive committee approves the proposal, it would mean altering the Constitution so that the power to determine foreign policy would be transferred from the president to the government and parliament even before the start of next year. The SDP has announced that its goal is a Europe modeled after the Nordic welfare state. The SDP wants to restore the exercise of power, which internationalization has taken away from national decisionmaking, to "democratic decisionmaking" in the Union. Monetary Union Is a Proper Goal The SDP wants to develop common Union foreign and security policies based on "sovereign states." Finland must be willing to participate in joint peacekeeping missions whenever they do not jeopardize its vital interests. It views a common monetary union as a proper goal. Before we can proceed to that, however, we must agree on special measures required to reduce unemployment.
