FBIS3-10962 "drlat050_s_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 Uruguay Lacalle Calls Clinton Call for Summit `Important' PY1503025194 Montevideo Radio Carve in Spanish 0000 GMT 15 Mar 94 PY1503025194 Montevideo Radio Carve Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] The government will invite all organized groups -- that eventually will be involved in an integration process in view of the hemispheric summit -- to meet after Easter. President Luis Alberto Lacalle, on his return to the country, commented on Bill Clinton's call for a presidential meeting in Miami in December. Lacalle said the U.S. president did not just say: I invite you to attend. He said instead: We should work together in the period between the time you receive this letter and December to make sure that the summit's agenda will be enriching and productive. Lacalle understands that Clinton's suggestion is important. Countries must join arms; nations must meet more than governments; public and private groups from different countries must start working together. For instance, commercial chambers, educators, and cultural associations should start working together. In this manner the summit will be the end of a process where groups from different levels, where intermediate associations have had a say. [Begin Lacalle recording] The meeting will be difficult but the result will be much more productive. A presidential meeting is always important, but everything there is concentrated in a declaration where each president explains his opinion. But if this contact is enriched, as President Clinton says, by different group meetings -- we must agree at what level we begin, although we have suggestions -- I think it will be easier to understand each other. The presidents then will reach more constructive conclusions. This was what dominated our talks, together with the issue of relations between Mercosur [Common Market of the South] and NAFTA, which President Clinton is following carefully. [end recording]
