FBIS3-12098 "drlat061_t_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 Venezuela Finance Minister Defends Economic Plan PA2903211194 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network in Spanish 2350 GMT 28 Mar 94 PA2903211194 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From "The News" newscast] [Text] Finance Minister Julio Sosa has described the authors of articles published in the international media as misinformed. These articles have harshly criticized the economic plan that President Rafael Caldera's government plans to implement. In a document released to the press, Sosa reiterates the government's efforts to deal with the fiscal deficit. Recognition is given to Democratic Action for granting the president special powers in the Special Powers Law. Regarding this law, Sosa said that the government believes it is convenient to include -- in addition to the tax laws -- the law on concessions for public works and services, reform of the Emergency Law, and limited reform of the Basic Budget Law that would simplify the drawing up and implementation of the nation's budget. The finance minister insisted on the importance of tax reform. [Begin Sosa recording] That plan obviously includes the overall reform of the state, monetary stabilization, and the reduction of interest rates. But if we are unable to solve the fiscal deficit, we will never be able to control inflation. Without control of inflation, there will be no solution of other matters. Now, if there are some economic experts who have another formula, I have indicated at the end that all observations and contributions made in good faith are welcome. [end recording] With regard to tax collection, the treasury minister was asked if there would be an extension for filing tax returns as the deadline approaches. There are problems with the payroll lists, through which the forms are distributed. Sosa said he understands that the tax collection authority has agreed to a 30-day extension.
