FBIS3-39345 "drweu032__a94010" FBIS-WEU-94-032-A Document Type:Daily Report 16 February 1994 ANNEX United Kingdom Government Reconsiders ILO Membership PM0902143494 London FINANCIAL TIMES in English 9 Feb 94 p 7--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PM0902143494 London FINANCIAL TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [Robert Taylor article: "Ministers Consider Pulling Out of ILO"] [Text] Ministers are deciding whether to withdraw the UK from the International Labour Organisation [ILO] in protest at the growing threat of condemnation of its industrial relations policies at this June's ILO conference. The main cause for expected ILO censure is the ban on trade unions at the GCHQ [Government Communications Headquarters] communications headquarters in Cheltenham. The ban was introduced just over 10 years ago by Baroness Thatcher. Efforts to settle the issue failed last December after a meeting between Mr John Major, the prime minister, and civil service union leaders. Mr Major said he believed there was a conflict of loyalty between a worker belonging to a union and working in the communications centre. The talks had been encouraged by the ILO in 1992 as a way of trying to end the deadlock. Now the Trades Union Congress is seeking an ILO censure of the government in June. The matter is being discussed by the ILO's Committee of Experts, which will decide by April whether to recommend condemnation. Union leaders believe Britain could be given a "special paragraph" of criticism in the ILO annual report, a sanction that has been used against Haiti and North Korea. Under the ILO's procedures, Britain would have to give two years' notice of its intention to pull out of the organisation. It would also be bound by conventions it had signed on good labour standards even if it was no longer a member. Ministers have also suspended plans that were being drawn up in the Department of Employment to commemorate the ILO anniversary. These included a dinner and the establishment of a fellowship for workers from developing countries.
