FBIS3-16527 "drsov052_d_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 Regional Affairs Armed Men Enter Vladivostok Mayor's Office Mayor Faces Criminal Allegations LD1703094394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0924 GMT 17 Mar 94 LD1703094394 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Larisa Beloyvan and Eduard Popov] [Text] Vladovostok March 17 TASS -- Unrest has been sweeping Russia's Far Eastern city of Vladivostok for the second consecutive day. On Wednesday, armed riot police stormed the mayor's office and told Mayor Viktor Cherepkov and his closest aides they were dismissed from office. First Deputy Mayor Vladimir Gilgenberg, who put up resistance, was literally carried out of the building by police. This was the second armed invasion of the city administration building. The first occupation occurred on the night from February 12-13, and was prompted, according to an official version, by the need to question Cherepkov on receiving a bribe from a certain Volkov. The mayor then remained at power thanks to public support. On Wednesday, the Maritime territorial administration issued an order to topple Cherepkov, citing the documents supplied by the city prosecutor which say criminal proceedings are being established against Cherepkov under Article 170 (Part 3) of the Russian Criminal Code (bribe taking). Territorial administration members Konstantin Tolstosheyn and Vasiliy Terekhov have been named acting mayor and his deputy. They had been Cherepkov's rivals in the mayor's elections, but flopped, scoring 1.5 percent votes between them. Supporters of the toppled mayor, including a group of voters who nominated him to the territorial duma, have announced that Cherepkov's toppling was an act of open arbitrariness and a gross violation of human rights. They said they would hold acts of protest, up to fasting at the territorial administration building. The first meeting of protest was held in Vladivostok on Thursday night.
