FBIS3-29364 "dreas033_d_94021" FBIS-EAS-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 South Korea Ministry Expects N-S Trade To Revitalize `Soon' SK1702014594 Seoul YONHAP in English 0119 GMT 17 Feb 94 SK1702014594 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, Feb. 17 (YONHAP) -- Inter-Korean economic cooperation is expected to become revitalized soon due to Pyongyang's acceptance of inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the Trade, Industry and Energy Ministry said Thursday. The ministry plans to change the current indirect trade with the North to direct trade as well as encourage South Korean enterprises to invest in North Korea if the nuclear problem is cleared up. An official at the ministry said, however, that economic cooperation will have to start with projects which need little capital, low-level technology and a short start-up period because of the difficulty in predicting North Korean policy. Even though the nuclear problem is nearing resolution, follow-up measures to improve inter-Korean relations including exchanges of special envoys will not necessarily be taken by North Korea, according to the official. The ministry thus plans to sell light industry goods first, which can contribute to an improvement of living conditions among North Koreans. In the event that full-fledged investment in North Korea was realized, initial projects would focus on joint production of light industry goods including footwear, shirts and blouses, on which Daewoo Group Chairman Kim U-chung reached agreement when he visited Pyongyang in 1991. Kim agreed to undertake construction of plants to manufacture nine items, including a knitting mill capable of producing up to 2.4 million knitted goods a year. A ministry official said, "The most difficult project to push ahead with is development of Kumkang Mountain, which Hyundai's Honorary Chairman Chong Chu-yong agreed to push during his visit to North Korea, because it requires much capital and a long time to complete." Meanwhile, if the government allows businessmen to travel to North Korea, many are expected to visit for discussions on direct trade and investment. More than 40 businesses have already received invitations from North Korea or submitted applications for visits to the National Unification Board (NUB).
