FBIS3-1182 "drafr055_c_94025" FBIS-AFR-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA SADF Calls Up Part-Time Members for Elections MB2103173594 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1637 GMT 21 Mar 94 MB2103173594 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Pretoria Mar 21 SAPA -- The South African Defence Force [SADF] is calling up a "significant" number of part-time force members countrywide to assist the police before, during and after the April election. SADF chief General Georg Meiring said in a statement on Monday [21 March] the forces' involvement in the country's internal situation would be determined by the level of unrest or violence prevalent over the election period. "The defence force, however, cannot afford to wait and see how the situation develops before making contingency plans to provide whatever support may be required. "Therefore, after studying the likely scenarios and seen against the background of the present volatile situation, especially in certain areas of the country as well as the fact that the defence force was obliged to fill the gap left by the troops seconded to the NPKF (National Peacekeeping Force), we were left with no option other than to call up members of the part-time forces for service," Gen Meiring said. He said the presence of the troops would release more policemen to concentrate on routine policing and the protection of polling stations. The call-up was being conducted on a decentralised basis throughout the country and although the majority were members of the South African Army, they also included members of the SA Air Force, SA Navy and SA Medical Services. "I give the absolute asurance that we will call up only the minimum number needed to provide the support the defence force has predicted will be required," Gen Meiring said. "The normal channel for applications for exemptions and deferments is in operation, but exemptions and deferments will only be granted in exceptional circumstances." He appealed to those called up to report for service in the interests of stability, peace and an unrest and violence-free election. "If ever there was a time for all of us in the defence force to put our shoulders to the wheel and to make a personal sacrifice in the interests of all the people in our country, it is now," Gen Meiring said.
