FBIS3-35823 "drsov021_b_94019" FBIS-SOV-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military & Energy Issues Military Council Discusses Housing, Discipline PM0102101794 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 29 Jan 94 p 1 PM0102101794 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Lieutenant Colonel Aleksandr Stepanov of the Ground Forces Press Center: "Alarming Housing Situation"] [Text] The state of and prospects for work to sell released military property and practical measures to maintain law and order and military discipline among troops were discussed at a Ground Forces Military Council session 27 January this year. It was noted there that last year there were great hopes for increased social protection for servicemen, and in particular for at least a partial solution to the housing problem, thanks to the possibility of using High Command resources, which it was intended to obtain by selling released military property. But rampant inflation, bureaucracy, and payment delays reduced the results of this work to virtually nothing. People lost interest in it. In addition, the Ground Forces are the only branch of the Russian Federation Armed Forces not to receive 20 percent of the money earned from the sale of military property, to which it is entitled under a defense minister's order. This is at a time when a most alarming situation regarding the provision of housing for servicemen is being noted right here. The families of officers and warrant officers have been waiting no less than five to seven years to receive apartments. Thus, there are now over 200 officers without apartments in the High Command apparatus. It is therefore no accident that the second of the questions discussed was considered closely with the social aspect. An officer without an apartment, who feels that he is not shown respect by the state and society and who has extremely limited material means is hardly likely to be in a position to unreservedly give his all to the service. Can he really be expected to take resolute action to strengthen military discipline and law and order in a subordinate unit or subunit if he himself is experiencing an infringement of his civil rights? The results of the Military Council session were summed up by Colonel General Vladimir Semenov, commander in chief of Ground Forces.
