FBIS4-33730 "drlat112_t_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 Venezuela Government To Take `Forceful' Measures To Confront Strike Government To Take `Forceful' Measures To Confront Strike PA1006003594 Caracas Union Radio Network in Spanish 1100 GMT 9 Jun 94 PA1006003594 Caracas Union Radio Network Spanish BFN [From the "Union Radio News" newscast] [Text] The government will take forceful measures to confront the transportation strike that was declared by the Single Union of Independent Vehicles and that threatens to completely stop transportation services on 13 June. Vicente Briceno filed a report: [Begin recording] [Briceno] Interior Minister Ramon Escovar Salom made this statement as he walked out of the Security Cabinet meeting, which was supposed to be held on 9 June but instead was held on 8 June due to actions by the transportation union and pressure reportedly exerted by the public in light of the ever-increasing crime rate. The interior minister and Caracas Mayor Aristobulo Isturiz agreed that the dispute between two rival factions within the union because of different party affiliations is the reason for this strike. Although Escovar said that military buses will be used for public transportation, he refused to say whether the concessions granted to drivers will be revoked. However, he hinted this possibility is being considered. [Escovar] We cannot let a union decide the fate of a city of four million people. The government will not accept it. This move to declare a transportation strike lacks the complete support of all workers. The government will respond with forceful measures nevertheless. [Briceno] He also reported that the Security Cabinet analyzed the issue of burgeoning crime and delinquency rates. He added that among the solutions, he studied the possibility of sending smaller high-risk delinquents to separate rehabilitation centers, and the Juvenile Delinquents Law being applied to other delinquents, depending on the felonies they commit. It is worth noting that in addition to the Caracas governor and the justice, foreign affairs, and defense ministers, who make up the Security Cabinet, attending the meeting, Family Minister Mercedes Pulido de Briceno was also present. [end recording]
