FBIS3-45080 "drchi008_k_94014" FBIS-CHI-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Column Views Reform, Stability HK1101050094 Beijing JINGJI CANKAO BAO in Chinese 5 Jan 94 p 1 HK1101050094 Beijing JINGJI CANKAO BAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN ["Economic Reference Forum" column: "Appropriately Handle the Relationship Between Reform, Opening Up, and Stability"] [Text] In the process of building a socialist market economy, we must always pay attention to properly handling the relationship between reform and development on the one hand and stability on the other. In implementing the "Decision [of the Third Plenum of the 14th CPC Central Committee]," we will run into various kinds of complicated conditions, various kinds of problems will arise, and various kinds of conflicts will take place. Reform has promoted the development of the productive forces, enabled the economy to develop in a good direction, and improved the people's living standards. However, the reform itself will inevitably involve a redistribution of interests, or a redistribution of powers and interests if you like, and this will involve the interests of many people. When enterprises cannot disburse wages or borrow money to disburse wages, this is a problem of the distribution of interests and will cause trouble if it is not properly handled, and it is a real problem. No stability, no nothing. Without a stable social environment, nothing can be accomplished. Stability is the social foundation for implementing the "Decision." Some cadres lack an adequate understanding of the need for stability at this time. We have indeed developed these years, but we should prepare for danger in time of peace and have a sober understanding of various conditions. In conclusion, without a stable situation there is no point in talking about anything. So-called stability mainly refers to emotional stability among the masses. The masses are the main body carrying out reform, reform is a revolution, and the masses are the driving force behind reform. We must listen to the opinions and calls of the masses and respect their innovative spirit. Without the support of the masses, even a better decision will not work.
