FBIS4-39923 "drsov113_a_94035" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 12 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Shumeyko on Closer Links with Bulgaria, Poland Shumeyko on Closer Links with Bulgaria, Poland LD1206213094 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1920 GMT 12 Jun 94 LD1206213094 Moscow Russian Television Network Russian BFN [From the "Vesti" newscast] [Text] [Correspondent L. Panova] Before leaving for Sofia today, in an exclusive interview given to Vesti, Vladimir Shumeyko, head of the Russian parliament's upper chamber and chairman of the CIS Interparliamentary Assembly, said that everything necessary should be done in order to ensure that former Union republics that are now independent CIS countries could integrate together again as soon as possible. [Begin Shumeyko recording] Many people can say here: Interesting, first the Union was destroyed, and now it is being pieced together. The thing is that the Soviet Union was a monolithic state supported by a single axis of authority--the CPSU. The party that used to make decisions on everything and for everybody does not exist today. Bulgaria and Poland were regarded as being so close to us that it was sufficient for the CPSU to make a decision on giving aid, sending a delegation, starting to build a factory or something else, and all this was implemented. [end recording] [Panova] Bulgaria's and Poland's historical closeness still exists, Vladimir Shumeyko believes, but legislative decisions are needed in relations with that Far Abroad in order to unite states again as closely as possible in economic and political integration. [Begin Shumeyko recording] Our parliamentary delegation which is going at insistent requests from the Polish and Bulgarian parliaments is of a state nature. During these few days we will try once again to identify all our points of contact. For instance, 10 Russian regions have direct links with Bulgaria. They should be backed at a state and legislative level in order to integrate together again. [end recording]
