FBIS4-22612 "jpusr041___94029" FBIS-USR-94-041 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 29 March 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Russia Expects CE Membership Before Year's End Russia Expects CE Membership Before Year's End 944Q0283B Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 29 Mar 94 p 1 944Q0283B Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Russian CSO [Report by Nikita Yermakov: "Russian Parliamentarism Receives International Recognition: Vladimir Shumeyko's First Official Visit Abroad"] [Text] Paris--Over the entire past week, the French capital was host to the scheduled 91st session of the Interparliamentary Union, which currently unites 128 parliaments in the world. Participating in its work in the capacity of chairman of the CIS Interparliamentary Assembly allowed the head of the upper chamber of the Russian parliament to take part in the discussion of some of the most burning issues on the agenda--prevention of conflicts and the United Nations' role in this; ensuring the safety of industrial waste storage; and nonproliferation of nuclear weapons. Of all the meetings, the most significant were those held with the heads of the French National Assembly and the Senate, as well as in Strasbourg with the Council of Europe [CE] leadership. "At this point Franco-Russian parliamentary relations are still not on an equal footing," says Vladimir Shumeyko. "France has lived under a parliamentary system for about 100 years, Russia--since 12 December of last year." One way or the other, however, the dialogue, in which both parties speak the same language, has begun. It was especially noticeable during the negotiations in Strasbourg. The topic was Russia's membership of the Council of Europe. Until now, the situation was as follows: Russia, which had the status of a special-invitation observer in the CE, was refused membership in the organization until it acquired a democratic constitution and a democratically elected parliament. Now these conditions have been met, but the CE leadership was in no hurry to consider Moscow's request until the very last moment. According to informed sources, such caution was the result not only of the unpredictability of Russia's development, which is frightening to some here, but also, among other things, of the fact that in the past the Russian side was insisting that exceptions be made for it, and on immediate and unconditional membership in the CE. Now that the Russian participants in the dialogue have changed, these demands have been withdrawn. After the negotiations in Strasbourg, the procedure of acceptance will begin--quite long and in stages, actually. There are all reasons to believe, the Russian side assures, that as early as the fall, or under any circumstances before the end of the year, Russia may become a full-fledged member of the Council of Europe, and feel like a normal democratic power, participating in the solution of European problems in this capacity.
