FBIS3-19980 "drweu058__a94026" FBIS-WEU-94-058-A Document Type:Daily Report 25 March 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Andreatta Reviews Foreign Policy Accomplishments BR2203110194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 1941 GMT 21 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2203110194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Andreatta on Foreign Policy in Spring Report"] [Text] (ANSA) Rome, March 21 -- Italy's commitment in human resources and material and financial means put the nation in the front rank of United Nations peacekeeping operations in 1993, said Foreign Minister Beniamino Andreatta who looked back on a year of "disturbances and profound changes determined by the break-up of the Soviet Union which had not been fully understood and absorbed." In the foreign policy section of the annual "Spring Report," published by the Euritalia Studies Center, Andreatta opened by citing the Italian commitment to a negotiated solution in ex-Yugoslavia and to humanitarian assistance to the civilian victims of violence there. "Another important aspect of Italy's activities abroad was the expansion of relations with the republics which emerged with the break-up of the Soviet Union," said the minister who also referred to Rome backing for "the process of democratic transformation and transition to a market economy" in the countries of East and Central Europe. In this connection, the minister recalled the joint British-Italian initiative for the association of these countries with the political and judiciary pillars written into the European Union's [EU] Maastricht Treaty. Italy now holds the rotating presidency of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), an organization with a role, he stressed, in the prevention of conflict and the management of crisis situations. On another front, Andreatta said his nation has "actively contributed" to European integration and pointed out the importance of work aimed at forging ties between common foreign and defense policy and the expansion of the EU. He went on to recall the development of the Western European Union, of which Italy held the rotating presidency last year, as "a component of EU defense (and) an instrument for strengthening the European pillar" of NATO. In this area, the minister underscored the activities of the North Atlantic Cooperation Council and the Partnership for Peace proposal for military cooperation between NATO and the nations of East Europe. On the Italian role in Somalia last year, Andreatta said the country "expressed concern from the very beginning on an excessive accent on the military instrument with regard to the political goals and humanitarian objectives" of the UN mission. He also referred to "the steady commitment of Italy to support the peace process" in the Middle East.
