FBIS3-61003 "jptot002__l94064" JPRS-TOT-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 12 January 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA LIBYA al-Qadhdhafi on Sudan, Resistance, Colonialism LD0201222094 Tripoli Libyan Television Network in Arabic 1923 GMT 2 Jan 94 LD0201222094 Tripoli Libyan Television Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Address by leader of the revolution Colonel Mu'ammar al-Qadhdhafi in Surman and Bu 'Isa on 2 January -- recorded] [Excerpts] [passage omitted] Brothers, we hear now another voice from Sudan. Sudan announced yesterday the expulsion of the British ambassador because he considered Sudan a British colony. The dreams of the colonialists have returned again. The dreams of the West have returned again. Their ambitions in Tunisia, Algeria, Sudan, Libya, and everywhere in the Arab world have returned. Their ambitions have returned again. [passage omitted] The colonialists will pull back when they face these [words indistinct] these challenges and this determination; the determination of peoples to live freely brothers. Yes, they will have to be very wary. This is coming from the masses of Surman and Bu 'Isa only, not to mention the masses of the Arab nation and the masses of Libya as a whole. There are masses in Tunisia, Algeria, Egypt, Sudan, Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, Iraq, the Arabian Peninsula, Yemen, and Sudan [repeated as heard]. There are innumerable masses and the colonialists will find it difficult to impose their dominion again on a nation that is beating the drums of confrontation, a nation that has decided to live freely. Yes, brothers, we are not just talking, we are demonstrating with deeds. The national resistance in southern Lebanon is daily writing in blood the words that we are speaking now, and it is paving the path of liberation with the bodies of the martyrs of Hizballah and the Lebanese national resistance. There is fighting every day [word indistinct] in southern Lebanon and Palestine under the leadership of Palestinian Jihad, the Fatah Eagles, Hamas [Islamic Resistance Movement], the Popular Front, the Popular Democratic Front, the Popular Front-General Command, the Fatah of Intifadah, and Fatah-Revolutionary Council. [passage omitted] Brothers, those who sell Palestine now in a public auction will be punished by the Palestinian people. Brothers, those who betray the Arab nation will see their just fate. [passage omitted]
