FBIS4-63560 "drsov100_i_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-100 Daily Report 23 May 1994 CENTRAL ASIA Kazakhstan Details of Premier Tereshchenko's Recent Visit to Iran Details of Premier Tereshchenko's Recent Visit to Iran LD2305212994 Almaty Radio Almaty World Service in English 1830 GMT 23 May 94 LD2305212994 Almaty Radio Almaty World Service English BFN [Text] Recently, a Kazakhstani delegation headed by Prime Minister Sergey Tereshchenko visited the Islamic Republic of Iran. On the agenda of this official visit were issues of trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Iran. The Iranian first deputy president received the Kazakhstani governmental delegation. During the meeting, Mr. Tereshchenko remarked on the already existing and very close relationship between Kazakhstan and Iran. He noted that during the visit of Iranian President 'Ali Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani to Almaty, several important documents on bilateral cooperation were signed. Mr. Tereshchenko said that this visit of his was to activate work on the fulfillment of the agreement and the removal of obstacles in the way of increasing mutually beneficial trade and economic cooperation. Mr. Tereshchenko expressed his hope that this visit of his would provide a new ground for widening bilateral cooperation in economy and trade. He noted that Kazakhstan was interested in building relations with Iran in such spheres as land, sea, and air transportation, trade of oil products, economic minerals, metals, agricultural products, as well the banking business. The first deputy president of Iran, Mr. Hasan Habibi, in his turn hailed the strengthening relations of the two countries, noting that on 15 May 1994 the first air route between the capital cities of Kazakhstan and Iran was opened. This route will be served by airliners of the Iranian national air company Iran Air. During his stay in Iran, Mr. Tereshchenko also visited the former Iranian capital city of Esfahan. A negotiation on the Kazakhstani-Iranian cooperation in the sphere of metallurgy and exchange of technology and specialists was held. In Tehran, the Kazakhstani delegation held intensive negotiations with the representatives of Iranian business circles on organizing banking cooperation which will help simplify calculations between the trade companies of the two countries. The Kazakhstani Minister of Energetics and Fuel Resources, Mr. Kadyr Baykenov, met with the Iranian Minister of Petroleum, Mr. Gholam Reza Aqazadeh-Kho'i. They discussed the opportunities of cooperation and setting up a factory in Kazakhstan for oil refining and building an oil pipeline between the two nations.
