FBIS4-64867 "drweu089__a94023" FBIS-WEU-94-089-A Daily Report 9 May 1994 WEST EUROPE ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Berlusconi Ends Party Consultations 6 May Berlusconi Ends Party Consultations 6 May BR0605111994 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 0926 GMT 6 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0605111994 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "Berlusconi Winding Up Party Consultations"] [Text] Rome 6 May (ANSA) -- Premier-designate Silvio Berlusconi will wind up his official government-formation consultations with political parties today, official sources confirmed this morning. Berlusconi began the final round of consultations with a meeting with the (former Communist) Democratic Party of the Left, at 1000 local (0800 GMT). At 1100 local he will meet one of his two main coalition partners, the hard-right National Alliance. At 1200 he will meet the other one, the federalist Northern League. An hour later he is scheduled to confer with Communist Renewal, and at 1400 local with his own group, Forza Italia. A Forza Italia official, Domenico Mennitti, after a meeting with Berlusconi announced that "the road to the formation of a new government is all downhill." Berlusconi may decide to withdraw the traditional "reserve" on the mandate given by the president as early as Saturday [7 May], Forza Italia Senate whip Cesare Previti commented. Both officials declined to comment negotiations over the post of Interior minister. Berlusconi himself said he may withdraw his reserve on Monday. "That would be the most logical thing to do," he told reporters after ending his consultations here. He also forecast that the Senate debate on the new government may begin as early as next Thursday but Berlusconi stressed he did not want to "make commitments" on when negotiations would be completed. "I want to be consistent with what I have already said: it takes time to do things well," he said, adding that he did not want to fix definitive dates for votes of confidence or other political developments. Berlusconi denied he planned to withdraw his reserve tomorrow, saying he needed more time to fine-tune his political program. "I think it is correct to go to the president with a program, perhaps not definitive but at least with the major points defined, and a list of ministers," he said. He declined to give any names of possible ministers and stressed that for the Interior Ministry, "everything still has to be specified."
