FBIS4-24669 "drchi105_n_94032" FBIS-CHI-94-105 Daily Report 28 May 1994 Economic & Agricultural Civil Aviation Construction Market Opened Partially Civil Aviation Construction Market Opened Partially OW2805022194 Beijing XINHUA in English 0143 GMT 28 May 94 OW2805022194 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, May 28 (XINHUA) -- China has decided to permit foreigners to invest in its civil aviation construction on condition that Chinese capital should exceed 51 percent of the total in any venture. The Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Co-Operation promulgated a circular to this effect here yesterday. The document stipulates that overseas businessmen are allowed to construct runways and parking areas in China by means of investment or co-operation. But the Chinese investment should exceed 51 percent of the total registered capital of the joint venture and Chinese citizens should take the posts of the chairman of the board and the general manager. However, the other managing personnel can be Chinese or foreigners. The taxation rates of these enterprises will be the same as those for Chinese ones. Those who invest in the construction of runways or parking areas will be given priority for investing in the waiting rooms, warehouses, ground services, airplane maintenance and repair, flight food, hotels, restaurants, aircraft oil and other airport-affiliated facilities. Meanwhile, the circular reiterated that air traffic control systems can only be funded and administered by the Chinese Government. The circular gives the green light to foreign businessmen to set up air freight companies jointly with Chinese enterprises. It is also allowed for foreign investors to buy the shares of Chinese air shipping companies, provided that the foreign capital is below 35 percent of the total registered capital. The circular stresses that overseas airports and the aircraft manufacturing companies are not allowed to set up air freight companies in China.
