FBIS4-30882 "dreeu105_b_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-105 Daily Report 27 May 1994 BULGARIA Assembly Confidence Vote Seen as `Disgrace' Assembly Confidence Vote Seen as `Disgrace' AU3005172294 Sofia KONTINENT in Bulgarian 27 May 94 p 4 AU3005172294 Sofia KONTINENT Bulgarian BFN [Commentary by Genka Markova: "They Embraced Disgrace"] [Text] The government received a vote of confidence. Long live the parliament! Today, now, this very moment, there is no glory for the Bulgarian politicians. Long live the disgrace! Some 125 people's representatives opted for the disgrace! They opted for prolonging the country's agony, hoping that, thus, they can prolong their own agony at least until the fall. At least this is how things look now. After exhausting haggling and consultations it became clear that the ugly and cynical trading ostensibly related to the fate of the cabinet is actually a life and death struggle for the parliament's fate. During the last, tumultuous, parliamentary-political week, the people saw the naked truth about their politicians. It became pitilessly clear that the moral value of the Bulgarian deputy is catastrophically low. Against every political, human, and medical logic, the talks related to reshuffling the cabinet will begin again. This is the situation, people! A few days before their disgraceful spectacle, a deputy said that it is not the cabinet that is wrong, but the people who sent such deputies to the parliament. Actually, this specific deputy also was a prime minister and the sweet pleasures of his tenure are still fresh in our memory. The petty, secret, and tactical games until the last moment yesterday night, and even during the voting itself, exceeded the elementary norms of political moral. Cynicism replaced the oath of the Bulgarian deputies that they will be led in all their actions by the interests of the people. Is there anything common between the cabinet's policy, the implementation of the economic reforms, and the interests of the people? There is no need to answer this question. The agony of our state has continued for several months already and new complications are yet to appear. The parliament decided to hide behind the government by giving it its vote of confidence for the future, despite the fact that the government has done nothing in the past. The Bulgarians are traditionally generous toward their inept politicians. Thank God, however, that they have not lost their memory!
