FBIS3-54723 "drsov001_a_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Moscow Summit Between Yeltsin, Clinton Previewed LD0201171494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1643 GMT 2 Jan 94 LD0201171494 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Georgiy Shmelyov] [Text] Moscow January 2 TASS -- Deputy Russian Foreign Minister Georgiy Mamedov left for Washington, DC, today to coordinate a program of the Russian-U.S. summit to start in ten days in Moscow. It is not accidental 1994 starts with a state visit of the U.S. President to Moscow. Both sides have always considered their bilateral relations a priority of their foreign political concepts. Comprehensive trade and economic cooperation with the U.S. is especially important for Russia at a period of profound changes. Moscow's consistent course at cooperation and partnership with Washington is obvious; claims of some mass media bodies that Russia no longer considers its relations with the U.S. to be a priority are unjustified. The U.S. partners will, certainly, be interested in the recent political events in Russia, primarily the results of parliament elections. The world was somewhat alarmed with these results although they should hardly be exaggerated or dramatized. The U.S. delegation headed by Bill Clinton will study the situation on the spot and get acquainted with the essence of the reform policy carried out by the Yeltsin team. In the words of Bill Clinton, he is a staunch supporter of Boris Yeltsin. The visit will help them to understand Russian society has much work to do. The recent personnel changes in the U.S. Administration, primarily the appointment of First Undersecretary of State and Coordinator of the U.S. Policy on Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States Strobe Talbott, testifies to the enhancement of the "Russian factor" in the U.S. foreign policy. The Russian diplomatic community has estimated these changes as very positive. "Washington promotes people who have imagination," believes a high-ranking Russian diplomat. In his opinion, Moscow will take adequate steps after the summit. The Moscow summit will also focus on security, cooperation in arms control and non-proliferation of nuclear arms and key international issues, including settlement of regional conflicts. It is expected to be extremely saturated and elaborate a program of partnership and interaction for the rest of the 20th-early 21st century.
