FBIS4-54946 "dreeu089_h_94016" FBIS-EEU-94-089 Daily Report 9 May 1994 HUNGARY MSZP Economist on Difficulties Ahead MSZP Economist on Difficulties Ahead LD0905100594 Budapest Kossuth Radio Network in Hungarian 0445 GMT 9 May 94 LD0905100594 Budapest Kossuth Radio Network Hungarian BFN [Excerpts] Laszlo Bekesi, the elaborator of the economic policy of the Hungarian Socialist Party [MSZP], does not believe very much in the government's economic success policy or the predictions of an imminent economic upswing. [passage omitted] [Begin Bekesi recording] We know precisely that a bitterly hard lesson awaits the next government; and this will be true even if on the basis of today's results there are perhaps better chances for the creation of a successful coalition and a successful government program than there were even a day ago. There is a good chance that an efficient coalition will come into being. What is at least as important is that there is also a good chance that this coalition will have a good program. We can only hope -- and we wish this for all of us, for society above all -- that those who voted for us will stay with us even while we wrestle with the difficulties of implementing the program we have outlined. And we are also clear that after the elections, you, the overwhelming majority of the press, will automatically become an opposition press. I think I can promise on behalf of us all that we will not blame you for the bitter problems. [end recording] In the event there is an overall victory, it will probably be Bekesi who will have to conclude the social contract which will expect entrepreneurs to moderate their profits and employees to exercise restraint in the wages battle. According to [MSZP] Deputy Chairman Ferenc Baja, the phase of change in the system in which the Hungarian left wing struggled for its life, has ended. [Begin Baja recording] It is true that the second round will be the decisive one. Prime Minister Peter Boross was right in this. The position from which we are preparing for this second round is that in 152 individual constituencies we are starting out from the victorious first place. We will not commit the mistake, either, of regarding the SZDSZ [Alliance of Free Democrats] as an opponent in the next period just because it is in second place. [end recording] [passage omitted]
