FBIS4-2449 "drchi069_u_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-069 Daily Report 9 Apr 1994 PRC MEDIA ON TAIWAN AFFAIRS Taiwan Affairs Office Statement on Boat Incident Taiwan Affairs Office Statement on Boat Incident OW0904102194 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0854 GMT 9 Apr 94 OW0904102194 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [Text] Beijing, 9 Apr (XINHUA) -- A responsible person of the State Council's Taiwan Affairs Office today issued a statement concerning the fire on a pleasure-boat in Qiandao Hu, Zhejiang. He said both sides of the strait did not want to see the unfortunate accident happen, which killed 32 compatriots from the two sides. He urged the Taiwan side to view the accident objectively and calmly. On 31 March, a fire broke out on a pleasure boat in Zhejiang's Qiandao Hu, which, to our great sorrow, killed 24 Taiwan compatriots who had come to the mainland for sightseeing as well as eight mainland compatriots. The State Council's Taiwan Affairs Office grieves over the deaths, and expresses profound sympathy and solicitude for the families of the Taiwan and mainland compatriots who died in the accident. The State Council leaders have attached great importance to problems arising from the fire, and have urged the Zhejiang Provincial People's Government to earnestly deal with the aftermath of the accident and to expedite investigations of the cause of the accident. The Ministry of Public Security, the National Tourism Administration, and Zhejiang Province immediately took measures to conduct on-the-site rescue, inspection, and search for victims' bodies. Acting on a briefing by Zhejiang's departments concerned, the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Strait promptly took the initiative to inform Taiwan's Strait Exchange Foundation about the relevant circumstances. Currently the departments concerned are continuing to exert efforts to further deal with the aftermath, and to investigate the accident's cause, striving to release it as soon as it is verified. The responsible person said: Both sides of the strait did not want to see this unfortunate accident happen. We trust that Taiwan compatriots at large will show understanding for the measures taken and the efforts made by the mainland departments concerned to deal with the accident. We are willing to listen to positive suggestions and opinions from various parties, including Taiwan compatriots. It is our hope that Taiwan's relevant departments will view the accident in an objective and calm manner to prevent some people from exploiting this accident to create public opinion and trouble unfavorable to the development of cross-strait relations.
