FBIS4-24089 "drafr121_e_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-121 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 WEST AFRICA Niger Government, Tuareg Rebels Agree on Regional Autonomy Government, Tuareg Rebels Agree on Regional Autonomy AB2306123094 Paris AFP in English 0308 GMT 23 Jun 94 AB2306123094 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Paris, 23 Jun (AFP) -- The Government of Niger and Tuareg rebels tentatively agreed here Wednesday [22 June] to create "homogeneous" autonomous regions for the country's ethnic groups, each with its own elected assembly and governor. Mano Dayak, leader of the Tuareg delegation to peace talks mediated by France and Algeria, said the two sides had reached agreement "in principle" on most key issues. He said the plan was to carve out a new administrative map from the present French-style departments taking account of "cultural and social homogeneity". Dayak said the two sides "agreed in principle on a fully autonomous administration for these regions with elected assemblies and governors to be appointed by them, parallel with the central government structures." The talks which have been under way for more than a week at a secret location outside Paris were between the government represented by Mai Maigana, high commissioner for the restoration of peace, and the Armed Resistance Coordination (CRA) comprising Niger's four Tuareg rebel organisations. Dayak said the CRA had argued for "a return to peace and reinsertion of ex-combatants with some being absorbed into the (national) Army." But he said there were "too many differences" and the government would be having more consultations in Niamey before a new round of talks in Algiers. The CRA has long sought the right to be able to run its own affairs in an area reserved for Niger's estimated 750,000 Tuaregs, who account for 10 percent of the population. It has also called for a quota system guaranteeing Tuaregs a fair share of jobs in government institutions and the armed forces. The Tuaregs concentrated in northern Niger have been fighting the central governments of Mali and Niger for several years. The rebellion recently appeared to have spread to Burkina Faso which has taken in thousands of Tuareg refugees.
