FBIS3-50629 "drlat003_p_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 Jan 1994 Ecuador Officials React to Febres-Cordero's Statements PA0401175394 Quito Voz de los Andes in Spanish 2300 GMT 3 Jan 93 PA0401175394 Quito Voz de los Andes Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From "The Voz Andes" newscast] [Text] The U.S. Government denied an alleged summons to Ecuadoran Foreign Minister Diego Paredes 12 days ago for him to appear before the State Department in Washington. A communique from the U.S. Embassy in Quito stated the meeting held by Undersecretary of State Alexander Watson and Foreign Minister Diego Paredes was requested by the Ecuadoran minister and not by a summons from the Washington official. Undersecretary Watson did not summon Foreign Minister Paredes, said the diplomatic communique which sought to end a controversy which, besides Paredes, involved President Sixto Duran-Ballen and former president Leon Febres-Cordero. After newspapers reported Paredes' visit to Washington on 22 and 23 December, Febres-Cordero said the objective of the visit was to heed a summons by the U.S. State Department and that he had firm evidence of the affair. The former president, who is the current mayor of Guayaquil, said Paredes was warned that U.S. aid could be suspended if a dictatorship was established in Ecuador. Paredes contradicted the former president and asked him to present evidence to support his assertion and Duran-Ballen, after confirming his foreign minister's statements, asserted the whole affair was an idiocy produced by a sick mind. Today Febres-Cordero complained about the adjectives and said Paredes' trip was suspicious, untimely, and inexplicable and said Duran-Ballen does not know what happens around him, including the field of foreign relations. During an interview in Guayaquil, Duran-Ballen said: I rule the country in accordance with the Constitution and do not need to request permission from any country with regard to the actions I must undertake within the country or in foreign relations. On Monday afternoon, the U.S. Embassy clarified the origin of the Paredes-Watson meeting which, according to the Ecuadoran foreign minister's version, was requested by him to review topics regarding bilateral relations. According to former president Febres-Cordero's version, during the meeting Paredes was reprimanded for a supposed refusal of the Ecuadoran Government to execute the decisions made by Congress, thus, establishing a dictatorship.
