FBIS4-42989 "drweu112__a94015" FBIS-WEU-94-112-A Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 ANNEX United Kingdom Poll Shows Government Facing Euroelection Loss Poll Shows Government Facing Euroelection Loss PM0306090694 London FINANCIAL TIMES in English 3 Jun 94 p 18 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PM0306090694 London FINANCIAL TIMES English BFN [Article by Kevin Brown: "PM Hardens Attack on European Integration"] [Text] Mr John Major hardened the tone of his attacks on European integration last night as an opinion poll suggested the Conservatives face disaster in the elections on Thursday [9 June]. A Gallup poll in today's DAILY TELEGRAPH puts the Conservatives in third place behind the Liberal Democrats and more than 30 percentage points behind Labour. It estimates support for the Conservatives at just 21 per cent, down 3.5 percentage points since early May, compared with 21.5 per cent for the Liberal Democrats (down 3.5 points), and 54 per cent for Labour (up 9.5 points). The gap between the Conservatives and Labour is the biggest since the height of the poll tax debacle in 1989, when it stood at about 30 percentage points. Labour officials said part of the increase in support was probably due to public sympathy following the death of Mr John Smith, and increased media coverage caused by the contest to succeed him. However, the poll suggests that Labour is on course for a landslide victory in the European elections while the Conservatives could be reduced to a handful of seats. The only consolation for the Conservatives is that the poll was carried out between May 25 and May 30 -- before the prime minister launched an attack on European Union [EU] integration at a rally in Ellesmere Port on Tuesday. Conservative strategists believe his concept of a multi-speed Europe, in which member states progress at different rates offers the best hope of persuading Tory supporters to vote. Senior officials said last night's speech was intended to shore up the Conservatives' image as the strongest defender of British rights in the EU. In his most forthright comments of the campaign, Mr Major said he was unrepentant about his criticisms of the EU, and insisted "Europe has gone wrong in recent years." He pledged to campaign for an open Europe in which the weight of bureaucracy and regulation was dramatically reduced, and which was not "the remote preserve of an elite circle of politicians and bureaucrats." Mr Major's return to the Eurosceptic theme will be welcomed by Conservative right-wingers, who believe they have won the party's internal battle about its approach to the Union. However, it was seized on by the opposition as further evidence of the government's willingness to draft policy to paper over Conservative splits rather than in the national interest. Mr Jack Straw, Labours European elections campaign manager, said the prime minister was "once again selling Britain short in Europe."
