FBIS3-44096 "drafr016_c_94013" FBIS-AFR-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Paper Views Significance of Zulu King's Pretoria Visit MB2501092894 Durban ILANGA in Zulu 20-22 Jan 94 p 5 MB2501092894 Durban ILANGA Language: Zulu Article Type:BFN [From the "Comment and Opinion" page: "End-game for negotiations" -- article published in English] [Text] The visit by the Zulu monarch, King Zwelithini Goodwill Zulu, to the State President in Pretoria this Monday brought a healthy dose of realism to the political scene. It is difficult to imagine how anybody could believe that the 200-year old Kingdom, the mightiest in Africa, could simply vanish. But that is exactly what would have happened -- on paper at least -- in terms of the deals President de Klerk and his chosen partners in the SACP [South African Communist Party]/ANC [African National Congress] alliance had secretly struck. Not even the name of KwaZulu appeared in the constitution they had cooked up together. Well, he seems to have now understood the implications of what his communist negotiating partners had hoodwinked him into accepting. He was, by all accounts, prepared to go to almost any lengths to accommodate the King and his Kingdom. Was it the 50,000 people on the lawn outside his office that focused his mind, or was it the rather blunt dressing down he got from the King? Either way, there was another important lesson to be learnt from Monday's events. It is that the self determination of peoples is a reality that will play a decisive role in our future. The Zulu people issued a blunt warning that their rights will be ignored at the country's peril. Pretoria seemed to have grasped the lesson. But it is a fair bet that the ANC's jockey, the SACP, will never learn the lesson. It will stick to its class analysis, no matter what. The government still has it within its power to ensure that sanity prevails. If its fails now there will be conflict. And the NP [National Party] government will not escape the blame.
