FBIS4-65469 "drweu096_n_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-096 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * Anti-EU Group, Vayrynen on Referendum Stands * Anti-EU Group, Vayrynen on Referendum Stands * Umbrella Group: Delay Voting 94EN0328A Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET in Swedish 15 Apr 94 p 4 94EN0328A Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET Swedish CSO [Article by Bjarne Nitovuori: "No EU Referendum Until Next Year"] [Excerpts] Organized opponents of the European Union [EU] are demanding that enough time be allowed for a citizens' debate on Finland's possible membership in the EU and that the planned referendum be postponed until next year. "All the parties currently in the government promised before the last legislative elections that Finland would not seek EU membership during this election period. Since no EU debate was held before the election, there should be one now, and enough time should be provided for it," says the EU opposition's new umbrella organization in a resolution. The umbrella organization introduced itself yesterday. It was formed by the four strongest civic organizations opposing Finland's membership in the EU, and its name is An Independent Finland -- The Best Alternative. [passage omitted] It is a very mixed organization, and that is its strength, since the intention is to achieve majority support for a no vote in the referendum, according to the organization's representatives at yesterday's presentation. Tiitinen Criticized Erkki Pulliainen noted that the current process means that we are passing from parliamentary democracy to domination by civil servants and the courts. "From the West European standpoint, that is a very much a step in the wrong direction," he said. Pulliainen promised that the organization would soon take a stand on the Tiitinen Committee's proposal concerning the effect of EU membership on the Constitution. Among other things, the committee said that Finland's membership in the EU could be approved by a two-thirds majority in one session of the Eduskunta. The umbrella organization and its supporting organizations take an unequivocally different view on that subject.
