FBIS4-18318 "drweu064_h_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-064 Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 GERMANY Taiwan for Better Relations Despite Bonn Policy Taiwan for Better Relations Despite Bonn Policy AU0104162294 Berlin NEUE ZEIT in German 30 Mar 94 p 4 AU0104162294 Berlin NEUE ZEIT German BFN [Report by Frank E. Lippold: "Taiwan Hoping for German Activity"] [Text] Berlin/Taipei -- In view of Germany's restrictive arms export law, Taiwan has given up hope of a business deal in the field of maritime arms technology that would be lucrative for both sides. Taiwan will now build the needed warships itself. On Monday [28 March], the second of eight frigates carrying missiles of the Hsiung Geng-II type was put into service. Nevertheless, Taiwan wants to improve bilateral relations, especially trade relations -- in spite of the Federal Government's pro-Beijing policy. They feel encouraged in this view by the fact that with the current German ambassador to Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, Claus Franke, a diplomat will become the new head of the German trade mission in Taipei. Posting the 62-year-old does not, however, mean that -- as has been reported in Taiwan -- this office "has for the first time been given to an official representative of the Foreign Ministry." NEUE ZEIT has been told by the Foreign Ministry in Bonn that Franke will be given leave to take on his future work for the Federation of German Chambers of Industry and Commerce [DIHT], which runs the Taipei office. But even without upgrading the German representation, April might take a special place in the history of German-Taiwanese relations. First, Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt wants to visit the republic before going to mainland China, and second, a partnership agreement is to be signed by the districts of Greifswald (Mecklenburg) and Nantou (Central Taiwan) in the second week of April. Closer Cooperation Between Local Authorities The agreement, which is to be signed by Councillors Herbert Kautz and Yuang-Lang Lin, is the second such agreement between districts in the Republic of China and the new laender. In the summer of 1993, Annaberg (Saxony) and Kaohsiung agreed on cooperation. The visit to Halle in mid-April of Po-Rung Lin, the mayor of Taichung, might bring about another agreement. Several important representatives of industry are expected to accompany the head of the third largest community in Taiwan.
