FBIS3-1063 "drafr053_c_94025" FBIS-AFR-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA APLA Leaders Arrive for Meeting With SADF MB1703144094 Johannesburg THE STAR in English 17 Mar 94 p 8 MB1703144094 Johannesburg THE STAR Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Kaizer Nyatsumba, politcal correspondent] [Text] The South African Defence Force [SADF] has again postponed its meeting with the PAC's [Pan-Africanist Congress] Azanian People's Liberation Army [APLA], whose top leaders are already in the country for the talks. In a statement yesterday, the SADF said the meeting, scheduled for this week, would now take place next week, almost a month before the country's first all-inclusive election. Sources said the PAC and APLA leadership was angry with the latest postponement of the talks, which were to have taken place as early as December, had it not been for a series of postponements. The sources said this would put a severe strain on the organisation's suspension of its armed struggle and unnecessarily delay important discussions on the formation of a new army. In its statement yesterday, the SADF said the meeting "will be exploratory in nature, aimed at determining whether there is scope and potential for further discussions." The meeting, over whose venue there was still some haggling earlier this week, was to have been the first face-to-face encounter to take place in the country between the two old foes. Both previous meetings were held outside the country. THE STAR understands that the SADF wanted the meeting to take place in Pretoria, while APLA leaders -- some of whom arrived in the country on Sunday -- insisted on Johannesburg as a venue. The top APLA leadership -- including Dan "Romero Daniels" Mofokeng -- have been in the country since APLA commander Sabelo Phama's funeral in Transkei last month. Those APLA leaders who arrived in the country on Sunday are Mopedi Ntabeni, Willie Nkonyeni and Andile Motlhabane. They have been granted limited indemnity. However, THE STAR understands that they will soon be given complete indemnity.
