FBIS3-28845 "dreas030_g_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 SOUTHEAST ASIA Burma Khin Nyunt on School Discipline, Destructiveness BK1102093794 Rangoon Burma Television Network in Burmese 1330 GMT 10 Feb 94 BK1102093794 Rangoon Burma Television Network Language: Burmese Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Lieutenant General Khin Nyunt, chairman of the Education Committee of Myanmar [Burma] and secretary-1 of the State Law and Order Restoration Council [SLORC], met and delivered an address to the rectors and principals of the universities, colleges, and institutes at a meeting hall of the Central Council of Universities of the Department of Higher Education at 1430 today. [passage omitted] He said the rectors and principals of the universities, colleges, and institutes play an important role in making the education policy effective and helping the peaceful pursuit of education. To further the peaceful pursuit of education and to maintain discipline in students, he added, the teachers from colleges and universities were given refresher courses at the Institute of Public Service in Phaunggyi. He told the rectors and principals to oversee and implement the pragmatic use of experience and knowledge which the teachers had gained at the refresher courses. He also said that destructive elements were waiting in the wings, eyeing any weakness in the administration and management in order to disrupt the peaceful pursuit of education. That is why responsible personnel need to plan and to make arrangements on how it should be prevented. If a problem occurs, either big or small, the respective parties have to coordinate and present the matter to the higher authorities and resolve the problem at the same time. He added that teachers will achieve their goal if they always review the procedures of maintaining discipline for the peaceful pursuit of education and work under the management and supervision of the rectors and principals. He said students needed to be guided and progressively organized so that there would be better maintenance of discipline in the schools. The student youths as citizens also have a responsibility to respect the country's laws, regulations, and by-laws, which are respected by the public. [passage omitted]
