FBIS4-43103 "drweu113_q_94011" FBIS-WEU-94-113 Daily Report 5 Jun 1994 Turkey Former Official Comments Former Official Comments NC1206073494 Istanbul OZGUR ULKE in Turkish 5 Jun 94 p 8 NC1206073494 Istanbul OZGUR ULKE Turkish BFN [Report by Necat Sunar] [Text] Istanbul -- Professor Mahir Kaynak, a former National Intelligence Organization (MIT) official and a faculty member at Gazi University, said that the murders of Kurdish businessmen and intellectuals may be the work of those who provided the names of these persons to Prime Minister Tansu Ciller and her circle. Kaynak said: "The fact that the style of the murders is the same is an indication that they are being committed by the same cadres." We sought the views of the former MIT official Mahir Kaynak after the murders of the Kurdish businessmen by the counter-guerrillas following Prime Minister Tansu Ciller's statement that "we know the names of the businessmen and artists from whom PKK [Workers Party of Kurdistan] derives money; we will call them to account." Kaynak asserted that these murders were committed by those who submitted the names to Tansu Ciller. Kaynak, who replied to our questions before the murder of Savas Buldan, a Kurdish businessmen from Yuksekova, said that the murders might continue. Stressing that in the aftermath of the latest economic and political developments the state has fallen into disintegration, Kaynak noted that this disarray further deepened with the crisis surrounding Gures [chief of General Staff], and asserted that there is a two-headed administration in Turkey. Kaynak said: "At present the state has disintegrated considerably. Because of the economic and political disintegration, the current government cadres have lost their power. The incident surrounding Gures shows that there are two powers. That is, it is becoming clear that not a single power controls the developments in Turkey. As is evident from the Dogan Gures crisis, one power is supporting Dogan Gures. There is also another power which wants to push him out of the way. Therefore, political power in Turkey is not concentrated in one hand." Arguing that the murder of Kurdish businessmen, intellectuals, and bureaucrats results from this two-headed administration within the state, Kaynak said: "The cadre that does not favor a political solution to the Kurdish problem is planning to commit such murders." Indicating that the identical style of the murders is proof enough of their being committed by the same cadres, Kaynak said: "And, the purpose in murdering the businessmen with some intervals is not to create excessive uneasiness in the public. Once a murder is committed there is a waiting period to let it be forgotten. Then a second murder is committed. In this way the public does not pay much attention."
