FBIS4-44859 "jpest014___94027" FBIS-EST-94-014 JPRS Science & Technology Europe/International 8 April 1994 WEST EUROPE BIOTECHNOLOGY Germany: Interferon Gamma from Bacteria Mimics Natural Model Germany: Interferon Gamma from Bacteria Mimics Natural Model 94WS0310B Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT in German, 8 Apr 94 p 8 94WS0310B Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT German, CSO [Unattributed article: "Bacteria Produce Interferon Gamma"; "Fraunhofer: The Yield Reaches One Gram Per Liter of Bacteria Culture"] [Text] Frankfurt. At the Fraunhofer Institute of Toxicology and Aerosol Research in Hannover there has been developed an interferon gamma which is said to be even more effective than its natural prototype. In the human body interferons are by T cells and activated wherever cells become diseased or are threatened by a virus. The interferons attach themselves to receptors at the appropriate locations on the top side of a cell and from there send their signals to its nucleus. This, reports the Fraunhofer Society in Munich, causes the cell to boost its defenses. In their work the researchers, Dr Bernd Otto and his associates used what may be called a trick: the DNS chain containing the information necessary for protein buildup was shortened at the critical place so that the proteins lost a few amino acids. Upon being inoculated with a molecule of this modified genetic substance, bacteria produce highly effective interferon gamma. It is further claimed that the bacteria strains produce each one gram of interferon per liter of bacteria culture. Because the bacteria do do not excrete the interferon during metabolism, they must be kept in a pressure container. The thus retained protein clusters must be decomposed, renatured, and purified. The process of manufacturing the new active interferon gamma has, according to the reports, already passed the laboratory stage and been further developed. It is now to be marketed by the Rentschler GmbH [GmbH = Ltd] in Laupheim. The new interferon gamma is expected to be ready within a few years for clinical tests. The tests will show whether and how this market will develop, hopes Friedrich E. Rentschler. It is expected that this interferon will be just as helpful in rheumatic and contagious diseases as against allergies and chronic diseases of the immune system. The interferon thus produced by genetic engineering and the process by which it is extracted have already been patented in Germany, patents covering both European and American markets having been applied for, reports Dr Bernd Otto at the Fraunhofer Institute of Toxicology and Aerosol Research ITA (1 Nikolai-Fuchs Str., 30625 Hannover; Tel 0511-5350-273, Fax 0511-5350-155).
