FBIS4-43749 "drweu119_o_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-119 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 CYPRUS UN Scenario on Future Course of Cyprus Viewed UN Scenario on Future Course of Cyprus Viewed NC1706085594 Nicosia I MAKHI in Greek 16 Jun 94 pp 1, 7 NC1706085594 Nicosia I MAKHI Greek BFN [Report by K. Kiriakidhis] [Text] Under the current conditions, further efforts to continue the talks on the confidence-building measures may result in the opposite -- their destruction. According to I MAKHI information from the UN headquarters, UN Security Council members seem to be heading toward this conclusion and believe that for now, the best solution would be to adopt a compromise formula (in the upcoming UN Security Council resolution). This would avoid a "head on" clash with the UN Secretariat, would not expose UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali (based on his 30 May report), and at the same time prevent the possibility of President Glavkos Kliridhis resigning. It would also keep the implementation of the confidence-building measures on the negotiating table at a priority level. The same sources added that Security Council members appear determined to safeguard the confidence-building measures even if this means temporarily sidelining them. This is why they seem to end up in a two-stage scenario about the future course of the Cyprus issue: In the first stage (according to Butrus-Ghali's fourth alternative) they will send representatives from the five UN Security Council permanent members to the Ankara-Athens-Nicosia triangle to reach an agreement on the basic principles that would characterize a future overall solution to the Cyprus issue. By doing this they will create the appropriate conditions to guarantee an effective "passage" to the second stage, the implementation of the confidence-building measures (not discussion) while at the same time beginning new negotiations on the substance of the Cyprus issue (for example demilitarization). Circles in Nicosia have expressed their optimism that according to the developments that are being formed, the Security Council will not select Butrus-Ghali's fifth alternative and only recommend that talks on theconfidence-building measures continue. In any case, yesterday a diplomat of a country that is a permanent UN Security Council member told I MAKHI that a lot depends on Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktas' final positions on the implementation of the measures. Denktas is expected to relate his positions to Gustave Feissel, the UN secretary general's alternate special representative in Cyprus, during their meeting today. The diplomat also revealed that in his well-known letters, President Glavkos Kliridhis stresses his readiness to proceed in an agreement on the measures based on the 21 March UN document. He added: This is why all the Security Council members are taking Kliridhis' positions seriouly and respect his constructive stance during the duration of the talks on the measures. He reiterated, however, that the new positions of the Turkish Cypriot leader following the UN secretary general's 30 May report, which he described as positive, cannot be overlooked. Government Spokesman Ioannis Kasoulidhis reiterated yesterday morning that President Kliridhis has made it clear that he will resign if our side is forced to participate in further negotiations on the confidence-building measures, unless the Turkish side accepts the 21 March UN document as is.
