FBIS3-20756 "jpeer008__s94021" JPRS-EER-94-008-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 10 March 1994 POLAND Solidarity's Views on June Local Elections 94P20421A Warsaw RZECZPOSPOLITA in Polish 2 Feb 94 p 2 94P20421A Warsaw RZECZPOSPOLITA Language: Polish Article Type:CSO [Article by PAD: "`S' on the Elections"] [Text] Solidarity's National Commission Presidium is of the opinion that the trade union should not put forth an independent list of candidates in the coming [June] local elections. The regional structures will decide on their own how to take part in the elections. Piotr Zak, Solidarity spokesman, said, "These opinions result from an internal union polling. The regional authorities will make the final decision because they have the best perception of the situation. They can support specific people or coalitions, or create programmatic blocs. We will allow participation in various coalitions, even in such that group forces ranging from Union of Labor [social democratic, left point of view] to Union for Real Politics [laissez faire, free market point of view]." Zak underscored the fact that the Solidarity trade union is a attractive partner, having at its disposal almost 2 million members, a structure of several thousand factory commissions, and a printing base. He added, "We want groups that emerged from Solidarity to win in these elections; therefore, the stronger the local alliances, the greater their chances for success. It would be inadvisable to give preference to one or two groups." During the Tuesday (1 February) meeting, the draft of the state budget was also discussed. Solidarity chief Marian Krzaklewski said that this was a draft of continuation not of changes, and, for that reason, Solidarity gives it a negative mark. The wage regulation that is meant to take the place of the popiwek (excess wage tax) in the draft budget came under strong criticism, as an attempt to introduce a manually controlled economy, said Krzaklewski, adding that "OPZZ [All-Polish Trade Unions Agreement--the communist government-sponsored trade union founded in 1984] will claim that it was it that got rid of the popiwek." In the opinion of the Solidarity chief, the regulation of wages should be brought about by collective arrangements at the enterprise level. According to initial assessments, over 20,000 trade unionists are expected to take part in the manifestation scheduled for 9 February in Warsaw. Krzaklewski said, "Participation in the manifestation is open to all, but, personally, I would not be pleased if OPZZ activists demonstrated with us." He added that the Secretariat of the center-right parties has called for support of the Solidarity manifestation. The Presidium also agreed to conduct an eight-hour strike in the defense industry factories this coming Thursday (3 February).
