FBIS4-14457 "drsov062_b_94018" FBIS-SOV-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military Issues Underfinanced Defense Ministry Switches Focus Underfinanced Defense Ministry Switches Focus MK3103080094 Moscow MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS in Russian 31 Mar 94 p 1 MK3103080094 Moscow MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS Russian BFN [Dmitriy Kholodov report: "Generals Conquer Politics. Appropriations Will Be Just Enough To Rename Something"] [Text] Andrey Kozyrev will apparently soon have to make way for other people on the international scene. Following an active reform of the Armed Forces, the Defense Ministry risks turning into a Foreign Ministry. It seems that everyone at the military ministry is engaged in foreign policy. Colonel General Kondratyev, deputy defense minister, is extinguishing "hot spots;" another deputy, Boris Gromov, is responsible for communications with the CIS countries. It is absolutely unclear who is handling army reform at the ministry. Even the Military Organization and Reform Administration is becoming the Military Policy Administration starting 1 April, "switching over" to the analysis of the NATO-proposed "Partnership for Peace" program. In addition, there is the International Treaty Administration, which also handles foreign policy matters. People at the Defense Ministry have gotten used to renaming things: some of its structures have thus been "reformed" five or six times already within the past 18 months. For instance, the Main Personnel Administration [MPA] has become the Main Administration for the Training and Allocation of Personnel, only to be renamed the MPA once again. To all appearances, it is the renaming and cuts in the army, a process going on independently of anyone, that all reform in the Armed Forces will boil down to: the Defense Ministry has lost the battle for the budget, having received only half of what it requested. There is not enough money even to provide clothes for the ministerial personnel and the General Staff -- the Defense Ministry's warehouses are completely empty. So, crying a lack of trench coats, trouser stripes, and subordinates could not but give a boost to "the foreign policy consciousness of the generals' masses."
