FBIS3-8867 "dreeu052__a94036" FBIS-EEU-94-052-A Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Kovac Attends First Meeting of New Government AU1703090494 Prague CTK in English 2302 GMT 16 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1703090494 Prague CTK Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Bratislava, March 16 (CTK) -- The new Slovak Government of Premier Jozef Moravcik, at its first meeting today, dismissed Slovak Police Director Frantisek Krajca and appointed Stefan Lastovka new director, Moravcik told journalists after the meeting. "It is essential for ensuring full functioning of the police," Moravcik said. Interior Minister Ladislav Pittner also justified the change of the police director by the stand police adopted during the "pro-Meciar" demonstration and the attacks on journalists. Slovak President Michal Kovac attended the first cabinet meeting. "...The government has emerged from dire necessity to overcome the authoritarian method of governing and to create conditions for respect and tolerance of citizens... The government will orient its activity towards a realistic transformation policy, for which a stable economy is a pre-condition. It will pay exceptional attention to citizens' living conditions and safety and it shares Kovac's appeal for political, civic and national reconciliation...," the new government said in a statement. Privatization Minister Milan Janicina said that the "wild" privatization by Meciar's cabinet in its last days was discussed at the meeting. He said that either today or tomorrow at the latest "appropriate measures" will be taken but he did not elaborate. Privatization will also be discussed by the new government on Friday. Moravcik said that filling the posts of the state secretaries in the individual ministries would be a subject for further coalition talks, adding that the opinion of ministers would be taken into consideration. Vice-Premier Ivan Simko declined to give details about the government-prepared manifesto declaration which, according to the constitution, should be submitted to parliament within 30 days.
