FBIS3-22211 "jpten006___94074" JPRS-TEN-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 8 MARCH 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Icebound Toxic Chemical Barges Pose Threat to Amur River Ecology 94WN0155A Moscow MOSCOW NEWS in English No 1, 10 Jan 94 p 13 94WN0155A Moscow MOSCOW NEWS Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Yelena Matveyeva; first paragraph MOSCOW NEWS comment] [Text] A string of barges hauled along by a mighty tugboat is now icebound in the lower reaches of the Amur. The vessels frozen in the middle of the river threaten an ecological catastrophe, not only in the lower Amur but all along the great Far Eastern river, because the barges carry tons of toxic chemicals destined for use in some technical operations at the Mnogovershynnyi ore-dressing plant. At the start of the navigation season some local inept ``managers'' dispatched the caravan from Komsomolsk-on-Amur to Nikolayevsk, on a long trip down the river, unmindful of the consequences. As we know, the expedition never reached its destination, finding itself stuck in ice. Ecologists insist that the hazardous cargo must immediately be removed from the river. But in order to do this, it is necessary to lay a winter road to the barges from the settlement of Mnogovershynnyi that would span 200 km and stretch across ice-covered bogs and ice hummocks on numerous smaller rivers. The project will require a lot of machinery and quite some time. Special motor vehicles will have to be laid on to evacuate the toxic reagents. The locals are not yet ready to mount this kind of large-scale rescue operation. Meanwhile, residents of coastal settlements have started ``appropriating'' the cargoes, according to a time-honoured Russian custom, in the belief that they can come in useful in the household. A goodly proportion of the hazardous load is already scattered across Amur ice and coated with snow banks and drifts. In the spring all that will find its way into the river which until recently was believed to have the world's largest fish population. Today the Amur is in the fourth category of the water pollution table for major rivers which means its waters cannot be used, and much, less, consumed by man.
