FBIS3-45056 "drchi008_n_94013" FBIS-CHI-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 Economic & Agricultural Paper Says Steel Imports To `Plummet' This Year HK0901074694 Beijing CHINA DAILY (BUSINESS WEEKLY) in English 9-15 Jan 94 p 8 HK0901074694 Beijing CHINA DAILY (BUSINESS WEEKLY) Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Wang Yong: "Steel Imports To Tumble"] [Text] Demand for steel will remain constant this year but imports will plummet, partly because of high domestic stocks, said a top manager last week. Excessive imports last year inflated inventories to around 25 million tons by the end of last month, which was 7-8 million more than normal, estimated Zhen Yongdian, Vice-President of China National Metals and Minerals Import & Export Corporation (Minmetals). "China needs at least three months to clear the stock," Zhen said. He predicted a recovery of steel consumption in the second half of the year as the country's GDP keeps growing by 8-9 percent. And he sought to dispel widespread speculation that China's steel imports would continue to tumble or even stop, arguing that the fall is only a reasonable response to the abnormalities of last year. "China imported 25.8 million tons of steel in the first 11 months of last year, which was an all-time record," he said. He estimated the nation's steel imports for all of 1993 at 27 million tons. And he attributed last year's brisk demand to the country's rapid economic development fueled by senior leader Deng Xiaoping's reform- boosting trip to south China in early 1992. But he pointed to an unsettling factor that had brought about a glut of steel imports in home markets. "There were too many speculators fiddling with steel imports and State controls had failed," he said. Huge amounts of steel were imported through barter and border trade and overseas=funded ventures, besides licensed companies like Minmetals. "These chaotic imports, which cropped up during China's transition from a planned economy to a market one, were abnormal," Zhen said. The steel imports boom came to a halt last July after the central government moved to slow the pace of economic development. "But in the longer term, China will remain one of the world's largest consumers of steel," Zhen said. "Despite a steady growth in domestic production, china will still need to import steel in the future," he predicted. For, as the economy develops, the growth rate of domestic production has to keep up with the growth in the country's gross domestic product, he explained. However, it is unlikely to do so for now. "And even if the domestic production and demands are balanced, our steel imports would continue, especially in certain high-quality categories like tin plate, special plates, petroleum pipes and silicon steel," he added. However, he said that although the State had dropped the tariffs on certain steel items, the devaluation of the renminbi, brought about by a uniform foreign exchange rate, would raise the price of steel imports. Minmetals, China's largest steel trader, accounts for more than half of the country's import orders, despite growing competition from mushrooming domestic rivals. The company has formed world-wide import channels over the past decades.
