FBIS4-41153 "drsov121_a_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-121 Daily Report 22 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev Says Russia in No Hurry To Join NATO Kozyrev Says Russia in No Hurry To Join NATO LD2206154794 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1429 GMT 22 Jun 94 LD2206154794 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature] [Text] Russia does not rule out that at a certain stage it may join NATO, just like any other country, however, it believes it should be in no hurry to do so, Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev has said. He was speaking at a news conference in Brussels following his talks with the U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher. Kozyrev said that "Partnership for Peace" was enough to develop cooperation with that alliance. Kozyrev said that at his talks with the U.S. Secretary of State six questions were discussed -- President Yeltsin's visit to the United States scheduled for late September, the G-7 summit in Naples next month, the UN Security Council's draft resolution on North Korea's nuclear program and situations in Latvia and Estonia, and Bosnia. Kozyrev said that the sides had proved to have close or identical attitudes to all fundamental aspects of the North Korean nuclear problem. "Our representatives in New York are still to do some editing", Kozyrev said. As he answered questions, Kozyrev warned that sanctions against North Korea would be inevitable in 30 days unless that country took positive steps to meet the international community half-way. He said North Korea should be helped by convening an international conference. About the Baltic countries the Russian Foreign Minister said Latvia had adopted laws that do not hold water. As for Estonia, there might be an early agreement on the withdrawal of troops from that country on the condition Tallinn displayed goodwill. About Bosnia Kozyrev said that the liaison group was to meet in session on June 28 to produce a plan for a settlement in Bosnia. He said that the liaison mission would use the stick and carrot policy towards the warring factions.
