FBIS4-34249 "drlat117_b_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-117 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 Barbados Haiti Lawmaker Recommends Intra-Haitian Negotiations Lawmaker Recommends Intra-Haitian Negotiations FL1606223194 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole in French 1600 GMT 16 Jun 94 FL1606223194 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole French BFN [Passages within italics in Creole] [Text] Deputy Antoine Joseph recommends intra-Haitian negotiations to avoid a military intervention against Haiti. The lawmaker believes the Chamber of Deputies could play an important role in these negotiations. To the former president of the Chamber of Deputies, it is necessary to preserve national sovereignty in exploring dialogue. [Begin Joseph recording] Any self-respecting Haitian must say no to intervention. I do not believe that preparing for war is the solution. What matters now is how to avoid the intervention with a minimum of breakdowns with regard to the actors concerned in the crisis. I admit that the Security Council resolution complicated the situation because it goes beyond the Governors Island accord. The accord had asked for the resignation of General Cedras, while the resolution asks for the resignation of the police chief and the Army staff as well. Therefore, I believe it is more than time to begin intra-Haitian negotiations. If we consider all that is happening right now -- with Jonassaint, a government that is not well installed, no prime minister -- I believe the Chamber of Deputies now constitutes a reserve or reference that can begin intra-Haitian negotiations, negotiations with Gen. Cedras and the Army members to see how we can study the Security Council resolution and later extend those negotiations to the international level in an effort to find a solution before 25 June. I think it is possible. Personally, as a lawmaker and a former president of the lower chamber, and having a certain knowledge of the political matters of this country, I am ready to participate in all negotiations aimed at avoiding an intervention in the country, but mostly to put an end to this everlasting crisis. [end recording]
