FBIS3-5248 "dreas044_i_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Cambodia Radio Claims Massacre in Phnom Penh Suburbs BK0503140394 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia in Cambodian 2330 GMT 4 Mar 94 BK0503140394 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia Language: Cambodian Article Type:BFN ["Open letter from the generals and colonels of the National Army of Independent Cambodia who are victims of the recent massacre at Stoeng Meanchey in Phnom Penh suburbs" dated 27 February -- read by announcer] [Text] I. As members of the FUNCINPEC [National United Front for an Independent, Neutral, Peaceful, and Cooperative Cambodia] and troops the ANKI [National Army of Independent Cambodia], we have complied with the rules and political program of the FUNCINPEC Party by writing a clear letter to inform the FUNCINPEC leaders of the massacre at Stoeng Meanchey and Choam Chau [Phnom Penh suburbs]. II. Many days have elapsed, but we have not received even a word of reply from them. They look down upon us as if we were cats or dogs. III. We wrote that we were then waiting for an answer before making a final decision. IV. It has been quite a long time now, but they have not given us any reply. This means that you regard us only as dogs. In fact, many of us died on the battlefield in serving them. V. For this reason, we would like to declare here that: A. We absolutely oppose Hun Sen and Chea Sim, lackeys of the Vietnamese communists. B. We absolutely oppose the Vietnamese communists and the alliance. C. We have now stopped serving as FUNCINPEC members and ANKI troops. We want to confirm that this is a permanent decision. VI. As of today, do not seek our service again. Beware of your head! If the FUNCINPEC and ANKI leaders want to wage war like the Vietnamese communists, Vietnamese communist puppets, and the alliance, go out to fight by yourself. As lackeys, you should go out to fight, fight, and fight for your masters. King Ranariddh, King Sereivut, and all those who are so good in waging war on the paper should go out to fight by themselves. VII. We can find a plot of land for ourselves in the countryside. But all of you kings who have colluded with the Vietnamese communist puppets in plundering the nation will certainly be burried together with the dollars that you have stolen. You will never know how angry the ANKI troops and people are. You are just the ignorants. Go to hell! Go to hell! [Signed] The victimized ANKI generals, colonels, colonel-ranking officers, and soldiers at Stoeng Meanchey and Choam Chau [Dated] 27 February 1994
