FBIS4-52045 "dreas088_a_94009" FBIS-EAS-94-088 Daily Report 6 May 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Reaction to Nagano's Remarks on Nanjing Reported Reaction to Nagano's Remarks on Nanjing Reported ROK, PRC Criticize Remarks OW0605133894 Tokyo NHK General Television Network in Japanese 1015 GMT 6 May 94 OW0605133894 Tokyo NHK General Television Network Japanese BFN [Announcer-read report over video: from the "NHK News 7" program] [Text] Justice Minister Nagano has said that the Nanjing atrocity is a fabrication and South Korea and China are reacting against his remarks. South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu called in Japanese Ambassador to Seoul Toshio Goto today to protest against Nagano's remarks. During his meeting with the Japanese ambassador, Foreign Minister Han said: We regret Justice Minister Nagano's remarks which have thrown cold water on new efforts by the South Korean and Japanese Governments to build a new relationship. I hope the Japanese Government will take proper steps to deal with his remarks. About 50 South Korean bereaved family members of victims of the Pacific war assembled today in front of the Japanese Embassy in Seoul to throw eggs into the embassy building and demand the sacking of Justice Minister Nagano. Meanwhile, the Chinese Government is believed to be assessing to some extent Justice Minister Nagano's retraction of his remarks that the Nanjing atrocity is a fabrication. So far, however, some Japanese cabinet ministers have denied Japan's war of aggression against China and the atrocity perpetrated by Japanese soldiers in China. Therefore, the Chinese Government is expected to carefully watch how the Japanese Government will deal with Nagano's remarks. South Korean and Chinese Governments are asking the Japanese Government to take proper steps to deal with the controversial remarks through Japanese embassies in Seoul and Beijing. In response, Foreign Ministry spokesman Terada has said that the Japanese Government intends to respond to the South Korean and Chinese Governments through diplomatic channels about how the Japanese Government plans to deal with the controversial remarks after Prime Minister Hata returns home tomorrow.
