FBIS4-7220 "dreas082_a_94045" FBIS-EAS-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Protection of Foreign Illegal Workers Urged Protection of Foreign Illegal Workers Urged OW2704092794 Tokyo KYODO in English 0846 GMT 27 Apr 94 OW2704092794 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, April 27 KYODO -- A report on the conditions of foreign residents in Tokyo presented to the Tokyo Municipal Government on Wednesday [27 April] calls for greater human rights guarantees for illegal foreign workers living in the city. The report, drawn up by a committee under the chairmanship of Yoshio Okawara, a special adviser to the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren) and a former ambassador to the United States, was handed to Tokyo Gov. Shunichi Suzuki. The municipal government will use the report as a basis for its recommendations to all its administrative bureaus. Over the past decade, the number of foreigners registering as residents in Tokyo has virtually doubled as the city has played host to an increasing number of foreign corporations, foreign students and foreign workers. The number of foreigners in Tokyo had risen to about 270,000 by late 1993, or about one in 40 of the city's residents. The report notes that many illegal workers avoid contact with administrative officials because they fear it will lead to detection and subsequent deportation. The report says that as a result, poverty and unemployment among foreign workers is becoming a serious problem. It recommends that while directing companies to prevent illegal employment, the community must face the reality that illegal workers are living in the community and should frame policies accordingly. It says such policies should take into account problems like the abuse of workers' rights when they are not paid wages. It also recommends increased support for citizens' groups working against human rights abuses among women engaged in prostitution and calls for adequate education and health care for children of illegal workers.
