FBIS4-43704 "drweu119__a94055" FBIS-WEU-94-119-A Daily Report 21 June 1994 ANNEX Switzerland Bern Submits `Improved' Offer on WTO Headquarters Bern Submits `Improved' Offer on WTO Headquarters BR1606103094 Bern ATSA/SDAA Database in French 1550 GMT 15 Jun 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1606103094 Bern ATSA/SDAA Database French BFN [Report by "MF/RP": "World Trade Organization Headquarters: Switzerland Submits Improved Proposal to GATT"] [Text] Geneva, 15 Jun (ATS) -- On Wednesday afternoon [15 June], Switzerland submitted a second, improved proposal to GATT with a view to attracting the headquarters of the future World Trade Organization (WTO) to Geneva. The Swiss Confederation intends to donate the William Rappart Center building, which houses GATT, to the WTO. This offer by Switzerland comes right after the official application by Bonn. Bern is also ready to build a new conference hall with a seating capacity of 725 and to make it available at no cost to the WTO. This hall, with a parking lot for 400 cars, would be built near the WTO. Moreover, Geneva has agreed to provide the 40 less-favored nations with rooms to house their permanent mission. As far as the value of the real property is concerned, the Swiss proposals amount to about 100 million Swiss francs. If they wish to do so, countries could have three permanent missions in Switzerland: one to the United Nations, one to the WTO, and one to the Disarmament Conference. Today, the various countries only have one mission to the United Nations. Privileges The WTO and its officials will benefit from privileges and immunities enjoyed by the intergovernmental organizations in Switzerland. High-ranking officials will have diplomatic status. Bern also intends to take various measures to improve the standard of living of those employed by all the international organizations in Switzerland. Geneva and Bonn are the only two cities that have applied to accommodate the headquarters of the WTO. The two bids will be submitted to the preparatory committee of the WTO on 23 and 24 June. The final choice should be made by 15 July. Confidence Diplomatic sources say Switzerland is in a good position. The offers made by Germany and Switzerland are almost equivalent. However, the fact that the GATT secretariat has been established in Geneva since it was created pleads in favor of Geneva. The need for close cooperation between the WTO and other international organizations in Geneva is another asset. William Rossier, Swiss ambassador to GATT, thinks Switzerland has made an "excellent offer." In his opinion, Switzerland has shown that it wants to remain an attractive and important international center.
