FBIS3-43728 "drafr010_a_94004" FBIS-AFR-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 January 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Burundi Wrapup of Events Leading to Naming of New President Assembly Elects Ntaryamira President EA1301193394 Bujumbura Radio-Television Nationale du Burundi Radio in French 1800 GMT 13 Jan 94 EA1301193394 Bujumbura Radio-Television Nationale du Burundi Radio Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] The National Assembly has just elected Mr. Cyprien Ntaryamira as the new president of the Republic. He was elected by 78 votes for him and one vote against. Marie-Jose Niyonziman has the details of the proceedings which led to the election: [Begin Niyonziman recording] There was a continuation this evening of the ordinary session which began on 4 October and was interrupted on 21 October following the events which took place in Burundi. On the agenda was the election of the head of state. The election of Cyprien Ntaryamira as president of the Republic took place in the presence of all members of the government and the diplomatic and consular corps. Of 81 representatives, 76 were present. The election is the result of two days of consultations carried out by Prime Minister Sylvie kinigi with political, moral, and social forces to find a resolution to the crisis in Burundi. On behalf of the Union for National Progress [Uprona] parliamentary group, Jean-Baptiste Manwangari briefed the guests and the National Assembly on the evolution of contacts carried out during the two days. The central objective was the drafting of a schedule and the management of the administration and security services, especially for political and ethnic minorities. They also agreed on the profile of the candidate, who would have to be a person who brings together and reassures all the components of Burundi. There was also agreement on the creation of openness in provincial and communal administrations. The personalities involved in the massacres would not be allowed to join them. During the talks, there was a decision on a political truce, during which some political activities are to be suspended. It is worth recalling the freeing of public media, the creation of a framework for dialogue, and the current election of the president. At the moment, as I speak to you, the ceremonies are continuing at Kigobe. [end recording]
