FBIS4-26186 "drchi118_k_94022" FBIS-CHI-94-118 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Beijing Criticizes Sichuan Over Migrant Labor Flows Beijing Criticizes Sichuan Over Migrant Labor Flows HK2006065594 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 20 Jun 94 p 7 HK2006065594 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST English BFN [By Willy Wo-Lap LAM] [Text] Beijing and Sichuan are locked in disagreement over the outflow of migrant labour from the country's most populous province. Sichuan, which has more than 100 million people and China's largest number of superfluous farm labourers has come under criticism from Beijing and other provinces for failing to curb the outward movement of migrant workers. But the leadership of the province, headed by maverick Governor Xiao Yang, has protested that stopping the migration would harm the local economy. In a recent internal meeting, Mr Xiao defended the practice of the superfluous farm hands looking for work, mainly in the rich coastal provinces. "During harvests and other busy times, the rural work hands stay in the fields," Mr Xiao said. "In slack seasons, they go outside the province and look for work. They provide cheap labour for the richer provinces and remit their earnings back home. This is a sound economic principle for labour management." Other Sichuan cadres have also complained that they lack the funds to provide social insurance or unemployment benefits for extra rural labour. Beijing and the coastal provinces, however, have put pressure on the Sichuan Government to at least set a quota on the number of its "exports" of migrant labour. It is understood that Guangdong as well as some of its more prosperous cities, including Guangzhou and Shenzhen, have agreed to make financial contributions to Sichuan in exchange for an end to unwanted Sichuanese labourers. Chinese sources said no agreement had been reached between Sichuan and Beijing on the "quota" to be set or the "compensation" the province would get in return. Meanwhile, sources said Beijing was working on a nationwide strategy to control the flow of population. This follows the de facto breakdown of the old system of residency permits, where government permission was required for rural people to live and work in the cities. Employers, including managers in state factories in prosperous coastal cities like Shenzhen, however, are often reluctant to expel "underground" labourers from other provinces because they are a source of cheap labour.
