FBIS3-214 "drafr042_c_94009" FBIS-AFR-94-042 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA De Klerk: No Time for International Mediation MB0303100794 Johannesburg SAPA in English 0931 GMT 3 Mar 94 MB0303100794 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by C. Doonan] [Text] Durban March 3 SAPA -- State President F W de Klerk said on Thursday [3 March] he did not believe there was enough time for mediation to bring the Inkatha Freedom Party [IFP] back into South Africa's transition and urged ongoing dialogue to achieve this end. "I don't think mediation is a very expeditious means," he told reporters after meeting community leaders in Pietermaritzburg -- part of his election roadshow through Natal. "Time is of the essence," he said, adding that direct dialogue was the best way to overcome differences. Mr de Klerk told parties intent on boycotting the election that they were "shooting themselves in the foot". On reports of a split in the Conservative Party [CP], Mr de Klerk said it did not surprise him, as he believed there was strong support by CP members at grassroots level to contest the April poll. In reply to a question, Mr de Klerk said he did not feel intimidated by venturing into kwaZulu territory, saying he had not received any negative reaction from IFP President Mangosuthu Buthelezi on his journey into that region. Mr de Klerk will on Friday afternoon visit strife-torn Umbumbulu south of Durban, a district of kwaZulu which has been wracked by years of political violence. Mr de Klerk also said he had discussed issues such as abortion and satanism with a group of church, local government, traditional and other leaders in Pietermaritzburg on Thursday morning. On abortion, he said he believed the NP [National Party] policy which outlawed unnatural birth except under exceptional circumstances, was a good one. Only when the life of a mother was in jeopardy did the NP believe abortion should be considered. Mr de Klerk moved to central Pietermartizburg later on Thursday.
