FBIS3-37559 "drsov034_b_94019" FBIS-SOV-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military & Space Issues Ministries at Odds Over 1994 Army Funding PM1702162994 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 17 Feb 94 p 3 PM1702162994 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Ivan Ivanyuk report under "Postscript. Events and Commentaries" rubric: "There Is No 1994 Budget Yet. Problems With Financing Army and Navy Apparently Remain"] [Text] Colonel General Vasiliy Vorobyev, chief of the Russian Federation Defense Ministry Military Budget and Financing Main Directorate, spoke yesterday at a press conference organized by the Russian Federation Defense Ministry Information and Press Directorate. He talked about the problems of providing financial support for the Russian Army, which have still not become any less acute. Thus only 65 percent of the Defense Ministry's financial expenditure needs last year were met, which constantly led to delays in paying pay and allowances and wages in the Army and Navy. As of 1 January 1994 the Defense Ministry owed 2.2 trillion rubles [R] to suppliers of weapons, equipment, property, supply items, and other goods and services. It was noted at the press conference that this debt was partly cleared by the Russian Finance Ministry this February -- settlements with the national economy, including defense sectors of industry, are already being made from the R1 trillion deposited in Defense Ministry accounts. But by all accounts the resources allocated are insufficient to remove even the most acute questions from the agenda. One of them is the financing of capital and housing construction. Because of the lack of appropriations for these purposes it was made virtually impossible to fulfill the 1993 tasks under the state program to provide servicemen with housing. Of the 61,700 apartments planned for commissioning via federal budget resources, only 50,000 or 81 percent of the plan were commissioned. The Defense Ministry is trying to solve its financial problems by selling released property. Last year 1,600 apartments were acquired by this means. At the same time it is clear that the Armed Forces cannot function normally without stable, full-blooded financing. But studies on the 1994 military budget indicate that the Finance Ministry is currently prepared to allocate only one-third of the sums requested by the Defense Ministry. Answering a question on financing and reforming the mass media, Col. Gen. Vorobyev said that a choice has to be made in the current very complex economic conditions: Whether to maintain a particular military journal or give troops their statutory pay, for which people have sometimes been waiting months. It is a difficult choice but the second option must be chosen.
