FBIS4-34604 "drlat120_o_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-120 Daily Report 22 Jun 1994 Colombia Samper Seeks Prompt Inquiry Samper Seeks Prompt Inquiry PA2206041994 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Network in Spanish 0235 GMT 22 Jun 94 PA2206041994 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Network Spanish BFN [From the "CMI Newscast] [Text] President-elect Ernesto Samper has flatly denied his campaign received any money of doubtful origin and placed his accounting books at the disposal of the Prosecutor General's Office. [Begin unidentified reporter recording] 1. The president-elect talked today with the prosecutor general to request a swift and efficient investigation of the facts. He placed the campaign books at the disposal of that office to be thoroughly reviewed. 2. From the very start of the campaign, we warned of the danger of the infiltration of drug trafficking money into politics and that is why an ethics code was issued, which devotes a special chapter on controlling the origin of resources for the campaign, and an ethics prosecutor of the highest moral qualities was named to enforce the code and prevent this infiltration. No other campaign, therefore, had greater control or was stricter in receiving resources than ours. As a result of this strict control, we can categorically affirm today that our campaign treasury received no money of doubtful origin. 3. Any Colombian citizen or news media wishing to review the campaign books may do so from this moment and corroborate, as the overseer of the national Treasury did, the origin of donations received this past year. 4. The president-elect has once again reiterated his unyielding commitment to fighting drug trafficking, combating it decisively in the military field but without repealing the policy of surrendering to justice promoted by the current government. By the same token, he will maintain all international commitments to cooperate in fighting this scourge. Not one millimeter will be yielded to this crime, and the international community will be asked to take clearer responsibility to persecute money laundering and consumption in developed nations. 5. The president-elect appeals for peace so situations such as this one are not used lightly as political weapons that harm Colombia's image abroad. [end recording]
