FBIS4-29529 "dreas118_d_94012" FBIS-EAS-94-118 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 South Korea Reportage on North-South Summit Proposal Reportage on North-South Summit Proposal President, U.S. Senators Talk SK2006070794 Seoul YONHAP in English 0659 GMT 20 Jun 94 SK2006070794 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] Seoul, June 20 (YONHAP) -- President Kim Yong-sam stressed Monday that a summit between South and North Korea must be held to resolve the two sides' problems, presidential spokesman Chu Ton-sik quoted the president as saying. While meeting U.S. Senators John McCain (R.-Ariz.) and Phil Gramm (R.-Tex.) to discuss the political situation on the Korean peninsula, including the nuclear dispute and military cooperation between South Korea and the United States, Kim said: "It is very important for the South and North to make mutual inspections (of each other's nuclear facilities) in the end, although discussions are under way on the nuclear issue between the United States and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)," according to Chu. President Kim was also quoted as saying that his government has been preparing for the South-North summit meeting. "We sent a telephone message (to the North) this morning, to the effect that the two sides should discuss the time and place on the grand principle of holding a South-North summit meeting, because we think there's no need to delay a summit." Senator McCain, meanwhile, said he was convinced of the importance of maintaining close military cooperation between Seoul and Washington after touring the Korea-U.S. Combined Forces Command, according to Chu. McCain reportedly said the American forces have a heightened awareness of security, which had seemingly weakened since the end of the Cold War, adding he felt that the U.S. Second Infantry Division was the strongest in the world. Congratulating Kim for carrying out vigorous reform, McCain voiced admiration for the president's popularity. The senator praised Kim's motto of "clean government, strong economy" and promised to reflect the motto in the Republican Party platform in 1996, according to Chu.
