FBIS4-67755 "jptnd003__l94024" JPRS-TND-94-003-L JPRS PROLIFERATION ISSUES 27 March 1994 WEST EUROPE REGIONAL AFFAIRS Swiss Weapons Firm Plans Offshore Production in UK Swiss Weapons Firm Plans Offshore Production in UK 94WP0084A London THE OBSERVER in English 27 Mar 94 p 13 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94WP0084A London THE OBSERVER English CSO [Article by Liesl Graz, Berne: "Offshore Landing Dodges Arms Rules"] [Text] A Swiss aircraft company is planning to move production to the Isle of Wight to take advantage of laxer British rules on arms exports. Pilatus Aircraft, a subsidiary of Oerlikon-Buhrle, best known for its sophisticated weapons systems, currently manufactures its Pilatus PC-7 and PC-9 aircraft in Stans, near Lucerne. The planes, originally developed for training, have been widely sold to countries such as Guatemala, Burma, Iraq, Iran and El Salvador. Swiss law prohibits military sales to `areas of conflict.' Pilatus has long claimed that its planes are not military equipment and that, if armies buy them for training, that is not the same as buying them for killing. But the Defence Ministry, which decides when export licences may be granted, is interpreting the rules more narrowly. The planes leave the factory equipped for training, but sometimes acquire gun points by the time they reach their destination. The Pilatus works and Oerlikon insist that they can do nothing about what happens to their products at stop-overs. At least one company in Belgium openly offers gun-ready conversion services. Officially, the company says the reason for its move to Britain is `mostly money.' But the subtext is that the European Union in general, and Britain in particular, look more hospitable as export bases. Pilatus will not say when the production transfer will take place and a spokesman said last week that no jobs would be lost in Stans, so aircraft for crop-dusting or training may be built there, while more problematic buyers are served from Britain. The Pilatus works are named after a nearby mountain which commemorates a legend that a Roman, first name Pontius and known for washing his hands of responsibility, wound up there in his old age.
