FBIS4-35967 "drnes108_n_94001" FBIS-NES-94-108 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 LEBANON Buwayz Denies Secret Negotiations With Israel Buwayz Denies Secret Negotiations With Israel PM0306113294 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 3 Jun 94 p 5 PM0306113294 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Arabic BFN [Unattributed report: "Faris Buwayz' Statement to AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT: Beirut Denies Existence of Secret Negotiations With Tel Aviv, Stresses No Plan To Evacuate Palestinians"] [Excerpt] Amman, AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT--Lebanese Foreign Minister Faris Buwayz has denied that there are any secret negotiations between Lebanon and Israel like those held between the Palestinians and the Israelis in Oslo. He said that the negotiations held between us are those conducted in the framework of the declared peace negotiations with the other Arab delegations. Answering a question put to him by AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT during his visit to Jordan, he said: We have not received any Israeli plans regarding withdrawal from southern Lebanon, neither through U.S. diplomacy nor any other quarters. He added that the Lebanese position has always been clear since the Madrid conference, as we refused to sit with the Israelis or to discuss any partial solution. Nor did we accept anything except full withdrawal from Lebanese territory. He stressed that Israel is trying, by means of unclear plans, to dissolve Resolution 425, which stipulates full withdrawal from Lebanese territory. We are calling for the implementation of all the UN resolutions, including Resolution 425 concerning Lebanon. Buwayz also stressed the need to continue and intensify coordination among the Arab parties concerned with the peace negotiations, as he regards it as support for the positions of the delegations participating in the peace negotiations. On the Palestinian self-rule agreement Buwayz said: What the Palestinians brothers have arrived at with the Israelis regarding "Gaza-Jericho" is an achievement -- which reflects positively on the other negotiation tracks and opens the door to progress on the other tracks. Buwayz warned of Israel's intentions in trying to divide solutions and single out the Arab parties individually in order to impose Israel's will and ambitions on the Arab states. It is always trying -- through trial balloons -- to agree a solution with this or that party regarding such and such. All these things are trial balloons for all the Arab tracks. Buwayz denied that his country has any plan to evacuate 400,000 Palestinians who have been living in Lebanon for several years and who hold Lebanese travel documents. He said: All the rumors in this connection are untrue, and we are not at all thinking of evacuating our Palestinian brothers. But we support their right to return to their land and recover their legitimate rights. [passage omitted]
