FBIS3-24908 "drafr023_c_94013" FBIS-AFR-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA CP Says Pretoria To Become Afrikaner Homeland Capital MB0202113394 Pretoria PATRIOT in Afrikaans 1 Feb 94 p 1 MB0202113394 Pretoria PATRIOT Language: Afrikaans Article Type:BFN [Report by Elizabeth Botha] [Text] Pretoria must become the capital of the Afrikaner homeland so that laws for whites can apply there, but, until then, the Afrikaner people will be subjected to the current laws, said Mr. Paul Fouche, leader of the Conservative Party [CP] caucus in the Pretoria City Council during a CP meeting on Tuesday [2 February] night in Pretoria. The whites have an inalienable right to retain Pretoria for the Afrikaner/Boer homeland. There is no way that Pretoria will become a part state. The Afrikaner people are being called on to engage in actions directed at drastic, nonviolent resistance so that they can really choke the negotiation forum until the Afrikaner homeland is in place. He is appealing to the Afrikaner people to trust their leaders and not to lose hope. The white man, and in particular the Boer/Afrikaner, is facing the biggest crisis of his history. The future of Pretoria and the country is not in anybody else's hands, but in those of the whites. That is why they have to prevent the takeover of Pretoria by an ANC [African National Congress] civics regime. The new transitional Constitution holds drastic results in store for the country at the local level. The only option that the transitional council can implement regarding Pretoria is the 50/50 system with mixed city councils. The communists and Antichrist will then rule the city. Fouche said the whites are no longer affected by this horror. The Boer/Afrikaner has to awaken other whites by communicating to them the seriousness of the situation. The new Constitution has so many loopholes that it could be possible to avert a tragedy. The negotiation forum must make the Constitution and its conditions enforceable in Pretoria and decide on the number of members the new metropolitan city council will have to consist of. The 17 CP city council members do not recognize the present forum in Pretoria as it has been established prematurely, and the transitional Constitution at local level is not as yet operative. The forum has no legal capabilities and its decisions are unacceptable. The Conservative Party's arm in local government is the Transvaal Municipal Association which has succeeded in getting all city councils from group eight down to retain their status quo during the pre-interim period. It did not only get it right for the CP-controlled city councils, but also for 94 percent of all city councils in South Africa. The National Party councilors were keen to jump on this wagon and were relieved to be able to retain their autonomy. A National Party-controlled city council, such as Beaufort West, has asked Fouche to explain this part of the Constitution to them because they want to be governed by whites.
