FBIS3-23068 "jptot010__l94030" JPRS-TOT-94-010-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 10 March 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA PALESTINIAN AFFAIRS Hamas Executes DFLP Aide as `Israeli Agent' PM2802145994 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 25 Feb 94 pp 1, 4 PM2802145994 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Jamal Khashuqji report: "Hamas Executed DFLP Leader in Gaza"] [Excerpt] Jeddah -- Relations between the Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas) and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine [DFLP] have deteriorated seriously after Hamas announced that its armed squads in Gaza executed Yusuf Abu-Lafi, head of the DFLP military organ in the Gaza Strip. In a statement issued by "the 'Izz-al-Din al-Qassam squads," Hamas accused Abu-Lafi (27 years) of having been "an Israeli agent." It distributed a videotape of his confessions. The incident marks a further deterioration in the relations between the two parties, which are members of the Damascus-based Alliance of Palestinian Forces [APF] opposed to Palestinian President Yasir 'Arafat. Hamas's official spokesman in Jordan Muhammad Nazzal has stated that the DFLP's protest against the execution of the head of its military organ in Gaza was strange. He told AL-HAYAH that the videotape and the confessions of Yusuf Abu-Lafi "were sufficient explanation." He stressed that Hamas had given the factions allied with it, especially the DFLP, the details pertaining to that issue. He added: "It is the general policy of Hamas to inform the faction to which an uncovered agent belongs of the details, and it will continue to do so." He emphasized that "purging the Palestinian factions of agents is one of the important programs which all factions should cooperate with it to fulfill." The DFLP, however, has protested the incident and described the dead man as "a revolutionary commander and a patriotic struggler known to the masses of the Khan Yunis camp as one of their righteous sons." That came in a DFLP memorandum submitted to the APF leadership during its meeting in Damascus last Saturday requesting an end to such incidents. Before Hamas claimed responsibility for killing Abu-Lafi, the DFLP in the Gaza Strip issued several statements describing Abu-Lafi as "an honorable struggler" abducted "while performing a struggle duty." They accused the abductors of being "agents of the occupation authorities" and threatened revenge if he was harmed. [passage omitted]
