FBIS4-16541 "drsov074_a_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev Holds Talks With Milosevic in Belgrade Kozyrev Holds Talks With Milosevic in Belgrade Sees Chance for Peace After Talks LD1704111394 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1031 GMT 17 Apr 94 LD1704111394 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Dmitriy Gorokhov and Aleksandr Kondrashov] [Text] Belgrade, 17 Apr -- This day should become a reference point for moving in the opposite direction from war, Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev said before flying out of Belgrade for Moscow. During the course of talks with Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, he said in an interview with Russian journalists, I discussed the initiative plan on a settlement put forward by President Yeltsin and passed on our urgent recommendations to follow precisely this path. I should say that the Serbian president was ready for this conversation and our ideas on ways of settling the Bosnian question virtually tallied. This comes down to two to three specific steps: The lifting of the siege of Gorazde, which would mean quite a modest Serbian troop withdrawal; an end to the bombardment; and the dispatch of a contingent of UN forces to that town, which would guarantee objectivity and a complete cessation of fire by all sides. This would make any aerial actions on the part of NATO or the United Nations completely unnecessary. Furthermore, the minister continued, the way would immediately be cleared for a cessation of hostile actions along the whole front line. Then favorable conditions would be created for holding full-scale negotiations on a comprehensive settlement. Everything now depends on whether the Serb side carries out the accords that were achieved at the meeting with President Milosevic. In short, there is a very great chance for peace. Accordingly, these steps by the Serb side -- each one of them -- would make it possible for Russia with even greater persistence and realism to raise the issue of the lifting of the sanctions against Yugoslavia. Moreover, this plan was approved in Belgrade. Belgrade would therefore have clearly shown that an impetus toward peace is coming precisely from there. Consequently, the grounds for the sanctions are disappearing and conditions are being created for Yugoslavia's return into the family of European and world peoples, Kozyrev emphasized in conclusion.
