FBIS4-55252 "dreeu092_i_94019" FBIS-EEU-94-092 Daily Report 12 May 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Muslims `Cleansing' Zenica of Croats Muslims `Cleansing' Zenica of Croats LD1205140494 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1050 GMT 12 May 94 LD1205140494 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN [Text] Belgrade, May 12 (TANJUG) -- Croats expelled by the Muslims from Zenica, Muslim-held city in central Bosnia-Herzegovina, are arriving each day in the region of the Lasva river valley, the Croatian radio reported on Thursday. The radio said that the wave of ethnic cleansing of Croats has gained in intensity especially after March 18 when the Bosnian Croats and Muslims submitted to U.S. pressure in Washington and signed an agreement on setting up a joint federation in Bosnia. Some 1,500 Croats from Zenica fled to Vitez, Busovaca, Novi Travnik and Nova Bila (all Croat-held towns in central Bosnia), the Croatian radio said. The realization of the agreement on the Muslim-Croat federation has been slow although both sides, which met in Vienna this week, agreed the borders of the ethnic cantons within the future state and that its first president is a Bosnian Croat. Despite the agreement, Bosnian Muslim leader Alija Izetbegovic has said he would continue to head Bosnia-Herzegovina. I will remain the president of the Presidency -- the only body which should symbolize the continuation of the state as a whole, Izetbegovic told Sarajevo television on Wednesday evening. He said that this should not present a problem in relations with the Croats because after six months a Muslim should become the head of the Muslim-Croat federation. On Wednesday the Bosnian Croats and Muslims closed their five-day talks by reaching agreement on the ethnic division within the future federation, which will spread on 30 percent of Bosnian territory, by planning to extend their cantons at the expense of the Serb territories in this ex-Yugoslav republic. The two sides' plan for their federation to include 58 percent of Bosnia practically announced new offensive actions on territories currently controlled by the Bosnian Serbs. The Muslim-Croat offensives on Serb territories in Bosnia are already underway in northern and eastern Bosnia.
