FBIS4-29547 "dreas118_c_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 North Korea Daily: U.S. Uses NPT To Dominate Other Nations Daily: U.S. Uses NPT To Dominate Other Nations SK1806044694 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0440 GMT 18 Jun 94 SK1806044694 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["Sinister Intention" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, June 18 (KCNA) -- The U.S. Defense Department recently worked out "a report on the program of non-proliferation activities" envisaging "punishment including sanctions" against the "violators of non-proliferation" for the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear and other mass destruction weapons. Meanwhile, the U.S. House of Representatives voted down the bill of a resolution calling for an end to assistance to Japan in its nuclear development. NODONG SINMUN today says this is an unreasonable act to stifle anti-imperialist independent countries including the Democratic People's Republic of Korea under the unjustifiable pretext of "non-proliferation" of nuclear and other mass destruction weapons, while patronizing the nuclear arms development in such pro-U.S. countries as Japan and Israel. The analyst further says: The United States is trying to stifle with a strong arm the DPRK that offers no problem, while keeping mum about Japan where nuclear armament is being accelerated, creating realistic danger. This is the culmination of the application of a double standard which fully reveals the shamelessness and duplicity of the United States. The U.S. military threat and blackmail under the pretext of "non-proliferation" of nuclear and other mass destruction weapons are now directed against the DPRK. But they may reach all the other anti-imperialist independent nations tomorrow. The United States intends to lord it over in the world by dominating developing countries by all means including threat with nuclear weapons. The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty [NPT] can never be a means of the U.S. domination and interference. Intolerable is the U.S. scheme to continue monopolizing nuclear weapons by abusing the NPT and dominate other nations.
