FBIS3-9589 "dreeu059_i_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Srpska Assembly Discusses Future of Government AU2503160894 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 25 Mar 94 AU2503160894 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Report by Mirjana Kusmuk] [Text] The assembly of the Srpska republic has continued its session in Pale. SRNA journalist Mirjana Kusmuk reports: [Kusmuk] The 39th session of the people's assembly of the Srpska republic continued in Pale at about 1100 this morning. After government ministers presented their reports, the deputies started to debate them behind closed doors. During the 15-minute break, the president of the Srpska republic [Radovan Karadzic] expressed a doubt in the replacement of the government, assuming that the assembly will decide to reshuffle it soon. The government will be made more dynamic and new posts will be created, those of deputies and assistants. The government will also be requested to work faster. This will have to produce results, Karadzic said. The assembly of the Srpska republic should today send a letter to UN Secretary General Butrus-Ghali regarding the UN decision to send Turkish troops to the former Bosnia-Herzegovina. According to Karadzic, judging by the prevailing mood in the assembly, the aforementioned letter will also contain a statement that by adopting this decision the Security Council has assumed responsibility for yet another dangerous precedent in the case of the former Yugoslavia, and that this represented the most direct responsibility for the possible spread of the war. Commenting on the platform for the continuation of the peace negotiations adopted yesterday, Karadzic stressed that the Serbian side would continue to negotiate with the Croats and the Muslims on some kind of links under certain conditions, but that it will not agree to the imposition of any solutions. A doubt was expressed that the conditions existed for our entry in the Muslim-Croat federation. However, we have not received any official offer to join them, Karadzic said. The assembly session is still in progress. The reports of the republican ministries are being discussed behind closed doors.
