FBIS4-38514 "drsov105__a94022" FBIS-SOV-94-105-A Daily Report 1 June 1994 ANNEX Ukraine Black Sea Fleet Chief Denies National Guard Statement Black Sea Fleet Chief Denies National Guard Statement LD2805213194 Moscow RIA in English 1621 GMT 28 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY LD2805213194 Moscow RIA English BFN [Text] Simferopol, May 28, RIA -- Vice-Admiral Petr Svyatashov, chief of staff of the Black Sea Fleet, described today as "absolutely untrue" the statement of the press service of the commander of the Ukrainian national Guards. The statement alleged, among other things, that marines of the Black Sea Fleet are holding tactical exercises in close proximity to the basing area of the National Guards of Ukraine and that electronic countermeasures taken by the Black sea Fleet suppressed for several hours the operation of the guards' radio and interrupted telephone communications of Interior Ministry bodies subordinated to Kiev. Units of the fleet were and remain in places of their permanent basing, the vice-admiral told a RIA correspondent. "We have not moved our men there, on the contrary, we carry our reductions, transferring men to the reserve, whereas the Defence Ministry, the Security Service and the National Guards of Ukraine are bringing in military units into the Crimea. They are engaged in a build-up of strength in areas where units of the fleet are based. Here, the strength of Ukrainian units is already upwards of 52,000 personnel," Svyatashov said. According to him, there are more than 2,000 National Guards stationed at the former Simferopol building school. "Some people seem to be eager to see the Ukrainian presidential elections not to be held but be postponed indefinitely," Svyatashov pointed out. In his view, those quarters are dissatisfied with certain stabilisation of the situation on the peninsula and are trying to aggravate it. Therein lies the purpose of the statement of the press service of the National Guards of Ukraine, just as the talk of the possible introduction of direct presidential rule in the Crimea.
