FBIS3-10615 "drlat047_m_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 Brazil Ambassador Protests U.S. Human Rights Criticism PY1003011694 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO in Portuguese 9 Mar 94 p 8 PY1003011694 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Deborah Berlinck] [Excerpts] Geneva -- "Neglect" and "savagery" were the terms used by the United States to once again report the situation of poverty and the killing of children in Brazil. Before a plenary packed with diplomats from almost 100 countries who are participating in the UN Human Rights Commission's annual meeting, U.S. representative Vivian Derryck startled Brazilian diplomats by saying that "in Brazil, street children search through litter to find food and sometimes are hunted for sport." [passage omitted] Caught by surprise by the criticism leveled by the U.S. delegation, the Brazilian delegation immediately delivered a lukewarm speech prepared the day before. In its speech, the Brazilian delegation again asked the international community for enhanced efforts to offer technical cooperation and other methods of assistance to those countries requiring assistance. Two pages of the Brazilian delegation's speech were dedicated to the Brazilian Government's successes, ranging from the eradication of poliomielitis "in three years" to the campaign against hunger devised by sociologist Herbert de Souza, alias Betinho. Brazil's official response to the hard overtones of the criticism leveled by the U.S. delegation during the UN Human Rights Commission's annual meeting came at the end of the meeting through a passionate protest speech delivered by Brazilian Ambassador Gilberto Saboia. Following is the ambassador's speech: "Exercising its right to a response, the Brazilian delegation wants to express its surprise over and disagreement with the remarks on Brazil made by the U.S. delegation. "To mention Brazil as a country that deliberately neglects children not only represents a false argument vis-a-vis the facts, but also contradicts the opinion voiced by UNICEF and other international authorities in this field. The Brazilian delegation is ready to furnish the U.S. delegation a copy of a report the Brazilian delegation distributed among nongovernmental organizations and UN Human Rights Commission countries, describing in detail the actions and programs implemented in Brazil in favor of children. "The allegation that children in Brazil are "hunted for sport" is totally unacceptable and demonstrates the U.S. delegation's lack of objectivity and lack of information on our country's reality. In addition, as demonstrated by the 1994 UNICEF report, we note that the United States does not have the required authority in this field to use this peremptory and disqualifying language with regard to other countries. "As UNICEF Executive Director James Grant said recently, 20 children are shot to death in the United States of America every day and the situation of children from minorities such as Afro-Americans and Hispanics is comparable to the situation of some underdeveloped countries."
