FBIS3-29520 "dreas034_d_94011" FBIS-EAS-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 South Korea Kim Yong-sam To Visit Japan, China Late March SK1802020194 Seoul YONHAP in English 0146 GMT 18 Feb 94 SK1802020194 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, Feb. 18 (YONHAP) -- President Kim Yong-sam will make state visits to Japan from March 24-26 and to China from March 26-30, the presidential office Chongwadae announced Friday. The visits are aimed at seeking a new post-Cold War order in Northeast Asia and holding consultations on the North Korean nuclear problem. This will be the second summit for Kim and Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa covering political and trade issues. They met last November in the southern South Korean city of Kyongju, with next month's summit to follow up on issues covered then including regional cooperation and prosperity and multilateral ties such as the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). They are certain to address the North Korean nuclear dispute, exchanging views on the latest developments. Kim will attend a welcome dinner hosted by Emperor Akihito and deliver a speech before the Japanese Diet. The South Korean president heads to Shanghai on March 26 for a weekend stay, when he will tour sites that once housed the Korean government-in-exile during Japan's colonial rule of 1910-45. He is to arrive in Beijing the following day for talks with Premier Li Peng on furthering bilateral relations. Kim will also make an address at Beijing University during his visit. Kim's Predecessor No Tae-u traveled to China, but this will mark the first time that a South Korean leader has been received on a state visit. Seoul and Beijing normalized relations in August 1992. Senior presidential aide for diplomacy and national security Chong Chong-ok explained that Kim will discuss achieving friendly and cooperative ties with the two countries that are close to South Korea both historically and geographically. "The visits will provide opportunities to settle on a multilateral security dialogue forum in the region and to strengthen bilateral political and security cooperation," Chong said. First Lady Son Myong-sun will accompany her husband on the visits.
