FBIS4-31095 "dreeu108_h_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-108 Daily Report 4 Jun 1994 HUNGARY SZDSZ To Recommend Beginning Coalition Talks SZDSZ To Recommend Beginning Coalition Talks LD0406183594 Budapest Kossuth Radio Network in Hungarian 1600 GMT 4 Jun 94 LD0406183594 Budapest Kossuth Radio Network Hungarian BFN [Text] The Alliance of Free Democrats [SZDSZ] has received an invitation from the Hungarian Socialist Party [MSZP] to begin coalition negotiations. The SZDSZ leaders may receive authorization at tomorrow's party convention to begin negotiations. Judit Laszlo reports on today's National Council session. [Laszlo] The SZDSZ National Council has accepted the executive's proposal that tomorrow's convention should give authorization to begin coalition negotiations, said SZDSZ Chairman Ivan Petoe. However, the delegation--that consists of Ivan Petoe, Gabor Kuncze, Peter Hack, and Balint Magyar--can only sign a coalition agreement if it receives guarantees that on the one hand, the SZDSZ can substantively influence the government's policies, which are to be worked out jointly, and on the other, it can implement its 25-point coalition guidelines to an appropriate degree. In line with previous plans, a subsequent convention will decide on the draft of the coalition pact--on its acceptance or refusal. The SZDSZ's Executive and National Council request authorization from tomorrow's extraordinary convention to begin the coalition talks because the trust that the voters put in the party obliges the party to do so, said Ivan Petoe, giving a reason for the decision. He also said that in accordance with the liberal parties cooperation agreement, the SZDSZ will inform the Federation of Young Democrats about beginning coalition talks with the MSZP. It transpires from MSZP Chairman Gyula Horn's letter to Ivan Petoe that the political and legal guarantees of the coalition will also be discussed at the negotiations. The SZDSZ chairman said in connection with this that all this was in line with the SZDSZ's condition that the SZDSZ wishes to effectively influence the policy of the coalition government.
