FBIS4-67590 "jpten014___94057" JPRS-TEN-94-014 JPRS Environmental Issues 22 April 1994 WEST EUROPE GERMANY New Dioxin Hazard Said `Threatening' Germany New Dioxin Hazard Said `Threatening' Germany BR1905081494 Bonn DIE WELT in German 22 Apr 94 p 1 BR1905081494 Bonn DIE WELT German BFN [Article by Dankwart Guratzsch: "Another Dioxin Alarm in Germany: PVC Production Generates Seveso Poison in Previously Unknown Quantities -- Inquiry in Lower Saxony"] [Text] The federal and land environment ministries are alarmed: A new dioxin hazard, the extent of which is still unknown, appears to be threatening the Federal Republic of Germany. Yesterday, the Lower Saxony Environment Ministry ordered an inspection of the soil and waterways in the area surrounding the Jadebusen and the PVC [polyvinyl chloride] producer ICI's works, including mussels and sediment, for contamination by chemical toxins, including the Seveso poison, dioxin. Federal Environment Ministry spokesman Cay Frimuth told DIE WELT: "Dioxins occur in PVC production in quantities of which we were previously unaware and which have shocked us." Armin Basler, head of the Chemicals Safety Department, added: "To date, everyone has been pointing to the waste incinerators as the presumed major dischargers of dioxin, but now we are seeing that emissions from production are much higher." Lower Saxony's Environment Minister, Monika Greifahn (SPD [Social Democratic Party of Germany]), who was the first to trace the poison to its source, mentioned an additional ground for concern: "Exactly why and at which point in the production process dioxins occur remains a complete mystery." The realization "that these substances are also transported in water" was recent, said Greifahn. The high dioxin content in the flue gases discharged by a Hoesch AG sintering plant had already come to light in North Rhine-Westphalia -- an environmental scandal that has been keeping a board of inquiry set up by the land parliament in Duesseldorf busy ever since. The allegation is that Environment Minister Klaus Matthiesen (SPD) failed to make public his knowledge about the dioxin discharger. The map of the Federal Republic is now being systematically scanned by computers to establish the emission zones of the 10 German PVC manufacturers. The sludge "paths" must also be traced. The Wilhelmshaven works alone has been piling 400 tonnes a year of highly contaminated sludge onto Lower Saxony's hazardous waste dumps: Its dry substance contains record quantities of 400,000 nanograms of the superpoison per kilogram. There is currently no technological solution at all for controlling this new source of poison. Work on initial preventive strategies is scheduled for completion by the summer.
