FBIS3-39451 "drweu033__a94018" FBIS-WEU-94-033-A Document Type:Daily Report 17 February 1994 ANNEX Germany Germany, Slovakia Sign Military Cooperation Agreement AU0802194094 Hamburg DPA in German 1738 GMT 8 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0802194094 Hamburg DPA Language: German Article Type:BFN [Text] Germany and the Slovak Republic have agreed to large-scale military cooperation. Defense Minister Volker Ruehe and his Slovak counterpart, Imrich Andrejcak, signed an agreement to that effect in the Slovak capital, Bratislava, on Tuesday afternoon [8 February]. After signing the agreement, Ruehe, who is spending a two-day visit in Slovakia, said that 20 Slovak officers are expected to attend a short course at the Koblenz Center for Internal Leadership at the end of February. He said he is pleased that Slovakia wants to contribute to Europe under the NATO Partnership for Peace program. This will bring about stability both for Slovakia and Europe. President Michal Kovac and Prime Minister Vladimir Meciar assured Ruehe that their country is "very interested in becoming a member of NATO." This coming Wednesday, Slovakia will sign the Partnership for Peace Agreement in Brussels. Andrejcak said that Bundeswehr officers will help his country's Army to establish a rapid strike force. The German-Slovak cooperation will include a regular exchange of information on all issues of security policy and on the use of armed forces in disaster relief missions and humanitarian aid missions. The contacts between individual parts of the two forces are to be deepened, and officers shall be given the opportunity to take part in military training courses in the host country. The Bundeswehr and the Slovak Army are also planning to cooperate in matters of planning, arms control, and internal leadership, as well as military medicine. They also intend to cooperate in the fields of sports, military bands, and reservists. On Wednesday, Ruehe will watch an exercise of armored units of the Slovak Army.
