FBIS4-38019 "drnes124_j_94012" FBIS-NES-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Saudi Arabia Interior Ministry Statement on Satellite TV Ban Interior Ministry Statement on Satellite TV Ban LD2706203294 Riyadh Saudi Arabian Television Network in Arabic 1830 GMT 27 Jun 94 LD2706203294 Riyadh Saudi Arabian Television Network Arabic BFN [Statement issued by the Interior Ministry; place and date not given] [Text] In accordance with Decree No. 128 of the Council of Ministers issued on 7 March 1994 regarding the organization of the operation of satellite television reception in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia -- which stipulates a ban on the use of satellite dishes and corresponding equipment and on the use of decoders and similar equipment; and regarding the guidelines defined by the decree on an alternative method that the state will provide and that will be under the supervision of the Information Ministry, while forbidding any other quarters to deal in this matter; and due to numerous inquiries that appropriate circles continue to receive from citizens regarding this issue; the Interior Ministry would like to clarify in the following statement everything that relates to the definition of the foundations and rules that will be implemented regarding all issues related to satellite television transmissions and within the framework mentioned in the decree as follows: 1. With regard to satellite dishes and unused related equipment that is actually in the possession of individuals, shops, and warehouses, their owners will be allowed to export them officially through all air, land, and sea outlets and anywhere abroad in accordance with the wishes of the beneficiary party within a maximum deadline of one month from the issuance and the enforcement of this statement. Failing this, and following the lapse of the deadline defined in the first article, any equipment found in the possession of individuals or commercial shops will be confiscated immediately, and the offender will be subjected to the articles of fines as stipulated by the decree of the Council of Ministers. 2. The word receiver and corresponding equipment means the following equipment: A. All sizes and models of satellite dishes B. All types and sizes of receivers used for satellite television reception C. The decoders D. Low noise block down converters or LNB's E. Feed horn equipment. G. All other equipment and gadgets used in the installation and operation of the satellite dish 3. It should be particularly stressed to citizens not to deal or trade in the banned items that have been defined in this statement and in the previous decision of the Council of Ministers. We pray to God for success.
