FBIS4-18267 "drweu063_q_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-063 Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 TURKEY Ecologists Claim Incirlik Base To Dump Toxic Waste Ecologists Claim Incirlik Base To Dump Toxic Waste NC3103160794 Istanbul AYDINLIK in Turkish 27 Mar 94 p 11 NC3103160794 Istanbul AYDINLIK Turkish BFN [Unattributed report: "Attention! They Are Going To Dump Toxic Waste Into the Mediterranean"] [Text] Trailers loaded earlier with 90 tons of chemical waste from Incirlik Air Base have arrived at Mersin port. The waste, which is in barrels inside containers, was loaded on the Panamanian-registered 1731 ton Eurotrader. The ship belongs to Lionel Maksume, a ship owner in Antakya. The appeal of the environmentalists in Mersin to the governor of Adana remained unanswered. The governor replied by merely saying: "I have no authority to open the consignment." Governor of Adana said: "It can be opened only with special permission from the General Staff. Special protective clothing is necessary. I cannot open it because we do not have such clothing." The need for special clothing indicates that the waste is a radioactive material. That is, it is nuclear waste. According to covertly obtained information by environmentalists, the customs declaration describes the ship's cargo as "toxic waste." The barrels are placed inside containers on which there are no markings. Officials say that the 90 tons of waste belongs to Incirlik Base and that it is being sent to Britain for destruction. However, the experts say that such a large amount of waste cannot belong to Incirlik alone and most probably it was flown into Incirlik from the United States. A police car and two U.S. teams escorted the 90 tons of waste from Incirlik to Mersin. The Eurotrader will leave Mersin on Monday with its toxic cargo for Izmir. Officials say that the ship will take on cargo in Izmir and then leave for Britain. However, the environmentalists in Mersin say: "They will dump the poison-filled barrels into the Mediterranean somewhere between Mersin and Izmir. They are now trying out the Mersin route because the Black Sea route was exposed and a new shipping accident occurred in the Istanbul straits." Environmentalist are saying: "Apart from its numerous dreadful roles, it now appears that Incirlik Base was also being used for such dirty work. This ship must be tracked, the dumping of the poison into Mediterranean must be prevented, and the public must be awakened to this fact."
