FBIS3-36137 "drsov023_s_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 Georgia Proposes Stationing 18,000 Troops AU0202155994 Paris AFP in English 1550 GMT 2 Feb 94 AU0202155994 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Tbilisi, Feb 2 (AFP) -- A Russian request to station 18,000 troops in Georgia in three military bases is to be at the centre of talks here Thursday between Presidents Boris Yeltsin and Eduard Shevardnadze, a top Russian official said. The official, Defence Minister Pavel Grachev, arrived here Wednesday [2 February] on the eve of the summit, highlighting the importance of military issues in the meeting between the two heads of state, independent Georgian sources said. The defence minister said Russia would be willing to keep troops in Georgia, where they have been instrumental in putting down an insurgency against Shevardnadze, as long as three bases are set up for them after an interim agreement expires in 1995. Russia is also planning to station forces at two other bases in the troubled Caucasus region -- Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan -- where it currently has 23,000 men under arms. Moscow has said it plans to remain involved in the security of many of the former Soviet states and will station troops in the area that it now calls "the near-abroad." But while the talks in Tbilisi will focus on bilateral relations, the bloody Abkhaz rebellion in western Georgia is likely to preoccupy both sides. Yeltsin bodyguards have warned they fear possible incidents sparked by anger in Georgia over perceived Russian support for the Abkhaz separatists who wrested control of the Black Sea region from Tbilisi in September. The summit, which comes after two years of frosty relations, could reverse perceived alliances with the Abkhaz fearing Russia is about to offer a military alliance to Georgia, at the expense of their separatist republic. Already, the Abkhaz government leader, Sokrat Dzhindzholia, has protested at the proposed signing in Tbilisi on Thursday of a "friendship and cooperation" treaty between Russia and Georgia, which he claims would "open the Russian arsenal to Tbilisi." [passage omitted] More than 100 Russian officials have arrived in Tbilisi ahead of the summit, notably to ensure Yeltsin's safety.
