FBIS3-32142 "drlat023_a_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 February 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Ricardo Alarcon Grants Interview From Germany FL0302025294 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 0000 GMT 3 Feb 94 FL0302025294 Havana Radio Rebelde Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Interview with Ricardo Alarcon de Quesada, President of the Cuban National Assembly of the People's Government, from Bonn, by reporter Mejias -- live] [Text] [Mejias] Good evening, Comrade Ricardo Alarcon. I am speaking to you from Havana, Cuba. [Alarcon] Good evening, Comrade Mejias. [Mejias] Well, we would like to learn something about the results of these first three working days in Germany and about the various activities you have been carrying out there. [Alarcon] By all means. In fact, I am here at the embassy for a meeting with the chairman of the federal parliament. This is the first meeting we held with her, but tomorrow we are going to meet again in the morning. Representatives from all German political parties participated in this meeting tonight, including congressmen, representatives from the Foreign Ministry, from the research center, and from the cooperative development program. [Mejias] Comrade Alarcon, have you talked about the possibility of increasing trade and the possibility of German investments in our country? [Alarcon] Yes. I also wish to stress the fact that the German minister was already waiting for our visit, and that we were treated in a warm and friendly manner. The German people are also aware of our visit due to the broad coverage of the meetings. Germany is today the second country in the world and the first in Europe as to number of tourists visiting our country. There are also, as you know, some German investors who are participating in the construction of hotels in our country. There are some prospects as well for joint ventures with German companies in the pharmaceutical area. The talks also touched upon other areas of cooperation. These were the main subjects we discussed today with members of the Foreign Ministry. The legal instruments that would facilitate and promote German investments in our country are being discussed, and we are also discussing economic cooperation. [Mejias] Thank you very much, Comrade Ricardo Alarcon de Quesada for these exclusive remarks for Radio Rebelde. [Alarcon] Thank you, Mejias, and greetings to all. [Mejias] Greetings to you as well.
