FBIS3-9161 "dreeu055_k_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 CROATIA RSK Assembly Discusses Platform for Talks AU2103161494 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 21 Mar 94 AU2103161494 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Report by Drgoljub Stankic from Knin] [Text] The assembly of the republic of Serbian Krajina is continuing its work. The deputies are trying to adopt a platform of work of the Krajina delegation at the negotiations in Zagreb tomorrow. Dragoljub Stankic reports from Knin: [Stankic] The assembly commissions met in the morning. This was followed by a discussion in the assembly on amendments to several bills. The speeches heard today were much calmer and more composed than the ones heard yesterday, before the resignation of Bjegovic's cabinet. Passions have calmed and everyone is now turning toward the most important issue -- the negotiations with the Croatian delegation that will be held in the Russian Embassy in Zagreb tomorrow. This was also the reason for the session of the foreign affairs commission. It is worth mentioning that the views of the commission, the parliament, and the government concerning the negotiations in Zagreb are identical. The parliament last night confirmed the composition of the Krajina delegation at the talks. Its members are: Admiral Dusan Rakic, defense minister and head of the commission; General Mile Novakovic, state security adviser of the president of the republic; and Foreign Minister Slobodan Jarcevic. The first comments here are that the negotiations with the Croatian side have been going on for a long time, ranging from New York, Geneva, Oslo, to Dobanovci, and that nothing will be changed in the (?continuation). Here in Knin they are particularly stressing the importance of the report by UN Secretary General Butrus-Ghali who, requesting the extension of the UN Protection Force [UNPROFOR] mandate, is mentioning Croatia and Krajina as two entities. Therefore, in the negotiations, the Krajina delegation will insist on the withdrawal of the Croatian Army from the occupied territories in Krajina, as well as demand the extension of UNPROFOR's mandate for 12 months, which is identical to the stand of the UN secretary general.
