FBIS3-13868 "drnes055_a_94002" FBIS-NES-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria `Warnings' About `Possible Split' in Military Noted PM2103141494 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 20 Mar 94 pp 1, 4 PM2103141494 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Fears of Split in Army After Zeroual Announcement of Willingness To Hold Dialogue With Salvation Front"] [Excerpt] London, AL-HAYAH -- Algerian circles yesterday received with utmost interest the warnings about a possible split in the Army if the disagreement inside the regime between those who support a dialogue with the Islamic Salvation Front [FIS] and those who are opposed to it. It is the first time the possibility of a split in the Army has emerged since President Major General Liamine Zeroual assumed power 31 January. However, well-informed sources have pointed out to AL-HAYAH that the talk of a split in the Army is exaggerated in view of the staunch relationship between the new president and senior officers and the mutual trust between them. The sources pointed out that, if there are criticisms against Zeroual in the Army, they are focused on the way his aides are chosen, as most of them lack experience. Algerian sources have stressed that President Zeroual is determined to initiate a "serious dialogue" with all influential parties on the Algerian scene, "without excluding anyone," even the FIS, which the authorities disbanded after the abolition of the legislative election results in January 1992. After that the FIS resorted to underground action, launching a war against state organs. Numerous parties are opposed to the dialogue with the FIS. In the executive authority there are Prime Minister Redha Malek and Interior Minister Selim Saadi. Proponents of this -- including politicians, thinkers, and media officials -- say that a dialogue with the FIS would weaken the prestige of the state, which should not submit to pressure from the supporters and perpetrators of violence. While the opposition of a major tendency inside the military establishment to the dialogue with the FIS proceeds from the fear that if the FIS came to power this would mean a purge campaign or trials aimed against a number of senior officers, the other tendencies' opposition proceeds from the conviction that, if the FIS came to power democratically, it would not relinquish it democratically. The disagreement between those supporting dialogue and those opposed to it has remained concealed within the regime over the past two years. The tendency opposed to the dialogue remained on the winning side until Maj. Gen. Liamine Zeroual assumed the presidency. But this change in the pyramid of power did not abolish the oppositionists, who are still inside the military command and at the head of government. Some sources say that parties linked to those opposed to the dialogue are behind many of the acts of violence and revenge witnessed in the country recently, as these parties killed members of the armed Islamic groups or some of their relatives to avenge the murder operations aimed against elements in the security services. [passage omitted]
