FBIS3-13851 "drnes054_m_94002" FBIS-NES-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 JORDAN King, Others React to Security Council Resolution King Wants Explanation for U.S. Vote JN2003180094 Paris Radio Monte Carlo in Arabic 1700 GMT 20 Mar 94 JN2003180094 Paris Radio Monte Carlo Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Randah Habib report from Amman] [Text] The Jordanian monarch King Husayn believes that it was a mistake to force the Jerusalem issue into a draft UN Security Council [UNSC] resolution on the Hebron massacre, something which prompted the United States to abstain when the paragraph pertaining to Jerusalem was put to the vote. He said that this was caused by the lack of inter-Arab coordination. He also asked Washington to explain its vote at the UNSC. In an exclusive interview with King Husayn, the Hashemite monarch criticized the way the draft resolution was handled. He indicated that it was possible to avoid any mention of Jerusalem, and to only invoke the Geneva Convention to address the issue of protecting the Palestinians in the territories occupied since 1967. The Jordanian monarch added: Had this scenario been pursued, we might have come up with an outcome that is better than the current one, which is marked by Washington's abstention. This is because this abstention might be interpreted as a change in its position toward Arab claims to Jerusalem. Having expressed his worries about the fragmented, uncomfortable, and unsatisfactory Arab state of affairs, the Hashemite monarch wondered: Was it necessary to force the Jerusalem issue into this draft resolution, given the fact that there were chances for a U.S. veto or abstention? The Hashemite monarch added: We must receive assurances that the U.S. policy toward Jerusalem has remained unchanged. The U.S. policy on settlements changed because it first deemed them illegal. Later, it deemed them an obstacle to peace. King Husayn went on to say: The only explanation I have for this situation is that it is the outcome of the lack of coordination in critical, sensitive, and difficult circumstances. He noted that the calls for coordination only surface to ensure a sort of cover for some when they need it.
