FBIS4-34940 "drlat123_q_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-123 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 Paraguay General Reproaches Military Critics General Reproaches Military Critics PY2506023494 Asuncion ULTIMA HORA in Spanish 23 Jun 94 p 6 PY2506023494 Asuncion ULTIMA HORA Spanish BFN [Text] General Juan Evaristo Gonzalez Maldonado, the Military Supreme Court president, has noted that there are newspapers, groups, and people who unceasingly and "viciously" attack the Armed Forces. Gonzalez said that the tasks carried out by the Armed Forces are not fully understood, "perhaps because of ignorance, or maybe through malice." During the main ceremony to mark Military Courts Day, Gonzalez stressed: "The task carried out by the Armed Forces is not always fully understood, perhaps because of ignorance, or maybe through malice. Therefore, some people, groups, and newspapers are unceasingly attacking--more than often viciously--the Armed Forces." In his speech the general reproached critics of the Armed Forces for not admitting or remembering that the Armed Forces, like the entire country, are evolving "due to the political, economic, and social transition." In another passage of his speech, Gen. Juan Evaristo Gonzalez Maldonado emphasized that the military echelons, "subordinated to the established power through the chain of command, consciously and effectively observe allegiance to their commander in chief and president of the Republic, engineer Juan Carlos Wasmosy." Incorruptible Guardians Gonzalez noted that the Armed Forces "are incorruptible guardians of our fatherland's most precious assets, that is, its sovereignty, its border security, and above all its unrestricted fulfillment of the constitutional provision that guarantees to all citizens freedom, democracy, and the normal development of the established institutions." The general also reported on the establishment and development of military courts in our country. Gonzalez also emphasized that the Military Supreme Court fulfills a specific duty aimed at safeguarding the military coexistence codes. In this regard Gonzalez explained that there is a special commission involved in preparing bills to adjust the Military Supreme Court's activities to constitutional provisions.
