FBIS4-22016 "jptot016__l94073" JPRS-TOT-94-016-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 13 April 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Yerin on Plans to Cooperate with Turkey Against Terrorism Yerin on Plans to Cooperate with Turkey Against Terrorism PM1304122194 Moscow TRUD in Russian 13 Apr 94 p 3 PM1304122194 Moscow TRUD Russian BFN [Vladimir Khovratovich report on interview with Russian Interior Minister Viktor Yerin in Istanbul; date of interview not given; published under the "This Colorful World. TRUD Correspondents Report" rubric: "Together Against Terrorism"] [Text] Istanbul -- Russian Interior Minister Viktor Yerin's visit to Turkey was mainly devoted to joint actions in the fight against national and international terrorism. In an interview with your correspondent Yerin stated that the visit had been successful because it had been possible to discuss all pressing problems of concern to both the Russian and the Turkish side. They are primarily drug smuggling, the illegal trade in firearms, and the fight against terrorism. Special attention was devoted to the last question because a bilateral agreement on it between Russia and Turkey is being prepared. During the talks, the minister recounted, the Turkish side raised the question of "Russia's moral support for the actions of the Workers' Party of Kurdistan, which is banned in Turkey." A conference of Kurds which took place a month ago in Moscow was cited as an example. However, it was explained to the Turkish side that the conference was of a purely scientific nature and that, most importantly, the aforementioned party had nothing to do with it. Back in 1992, during the Turkish interior minister's visit to Moscow, Russia and Turkey signed an agreement envisaging the possibility of an exchange of specific operational information about people justifiably suspected of committing crimes. During the preparations for the current visit to Turkey, Yerin said, a list of Russians who might commit crimes on Turkish territory was compiled and handed over to the Turkish side.
