FBIS3-25288 "drafr031_a_94007" FBIS-AFR-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 February 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Congo Lissouba Supporters Attack Bus; Death Toll Disputed AB1002173294 London BBC World Service in English 1515 GMT 10 Feb 94 AB1002173294 London BBC World Service Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] The cease-fire in the Congo capital, Brazzaville, between government forces and opposition militias declared on 13 January is apparently a very fragile affair. The day that is was signed there was a bloody attack on a train and now there has been another attack on public transport. From Brazzaville, Antoine Muyambala telexed this report. At least three people were killed when a bus was attacked yesterday afternoon by people later identified as supporters of President Lissouba. Opposition figures dispute the death toll saying that at least seven died on the three buses which were attacked. However, according to hospital sources, only one person, a bus driver, was killed straightaway while two others, who had been seriously wounded, later died in hospital. The attack happened just outside the opposition stronghold of Bacongo. According to the opposition, a number of hostages were taken. This appears to have been in revenge for two hostages still being held by opposition militants. When I contacted an official from the president's party, he confirmed that the attack had been carried out by the president's supporters. He also explained that 18 hostages were released later in the evening following talks between the two sides. This is the second attack on public transport since the cease-fire was called on 30 January. The first attack was carried out by the opposition the day after an international panel of judges decided that the disputed parliamentary elections in the Congo would be rerun in only nine constituencies. This decision has been a source of great disappointment to the opposition since the president's party now has that parliamentary majority of 64 seats confirmed, about 10 more seats than their opponents. Today, the opposition issued a communique to announce that they accepted the outcome of the decision.
