FBIS4-16298 "drsov073_b_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-073 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues `People's Alliance' Council Members Outline Platform `People's Alliance' Council Members Outline Platform LD1404221094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1501 GMT 14 Apr 94 LD1404221094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Tamara Ivanova] [Text] Moscow, 14 Apr -- Sergey Glazyev, Andrey Golovin, Oleg Rumyantsev, Aleksandr Tsipko, Veniamin Sokolov and other politicians have announced the formation of a Russian movement, the People's Alliance [Narodnyy Alyans]. Members of the founding council have called upon their supporters in the provinces of the Russian Federation to start forming local structures of the movement. Sergey Glazyev, one of the leaders of the People's Alliance and the chairman of the State Duma committee for economic policy, told an ITAR-TASS correspondent: "We are calling for a union, so that we may avert the final collapse of the Russian state, avert sedition, disintegration of the economy, moral and spiritual degradation." He also said that the founders of the movement proceeded from the fact that "historically Russia developed as a multinational society within a single state which belongs equally to all peoples of our country, and the peoples of the former USSR retain their right to uniting in different ways on a voluntary basis, including political unification." The statement of the People's Alliance says that a union of this kind can "prevent a relapse into authoritarianism." "Forming the policy and strategy of national reconciliation" was named as the main aim of the movement. It was stressed that the new sociopolitical movement "supports solely those reforms which stimulate the growth of production and strengthen the positions of Russian producers both in their own country and on the world market." According to Sergey Glazyev, the People's Alliance regards establishing a true democracy in Russia as its aim. "At the same time, we are convinced that democracy must grow on a national soil, help strengthen people's dignity and teach them a conscious attitude to politics," he said. The founders of the movement insist that traditions of parliamentarism should be carried further and reinforced, which, in their opinion, is in agreement with "Russia's traditions of popular assemblies [veche] and contributes to respect for the constitutional system, law and legislative activity."
