FBIS3-36972 "drsov030_c_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 Federal Assembly Rybkin Holds News Conference on Current Issues LD1002175594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1559 GMT 10 Feb 94 LD1002175594 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Lyudmila Aleksandrova] [Text] Moscow February 10 TASS -- Chairman of the Russian State Duma Ivan Rybkin said that by participating in the December 1993 elections the deputies admitted the constitutionality of the presidential decision to disband the former parliament. Speaking at a news conference in Moscow on Thursday [10 February], Rybkin said that he did not see any sin in the establishment of a commission to investigate into the October 1993 revolt in Moscow, making it clear that whatever the findings they will be of no more than academic value. The news conference was held in a peaceful atmosphere. The Duma chairman tried to smooth out sharp issues and stick to the constructive-reconciliatory tone which he has assumed from the day of his election. He spoke about good cooperation between the Duma and the president, the government and the Federation Council and denied statements that he was seeking to subjugate the whole house and receive unlimited powers similar to those of his predecessor, Ruslan Khasbulatov. Asked about the attitude of the Duma towards and his own position on the trial of scientist Vil Mirzayanov accused of betraying state secrets about chemical weapons, Rybkin replied that the Duma human rights committee is now considering this issue. Speaking about the situation in connection with the upcoming local elections, he described it as rather complicated, adding that the State Duma's position is "very delicate." "We can determine the basic principles of the electoral laws for the subjects of the Federation, but we do not want to impose anything on anyone," Rybkin said. He opposed calls for revising the constitution, saying that "since it is adopted, we, as loyal citizens, should abide by it." He stressed, however, that amendments can be adopted because the constitution has many flaws. Commenting on the situation in agriculture, Rybkin admitted that often huge state subsidies to the agro-industrial complex were ineffective. But now subsidies should be targeted. "Those who are ripe for bankruptcy, should be declared bankrupt," he said. Speaking about foreign debts, Rybkin stressed that Russia is owed 1.5 times more than it owes others. This question has been ignored for a long time in the government, he added. Rybkin suggested selling other countries's debts to Russia at 65-80 per cent of their nominal value.
