FBIS4-43224 "drweu115aa_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-115 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Confirms Inspectors Still in DPRK Confirms Inspectors Still in DPRK AU1506112394 Paris AFP in English 1036 GMT 15 Jun 94 AU1506112394 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Vienna, June 15 (AFP) -- The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said Wednesday [15 June] that two of its inspectors continued working at North Korea's Yongbyon nuclear facility despite Pyongyng's withdrawal from the Agency. "The inspectors have not yet been asked to leave Yongbyon," said IAEA spokesman Hans-Friedrich Meyer. He added that the inspectors were continuing their work, but gave no further details. Robert Gallucci, U.S. assistant secretary of state who is handling the North Korean standoff, warned in a CNN television interview that the very serious situation would deteriorate further if North Korea were to expel the two inspectors. The IAEA says the inspectors are in North Korea in the framework of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which North Korea has not pulled out from. But North Korea's defence minister said in remarks reported Wednesday that the country will not allow any further inspections of its nuclear facilities, which foreign governments suspect of developing nuclear weapons. Marshal O Jin-U, speaking at a banquet late Tuesday for a visiting Vietnamese delegation, said his government had taken "self-defensive measures of withdrawing from the (IAEA) and of no longer allowing any kind of inspection." On Monday, North Korea announced its immediate withdrawal from the IAEA after the UN nuclear watchdog body suspended technical aid to Pyongyang because of its refusal of full inspections of its nuclear facilities. The marshal said the IAEA had recently acted "arrogantly and insolently" when it demanded nuclear inspections "with the threat of sanctions." He added that North Korea would uphold "our-style socialism" and reunify the divided Korea with the guidance of Kim Jong-Il, who took over the supreme command of the People's Army from his aging father, President Kim Il-Sung, in December 1991.
