FBIS3-50553 "drlat002_c_94010" FBIS-LAT-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 MEXICO Chiapas Crisis Government Reports `Greater Calm' in Chiapas PA0401013694 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network in Spanish 2300 GMT 3 Jan 94 PA0401013694 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN ["Special Report" by Rosie Ahuatxil from the Government Secretariat in Mexico City] [Text] The Government Secretariat reports that the situation in Chiapas State is one of greater calm now and that the incidents there have not led to disturbances in the other states of the country. Under Secretary Socorro Diaz Palacios has said that during the last few months of 1993 there was information about illegal activities by small groups in that border area, but the special circumstances of the region's underdevelopment forced the authorities to act with special prudence and caution; nevertheless, Socorro Diaz Palacios added, the situation is returning to normal in Chiapas State. Here is what she said: [Begin Diaz recording] In San Cristobal de las Casas and Ocosingo, two of the four municipal capitals that were violently attacked, the situation is of greater calm now. They are free of the aggressor groups, and civilian authorities are on the way to fully assuming their duties. These events have not produced any disturbances in the other states of the Republic. [end recording] Diaz said also that the local authorities' response was to protect the civilian population and that the Mexican Army, with great prudence, did not act the first day. The authorities did not execute actions whose consequences might have led to the loss of more civilian lives in these towns. Diaz said something interesting; she said the violent groups that are acting in Chiapas State present a mixture of both national and foreign interests and individuals. They show an affinity toward other violent factions that operate in brother countries of Central America. Some Indians, Diaz said, have been recruited and pressured by the leaders of these groups, and their historic demands, which must continue to be heard, have undoubtedly been manipulated. The Federal Government, she said, has affirmed that its conduct will continue to be based on the law and in the defense of the people's security. It has also reiterated to all the inhabitants of the region the proposal for dialogue to further advance in providing attention to the needs of that and other state regions.
