FBIS3-22692 "jptep008___94052" JPRS-TEP-94-008 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 15 February 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Cash Crisis Hits Surgery Waiting List 94WE0195A London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 15 Feb 94 p 8 94WE0195A London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by David Fletcher, health services correspondent] [Text] Surgeons in more than four out of 10 hospitals have been told to slow down the number of operations they perform because their hospital is running out of money, the Royal College of Surgeons said yesterday. It said its survey of 234 surgeons in all areas of the country found widespread reductions in routine operations and cuts in the number of out-patients being seen. The same happened a year ago. "None of the contract-related financial problems of last year appears to have been resolved," the college said. The survey found that general surgery was worst affected, with 30 percent of hospitals slowing down operations, followed by orthopaedics (26 percent), urology (26) and ear, nose and throat treatment (12). As a result, the number of patients waiting for treatment has increased in more than half of all general surgical departments and in four out of 10 orthopaedic departments. The survey confirmed previous findings that hospitals are increasingly giving preference to patients referred by fund-holding GP's, who have the money to pay for their treatment. Some had also been told to treat more "extra-contractual referrals" -- patients sent by other health districts which had agreed to pay the cost. Prof. Norman Browse, professor of surgery at St Thomas' Hospital and president of the Royal College of Surgeons, said the college considered that patients should be treated according to clinical priority, not financial criteria. The Health Department said that health authorities had to decide the priorities in allocating cash between primary care, non-urgent surgery and community care. "There is an extra £1.6 billion available for health care next year and we would like to see doctors more involved in the process of deciding those priorities."
