FBIS3-11396 "drlat054__a94025" FBIS-LAT-94-054-A Document Type:Daily Report 21 March 1994 ANNEX Cuba Nuclear Technology Used To Improve Agriculture PA1603202494 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 2055 GMT 15 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA1603202494 Havana PRENSA LATINA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Havana, 15 Mar (PL) -- The main applications of nuclear techniques in Cuban agriculture include the genetic improvement of crops, diagnostic control of seeds, and insect radiobiology to reduce the use of pesticides. Dr. Adolfo Rodriguez Nodals, director of the Institute of Basic Research on Tropical Agriculture [Inifat], said that they are also working on developing the Nitrogen 15 marking system [marcaje] to improve fertilizers. Rodriguez Nodals explained that over 20 scientific organizations, which constitute the Group for the Research and Application of Nuclear Techniques in Agriculture [GIATNA], are participating in this project. In less than six years since its creation, GIATNA is experimenting with cutting-edge technologies. According to a communique from the UN Food and Agriculture Organization [FAO] that was disclosed recently, modern agriculture can be productive because it efficiently uses new scientific and technological knowledge. Just when FAO General Director Jacques Diouf advocated a "new agricultural revolution," Cubans are proving the effectiveness of the application of novel techniques on crops. The yield of three rice varieties through the use of radiation to induce new genetic characteristics in plants is among the scientific results obtained by Cubans, and it exemplifies the peaceful use of nuclear technologies. In addition to this, progress is being made in the application of radioactive isotopes in phosphoric fertilizers and the training of personnel in dosimetry and radiation safety. The 200 researchers of Inifat, which was established in 1904 as Cuba's central agricultural research station and which was considered back then unique in Latin America, are working in the areas mentioned.
