FBIS3-19201 "drweu049_a_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 AUSTRIA Visiting Polish Sejm Leader on NATO Expansion AU1403111294 Vienna DIE PRESSE in German 14 Mar 94 p 5 AU1403111294 Vienna DIE PRESSE Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report signed "b.b.": "Fear of Imperial Russia"] [Text] Vienna -- "The new democracies should be accepted into NATO as members without any further delay. This would also be in the interest of the Western alliance." Bronislaw Geremek's advice to Western leaders was very clear. At the weekend, the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Polish Parliament gave a lecture at the Institute for the Sciences of Man in Vienna on the issue of: "The collapse of communism and European security." After the collapse of the communist regimes, Professor Geremek sees internal and external reasons for the feeling of insecurity in Central and East Europe: The conversion to the mechanisms of the market economy has led to a steep increase in the number of unemployed; the crime rate has also exploded, "a fact that is dramatically undermining public security." Of the external reasons he regards first of all Russia as the main source of danger "because it has not given up its imperial ambitions. Thus, NATO membership would significantly strengthen the feeling of security but also the process of democratization in the new democracies," Geremek said. If, however, NATO were to continue to oppose expansion, the Polish politician suspects that "the spirit of Yalta would continue to prevail, and the division of the world would be prolonged. The imperial tendencies in Russia would even increase." Geremek believes that the current NATO cooperation scheme Partnership for Peace and the possibility for cooperation in the Western European Union is "not an adequate response to Russia's neo-imperial tendencies." Europe is currently at a crossroads. Geremek: "Europe must look ahead and, especially on the issue of security policy, give up its traditional bureaucratic way of thinking." According to agency reports from Brussels, Russia recently linked its participation in NATO's Partnership for Peace program to a series of conditions: Moscow has demanded a veto on NATO planning, wants to complement or amend the program with a proposal of its own, and is seeking a special status within the framework of the Partnership. Said one NATO staffer: "That is unacceptable for us."
