FBIS4-19426 "drweu074_b_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-074 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 BENELUX COUNTRIES Belgium Paper on Belgian UN Troop Withdrawals Paper on Belgian UN Troop Withdrawals BR1504123394 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE in French 15 Apr 94 p 1 BR1504123394 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE French BFN [Commentary by Christophe Lamfalussy: "A Dangerous Precedent"] [Text] How can we fail to be touched and moved by the tears of the families who watched on Thursday [14 April] as 10 coffins returned from Rwanda, containing the bodies of our UN troops murdered in such a cowardly way in Kigali? Emotions are running high. This is entirely legitimate. The politicians have felt the wind change, those who called for all Belgian UN troops to be pulled out of Rwanda. Under these conditions, it is not easy to press home a contrary point of view. However, the decision made by the Belgian Government, confirmed Thursday by Foreign Minister Willy Claes, begets two thoughts. The first is that it is not very diplomatic to force any decision which is up to the Security Council. The 430 Belgian soldiers are serving under the UN banner within an international force. Second, a withdrawal ascribed to the deaths of men would create a dangerous precedent. Who would then not be tempted to lay into UN troops if there was any certainty that they would withdraw under pressure of their public opinion? We have more than 1,000 soldiers in the former Yugoslavia, and tensions are running high. Nonetheless, the murder of our soldiers in Rwanda raises a much larger question concerning the UN mandate. The famous duty to interfere, a product of 1980's humanism, no longer holds water. The countries of the West agreed to keep the peace and manage the provision of humanitarian aid, but not to impose peace by force. For the first time, Belgium is recognizing this impotence, which is leading it to wash its hands of the drama in Rwanda. So the message being received by the African people is one laden with extremely serious consequences.
