FBIS4-31533 "dreeu112_p_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 POLAND Daily Views Religa's Plans To Transform BBWR Daily Views Religa's Plans To Transform BBWR WS0906102994 Warsaw NOWA EUROPA in Polish 9 Jun 94 p 2 WS0906102994 Warsaw NOWA EUROPA Polish BFN [Article compiled by E.W.: "Association Like Republican Party; Zbigniew Religa Wants To Transform BBWR"] [Text] According to Zbigniew Religa, chairman of the Non-Party Bloc in Support of Reforms [BBWR], the association has failed to fulfill its task of uniting the entire right wing. That was not possible, Religa explained in an interview for PAP. A meeting of BBWR's founding members to debate the formula and structure of a future organization will take place before the end of the month. Religa does not rule out that the new organization will include people who have left other right-wing parties and who are acting on their own now or who have abandoned political activity completely. It cannot be an organization that would be exclusively for Lech Walesa and that would be associated with him because, in that case, it would lose its significance both if the president wins the election and if he loses it, Religa explained. He also stressed that the bloc being organized now cannot be an organization that would be linked to himself or to Andrzej Olechowski, either; instead, it must be a group with a clear program and goals. There is no doubt whatsoever that, if my concept and direction are supported by the majority, then, beginning at that point, work will begin on transforming the BBWR into a new party, Religa said. He added that both BBWR members and poeple from outside it who could take part in the future organization will debate the group's new formula. When explaining the reasons for the decision, the BBWR chairman said that, in its current form, the BBWR could not be an organization that could make its mark in Poland's political landscape permanently--that is to say, over the next 10-50 years. Religa admitted that he still has an incomplete idea of what the future group should look like. But he did stress that he would not like it to resemble a party in the classic sense of the word--meaning, identification cards or various types of party commissions. I like the concept of, for instance, the Republican Party in the United States the most.
