FBIS4-48688 "drafr101_d_94007" FBIS-AFR-94-101 Daily Report 24 May 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Malawi President Muluzi Appoints Cabinet President Muluzi Appoints Cabinet EA2405201594 Blantyre Malawi Broadcasting Corporation Network in English 1600 GMT 24 May 94 EA2405201594 Blantyre Malawi Broadcasting Corporation Network English BFN [Text] His excellency the state president, Mr. Bakili Muluzi, has announced his cabinet. The full cabinet is as follows: - President: His Excellency Mr. Bakili Muluzi - Vice president: The Right Honorable Mr. Justin Malewezi - Minister of finance: The Honorable Aleke Banda - Minister commerce, industry and tourism: Honorable Harry Thomson &Minister of external affairs: Honorable Edward Bwanali - Minister of economic planning and development: Honorable Timothy Mwangazu - Minister of information and broadcasting: Honorable Brown Mpinganjira - Minister of home affairs: Honorable Peter Fachi - Minister of defense: Honorable Dr. Cassim Chilumpha - Minister for education, science and technology: Honorable Sam Mpasu - Minister of justice and attorney general: Honorable Wenham Nakanga - Minister of transport and communication: Honorable Collins Chizumira - Minister of agriculture and livestock development: Honorable Dr. John Nkumba - Minister of health and environmental affairs: Honorable Dr. George Mtafu - Minister of local government and rural development: Honorable James Makhumula - Minister of works, supplies and water development: Honorable Patrick Mbewe - Minister of state for women and children's affairs: Honorable Mrs. Edda Chitalo - Minister of lands and housing: Honorable Shaibu Haj Itumu - Minister of energy and mining: Honorable Rolf Patel - Minister of youth, sports and culture: Honorable Ziliro Chibambo - Minister of labor and manpower development: Honorable George Kanyanya - Deputy minister of education, science and technology: Mrs. Catherine Chipembere Three ministries are vacant, and these are for forestry, natural resources; community services and social welfare; and for physical planning and services.
