FBIS4-6222 "dreas075_m_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-075 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 Thailand `Aggressive' Posture Toward Cambodia Criticized `Aggressive' Posture Toward Cambodia Criticized BK1904094494 Bangkok NAEO NA in Thai 19 Apr 94 p 3 BK1904094494 Bangkok NAEO NA Thai BFN [Editorial: "Soldiers Must Be Tolerant"] [Text] Although Thailand played a significant part along with the international community in stopping the civil war and bringing about the election in Cambodia, it appears that it has not received due credit from certain leaders in the Cambodian Government. Thailand has even been discredited on several occasions. The sole issue the Cambodians have repeatedly used to discredit Thailand results from distrust of Thailand out of fear that the Thai military might still aid the Khmer Rouge due to interests arising from various activities along the border. This issue has frustrated Thai military leaders for some time. The issue came to a boiling point when certain Cambodian Government leaders in order to discredit Thailand brought out pictures taken long ago of Thai military officers with Khmer Rouge leaders. The military leaders appealed to the government to voice an objection and take immediate retaliatory measures. This is the first time that Thai military leaders have displayed their anger, and it is understandable. However, the vehement display of their feelings could have international ramifications, because it is tantamount to an unwritten declaration of Thailand's readiness to take military action. Political ruses are engaged in all the time. They should be countered politically, not by pounding the table. Therefore, although we sympathize with the Thai military over the unfair accusations, we appeal for calm so that we can make a proper analysis of the game the Cambodians are playing and its intended objective. We do not believe that certain Cambodian Government leaders are unaware of the change in Thailand's border policy. Trading activities with the Khmer Rouge by minor businessmen have continued to some extent. But why use them to discredit Thailand? By saying that the Thai military and government have two separate identities, we think the Cambodian leaders are giving themselves room for dialogue. In international politics, an aggressive stance is taken up by one side when it is confident that it can cause the other side to retreat or when it is far superior in power. This stand is taken only as a last resort. We wish every side concerned to reconsider whether it is now time to display such a stance.
