FBIS3-32530 "drlat027_g_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 Guatemala Defense Minister: Army Supports De Leon PA0802234994 Guatemala City PRENSA LIBRE in Spanish 7 Feb p 3 PA0802234994 Guatemala City PRENSA LIBRE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Asked about the country's institutional crisis, Defense Minister General Mario Rene Enriquez Morales on 4 February said the Army unconditionally supports President Ramiro De Leon Carpio and his administration's policies. As the institution charged with protecting national security and sovereignty, we are determined to help consolidate the democratic process and guarantee the preservation of institutional order, the minister said. In Guatemala, the government and the Army are working to dispel the crisis that other sectors have provoked. The Army is also committed to preserving democracy. It is our duty to support every effort toward that end, he said. The Army cannot comment on the results of the popular consultation because we are outside political activities, but our support for democracy and President De Leon is firm, the defense minister added. All sectors, not just the government, are responsible for confronting and ending the institutional crisis. Nevertheless, the government and the Army have mistakenly been blamed for everything wrong in the country, and that is unrealistic. The government has again and again been blamed for human rights violations, but the fact that the rebels have also violated these elementary rights has been overlooked. It is very easy to make accusations, particularly as we approach the Geneva Summit, which will discuss the human rights situation. Some sectors try to aggravate the crisis and have blamed the Guatemalan Government. Instead of marring the country's image, those sectors should strive for a solution to Guatemala's crisis. The Army is determined to support the democratic system, hence our support for President De Leon remains firm, Enriquez conclude.
