FBIS3-29722 "dreas035_d_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 South Korea U.S. Said To Reconsider Patriot Deployment SK2002035694 Seoul HANGUK ILBO in Korean 20 Feb 94 p 1 SK2002035694 Seoul HANGUK ILBO Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [By Washington-based correspondent Chong Chin-sok] [Text] It was learned on 19 February that the U.S. Government, accepting the ROK Government's request to reconsider the plan to deploy Patriot missiles in the ROK, decided to tentatively withhold the deployment. In a meeting with U.S. President Clinton on 18 February, ROK Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu revealed the ROK Government's hope that the deployment of Patriot missiles to the ROK be reconsidered in view of changes in the situation on the Korean peninsula, and President Clinton expressed his will to respect the position and opinion of the ROK Government. A high-ranking official in Washington said that "the U.S. Government's decision to tentatively withhold the deployment of Patriot missiles to the ROK was made considering the changes in security on the Korean peninsula, including the North Korean acceptance of nuclear inspection, and of the ROK Government's position calling on the United States to take into account forthcoming North-South dialogue and U.S.-North Korea relations." It has been learned that Gary Luck, commander of the U.S. Forces in the ROK, recently sent an additional request to the U.S. Defense Department that it tentatively withhold the plan to deploy Patriot missiles in the ROK. Commander Luck had requested earlier the Defense Department mobilization and deployment of Patriot missiles to the ROK considering the state of security affairs on the Korean peninsula, and the U.S. Government approved his request. Based on this, the United States has been reviewing various issues, including the timing of the deployment. It was also learned that Luck, commander of the U.S. Forces in the ROK, received from Yi Yang-ho, chairman of the ROK Joint Chiefs of Staff, a message from the ROK Government on its position that the timing of the deployment of Patriot missiles to the ROK is not appropriate and that the plan for the deployment should be reconsidered.
