FBIS3-50370 "dreeu019_i_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Jan 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Karadzic Seeks Lifting of Economic Sanctions LD2601232894 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service in Serbo-Croatian 2209 GMT 26 Jan 94 LD2601232894 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Text] Sarajevo, 26 Jan (TANJUG) -- "The French initiative is rather vague to us. We cannot tell whether it calls for the political or military presence of the United States," Srpska republic president Radovan Karadzic told Serb Television, Sarajevo Studio, this evening. "We are in no way opposed to a more active U.S. and Russian involvement in the political resolution of the crisis," Karadzic added. Speaking about the Russian initiative, Karadzic assessed that it conforms with what has been envisaged -- that such a document should be made public after agreement is reached between the three [Bosnian] sides. "I believe that it is good to insist on this conference under the auspices of the European Union and we are not against the possible engagement of the UN Security Council, the United States, and Russia," Karadzic said. "However, it seems to me that the international community should find ways to force the Muslim leadership into accepting peace because it is obviously a problem for them to accept anything. This current Muslim political team cannot bring the war to an end because it is incapable of leading its own people to peace and giving it a state of its own. They are leading the Muslim people to their doom," Karadzic stressed. Commenting on U.S. President Clinton's statement that nobody should be forced to accept solutions unacceptable to them, the Srpska republic president said he welcomes such a stance because, in his view, outside pressure cannot effect a solution in Bosnia. "What we are insisting on is that the United States and part of the international community begin treating all three sides in the conflict equally, which means that the sanctions should be lifted immediately. I must say that the Muslims have, unfortunately, opted for war, and our people must now close ranks even more and prepare to defend our state. This will require great efforts on our part, but the Muslim leadership must be aware that we will be well prepared for war if it does break out," Karadzic underlined. Alija Izetbegovic's refusal to accept the Russian initiative was assessed by Karadzic as yet another move aimed at undermining everything that leads to peace. "The Muslim leaders' deranged hopes that they will conquer all of Bosnia-Herzegovina represent a disaster for the Muslim people. They could not defeat us even when they were allied with the Croats. We and the Croats have opted for peace -- a position that leaves the Muslim military option without a ghost of a chance," Radovan Karadzic said.
