FBIS3-30233 "dreeu021_p_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 POLAND Discussions With Germany on Asylum Issues LD3101170794 Berlin DDP/ADN in German 1516 GMT 31 Jan 94 LD3101170794 Berlin DDP/ADN Language: German Article Type:BFN [Text] Warsaw (DDP/ADN)--According to the German and Polish interior ministers, Manfred Kanther and Andrzej Milczanowski, there have been some initial difficulties with the implementation of the German-Polish asylum agreement. This is, however, normal and there is no question of Poland having circumvented the agreement, as was reported by some German media at the weekend, Kanther told journalists in Warsaw today. In the six months after the agreement came into force on 1 July 1993, 2,697 people who had illegally entered Germany from Poland were turned over to the Polish authorities by the German side, Milczanowski said. Another 975 refugees were sent back under a simplified procedure. During those six months there were only 28 cases where the Polish side refused to accept the persons to be returned. The main reason for this was problems with the interpretation of the papers which the German authorities must produce to document the refugee's transit route through Poland. The Polish side believes there are still some unresolved points regarding this question. Kanther said, on the other hand, that the documents' plausibility was "sufficiently proven" by the agreements already reached. Nor did he wish to comment on the figures quoted by Milczanowski. Different categories in counting the refugees preclude any comparison. Milczanowski announced that liaison officers will be named by the end of February to bring about a more rapid settlement of contentious issues. Milczanowski conceded that some of the persons returned from Germany have once again illegally entered Germany from Poland. This resulted among other things from the fact that he could not detain deported refugees for longer than 48 hours in accordance with a decision by Poland's Constitutional Court. However, this problem would be "sorted out" during the next month and a half. Individuals refused entry should then be flown back to their country of origin within 48 hours. Kanther and Milczanowski also discussed cross-border cooperation in fighting crime. An agreement to this effect is to be drafted in the near future. The ministers described cooperation between the interior ministries and police forces of both countries as smooth.
