FBIS3-12255 "drnes039dd_94020" FBIS-NES-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 Palestinian Affairs Sources Report Efforts Toward Rabin-'Arafat Meeting TA2802075894 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT in Hebrew 28 Feb 94 p 7 TA2802075894 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Report from Tunis by Orli Katz-Azulay] [Excerpts] Despite PLO leaders' declarations that "there will be no talks with Israel until it reviews its stands," efforts are being made to arrange an 'Arafat-Rabin meeting in Washington tomorrow. This was learned last night from unofficial sources in Tunis. Beginning at 1700 yesterday, the bureaus of Rabin and 'Arafat exchanged messages containing the two sides' questions and answers. One of the central issues addressed in the messages was the number of detainees the PLO wanted to see released at once, compared with the cabinet decision yesterday to release only 800. Apparently the exchange of messages will be continued only following the PLO leaders' meeting with Yasir 'Arafat at his Tunis headquarters tonight. The fate of the Rabin-'Arafat encounter will be also decided after the PLO meeting. [passage omitted] Yesterday 'Arafat convened the nucleus of the PLO leadership to decide on future steps with regard to the peace negotiations. The PLO top echelons demand that the following terms be met: -- All Palestinian prisoners incarcerated in Israel are to be released at once, and the deportees are to be permitted to return. -- The IDF [Israel Defense Forces] will begin withdrawing at once from Gaza and Jericho, and the vacuum will be filled by armed Palestinian policemen. -- The negotiations will address the settlement issue. -- Armed settlers will be banished from the area, and weapon stockpiles will be removed from the settlements. Until all this happens, the PLO leadership wants an international force to enter the territories to protect the Palestinians. Senior PLO officials announced yesterday that they will resign if 'Arafat returns to the negotiations with Israel before the new PLO terms are met. [passage omitted]
