FBIS4-53560 "dreas098_a_94015" FBIS-EAS-94-098 Daily Report 20 May 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Reports Concerning Public Utility Rate Continue Reports Concerning Public Utility Rate Continue Fujii Rejects Bureaucrats' Opposition OW2005032794 Tokyo KYODO in English 0301 GMT 20 May 94 OW2005032794 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, May 20 KYODO -- A political decision to freeze planned hikes in public service charges must be followed, Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii said Friday [20 May], brushing off opposition by bureaucrats. Fujii said he highly evaluated the "political decision by Prime Minister (Tsutomu) Hata," and the ministry will review requested hikes in nonlife insurance premiums in line with the freeze, Fujii told a news conference after a morning cabinet meeting. His comments came after Finance Ministry bureaucrats led by Vice Finance Minister Jiro Saito criticized the premier's decision. Saito told reporters Thursday that he was dissatisfied with the decision to freeze all applied-for hikes in public service charges, including highway tolls, taxi fares and telephone rates. Saito's remarks made headlines in many newspapers, with one daily calling it a "coup" bid by bureaucrats. Fujii said he has not heard of such comments. "I understand that the vice minister just said that we must follow cabinet decisions." The plan announced Wednesday to freeze hikes this year was endorsed at the morning cabinet meeting. Hikes applied for in government-controlled charges include telephone fees, public housing rents, highway tolls, and fire and marine insurance premiums. As for requested increases in nonlife insurance premiums which the finance minister controls, Saito said the minister would review applications to see whether the freeze is possible. But if found difficult, he suggested the ministry would seek exemption. Fujii said, "we must go over to promote streamlining" of nonlife insurance firms. Saito said the requests for premium hikes were made to "maintain a sound insurance system." Casualty insurance firms were in a pinch because of increased payouts on disaster and other cases, he said. In their separate statements, Fujii and Saito shared the view that the freeze is not related to the coming tax reform, in contrast with the prime minister's comments on such a link. After making his decision on the rate hike freeze, Hata said it would pave the way for winning public support on tax increases to offset income tax cuts. Concerning the possibility of even greater hikes in public service charges after the freeze ends, both Fujii and Saito said that streamlining is necessary to avoid placing such a burden on consumers. But Fujii welcomed the decision taken at a time when the economy "is in a crucial stage" with both good and bad signs. "We must now steadily implement the February stimulus package and the fiscal 1994 budget" to spread the recent improvements, Fujii said, noting that long-delayed Diet deliberations on the budget are set to begin. "If the economy starts picking up and enters a stable growth phase, later fee hikes will be absorbed eventually," he added.
