FBIS3-39400 "drweu032_o_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 CYPRUS Turkish Side Expected To Try To `Wreck' CBM's NC1602090194 Nicosia O AGON in Greek 16 Feb 94 p 32 NC1602090194 Nicosia O AGON Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Report by Kostakis Andoniou] [Text] Reliable political circles estimate that the Turks will wreck the talks on the confidence-building measures for the following three basic reasons: 1. Turkey does not want a solution, nor has it made the political decision to proceed with serious dialogue that would facilitate the promotion of the issue. Consequently, an agreement on the confidence-building measures would force the Turkish side to proceed with other steps as well, which would lead to the achievement of an agreement that is not in Ankara's plans at this time. 2. [Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf] Denktas believes that the only concession he will make for an overall solution of the Cyprus issue is to turn over Varosha. It is the last card he will play in order to "end the game." However, from the moment he offers this card before the achievement of a final solution, he will be forced to negotiate and give up other parts throughout the process of the talks. 3. The opening of the Nicosia Airport will automatically deprive him of any argument to ask for recognition of the illegal airport in Tymbou and the special FIR. These appraisals come from reliable political circles and cause great pessimism within the government, which does not expect progress in the talks on the confidence-building measures. The same circles also stressed that according to our experts' assessment, the problem for our side is not the operation of Nicosia Airport and the arrangements that will be agreed upon, but the issue of Varosha. Specifically, there are reservations about the fact that if there is no withdrawal of the Turkish troops from the "passage" to Dherinia, there will be no way out for those who return. Despite the practical difficulties and the certainty that the Turkish side will wreck the confidence-building measures in the end, the same political circles stressed that: The Greek Cypriot side could not refuse participation in the talks because its refusal would actually destroy any further deliberation process on the Cyprus issue. It would also slam the door on deliberations for the promotion of Cyprus' access to the European Union.
