FBIS4-20803 "jpnea019___94005" JPRS-NEA-94-019 JPRS Near East & South Asia 17 February 1994 NEAR EAST ALGERIA Arms: Complicity of Foreign Countries Asserted Arms: Complicity of Foreign Countries Asserted 94AF0157B Algiers LIBERTE in French 17 Feb 94 p 3 94AF0157B Algiers LIBERTE French CSO [Article by Yacine Lahcene: "Arms Trafficking Hubs"] [Text] The dismantling of terrorist networks and quantities of arms seized in their vicinity offer convincing evidence... Arms trafficking was a booming business in Algeria in the late 1980's. But it has increased to a dangerous extent in the last two years, with proliferation of terrorist groups that are the principal beneficiaries. Transported to Algeria in a number of different ways, these weapons, often in large quantities, have ended up at the same drop points in almost every instance: Setif, Khenchela, M'Sila, Medea, or (less frequently) Chlef and Batna. Witness the numerous hauls made by the security services in the last two years. Undoubtedly most spectacular was the raid at Setif that led to the dismantling, almost exactly a year ago, of the largest clandestine network to appear since independence. No less than 100 individuals, including traffickers, "fences," artisanal weapons (fabricators) were arrested and 842 weapons captured. And this was but the tip of the iceberg, since security services went on several days later to make other arrests, as the trafficking ring had branches in many other wilayas. Altogether more than 500 traffickers were apprehended. Investigation disclosed that the majority were black-market operators. A second large arms trafficking network was dismantled in Setif. Beretta and Perfecta automatic pistols were among the weapons seized. Earlier on, the National Gendarmerie had neutralized 32 persons involved in a network formed in the Khenchela and Batna regions. In Central province, more specifically in Medea, the National Gendarmerie made another spectacular haul, not only dismantling the network and seizing the weapons but also discovering and destroying a laboratory for gun modification and artisanal bomb fabrication. This dismantling of an international networking for trafficking in weapons of war was a triumph for security forces, but one that also vividly illustrated the current of arms trafficking. The main leaders of this ring, 10 in number, were arrested and imprisoned. A number of other networks were also dismantled during this two-year period, including those at Mila and M'Sila. But that certainly does not mean all the networks in Algeria have been shut down. There are still many others to continue provisioning the terrorist groups--with the complicity, naturally, of certain foreign countries that are always ready to provide traffickers with facilities and support in this domain.
