FBIS4-21409 "jpten009___94003" JPRS-TEN-94-009 JPRS Environmental Issues 24 March 1994 AFRICA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Central African Republic Joins Lake Chad Basin Commission Central African Republic Joins Lake Chad Basin Commission AB2403141594 Dakar PANA in English 1321 GMT 24 Mar 94 AB2403141594 Dakar PANA English BFN [Text] Abuja, 24 March (PANA) -- The Central African Republic, which attended the just-concluded eighth summit of the Lake Chad Basin Commission, in the Nigerian capital, Abuja, has been admitted as the fifth member of the commission. A communique at the end of the two-day summit on Thursday [24 March], said the country's admission was based on its "strategic location as the source of major rivers which flows into Lake Chad." The statement also said that the summit, attended by Gen. Sani Abacha (Nigeria), Presidents Idriss Deby of Chad and Mahamane Ousmane of Niger, as well as Cameroonian Minister of State Frederick Kodock, agreed to set up a joint security force to "safeguard life and property" in the lake region. The force, to be based in Bagakawa, northern Nigeria, is to have "political and logistic support from member nations of the commission." The communique said the need for the force became imperative because of the realisation that the objectives of the commission's programmes and master-plan "can only be achieved in a secured environment." "The commission therefore, decided to have rotational leadership for the joint security force with defined mode of human and material contributions of member-states," it added. The master-plan adopted by the summit would seek to "successfully stop all forms of ecological degradations of the lake and its basin." Launching a campaign to save the Lake Chad in Abuja on Wednesday as part of the eighth summit, Abacha said that the master-plan contained "viable and sustainable strategies for the management and development of the natural resources of the lake." He disclosed that the lake's water had "reduced from 25,000 square kilometres in the 60's to a meagre area of 20,000 kilometres at present." The next summit comes up next year in Chad, headquarters of the commission, set up in 1964 for mutual exploration of the lake's natural resources and to ensure collective security in the region.
