FBIS4-35983 "drnes108_o_94003" FBIS-NES-94-108 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 SYRIA Comments on Status of Peace Talks Comments on Status of Peace Talks PM0306112894 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 3 Jun 94 p 4 PM0306112894 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Arabic BFN [Sawsan Abu-Husayn report: "Al-Shar' Tells AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT: We Will Not Resume Negotiations Before Full Withdrawal Is Agreed To"] [Text] Cairo -- Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shar' has said that his country will not resume its negotiations with Israel before receiving its final reply vis-a-vis the full withdrawal to the 4 June 1967 lines. In an exclusive statement to AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT he said: "Then we would be able to discuss any Israeli proposal." On his country's acceptance of a phased Israeli withdrawal within a reasonable period, the Syrian foreign minister said that his country "is not at present looking for a phased withdrawal or its duration. We are awaiting U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher's visit to the region, especially as he has promised to achieve positive results during his upcoming tour." Al-Shar' said: "Israel still has not announced its willingness to withdraw fully from the Golan, while we accept a phased Israeli withdrawal, but the question is: Is it all the Golan or are there other areas which Israel believes subject to the security clauses?" On Arab coordination al-Shar' said: "We are committed to it. We made contacts with Jordan before the Jordanian monarch, King Husayn, visited Damascus. And Lebanese President Ilyas al-Hirawi and his prime minister held a meeting with President Hafiz al-Asad. We also coordinate with Egypt from time to time by telephone or through frequent meetings. All this falls within the framework of assessing the situation and the extent of Israel's seriousness in entering into a comprehensive, full, and nondeficient peace with the Arab states." Al-Shar' denied any plan to meet with Faruq Qaddumi in Syria within days in the framework of Palestinian-Syrian coordination. On Syria's mediation role between Egypt and Iran he said: "Neither party has entrusted us with that matter. As for our relations with Iran, they are extremely good and proceeding on parallel lines vis-a-vis the important issues in the region."
