FBIS3-18382 "drweu041_h_94029" FBIS-WEU-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 GERMANY Human Rights Agency Wants End to Arming Turkey AU2402151894 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE in German 24 Feb 94 p 4 AU2402151894 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE Language: German Article Type:BFN [Article by "ban": "Former Greens Politician Heads German Liaison Office in Northern Iraq"] [Text] Bonn, 23 Feb -- Mr. Walde, former federal manager of the Greens, will be the head of an FRG liaison office in northern Iraq. The "German Humanitarian Aid" office -- with its seat in Irbil -- is supposed to coordinate relief operations and to establish contacts with local authorities. After his departure from the Greens, Walde worked for the Caritas organization, the Workers' Samaritan League, and other organizations in the Kurdish areas of Iraq. The Foreign Ministry appointed him to his new position, which he will take up at the beginning of March. Walde was the federal manager of the Greens until the party left the Bundestag in 1990. At that time he was counted among the party's left wing. On behalf of the International Association for Human Rights in Kurdistan, Lower Saxony's Justice Minister Alm-Merk (Social Democratic Party of Germany) called on the Federal Government on Wednesday [23 February] not to supply Turkey with weapons from the stocks of the former National People's Army (NVA) any more. The Federal Government must also make a contribution to having the Turkish authorities investigate human rights violations against the Kurds. A statement by the Association recalls that UN bodies have accused the Turkish Government of deliberate and systematic torture of Kurds. In 1993, too, the Kurdish press was the target of "state repression." There were a total of 626 "extrajudicial executions," 392 villages were destroyed, and almost 380 magazines and newspapers were impounded. The human rights organization also criticized the acts of violence committed by the Workers Party of Kurdistan (PKK). The PKK must stick to its "basic principles, which have been set down internationally." The statement calls on the United States, Germany, France, and Great Britain to condemn the violations of human rights in Turkey and to make political, military, and economic aid to Turkey dependent on the observation of human rights.
