FBIS4-11804 "drnes063_m_94004" FBIS-NES-94-063 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 JORDAN Officials, Media Comment on Blockade of al-'Aqabah Officials, Media Comment on Blockade of al-'Aqabah Paper Sees Talks Linkage JN0104073294 Amman SAWT AL-SHA'B in Arabic 1 Apr 94 pp 1, 14 JN0104073294 Amman SAWT AL-SHA'B Arabic BFN [Editorial: "Will Washington Lift The Siege on Jordan During April?"] [Text] Since the negotiations on the Jordanian and other tracks are scheduled to resume in April, the U.S. Administration must reconsider its siege of Jordan. This is especially true because His Majesty King Husayn linked Jordan's participation in the negotiations with the lifting of the siege imposed on the Port of al-'Aqabah. It is true that President Bill Clinton yesterday affirmed that the negotiations on the Jordanian, Syrian, and Lebanese tracks will resume in April as scheduled. However, it is also true that the continuation of the U.S. siege of the Port of al-'Aqabah will obstruct the resumption of the negotiations on the Jordanian track. U.S. Secretary of State Christopher promised to take measures to assist Jordan in facing the siege. However, the U.S. stand on the siege has yet to change. This U.S. stand needs to be seriously reconsidered in a way that is in keeping with Jordan's seriousness about stopping negotiations if the siege continues. In other words, the U.S. Administration should respect Jordan's interests and stop trying to harm its economy and trade by continuing the unjust siege. The U.S. Administration should realize that Jordan will not submit to unjustified pressures and harassments. The U.S. Administration should review its recent stand on the identity of Jerusalem and should not disavow its Arabism. It should appreciate His Majesty King Husayn's historic concern about the Arabism of Jerusalem. This is especially so since all the Security Council resolutions on which the peace process is based stipulate that Jerusalem is an integral part of the occupied Arab territories. Moreover, Israel's decision to annex Arab Jerusalem is unrecognized by legitimate international bodies, leb by the Security Council itself. The U.S. Administration is fully aware of the burdens Jordan has been shouldering as a result of the Gulf crisis and the serious economic and social losses it has been suffering on all levels. However, instead of compensating Jordan for its large losses, the U.S. Administration continued the siege, with the intention of causing more harm to its economy and trade. The U.S. Administration is doing this in an attempt to force Jordan to abandon the constants of its principled stands.
