FBIS3-59718 "jpjst003__l94011" JPRS-JST-94-003L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 18 January 1994 Biotechnology National Institute for Environmental Studies Opens Environmental Genetic Engineering Lab 94FE0163C Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO in Japanese 17 Nov 93 p 11--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0163C Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] The National Institute for Environmental Studies (Mr. Toshinobu Ichikawa, head) of the Environmental Agency, presently, held an opening symposium in honor of the newly constructed Environmental Genetic Engineering Lab wing. In recent years, the technology in gene rearrangement has shown remarkable progress. It is in such technology that much is dependent on producing microorganisms and plants that can be applied to preserving the environment. The symposium consisted of lectures, research reports, and panel discussions by experienced scholars in genetic engineering. Debates in depth were made on the applications of microorganisms and plants towards environmental preservation and the values it held for environmental influence. A keynote lecture titled ``We are depending on the genetic engineering technology for plants'' was given. Professor Akira Watanabe of University of Nagoya, Bio-Molecular Question & Answer Research Center said, ``The genetic engineering technology centered around the field of food application has progressed. With the completion of the laboratory wing, we are depending on the exploration of new fields in the genetic engineering technology''. The research presentations continued with ``The development of plants that can resist air pollution'' (Kuro Kondo, ditto Research Center, New Bio Product Evaluation Study Team Aggregate Research Official), ``The purification of trichloroethylene pollution using microorganisms'' (Osami Yagi, ditto Research Center, Water Environmental Quality Research Project Leader), and four other research reports on the present state of biotechnology in environmental preservation were presented. In addition, in the panel discussion of ``The public acceptance of microorganism utilization for environmental control'', the degree of public penetration of genetic engineered bio-products that are on the market and also biotechnology itself were discussed. It has been generally acknowledged that our countrys knowledge of biotechnology has been affirmative and interesting comments from the panel such as ``In Japan, we do not see as much resistance to products that have been genetically engineered as in Europe or the United States. Also the oppositions are not as philosophical (as the Europeans)'', and ``Dont forget that Japan was the first country to use genetically engineered detergent'', were being reported.
