FBIS3-4462 "drchi061_k_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Ministry Spokesman Reveals Unified Social Insurance System HK3003041294 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 30 Mar 94 p 1 HK3003041294 Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:BFN [By staff reporter Cao Min: "Five-Year Plan for New State Insurance"] [Text] The government plans to bring in a unified social insurance system nationwide within the next five years, it was announced yesterday. This means all enterprises across the country, regardless of ownership, will be covered by the same social insurance standards. The move is seen as a major plank in the state's bid to form a modern enterprise system and develop the labour market, said Labour Ministry spokesman Liu Guanxue. The current social insurance system covers only state-owned enterprises and has created a bottleneck in the drive towards a socialist market economy. The system is too narrow, its management is weak, and it places too heavy a financial burden on the government and enterprises, said Liu. China began to set up its labour insurance system in 1951. It included pensions, free medical care, and benefits for industrial injuries and maternity, based on a planned economy. Only regular workers or staff of state enterprises, units, and institutions received retirement pensions--75 percent of his or her wage. But the market economy has changed social values and the way enterprises are run and the old insurance system is quite incompatible with the demands of a freemoving labour force. The changes in the labour system have enabled most enterprises to start employing who they want without government involvement. But firms remain unable to dismiss redundant personnel under the old system, said Liu. The new unified one will help relieve workers' worries and let them look for new jobs with more confidence. About 80 million people are covered by pension schemes and about 18 million retired workers receive the payments. China first set up unemployment insurance for workers in the state-owned enterprises in 1986. Last year, about 900,000 people were getting unemployment relief--three times the figure in 1992. The Labour Ministry is also to speed up reform of wage and labour systems in such pilot areas as Shandong and Guangdong provinces and 10 major cities this year, said ministry officials.
