FBIS4-39796 "drsov112_e_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Russia's Dubinin on Talks Russia's Dubinin on Talks LD0906152194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1456 GMT 9 Jun 94 LD0906152194 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondents Viktor Demidenko and Mikhail Melnik] [Text] Kiev 9 June TASS -- The division of the Black Sea Fleet must bring tranquility to people and confidence of the morrow. It is important to ensure that there should be no conflicts nor incidents in this process so that the personnel should calmly conduct their service and that there should be no animosity and misunderstanding between the two fraternal peoples, Yuriy Dubinin, ambassador at large of the Russian Foreign Ministry, who heads the Russian delegation at the talks in Kiev, said in an exclusive interview to ITAR-TASS on Thursday. Dubinin believes the negotiating on Wednesday was "extremely useful and constructive." So far there have been disputes on general principles, without addressing the essence of the matter. Now the sides have been able to pass on from generalised declarations to specific debating on the specific list of naval ships and other vehicles, as well as places of basing of the Black Sea Fleet and the Ukrainian Navy, Dubinin said. The main parameters of the division of ships have been in general defined, the head of the Russian delegation said. Economists and financial experts work alongside military experts to assess the cost of ships and infrastructure of the Navy. They will make their conclusions known to the delegations. Dubinin believes that all the matters involved in the division of the Black Sea Fleet should be formulated in one document, an agreement, that would set out provisions for the settlement of every stage of the division. "We want the Ukrainian naval forces to rally as soon as possible and Russia's Black Sea Fleet to embark on a new stage of its development without losing its characteristic combat properties," Dubinin said. The negotiations go on. Unless this work is concluded in Kiev, the next round will be held in Moscow.
