FBIS4-26107 "drchi117_v_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-117 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 TAIWAN Official Says Beijing Trying To Alienate Taipei Firms Official Says Beijing Trying To Alienate Taipei Firms OW1606134194 Taipei CNA in English 1314 GMT 16 Jun 94 OW1606134194 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Sofia Wu] [Text] Taipei, June 16 (CNA) -- The Beijing-based Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Strait (ARATS) is stepping up contacts with Taiwan investors in Mainland China in an attempt to have them cut their relations with Taiwan, a high-ranking mainland affairs official said Thursday [16 June]. Huang Kun-hui, chairman of the Mainland Affairs Council (MAC), said during a cabinet meeting that ARATS Chairman Wang Daohan and Standing Vice Chairman Tang Shubei have visited many southeastern mainland cities where a number of Taiwan-owned companies are located, including Ningbo, Hangzhou, Nanjing, Yangzhou, Wuxi and Suzhou, since mid-May. Wang and Tang have met intensively with senior executives of Taiwan-invested firms during their tours of those cities, Huang said. They have also held face-to-face talks with Taiwan youths studying there. [Words indistinct] might be aiming to win back the hearts of Taiwan businessmen whose confidence in mainland authorities has been adversely affected by the Qiandao Lake travel disaster in which 24 tourists were killed, Huang noted. "The two might also be implementing resolutions reached during a Beijing meeting in April on a new strategy toward Taiwan to intensify courting Taiwan investors," Huang said. Huang also said that ARATS has adopted a sugar-coated conciliatory approach to win the trust of Taiwan businessmen. "Wang seems to be talking Taiwan investors into believing that ARATS can speak for them and protect their interests and rights on the mainland," he explained. On the other hand, he said ARATS has deliberately ignored the call from the Taipei-based Straits Exchange Foundation (SEF) for cooperation in assisting mainland China-based Taiwan companies to resolve their problems. "By doing so, ARATS aims to alienate Taiwan companies from the SEF," Huang said, adding that ARATS hopes those firms will in the long run exclusively turn to it for assistance and gradually cut their ties with their homeland. The SEF and ARATS are semi-official bodies set up by their respective governments to handle cross-strait exchanges in the absence of official contacts.
