FBIS4-16758 "drsov076_b_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-076 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Denies Support To Rutskoy Denies Support To Rutskoy MK1904104094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 19 Apr 94 p 3 MK1904104094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Russian BFN [Yekaterina Achalova report: "Opposition Unites Once Again. New Coalition Wants To Do Without Rutskoy and Zorkin"] [Text] The intransigent opposition has decided to jettison its former "October" leaders. Yesterday, a Public Committee for the Rule of Law and People's Power was set up in Moscow to replace the National Salvation Front [NSF], which was banned right after the October events. The committee's objective will be to continue extra-parliamentary struggle and to coordinate the activities of the left-wing and patriotic movements in all regions of Russia. It is expected that the Public Committee for the Rule of Law and People's Power will be based primarily on the former structures of the NSF, the Officers Union, the Russian All-People's Union, and other patriotic and left-wing organizations. The new committee's founding fathers include such well-known political figures as State Duma deputies Sergey Baburin, Vladimir Isakov, Yuriy Vlasov, and also Lieutenant Colonel Stanislav Terekhov. KOMMERSANT-DAILY has learned that during preliminary meetings, which took place in an atmosphere of strictest secrecy, they decided not to associate the organization with people who have been blamed for the opposition's defeat in October -- Aleksandr Rutskoy, Ilya Konstantinov, Aleksandr Sterligov, and Viktor Anpilov. It was also decided not to give support to the "Accord for Russia" movement set up by Aleksandr Rutskoy and Valeriy Zorkin. Given that the Public Committee's predecessor -- the National Salvation Front -- was effectively a club of Moscow politicians, the new coalition's organizers decided to boost their influence in the workers movement. The committee's priority objective was defined as the penetration of the fuel-and-energy and military-industrial sector trade unions in order to persuade them to switch from economic to political demands when calling strikes. The main political demands should include the resignation of the government and early presidential elections. According to the strategy devised by the Public Committee, one of its "power" centers will be the Officers Union and the Russian Power Party [Rossiyskaya Derzhavnaya Partiya] being set up by its activists (their congresses were held last weekend). It is expected that the Officers Union will step up its campaigning in the Russian Armed Forces and prod servicemen into voicing demands similar to those of the trade unions. Another fairly noteworthy development was the participation in the Officers Union congress by Vladimir Zhirinovskiy, who has shunned contacts with the intransigent opposition since his election to the State Duma. Now he asked the officers to see him as their ally, and also recommended that they penetrate "the rear of the enemy -- the party of authority" -- so as to know in advance about the expected actions by the authorities and to be ready to counter them.
