FBIS4-19620 "drweu077_b_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-077 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 BENELUX COUNTRIES Netherlands `Panic' at UN, `Loss of Face' for NATO Over Gorazde `Panic' at UN, `Loss of Face' for NATO Over Gorazde BR2004125894 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT in Dutch 16 Apr 94 p 7 BR2004125894 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT Dutch BFN [Unattributed editorial: "Failure in Gorazde"] [Text] Last weekend, the crisis about Gorazde, which was declared a "safe area" by the United Nations, reached a chaotic and dangerous phase. According to reliable sources, Serb tanks were only a few hundred yards from the center of the city last Sunday night. The attempts by the United Nations, NATO, and the Russians to end the Serb offensive launched against Gorazde on 30 March were a total failure as a result of a series of miscalculations, internal disagreements, and clumsy attempts at military action. General Michael Rose, UN Commander in Bosnia, initially underestimated the meaning of the Serb offensive. Then the Serb assailants were unexpectedly encouraged by the United States. Defense Secretary Perry and Chairman, Joint Chiefs, General Shalikashvili stated that the impending fall of Gorazde would not be a reason for the United States to launch air strikes. A week and a half ago, Secretary Christopher and President Clinton corrected that view, but Gorazde was already on the verge of falling. At General Rose's request, two NATO bombings followed. They were not important from the military point of view, but it was hoped that they would have a psychological impact. However, this impact was largely undone by Russian President Yeltsin's disapproving reaction to the NATO action, in spite of negotiator Churkin's subsequent diplomatic attempts to urge the Serbs to withdraw. The latest result of these efforts was last Sunday afternoon's agreement on a Serb withdrawal to 3 km outside Gorazde, and the stationing of 350 UN military personnel there. However, the Serbs make fools of their Russian friends just as easily as they do NATO and the United Nations. Karadzic and General Mladic intimidated the latter and labelled them as enemies. They even shot down a NATO airplane last Saturday. The fact that the subsequently requested air support was not given completes the international community's failure. The impression of panic at the United Nations is strengthened by Yashushi Akashi's inexcusable statement last Saturday, that UNPROFOR should perhaps withdraw from Bosnia altogether. Loss of face for NATO, panic at the United Nations, the whole situation is very alarming. Even worse is that Gorazde's failure has undone the sobering effect which the Sarajevo ultimatum had on the Serbs. Karadzic has regained both the military and diplomatic initiative.
