FBIS3-15584 "drsov045_m_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 Tajikistan Alimov Says Dushanbe Ready for Talks With Any Forces LD0503183794 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1456 GMT 5 Mar 94 LD0503183794 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature] [Text] The Tajik authorities are prepared to conduct dialogue with forces of any political orientation, "without preliminary conditions and with any negotiators." The main thing is that this help the establishment of a civil peace and stability in the Republic, INTERFAX was told Saturday by Tajik Foreign Minister Rashid Alimov. He believes that this year is very important for the Republic. Tajik people are actively discussing the draft of a new Constitution and possible forms of the state structure. Late in summer or early in autumn parliamentary elections are to be held in Tajikistan. "We would like that everyone who considers himself a citizen of Tajikistan, despite the nationality, confession, political and philosophical views, take part in these vitally important processes. He said that people of Tajikistan attach an exceptional importance to the role to be played by Russia in the undoing Tajikistan's knot. Russia's contribution is valuable both for the political settlement and in the sphere of the economic assistance, said Alimov. He said the Republic's Foreign Ministry is maintaining close contacts with the Russian Foreign Ministry. Speaking about the visit by the first deputy of the Russian Foreign Minister Anatoliy Adamishin to Iran where he intends to meet leaders of the Tajik opposition, Alimov said that the authorities and people of Tajikistan welcome the efforts by the Russian diplomat in establishing a civil peace in the Republic. It seems Adamishin is to see for himself the goodwill by representatives of the Tajik opposition. We wish every success to his mission, said Alimov. He also assessed positively the role by the special envoy of the UN Secretary General on Tajikistan, Ramirez Piriz-Bollon.
