FBIS3-29743 "dreas035__a94006" FBIS-EAS-94-035-A Document Type:Daily Report 22 February 1994 ANNEX Japan Government To Map Out Market Opening Measures OW1902142494 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 19 Feb 94 Morning Edition p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1902142494 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] In response to the breakdown of Japan-U.S. economic framework talks, the government has decided to map out a package of new measures to open the Japanese market. The government, which sees improvement in the current procedures for government procurement as the centerpiece of the package of new measures to open the Japanese market, plans to take steps in 1994 to improve the procedures. The government also has begun to study ways to set up a grievance body to be mandated to handle complaints about government procurement by the end of March. Prime Minister Hosokawa plans to issue a statement announcing that his government will carry through the policy of "indiscriminate procurement" of domestic and foreign goods. The package of new measures to open the Japanese market is to include specific measures in four points to improve the current procedures for government procurement, promote deregulation, increase imports and domestic investment, and adopt a competitive policy. The government procurement action program implementation committee, which is made of administrative vice ministers from government ministries and agencies, is now at work to map out an action program to 1) strictly enforce the new open competitive tender system and expand the line of business accessible to the grievance body. With the United States increasingly taking a hard-line posture toward Japan, the government has decided to map out the action program earlier than scheduled. Regarding the government procurement of medical equipment and telecommunications gear whcih has been under discussion at the Japan-U.S. economic framework talks, the government plans to improve the current procedures for their procurement as Japanese negotiators have promised at the talks. The government will procure goods worth more than 100,000 SDR (the IMF's special drawing rights, approximately 15 million yen) through bidding and to adopt a "comprehensive appraisal formula" under which consideration is given not only to prices, but to function for a final choice of successful tenders. As for the insurance sector, on which negotiations have broken down at the economic framework talks, the government plans to announce plans to reform the current insurance system. On the automobile and auto parts sector, the government intends to promote industrial cooperation between Japanese automakers and American auto parts makers after choosing specific items of auto parts for such industrial cooperation. The government also plans to improve the current certification and standard for automobile imports.
