FBIS4-22821 "jpust008___94023" JPRS-UST-94-008 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 31 March 1994 CHEMICAL SCIENCES CHEMICAL INDUSTRY Adiathermic Glasses Having Special Course of Dispersion Adiathermic Glasses Having Special Course of Dispersion 947M0029A Moscow STEKLO I KERAMIKA in Russian No. 11-12, Nov-Dec 93 pp 8-11 947M0029A Moscow STEKLO I KERAMIKA Russian CSO [Article by S. G. Kozhevatkin, M. V. Artamonova, and V. I. Molev, PO ``Lytkarinskiy Zavod Opticheskogo Stekla''; UDC666.11.01] [Abstract] Development of a new generation of apochromatic objective lenses requires optical materials having special properties. Optical glasses having a large variety of optical constants and other parameters which make it possible to develop optically perfect systems, play a leading role among such materials. A pressing problem is the development of glasses having both a special course of dispersion and low thermo-optical constant (TOP). These are called adiathermal glasses. The joining of special course of dispersion with low TOP makes it possible to develop systems which are non-misaligning under apochromatic-anastigmatic temperature gradient conditions with corrected secondary spectrum. With such systems the number of lenses in complex objective lens systems is determined by the special properties of the glasses and may be minimized. The majority of industrial glasses produced here and abroad do not simultaneously have adiathermal properties and special courses of dispersion. In the present work a series of adiathermal optical glasses with special courses of dispersion were developed. Data was also obtained which may be used in the synthesis of special purpose adiathermal glasses. Adiathermal phosphate glasses with special course of dispersion and fitting in various areas of the Abbe diagram were developed which have a number of advantages over similar industrial glasses. Calculations show that objective lenses consisting of the newly developed glasses are not inferior to industrial glasses in longitudinal chromatic aberration (secondary spectrum) and have less thermo-optical and thermo-wave aberration. Figures 3; references 7: 4 Russian, 3 Western.
