FBIS4-65843 "drweu100_q_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-100 Daily Report 16 May 1994 TURKEY Bulgarian Foreign Minister Arrives on Official Visit Bulgarian Foreign Minister Arrives on Official Visit Meets Cetin, Karayalcin TA1705190194 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1700 GMT 16 May 94 TA1705190194 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report] [Excerpts] Bulgarian Foreign Minister Stanislav Daskalov has arrived on an official visit. He was received at Ankara Esenboga Airport by Foreign Minister Hikmet Cetin. In a statement at the airport, Cetin pointed out that Turkey and Bulgaria are not only neighbors, but two friendly countries with close relations. [Begin Cetin recording] The cooperation and relations between us will contribute significantly not only to our two countries, but to the solution of the problems in the Balkans. They will also contribute to the peace and stability in Europe. Actually, the relations between Turkey and Bulgaria offer an example for the region. [end recording] Daskalov said that, during his visit, they will discuss ways of further developing existing relations. Daskalov then visited Cetin and conferred with him for some time. Later, official talks were held between the delegations of the two countries headed by the respective foreign ministers. Cetin said before the meeting that they were trying to conclude certain agreements before them. These agreements will further strengthen the legal basis of the relations between the two countries, he said, adding that cooperation is intensively developing especially in the field of defense. [passage omitted] Daskalov also met with Murat Karayalcin, state minister and deputy prime minister. [Begin Karayalcin recording] As you know, tomorrow I will pay a one-day visit to The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia [FYROM], to Skopje. We discussed that a little. The approach of both countries to FYROM is very positive and warm. Consequently, I thought it was appropriate that this visit was paid one day before my visit to Skopje. [end recording]
