FBIS3-18402 "drweu041__a94002" FBIS-WEU-94-041-A Document Type:Daily Report 2 March 1994 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs Sweden's Dinkelspiel `Satisfied' With EU Agreement BR0103144794 Brussels BELGA in Dutch 1254 GMT 1 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0103144794 Brussels BELGA Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Article signed CET: "Sweden Agrees to Join EU"; as released by Brussels BELGA Database] [Text] Brussels, 1 Mar (BELGA) -- Swedish European Affairs Minister Ulf Dinkelspiel said that he was satisfied with his country's agreement with the EU [European Union]. It is an historic day for Sweden, he added. The agreement constitutes a good basis for carrying out the referendum on Sweden's accession to the EU, especially since the opposition was closely involved in the negotiations. The minister reported that Sweden's net budget contribution will not exceed ECU50 million in the first year. Without the compensation, it would have amounted to about ECU760 million. For the second year, Sweden's net budget contribution will rise to ECU150 million. The following year, the contribution will be significantly higher and by the fourth year, Sweden will have to pay its full contribution. Dinkelspiel said that a couple of issues still remain to be settled. The Twelve have not reached an agreement regarding the voting procedure in the European Ministerial Council. Spain and the United Kingdom want to make it easier for large countries to block a decision. Furthermore, Spain does not want the new members to participate in the 1996 final settlement of the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU). The European Treaty envisages the third and last phase of the EMU starting in 1997 with the single currency and the European Central Bank, provided that a majority of the member states comply with the conditions. Spain wants the treaty to be modified, clearly stating that all decisions must be made by a majority of the current 12 member states. Belgium and most member states have rejected the Spanish proposal. The issues have not been discussed so far, however. Thus, the position of the new member states in the future EMU is not clearly defined.
