FBIS3-2885 "drchi049ka_94013" FBIS-CHI-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Jiang Zemin Signs PLA Afforestation Regulations OW1403120594 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1118 GMT 28 Feb 94 OW1403120594 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By correspondent Cao Zhi (2580 2535)] [Text] Beijing, 28 Feb (XINHUA) -- Jiang Zemin, chairman of the Central Military Commission, recently signed a decree to promulgate the "Afforestation Regulations of the Chinese People's Liberation Army [PLA]." The "Regulations" have specific provisions on military afforestation undertakings and management, on the protection and use of forest resources, and on awards and penalties in related work. The "Regulations" stipulated that the PLA Afforestation Committee leads all military afforestation work. Afforestation committees (leading afforestation groups) at and above regimental level will lead afforestation work in their own units or systems. The basic tasks in military afforestation work are to plant trees, plants, and flowers on military land and in surrounding garrison areas; to afforest uninhabited hills, wasteland, and barren beaches in an effort to turn military camps and bases into parks; and to protect, develop, and use forest resources so as to serve army building and the national economic construction. The military afforestation drive aims at integrating military, ecological, social, and economic benefits. The "Regulations" imposed new afforestation requirements on military camps and bases: Military units garrisoned in urban areas must afforest an area no less than 25 percent of the total area of their military camps or bases; military units garrisoned in suburban and rural areas must afforest an area no less than 30 percent of the total area of their military camps or bases. The "Regulations" stipulated that the survival rate of military afforestation undertakings should be 5 percent higher than that of local afforestation endeavors. At an interview with the correspondent, a person in charge of the PLA Afforestation Committee pointed out: The "Regulations" were formulated in accordance with the "Forest Law of the People's Republic of China" and the National People's Congress Standing Committee's "Decision on Nationwide Compulsory Tree-Planting Campaign," and after we summarized experiences of the army's afforestation work for more than 10 years. The "Regulations" are an integral procedure for governing the army according to law. The formulation and implementation of the "Regulations" indicate the Chinese Army's afforestation work is governed by the legal system and will definitely further enhance healthy progress in such work.
