FBIS4-33038 "drlat105_r_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-105 Daily Report 18 May 1994 Peru Energy Minister: Mining Sector To Reactivate Economy Energy Minister: Mining Sector To Reactivate Economy PY3005221794 Lima EL PERUANO in Spanish 18 May 94 p A3 PY3005221794 Lima EL PERUANO Spanish BFN [Text] Yesterday Energy and Mines Minister Daniel Hokama Tokashiki asserted that the recovery currently being experienced in the mining sector, and especially the boom in gold production, are the principal activities reactivating the Peruvian economy. Hokama said that 36 percent of the total foreign investments obtained in the past few years have been earmarked for the mining sector, despite the fact that only a little over 10 percent of the Peruvian potential is being exploited. While its mineral reserves place Peru as the seventh largest mineralogical district in the world, during the last decades no systematic mineral exploitations have been carried out. It is believed that there are great deposits yet to be found, and the country's progress could be based on the adequate development of the mining field, stated the minister. Hokama added, however, that the inflow of fresh capital is not only encouraged by the existing potential, but also by the implementation of an open economy, by a controlled inflation, and by the outlook toward obtaining a fiscal balance. In view of the new legal framework, important international mining enterprises have expressed their interest in investing in Peru. Among them are Anglo American, Cyprus-Amay, Cambior, RTZ [expansion unknown], Placer Dome, Noranda, Lac Minerals, Americana Barrick, and Asarco. In referring to the boom in gold production, Hokama stated that in this field it is estimated that some 500,000 ounces of gold will be extracted this year from the Yanacocha and Maqui Maqui mines alone. The minister explained that the Yanacocha project being developed by the U.S. enterprises Newmont and BGRG [expansion unknown], in partnership with the Peruvian enterprise Buenaventura, will this year yield a production of 250,000 ounces, and that this amount will double as of December, when the Maqui Maqui project is implemented. In comparing gold production over the past five years, in 1990 the monthly production amounted to 2,400 ounces while in 1993 the production amounted to 53,000 ounces. Minister Hokama said that the new mining policy redefines the role played by the state in its capacity as administrator of natural resources: promoting private investment, supervising, and implementing precise and stable regulations. In order to give an idea of the great mining potential of the country, he said that of the 128 million hectares making up the country's territory, 60 million correspond to mineral resources. He also commented that during the past 18 months requests have been made to exploit mineral deposits over a surface of 5 million hectares. Aware of the damages that mineral exploitation may cause to the ecosystem, the mining enterprises have started a series of actions designed to establish adequate mechanisms for safeguarding the environment. This was confirmed by the Gold Committee of the National Mining and Oil Association, which stated that "there must be an equilibrium between the development of the mining sector and the preservation of the environment, sustained by shared responsibility on the part of the enterprises, the government, and the scientific community." The business sector also referred to the great importance granted to the environment during the first international symposium on gold held in Peru.
