FBIS4-59667 "drnes095_j_94014" FBIS-NES-94-095 Daily Report 17 May 1994 ARAB PENINSULA Yemen Northern Troops Continue Push Forward Toward Aden Northern Troops Continue Push Forward Toward Aden Ministry Announces Fall of al-'Anad Base JN1705125894 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1200 GMT 17 May 94 JN1705125894 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Text] A responsible source at the Ministry of Defense has stated the following: In the name of God, the merciful, the compassionate. If God helps you, none can overcome you. [Koranic verse] With God's support and with the courage of the heroes of the valiant Armed Forces, their heroic capabilities, and high combat skills, the forces protecting Yemeni unity and championing constitutional legitimacy completely destroyed all fortifications in the al-'Anad military base yesterday evening. This morning, these forces were able to fully control the base after the expiry of the time given to the personnel who were misled by the secessionist and rebellious gang in the [Yemeni] Socialist Party [YSP] to allow them to join the forces of legitimacy. At dawn today, Tuesday, our valiant Armed Forces ended the military legend that used to surround the al-'Anad base, its fortifications, and the various weaponry it had stored in its base and secret cellars. A large part of it was turned into rubble. Scattered concrete piles, destroyed weapons and vehicles, and remnants of ash tell the story of the crazy arrogance of the gang of rebellion, apostasy, and secession in the YSP. With this military arsenal and other military ammunition, this gang thought it could be above the people's will and be greater than their constitutional institutions. But God Almighty, the people, and the Armed Forces were lying in wait for all of this. Thus, their plans were foiled and the rebels received their punishment. In addition, our Armed Forces managed to seize what was left of the variety of military hardware. Units of our brave Armed Forces are now finishing their missions, after the Yemeni homeland has irrevocably passed the danger of the threat posed by the rebellious secessionists to unity and democracy. Praise be to God who has supported the fighters with his victory. God is the best to protect and the best to help. [Koranic verse] Issued by the Defense Ministry, Sanaa
