FBIS3-18106 "drweu039_b_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 BENELUX Netherlands Philips To Merge With U.S. Cable TV Company BR2502140394 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT in Dutch 25 Feb 94 p 2 BR2502140394 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Philips Teaming Up With U.S. Company for Cable TV"] [Excerpts] Eindhoven -- Together with U.S. company United International, Philips Media will form the biggest private cable TV operator in Europe. Both companies, which presently have minor common interests in cable networks throughout 11 countries, are preparing what is already known in the United States as the "electronic highway," i.e. cable networks through which any possible information can be transmitted. So far, Philips and United were competitors on the newly emerging market for cable TV in Europe. The joint venture they intend to establish by the end of the current year, will not only be the biggest, but also the only private operator. Unlike in the United States, most cable TV networks in Europe are still controlled by municipalities or by semi-public institutions such as the German Bundespost. [passage omitted] According to spokesmen for United and Philips, the new company has a very strong growth potential. Right now, steps have already been taken in order to acquire an interest in cable networks worth another 5 million connections in 10 European countries. According to United's Chief Executive W. Eisner, both companies benefit from the European trend toward privatization of cable networks. United International is only operational outside the United States. [passage omitted] United International has business interests in the Far East, Czechia, Brazil, and Chili. In Europe, most networks are still being used to transmit radio and television only. However, Philips is mostly interested in the future transmission of other information. The concern from Eindhoven is obviously thinking of applications such as video movies, music and other information products. The European Union is also interested in the new technological possibilities offered by cable television networks. A working party with representatives from telephone companies, cable operators, and electronics manufacturers such as Philips, is going to examine on behalf of the European Community, whether the implementation of an electronic highway is feasible.
