FBIS3-25791 "drchi020_k_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Zhao Ziyang Expresses Wish To Help Reform HK2901072194 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 29 Jan 94 p 1 HK2901072194 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Willy Wo-Lap Lam] [Text] Disgraced Chinese party chief Zhao Ziyang has expressed the wish to make further contributions to reform. According to a source who met him in his Beijing house recently, the former general secretary, 74, pays very close attention to progress in the economy. "Mr Zhao is heartened that most of the reforms he advocated before the June 4, 1989, crackdown have been revived," the source said. "He believes the reforms will succeed." He quoted Mr Zhao, a former party boss of Guangdong, as saying: "Recent developments in the province are very meaningful." The source added Mr Zhao had in subtle fashion expressed a desire to resume his work, at least on the economy. He clearly believed he had a role to play after patriarch Deng Xiaoping leaves the scene. According to former Zhao aides who met him recently, the ex-party chief is in very good physical and mental health. He plays golf two to three times a week and sometimes walks his dog in the downtown alley where he lives under police guard. "He is not bitter about his downfall and he has reminded his friends more than once that `whatever has happened to me (since mid-1989) might not be that bad after all'," said another source. "His mood has been good since the middle of last year, and sometimes he holds forth on topics like the economy for an hour without stopping," the source said. Mr Zhao's friends said his daughter and son-in-law lived with the former leader, whose wife, however, had recently been admitted to hospital. They said Mr Zhao had been pleased that his youngest son, a businessman formerly based in the United States, had returned to China on regular business trips. It is understood the younger Mr Zhao, who travels on an American passport, spent most of his time in Guangdong and Hainan, and that he had visited Taiwan more than once for business reasons. "Soon after my departure from office, there was talk about investigation into the business activities of my children," Mr Zhao Ziyang reportedly said. "It turns out they have been law-abiding businessmen after all."
