FBIS4-40750 "drsov118_b_94015" FBIS-SOV-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Media Issues Paper Appeals for Help To Meet Law-Publishing Requirements Paper Appeals for Help To Meet Law-Publishing Requirements PM2006103494 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 18 Jun 94 First Edition p 1 PM2006103494 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian BFN ["Open letter to the president, the prime minister, the chairman of the Federation Council, and the chairman of the State Duma," signed by ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA's chief editor and general director; date not given: "How Will ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Implement the Law?"] [Text] We are addressing you in connection with the adoption and publication of the federal Law "On the Procedure for the Promulgation and Entry Into Force of Federal Constitutional Laws, Federal Laws, and Enactments of the Chambers of the Federal Assembly." Article 4 contains a specific instruction -- that the official promulgation of laws and acts is deemed to consist in the first publication of the complete text in ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA. We had been expecting this law. And we recognize that it not only does the newspaper an honor, but also imposes a great responsibility on it. It is necessary promptly and accurately to convey to the mass reader (whether he lives centrally, in a remote area, or abroad) the documents by which Russians are to live. The technological process for the publication of these documents has been developed. ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA's printing and distribution network, though not perfect, is effective and has good prerequisites for development and improvement. And that is the main thing. Many people print documents, but to do it like this -- with a large print run, on a specific day, reaching every corner of the country, reaching the precise destination -- probably only ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA can do this now. Our awareness of the importance of this task is what makes the editorial collective perform real miracles, despite extremely meager budget financing. Having taken over the newspaper with huge debts in October 1993, in order not to stop producing the paper we were forced to put the editorial staff on starvation rations, cut the number of employees, make economies literally everywhere, and constantly reallocate money and paper. But the main thing is that the editorial office started to make money. Although the government finances only just over one-third of the cost of producing the newspaper, ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA is still coming out. Primarily because the editorial office itself covers a further one-third of the newspaper's budget. So it transpires that today we and the government are equal partners. It was not easy: Just you try to make money starting not from zero (Khasbulatov's ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA was 100-percent state subsidized), but from a large minus number (debts). And without selling out to commercial structures, from which there were tempting offers. All the same, with an editorial budget deficit of one-third, it has not been possible to avoid production stoppages. Readers in St. Petersburg, Yekaterinburg, Saratov, Rostov, Krasnodar, Irkutsk, and other cities failed to receive copies of ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA containing edicts, laws, decrees, and directives. In some of those cities production of the newspaper stopped for a month or more. We are reaping the fruits now. Although even preliminary subscription figures for the second half-year are not yet available, a marked reduction in the number of subscribers can be confidently predicted. Frankly speaking, this is advantageous to the editorial office in economic terms -- it means fewer losses. But in terms of building a rule-of-law state, Russia loses a great deal. These losses cannot be measured against economic benefits. And now we have this law. Of course, we will implement it. But we are not yet capable of taking this burden on our own shoulders alone. [Signed] Chief editor, General director
