FBIS3-26317 "drchi025_v_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 TAIWAN Premier Lien Chan Urges Deng To Make `Historic Decision' HK0502083294 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 5 Feb 94 p 8 HK0502083294 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Dennis Engbarth in Taipei] [Text] Taiwan's premier called on Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping to "make a historic decision" to promote unification and not annex Taiwan. Speaking yesterday, premier Lien Chan stated that Taipei's mainland policy was based on the situation that "there is one China, but that it is divided" and that the "Republic of China" holds the power of rule over the "Taiwan, Penghu, Matsu and Kinmen area". He said: "There is no deep seated hatred between the peoples on the two sides of the Taiwan Strait. Today's task is to create for the next generation a free, stable and prosperous future," the premier said. Relations between Taipei and Beijing "should not be based on ideas of life or death (you die, I live) or on the big consuming the small or suffocating the other side," he added. "This would be not unification but annexation," Mr. Lien declared. Mr. Lien said he doubted whether simply elevating the level of current talks between Beijing and Taipei would lead to realization of the five-point accord signed in Singapore last April between unofficial representatives from Beijing and Taipei. While denying that Taipei was engaging in "money diplomacy," Mr. Lien acknowledged that "our biggest bargaining chip in foreign relations is our economic strength". A key focus of Taipei's international thrust would be the so- called "Southern Policy" which aims to encourage Taiwan businessmen to invest in Southeast Asia. He said the policy came about because we "did not want to place all of its economic development on one place", referring to the growing trade and investment with mainland China. The premier's trip to Malaysia and Singapore to promote the policy would be followed by a similar "vacation visit" by President Lee Teng-hui to Bali, Indonesia and Thailand next week, Taiwan diplomatic sources said.
