FBIS3-2569 "drchi047_p_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 Central-South Region Guangzhou Mayor Discusses Price Controls HK0803130494 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in English 0817 GMT 8 Mar 94 HK0803130494 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Guangzhou, March 8 (CNS) -- Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong Province, suffered a 25.1 percent rise in prices last year and inflationary pressures in the city this year has continued to increase. The solution to this problem, according to the mayor of the city, Mr. Li Ziliu, lies in intensification of reform and implementation of regulation and control measures. Mr. Li, speaking yesterday at the second session of the 10th municipal People's Congress, said that in order to control and stabilize prices in the city, Guangzhou this year must further improve its reserve system for important commodities, set up a regulation fund for non-staple foodstuff prices, strengthen management over markets, especially pay greater attention to the management, regulation and control over the prices of vegetables, and establish several vegetable wholesale markets in its northern and eastern urban districts with the aim of reducing the amount of intermediate selling circles. Mr. Li said that management over the meat and slaughtering markets would also be tightened and there would be a severe cracking down on such activities as purchasing at deliberately-forced-down prices, driving up of prices, overbearing activities in markets, selling of inferior products and the slaughtering of dead and diseased domestic animals. The mayor also asked for strengthened supervision over prices, a stop to illegal charges being levied and the raising of prices while at the same time the interests of consumers must be protected as well as guaranteed stability and smooth operation of the markets. The goal set to control the price rise in the city this year is 15 percent. The city will focus its efforts of the construction of 18 shopping centres, 18 wholesale markets, two commercial districts and 14 indoor markets and make preparations for the setting up of futures markets for grain and edible oil and materials for agriculture and petroleum which will operate according to international practices, promoting the city's commercial business to a high level.
