FBIS3-19191 "drweu049__a94001" FBIS-WEU-94-049-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 March 1994 ANNEX International Affairs Ukraine's Kravchuck, Zlenko Expect NPT Ratification BR1103164194 Brussels BELGA in Dutch 1325 GMT 11 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1103164194 Brussels BELGA Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Article signed JPH/DVA/PLS: "Claes: Cooperation Treaty Between EU and Ukraine Almost Completed"; as released by Brussels BELGA Database] [Text] Kiev, 11 Mar (BELGA) -- On Thursday [10 March] and Friday in Kiev, foreign ministers of the European Troika [Belgium, Greece, Germany] and the European External Relations Commissioner Hans van den Broek prepared a cooperation agreement between the European Union (EU) and Ukraine for signature possibly on 23 March in Brussels. A similar agreement between the EU and Russia is being drawn up but has not been completed. It appears that partnership with Ukraine will come first. During the talks with Ukrainian political leaders (Foreign Minister Anatoliy Zlenko and Chairman of Parliament Ivan Plyushch on Thursday and Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk on Friday) the Troika made it clear to Ukraine that the EU is serious about its "Global Approach Strategy." In other words, technical and economic cooperation is exchanged for denuclearization and signing of the Non-Proliferation Treaty [NPT]. Ukraine has started dismantling the 1,800 nuclear heads on its territory. In exchange for this, the former Soviet republic will also receive financial support from the United States. However, cooperation with the EU goes even further than this. The objective is to continue the denuclearization process in Ukraine. Should this process come to a halt, then European cooperation would also stop. The European ministers in Kiev also insisted on normalization of relations with Russia and on compliance with all the conditions of the IMF and the World Bank -- two institutions that Ukrainian President Kravchuk visited last week in Washington. The relations between Ukraine and Russia are not very good. In January, Kiev agreed with Moscow on the dismantling of nuclear warheads in exchange for enriched uranium for Ukrainian plants. Recently, President Kravchuk indicated that denuclearization is underway as agreed. He made it clear that dismantling of nuclear warheads would be conditional on gas deliveries from Moscow. This month, Moscow suspended its gas exports to Ukraine. During a press conference following the negotiations, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Zlenko told the international press that when parliamentary activities resume (after the 27 March elections), the Ukrainian Parliament would ratify the Nonproliferation Treaty. EU Commissioner van den Broek indicated that the success of the cooperation agreement will "largely depend on the success of the economic reforms in Ukraine. If Ukraine benefits from the macroeconomic conditions, foreign investors will be convinced." Belgian Foreign Minister Claes pointed out that the cooperation agreement provided for import restrictions on, among other things, Ukrainian steel and aluminium -- there are 70,000 posts at stake in the European steel sector -- as well as an antidumping clause. "There will be rules for both partners. Ukraine and Europe will benefit from the treaty. The contract is not based on full reciprocity: Ukraine has the advantage," Claes added. Claes said that "the priority was to establish a stable monetary system in Ukraine to enable foreign investments." On Friday, the Ukrainian president confirmed to the troika that he expects to gather the requested majority (and the requested quorum) in Parliament to ratify the Nonproliferation Treaty, Claes added.
