FBIS4-53153 "dreas095_q_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-095 Daily Report 16 May 1994 AUSTRALASIA Australia E. Timor Rebels Say 4 Detainees Being Tortured E. Timor Rebels Say 4 Detainees Being Tortured BK1605074194 Hong Kong AFP in English 0635 GMT 16 May 94 BK1605074194 Hong Kong AFP English BFN [By Jack Taylor] [Text] SYDNEY, May 16 (AFP) -- Three young East Timorese and an Indonesian are being detained and tortured by President Suharto's elite guard over the death of one of its commanders in Jakarta, East Timor resistance sources said Monday. The CNRM (National Council of Maubere Resistance) released a statement to AFP in an attempt to draw attention to the plight of the detainees. The East Timorese resistance group said a fifth youth who acknowledges responsibility for his part in what was described as the accidental death of an off-duty Presidential Guard officer is in hiding. But their statement, distributed by the the East Timor News Agency (ETNA), added that he was willing to surrender and face justice if promised a lawful trial. The incident was said to have happened outside "a gambling location" at a brothel where the five had been forced to take jobs as bodyguards after going to Jakarta a year ago on the unfulfilled promise of jobs. "East Timorese students in Jakarta appeal to Presidential Guard members to act in accordance with their professional oath and protect the people, punishing wrongdoers in accordance with the laws of Indonesia," the statement said. "Those who protect the President should excel at protecting people, not at torturing them." The statement said the five young men were promised jobs in Jakarta by the Indonesian Department of Labour and President Suharto's daughter Tutut. The Presidential Guard commander was said to have been "hired by someone" to expel the East Timorese men and went in civilian clothes to the centre where he assumed that "as is usual in Indonesia, the civilians would be frightened by his presence and follow his orders to leave." Instead, the bodyguards resisted and attempted to chase the commander away, "killing him in the ensuing scuffle." Four, named as Hercules of Ainaro, Duarte of Lospalos, Domingo of Ermera and Salah from the Indonesian island of Flores had been captured and were being kept at a special closed prison at the Presidential Guard headquarters.
