FBIS3-23634 "jpuma011___94032" JPRS-UMA-94-011 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Central Eurasia Military Affairs 8 February 1994 STATE AND LOCAL MILITARY FORCES UKRAINE Navy Efforts to Balance Budget, Appeal to Populace Noted Russian Version of Financing Disputed 94UM0275A Kiev NARODNA ARMIYA in Ukrainian 8 Feb 94 p 1 94UM0275A Kiev NARODNA ARMIYA Language: Ukrainian Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article from Ukrainian Navy press center: "Is the Mirror Guilty of the Eyesore?"] [Text] A program on Russian radio of February 2 of this year quoted the expression of a representative of the ChF [Black Sea Fleet] command that the delays in paying servicemen in the fleet are occurring owing to the lack of cash at the banks of Ukraine. The press center of the Navy of Ukraine reports that this is just the latest disinformation. Ukrsotsbank [Ukrainian Social Bank] acting director T.I. Shcherban has informed us that "there has been not a single delay in pay over the course of 1993 due to a lack of cash at the Sevastopol branch of the Ukrsotsbank." The chief reason for the delays in issuing pay is the absence of funds in the accounts of the Black Sea Fleet, and its many billions in debt. The city budget is also suffering for the same reasons, since the Black Sea Fleet is not making timely payments for electric power, water, ship repairs, capital construction and other items. The disruptions in the financing of the fleet often occur because of the unwarranted ambitions of its command. It refused to settle up the amount of 21 million karbovantsi with MO [Ministry of Defense] of Ukraine last year for the financing of the shipyards of the ChF, for example, only because it had gone through the financial service of the Ukrainian Navy. Certainly no requests whatsoever were received from the ChF by the financial service of the Ukrainian Navy, either in December or in January of this year, for the transfer of funds. This stance can elicit only surprise. Objecting to the fact that the MO of Ukraine has financed the ChF through the financial service of the Navy, its command for some reason has no objections to the analogous actions by the MO of the Russian Federation, which also finances the ChF not directly, but rather through the economic and financial directorate of the Russian Navy. The ChF also does not object to the financing of its Russian side through commercial structures, and that goes against the requirements of the joint agreement between Russia and Ukraine on questions of financing. The disinformation in the fleet community on these issues is none other than an attempt by certain parties in the ChF to evoke a negative attitude toward Ukraine and its Ministry of Defense and Navy. That serves only those who are striving not to strengthen friendship and mutual understanding, but rather to fan further the hubbub surrounding the problems of the Black Sea Fleet and further destabilize the situation.
