FBIS4-46528 "jpuma025___94042" JPRS-UMA-94-025 JPRS Central Eurasia Military Affairs 7 June 1994 GENERAL ISSUES DEFENSE INDUSTRY Military Industrial Complex Prepares for Finance Conference Military Industrial Complex Prepares for Finance Conference MK0706082094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 7 Jun 94 p 2 MK0706082094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [V.A. report under the "Military-Industrial Complex" rubric: "Industrial Capital Wants To Merge With Banking Capital"] [Text] A press conference at the General Staff Academy was held within the framework of preparation for the international conference entitled "Integration of Banking and Industrial Capital" scheduled for November. Its venue was perhaps supposed to underline once more that the initiative comes from the military-industrial complex enterprises. No wonder: They have been faced with the fait accompli of a "precipitous conversion." Very indicative in this sense was the question to participants in the press conference: "Is there today a military-industrial complex in Russia at all?" It was asked by none other than a major general of the General Staff Academy. Another general, Yuriy Yashin, chairman of the State Technological Commission under the Russian Federation president, stated confidently that there is a military-industrial complex in Russia. What there is not is a program of conversion as such. The present federal budget cannot provide sufficient financing to all sectors, even less so to such a capital-intensive sector as the military-industrial complex. At the same time, commercial banking structures are making no active motions in this direction. This, despite the fact that they have invested in foreign banks approximately the worth of today's budget deficit. The planned conference according to the concept of its organizers -- the Russian Federation Ministry of the Economy, the State Committee on Defense Industry, the Ministry on Economic Cooperation, the Association of Russian Banks, and also a number of powerful state and commercial structures -- is supposed to reverse this negative tendency. The conference is expected to result in producing specific methods for the merger.
