FBIS4-31311 "dreeu110_k_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 CROATIA Tudjman Warns of Italian Neofascist Claims Tudjman Warns of Italian Neofascist Claims LD0706154094 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 1300 GMT 7 Jun 94 LD0706154094 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Excerpt] Top-level Slovene-Croat talks have been held in the Presidential Palace in Zagreb. The presidents of the two countries, Franjo Tudjman and his guest Milan Kucan, who arrived this morning for a working visit to Croatia, made brief statements following their talks. The Slovene president's visit to Zagreb is being covered by Andjelko Perincic: [Perincic] Speaking to the press, President Kucan described the talks as tough, polemic, and open but imbued with mutual understanding nevertheless. [Begin Kucan recording, in Slovene with superimposed Serbo-Croatian translation] I believe, as the talks demonstrated, that unilateral solutions do not facilitate mutual understanding and the development of mutual trust between the two countries. The talks were held under different circumstances from those surrounding the process of securing Slovene and Croatian independence when there were intense contacts. [end recording] Kucan also said life demands solutions to problems and the establishment of new political relations can be endorsed only by concrete steps. Croatian President Franjo Tudjman also spoke to the press. [Begin Tudjman recording] Many international factors prompt both Croatia and Slovenia to coordinate their policies. The rise of neofascist claims in today's Italy against Slovene and Croatian territory explicitly point to this. Understandably, we hope the Italian Government will continue the democratic policies pursued by the previous governments and the policy of friendly relations with our countries. At the same time we must not ignore those forces that are openly extolling fascism, including everything this fascism brought about on the soil of Slovenia and Croatia. [end recording] [passage omitted]
