FBIS3-3998 "drchi058_h_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 West Europe Toy Manufacturers Complain About EU Quotas HK1703075094 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 17 Mar 94 p 2 HK1703075094 Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Li Wen: "EU Quotas Enrage Toy Makers"] [Text] Guangzhou--Toy manufacturers are feeling the sting of the European Union's newly-imposed quotas on Chinese toys--a decision that one expert predicts will cost the mainland more than $500 million. "The quota issue will greatly hurt the Chinese industry and our losses are even difficult to estimate," said Albert Su, executive director with Jetta Company, a private Hong Kong company based in Guangzhou. His company opened 11 years ago with just 25 workers. Like many private Hong Kong toy manufacturers, Jetta moved its operations to Guangzhou for cheap labour. And it decided against investing in other Southeast Asian nations. Now that decision is threatening a large chunk of his business--and the livelihood of the 15,000 workers Jetta now employs. EU foreign ministers recently voted 7-4 to restrict Chinese toys coming into their market. The quota went into effect on Tuesday. They allege that the Chinese toy manufacturers are able to "dump" their products on the EU market because of government subsidies that drive their prices down. "That is completely incorrect," Su said. "For 11 years, since we set foot in Guangdong, we have never received a penny from the Chinese Government; nothing, except a lot support, of course." Toys sold to the European market account for 30 per cent of Jetta's total exports. And they are not alone. In 1992, China exported $1.14 billion in toys to Europe, according to statistics from the Toy Manufactures Europe in Brussels. "China's toy industry will lose at least $570 million on account of the quota issue this year," Su predicted. The Guangdong Toy Manufacturers' Association called the EC's action trade protectionism. The association is blaming the struggling economy as the prime reason why European manufacturers have urged the EU to shut the door on Chinese goods. Guangdong's Pearl River Delta region, the world's biggest toy manufacturing base, produces about 50 per cent of the world's toys. And they account for two-thirds of the total in China and almost all products are sold abroad. The province exported $1.1 billion worth of toys last year, ranking second after the $3.6 billion in clothes exports. Over the past 10 years, almost all of the Hong Kong toy makers have shifted their plants from the territory to the delta region to take advantage of the cheap labour and favourable investment environment. There are more than 2,000 Hong Kong toy plants in that area. Only America has a larger market for their products than Europe. "Our toys are cheaper because of cheap Chinese labour costs. I don't believe any plant here is subsidized," declared Su. EU has imposed quotas on three major categories: Stuffed toys, those representing non-humans, and diecast miniatures. Su said many long-term sales agents are advising manufacturers to leave China and transfer production to Southeast Asia, which means his overseas customers will reduce awarding contracts to China-based manufacturers. "Some Hong Kong investors are actively involved in building new plants in Thailand, despite the fact that the investment environment there is not as good as China," he explained. According to the quota system, further categories will also be subject to surveillance. "No quotas have been set for them now but that may be possible if we don't make attacking measures," said Su. Manufacturers said that they will ask the Chinese authorities to allow them to increase domestic sales.
