FBIS4-23293 "drafr107bb_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-107 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 INTER-AFRICAN AFFAIRS GCA, Frontline State Leaders Hold Meetings in Harare GCA, Frontline State Leaders Hold Meetings in Harare Meeting Agendas Previewed MB0106113594 Johannesburg SAPA in English 0955 GMT 1 Jun 94 MB0106113594 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Harare June 1 SAPA -- Fourteen African presidents, including Mr Nelson Mandela on his first trip outside South Africa as president, have begun gathering in Harare, Zimbabwe, for a two-day meeting of the Global Coalition for Africa [GCA], an international lobby for support for the continent. The meeting starts on Thursday [2 June]. On Friday, Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe will host what is expected to be the final meeting of the Frontline states, the regional alliance of southern African nations which opposed apartheid. Officials said leaders of the seven-nation grouping would discuss a new organisation to replace it. Already in Harare is Benin leader Nicephore Soglo who hosted the previous GCA meeting in June last year. Due to arrive on Wednesday are the heads of state of Angola, Namibia, Mozambique, Tanzania, Zambia, Ghana, Ethiopia, Mali, Eritrea, Ivory Coast and Botswana, and former World Bank head Robert MacNamara and former Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere. Founded with World Bank finance and based in Washington, the GCA was established as an alliance of African nations and Western donor nations with close ties to the continent. It was part of a bid to counter a shift of Western financial support from Africa after the fall of the Communist bloc. Backers describe it as dedicated to "keeping alive the good news in Africa". Frontline heads of state are expected to support moves to keep the body alive in spite of the transition to democracy in South Africa. However, the group is expected to change its "confrontational" name and adopt a new direction, working for peace and political stability in the region and to provide a forum for conflict mediation.
