FBIS3-20938 "jpest005___94055" JPRS-EST-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International Economic Competitiveness 3 March 1994 WEST EUROPE CORPORATE STRATEGIES Germany: Siemens Confident of European Progress in Microelectronics 94WS0122C Berlin INGENIEUR DIGEST: WIRTSCHAFT & UNTERNEHMEN in German, Nov 93 p 32 94WS0122C Berlin INGENIEUR DIGEST: WIRTSCHAFT & UNTERNEHMEN in German, Nov 93 p 32 Language: German, Article Type:CSO [Article by Ulrike Scholz] [Text] Viewpoint: Europe can do it. Juergen Knorr, member of Siemens Corporation's board of directors and director of its Semiconductor Division, believes in a recovery of lost ground by European microelectronics. In the eighties the German semiconductor industry suffered harsh losses in position vis-a-vis its American and Asian competitors. The cause are the work hours per annum: today 1519 h in Germany while 1857 h in the U.S.A. and 2007 h in Japan. The net labor costs are about the same in Germany and in Japan, in the U.S.A. 20% lower, but the supplementary labor costs are in Japan 37% and in the U.S.A. only 33% of what they are in Germany. Manufacturing wafers for the 1 Mbit DRAM (Dynamic Random-Access Memory) in Germany thus costs 10% more than it does in the U.S.A. and 16% more than it does in Japan. In the nineties the European and especially German semiconductor industry has invested a great deal into holding its ground under such a pressure from abroad. System engineering was expanded. Many innovations coming from Europe have found acceptance worldwide, among them the GSM mobile radio system and DECT cordless telephone Standard for which ASIC's (Amorphous-Silicon Integrated Circuits) had been developed. Semiconductor enterprises in Europe underwent slimming cures. Production was tightened and wage-intensive operations transferred to Southeast Asia. Collaborations were entered into so as to reduce the rising cost of new technological developments. An example is the agreement with IBM and Toshiba regarding the joint chip development. If the European policy were to create conditions equally favorable for competitiveness, then an invigorated semiconductor sector could be supporting other sectors of industry with its innovations.
