FBIS3-49217 "dreeu004aa_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Bosnia-Croatia Talks Conclude in Vienna Mediators Comment on 4 Jan Talks AU0501130094 Vienna Oesterreich Eins Radio Network in German 1100 GMT 5 Jan 94 AU0501130094 Vienna Oesterreich Eins Radio Network Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report by Elisa Wasch on statements by UN and EU mediators Thorvald Stoltenberg and Lord David Owen in Vienna on 5 January; statements are in English with superimposed German translation -- recorded] [Text] [Wasch] Bosnia-Herzegovina Prime Minister Silajdzic and Croatian Foreign Minister Granic assessed yesterday's talks in Vienna positively. They agreed to the return of the Muslims driven away from Mostar by the Croats. But the tough problems -- the controversial territorial issues -- will be discussed today. UN mediator Stoltenberg and European Union [EU] mediator Lord Owen commented on the negotiations this morning after a meeting with Austria's Foreign Minister Mock. Before today's talks, hopes for a peaceful solution for Bosnia were very slim. In fact, both the Croatian and the Bosnian representatives described yesterday's talks as constructive, but a solution has been in sight too often in the past before the talks eventually failed. But UN mediator Thorvald Stoltenberg assessed today's talks positively. [Stoltenberg] Well, I am always optimistic. If I were not optimistic, I could not survive in this job. [Wasch] His partner in the marathon talks, EU negotiator Lord Owen, is commenting on the negotiations of the warring parties with increasingly sharp words. [Owen] I am afraid we have to tell you that there is a big difference between the decisions adopted during negotiations and the actual situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The fighting is continuing there. The Muslims are continuing to send troops to central Bosnia, and the Croats are continuing to send troops to Herceg-Bosna. Unfortunately, we see no signs of an end to the war. Quite the contrary; the Muslims are trying to capture more villages in central Bosnia -- Busovaca and Vitez, for example. [Wasch] Yesterday the delegations from Zagreb and Sarajevo agreed to organize the return of refugees who left Mostar. The Muslims driven away from there should be allowed to return. Yet, according to Lord Owen, this is only wishful thinking because there is war in Mostar, the Croatian [as heard] capital of Herzegovina. [Owen] I cannot see how on earth you can possibly hope to get people back to Mostar if the war continues there, even though there may be sporadic cease-fires. [Wasch] Only if Mostar is placed under EU control, as planned, would the repatriation program stand a chance, Owen stated. Territorial issues will be discussed at today's talks in Vienna. Access to the Adriatic Sea for the Muslims and a cease-fire for embattled central Bosnia will be the major topics. It would be a miracle if agreement were achieved on these issues, and if it were implemented. Negotiations are scheduled to end at noon.
