FBIS3-724 "drafr049_d_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola UN Mediator Beye Tries To End `Game of Words' Meets dos Santos in Luanda MB1203204794 Luanda TPA Television Network in Portuguese 1930 GMT 12 Mar 94 MB1203204794 Luanda TPA Television Network Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] Alioune Blondin Beye, special representative of the UN secretary general in Angola, has arrived in Luanda from Huambo, where he held talks with Jonas Savimbi, leader of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA]. Alioune Blondin Beye held talks with President of the Republic Jose Eduardo dos Santos at the Futungo de Belas Palace this afternoon. The discussions centered on the Lusaka peace talks. The representative of the UN secretary general in Angola decided to hold a private meeting with the president, because he was dealing with very serious and delicate issues. Not even interpreters were allowed at the meeting. The audience lasted 20 minutes. Alioune Blondin Beye did not want to say what he discussed with the president. He said he had made a contract with the press that the parties could not hold talks and the same time make statements to the press. [Begin recording] [Beye, in French fading into Portuguese translation] We have been holding peace talks in Lusaka since 15 November. You are also aware that this morning I stopped over in Huambo to meet with Dr. Savimbi. [Unidentified reporter] What exactly did you talk about with the president of the republic? [Beye] It was normal for me to assess the situation of the peace talks with the president of the republic. [Reporter] You also visited Huambo today. What guarantees did you receive from the UNITA president on the peace talks? [Beye] As you are aware, we made a contract with the press that we do not want to hold negotiations through the press, and therefore I cannot reveal what I talked about with Dr. Savimbi and the president of the republic. All I can say is that the meetings I had in Huambo and here, at the Futungo de Belas, were very useful for the peace process. [end recording]
