FBIS4-4014 "drchi082_c_94009" FBIS-CHI-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 Central Eurasia Official Comments on Li Peng's Central Asia Visits Official Comments on Li Peng's Central Asia Visits OW2704081494 Beijing XINHUA in English 0744 GMT 27 Apr 94 OW2704081494 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Almaty, April 27 (XINHUA) -- Premier Li Peng's visit to Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan marks the beginning of a new era in China's relationship with Central Asian nations. Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Dai Bingguo, who has been traveling with the premier, made the remark in an interview here today, the last day of Li's 10-day tour of Central Asia. Li's trip is a complete success with fruitful results that will generate far-reaching impact, said Dai. In their talks, Premier Li had reached full agreement with leaders of the four countries on ways of furthering bilateral ties, and on regional and international issues of common concern, according to Dai. "The visit has achieved the desired objective of enhancing mutual understanding, promoting friendship and expanding mutually- beneficial cooperation," he said. Dai said the principles Li stated during the tour on developing political as well as economic relations with the Central Asian nations are "a long-term policy." As time goes by, these principles will show its increasing vitalities, Dai said, calling the prospect "inspiring" for cooperation with Central Asia in both political and economic fields. Referring to the signing of the Sino-Kazakh border agreement and the common wish expressed by China and Kyrgyzstan to solve the border issue at an early date, Dai said Li's tour served to further improve China's "environment in the neighborhood." "We hope to see an early successful settlement of the border issue with all the neighboring countries to the north, and turn our common boundary into a bond of lasting peace and friendship," he said. After the tour of the four former Soviet republics, Li will continue his trip to Mongolia for a two-day official visit that will end on April 29.
