FBIS3-35353 "drnes037_g_94004" FBIS-NES-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 Sudan Information Minister Assails Opposition UK Visit PM2402094594 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 22 Feb 94 p6 PM2402094594 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by 'Abdallah al-Hajj: "Sudanese Information Minister Tells AL-HAYAH: The Opposition's Call for a Blockade Against Sudan Confirms Its Isolation From Its People"] [Text] Jeddah -- Sudanese Information Minister 'Abd-al-Basit Sabdarat has strongly attacked the Sudanese opposition's meeting at the British House of Lords and saw the opposition leaders' call on the Security Council to impose a blockade against Sudan "while they stay at European hotels, as exposing their isolation from the people because, through such a call, they seek to blockade and starve their own people." He told AL-HAYAH in Jeddah that this British step "confirms the soundness and verity of the Sudanese decision expelling the British ambassador from Khartoum because he interferred in the same way in Sudanese affairs." He added: "It is really regrettable that Sudanese people now enter the British Parliament and talk about the issue of the south forgetting that Britain was the main cause of that problem originally. It was the one which created the problem of the south and then prevented the interaction of the north and south for many years." Sabdarat ridiculed the Sudanese opposition parties meeting in London saying that "they believe victory will be theirs at the hands of the crusaders. They forget that by embracing them Britain aims to kill the Islamic and cultural trend in Sudan." He criticized the results of the meetings and said that "they gave a true picture of the state of the Sudanese opposition abroad. They were unable to agree at these meetings. While the Democratic Unionist Party supported Sudan's unity, the Ummah Party wanted an interim period after which the question of self-determination would be considered, and then Bona Malwal, representative of the south, said that Sudan's independence came about incorrectly, held the north responsible for all the mistakes, and presented the issue as a dispute between the north and the south." The Sudanese information minister added: "The opposition grouping cannot take a stand on the question of self-determination in southern Sudan because the Sudanese people know the weakness of that point." Sabdarat said that "those urging the Security Council to intervene militarily and to impose a blockade against Sudan forgot, as they sat in hotels in London and Europe, that they were in fact calling for a blockade against, and for the starvation of, their own people in Sudan, as if they were on another planet." He accused them of "having a narrow view of things, and the fact that they stay at posh hotels in luxury does not enable them to judge the situation in Sudan realistically." The Sudanese information minister praised his country's relations with Eritrea saying that they "are strategic relations and we will not allow emotions and emotionalism to affect the strategy of these relations."
