FBIS3-22003 "jptdd013__l94006" JPRS-tdd-94-013-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 22 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA ARGENTINA Official Denies U.S. `Exerted Pressure' Over Narcotics Legislation PY2303155794 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1912 GMT 22 Mar 94 PY2303155794 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, 22 Mar (NA) -- Alberto Lestelle, secretary for the prevention of drug abuse, denied today that the U.S. Government has "imposed decisions or exerted pressure" in order that the "repentant" figure be included in Argentine legislation on narcotics. He also reiterated that the Armed Forces "will have no direct participation" in the struggle against drug trafficking. Lestelle explained that the inclusion of the figure "repentant" in the legislation had already been foreseen "before the visit by U.S. Vice President Al Gore." Lestelle said that the government sent the bill to Congress in 1992, and that in addition to the repentant figure it also included the role of the "informer," release on one's own recognizance, and the undercover agent. He also denied that the "freezing" of the initiative coincided with the alleged link of Amira Yoma, former presidential protocol director, to the money laundering case known as Narcogate. In this regard Lestelle said: "The question should be asked of the members of the Penal and Drug Addiction Committees, who never debated the issue." Lestelle added that 30 days ago the government submitted to the legislature a bill modifying the previous one, and that coordination would be done with the respective committees on the possibility of drawing up a single bill so that "it can be approved as soon as possible." Regarding the possibility of including the Armed Forces in the struggle against drug trafficking, Lestelle said to Radio Continental that the government "has decided that they will have no direct participation." Lestelle explained, however, that "logically, a security organization could ask the Armed Forces for radar support if, for example, it is known that an airplane is about to take off from a neighboring country." He added: "In any case, once the airplane lands in Argentine territory the operation will continue, but will be under the jurisdiction of the National Border Police." He confirmed that the participation of the Armed Forces in intelligence is "absolutely ruled out."
