FBIS3-33452 "drlat037_n_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 Chile 3 Prison Police Officers Shot, Bomb Planted PY2302131694 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network in Spanish 1000 GMT 23 Feb 94 PY2302131694 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] The three prison police agents seriously wounded last night during an attack by a terrorist group on the General Manuel Bulnes Prison Police School, located at Carmen and Ventura Lavalle Streets, remain in serious condition at Carabineros Hospital. The attack occurred at 2310 on 22 February, as was reported by Cooperativa's newscast. According to witnesses, a terrorist unit driving two vehicles fired at the school, seriously wounding three officer trainees returning to spend the night at the barracks. The three were shot several times. The officer trainees were identified as Nicolas Rusich Rojas, 20, who was wounded in the thorax, left leg, and right arm; Gonzalo Hermosilla Grisama, 21, who suffered a serious bullet wound in the middle of the right leg and other scratches produced by splinters; and Raul Eduardo Arellano Blanco, 21, who was shot in the right arm, right cheek, and left leg. The three trainees were lucky to survive. So far no one has claimed responsibility for the attack, but police speculate that they might be members of the Lautaro terrorist group considering their modus operandi and the type of semiautomatic weapons used during the attack. This is the second attack in less than 24 hours in reprisal for the transfer of 45 terrorist prisoners from the former San Miguel prison and preventive detention center to the so-called maximum security jail. The first attack affected a Carabineros station in Nueva Espana, in the Paradero 22 area on Ochagavia Avenue. On this occasion, one worker was shot. Now three prison police agents have been seriously wounded. However, these were not the only incidents because last night the terrorist group also placed a bomb in front of Socialist Party headquarters at 36 Concha y Toro, in central-western Santiago. A specialized police unit deactivated the bomb, which allegedly had been placed to protest the eviction by Carabineros of terrorist prisoners' relatives who tried to take over the site for a couple of hours. Carabineros Investigative Police so far have not been able to locate the vehicles used by the terrorists in their attack against the prison police school. Let us recall that less than a year ago terrorists also attacked the Prison Police Security Directorate, on (Carmen Conde) and Lavalle Streets, also in reprisal for the situation of these terrorist prisoners.
