FBIS4-42498 "drweu108_h_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-108 Daily Report 30 May 1994 GERMANY Russian Officer Views Cooperation With NATO Russian Officer Views Cooperation With NATO AU0406142694 Berlin BERLINER ZEITUNG in German 30 May 94 p 7 AU0406142694 Berlin BERLINER ZEITUNG German BFN [Interview with Dmitriy Trenin, political scientist and Russian military officer, by Dieter Wulf; place and date not given: "No Reason To Fear Russia"] [Text] [Wulf] What form could partner-like cooperation between Russia and NATO assume? [Trenin] In general, the Russian Government is prepared to sign the framework agreement on a Partnership for Peace treaty. However, it wants an improvement in the consultation mechanisms, especially following the experiences the Russians have had with NATO regarding the dispute between the Serbs and Bosnians over Gorazde. If one concludes a partnership agreement, the partners should also consider mutual interests. If, for example, the Russian military believed that it had to act in the Caucasus, then they should consult NATO beforehand. Of course, things must function the other way around as well. [Wulf] In the Russian military doctrine that was approved a few months ago, there is no mention at all of renouncing first use of nuclear weapons. Does this mean that Western Europe faces a nuclear threat once again? [Trenin] In 1987, Gorbachev renounced first use of nuclear weapons, but provided no guarantees. I think that the present concepts are more realistic. Nuclear weapons solely serve a deterrence function. In conventional terms, Russia is much weaker today, and that causes concern among our military. We are living in a time of great uncertainty, and if conventional capacity is drastically reduced, that automatically enhances the value of nuclear components. [Wulf] Would you not agree that there are dangers, such as the ultra right-wing politician Zhirinovskiy, that justify a fear of Russia? [Trenin] I personally consider Zhirinovskiy to be a political clown. Zhirinovskiy himself is less of a danger than some of his supporters in parliament who are considered respectable now. We should not do these people a favor by reviving the old myths about Russian imperialism. At the moment, I see no reason why Russia should be considered a threat to Europe. [Wulf] The farewell ceremony to mark the withdrawal of Russian troops from Germany is a sensitive issue at the present time. What do the Russians think about that. [Trenin] To the regular soldiers, it does not matter at all whether the farewell ceremony takes place in Weimar or in Berlin. What is of greater concern to them is that the military leadership is finding it increasingly difficult to find accommodation for the troops returning to Russia. However, the farewell question is, of course, a very important political symbol for the military and political leadership. If the feeling is created that Russia has no friends in the West, that will certainly not be in Germany's interest. [Wulf] Does that mean that the new option that has been agreed with Yeltsin will send the right signals? [Trenin] The current option is very positive, but it is still very far removed from the Russians' original expectations. I can fully understand why the Russian troops should not take part in joint ceremony with the Western allies. Nevertheless, the Germans should consider the political consequences of that.
