FBIS3-6347 "dreas052_c_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 North Korea South Urged To Accept Proposal on Work Methods SK1703105894 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1044 GMT 17 Mar 94 SK1703105894 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Unreasonable Attempt To Block North-South Dialogue" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 17 (KCNA) -- Yi Yong-tok, South Korean puppet Unification Board minister, told the press on March 15 that the Panmunjom working-level contact for the exchange of special envoys would "end in failure", according to a radio report from Seoul. The puppet defence minister, Yi Pyong-Tae, too, openly talked about resuming "Team Spirit" joint military exercises this year when he met with a U.S. undersecretary of defense that day, saying "the exchange of special envoys between the North and the South was unlikely to be realized". Such ill-boding remarks vividly show that the Kim Yong-sam group has no intention to discuss the pending issues between the North and the South. The puppets now lay the blame for the failure to make a progress in the working-level contact at the North's door. This is, indeed, an act reminding one of a thief crying "stop thief!" It is entirely because of the South Korean puppet clique's unjust behavior that the four rounds of working contact held in March failed to get anywhere. The South side objected to the North side's proposal to announce in a joint communique that the sides confirmed again the will for the exchange of special envoys and agreed on their early exchange. It categorically took exception to the North side's suggestion that the questions of observing the principle of national independence, deciding on the way of national reunification and of promoting the great unity of the whole nation be stipulated in the draft agreement with regard to the duty of special envoys. Their acts of dragging on the working-level contact, while objecting to the North side's principled proposals without any justification and reasons, are nothing but a despicable intrigue to reduce the talks to ostensible and nominal one. It is not hard to gather that lurking behind such perfidious acts of the puppets is their sinister intention to put the brakes on the third round of DPRK-USA talks at any cost by blocking the progress of the contact for the exchange of special envoys and overpower the North with the help of foreign forces. The Kim Yong-sam puppet clique must stop its adventurous rash acts of leading the situation on the Korean peninsula to a very dangerous, catastrophic crisis, approach the dialogue with an honest attitude in response to the demand and aspirations of the fellow countrymen and make a bold decision to accept the North side's drastic proposal on working procedures at an early date.
