FBIS3-24611 "jpust007___94062" JPRS-UST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 22 March 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Tissue Damage Caused by Thermokeratocoagulation 937C0432B Moscow OFTALMOKHIRURGIYA in Russian No. 3, Mar 92 (manuscript received 10 Feb 92) pp 3-8 937C0432B Moscow OFTALMOKHIRURGIYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by S. N. Fedorov, A. I. Ivashina, Ye. G. Antonova, N. K. Korshunova, N. A. Bozhkov, V. M. Karpov, and G. A. Bezruk; MNTK ``Mikrokhirurgiya glaza'' [Eye Microsurgery], Moscow; reply to article ``Experimental Radial Thermokeratoplasty in Rabbits'' by S. T. Feldman, W. Ellis, J. Frucht-Pery, A. Chayet, and S. I. Brown; UDC 617.753.1-089] [Abstract] In the course of conducting theoretical and experimental studies of the histopathological effects of thermokeratocoagulation on rabbit corneas, the authors found a similar American study (Feldman, et al.) to be erroneous in its conclusion that thermokeratocoagulation is inadequate in terms of safety and efficacy. In this work, the authors found that thermokeratocoagulation is relatively safe and that severe tissue damage is primarily caused by improper insertion of the needle into the cornea. The authors also found that the use of thermal effects in ophthalmic surgery calls for a very precise application of data obtained from animals to humans, i.e., thermocoagulation conditions designed for humans cannot be automatically applied to rabbits, which was the mistake made by the Americans. They also concluded that using mathematical simulation in ophthalmosurgery will substantially facilitate the analysis of specific surgical processes, greatly reduce costly and time-consuming medical and biological studies, and provide for more accurate predictions of the outcome of operations, including the transition from animal to human experiments. The computerized TERMO-K modeling program (IBM PC AT) developed by the authors successfully predicted the American ophthalmologists' results, which was additional proof of the program's scientific and educational applicability. Figures 9; references 5: 4 Russian, 1 Western.
