FBIS4-54495 "dreeu084_d_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-084 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 SLOVAKIA Schmognerova Addresses IMF on `Transformation' Schmognerova Addresses IMF on `Transformation' AU0105183494 Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 27 Apr 94 p 13 AU0105183494 Bratislava PRAVDA Slovak BFN [TA SR report: "Unpopular Measures on the Horizon"] [Text] Washington -- "The International Monetary Fund (IMF) should establish close contacts with the emerging World Trade Organization (WTO). We support the view that industrially advanced countries should limit trade barriers and, from the very beginning of this new trade era, open their economies more to states undergoing transformation," Deputy Prime Minister Brigita Schmognerova said at the annual IMF meeting in Washington yesterday. Her speech was the first by a representative of independent Slovakia at this forum. Together with Russian Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandr Shokhin, she represented the group of IMF states that are undergoing transformation. Brigita Schmognerova said that latest experience testifies to the IMF's greater flexibility in relation to the need for the social acceptability of the transformation strategy. In this process, the IMF almost unilaterally emphasizes the formation of a social net, however, which places great demands on budget expenditures. These expenditures among the main causes of budget deficits, according to Schmognerova, rather than the subsidizing of state-owned companies. Vice President of the European Union (EU) Danny Christophersen explained the EU program to assist transforming states and the loan in support of macroeconomic stabilization. According to Deputy Prime Minister Brigita Schmognerova, Slovakia, too, will seek to obtain this credit from the EU. "We assume that some consumer taxes will be changed and that the value-added tax for some products will be raised, which will be reflected in prices. The government would have to take these measures in the interest of eliminating the risks of the budget management, even if it did not strive to obtain the stand-by loan from the IMF," Brigita Schmognerova said after her talks with IMF Executive Director William Kiekens and head of the IMF mission to Slovakia Emmanuel Zervoudakis.
