FBIS3-36100 "drsov023_g_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Kebich Promotes Economic Integration With Russia WS0202153994 Minsk RESPUBLIKA in Russian 1 Feb 94 p 2 WS0202153994 Minsk RESPUBLIKA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report attributed to BELINFORM: "Vyacheslav Kebich: Belarusian Reforms Will Be Continued"] [Text] On 28 January, the closing meeting of the national seminar on "Key Trends in Overcoming the Social and Economic Crisis and Speeding Up Market Reform, and the Immediate Goals of Executive Committees at Local Soviets of People's Deputies" took place at the Government Building. The meeting was addressed by Vyacheslav Kebich, chairman of the Belarusian Council of Ministers. Focusing on economic reform, he confirmed the government's unfailing devotion to a market economy with well-considered changes excluding "shock therapy," which proved to be the wrong course of action in other states. "Belarusian reforms will be continued," said the prime minister. "Slowing them down is completely out of the question. At the same time, our policy will be aimed at deepening our economic integration with Russia. However, we will have the actual result only after the unification of the two monetary systems and the establishment of an exchange rate acceptable to Belarus." Concerning the practical side of the given issue, the head of the Cabinet of Ministers noted the positive progress of negotiations. V. Kebich reported that a group of specialists from the Russian Central Bank was working in Minsk. They were finalizing the coordination of exchange rates for the national currencies and the policy of issuing money. The issue of balancing prices for energy resources imported to Belarus from Russia also requires a resolution. According to the Belarusian side, import prices must be unified and approximated to local oil and gas prices for Russian enterprises. The chairman of the Council of Ministers denied categorically the accusations from the Belarusian Popular Front directed against the government regarding its "restrictions on the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Belarus." According to V. Kebich, "the course toward the deepening of Belarusian integration with Russia is a way toward the salvation of its economic and national interests."
