FBIS3-55034 "drsov003_a_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Chernomyrdin, Armenia's Bagratyan Hold Closed Meeting LD0401210794 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1925 GMT 4 Jan 94 LD0401210794 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] A closed meeting of Russian and Armenian delegations headed by Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and his Armenian counterpart, Grant Bagratyan, was held in the government building on the Krasnopresnenskaya embankment today. Armenian Ambassador to Russia Feliks Mamikoniyan, who also took part in the negotiations, told Interfax that the meeting focused on a package of agreements which had been meant to be agreed on rather than signed. "As a result, the differences between the Russian and Armenian sides were settled," the diplomat pointed out. Mamikoniyan stressed that "Armenia did not take the role of an supplicant; it was a tough, but good-natured talk between two partners, each with its own capabilities." Commenting on the draft bilateral trade and economic agreement for 1994, Mamikoniyan said "a mechanism for settling differences was found." The ambassador added that the differences were over Yerevan's settlements of payments for Russian clearing deliveries of goods. He said "Armenia has funds to pay, but the country finds itself in a transportation blockade." According to Mamikoniyan, the Russian prime minister spoke against the proposal by the Russian concern "Roskontrakt" to transform Armenia's debt for Russian oil worth 40 billion rubles into Russia's state debt and enable this commercial organization to independently look for ways to settle the payments issue with its partners. Mamikoniyan said the Russian side treated with understanding the request to grant a humanitarian credit worth 10 billion rubles to Armenia to enable it to reconstruct the facilities in the area hit by an earthquake in December 1998. The meeting also discussed granting 23 out of 40 billion rubles of the Russian state credit to Armenia in 1993 that have never been used. According to Mamikoniyan, Yerevan proposed setting up a joint venture with Russia to exploit the Armenian nuclear power station which is now under reconditioning and prepared for launch. The two sides agreed to prepare a draft intergovernmental agreement on the issue.
