FBIS4-65651 "drweu098_n_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-098 Daily Report 19 May 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Denmark Rasmussen Expresses Support for Kosovo Solution Rasmussen Expresses Support for Kosovo Solution AU1905193594 Tirana Radio Tirana Network in Albanian 1330 GMT 19 May 94 AU1905193594 Tirana Radio Tirana Network Albanian BFN [Text] In Copenhagen today, Danish Prime Minister Poul Rasmussen received the president of the republic of Kosova, Dr. Ibrahim Rugova, who is touring several European countries. At today's meeting with Danish Prime Minister Rasmussen, President Rugova gave a briefing on the situation in Kosova. He stressed that over the last five years a campaign of Serbian violence has been continuing in Kosova, and this represents a danger to the region. The president of the republic of Kosova went on to brief the Danish prime minister on the Albanians' political aim of an independent and neutral Kosova, as being the best solution to the Kosova problem. He stressed that the people of Kosova have expressed their own will through a referendum and through other institutional acts and that they are waiting for international support in implementing this will. President Rugova said that they had expressed their readiness for a dialogue with Belgrade in the presence of a third party. Denmark, which plays an important role in the European Union, can make a contribution to resolving this issue, president Rugova said, thanking the Danish prime minister for the interest that his country has so far shown in the Kosova question and regional problems. In his speech, Danish Prime Minister Rasmussen stressed that it was an honor to meet with Dr. Rugova and that he knew the Kosova problem well. He said that the European Union was worried about the situation in Kosova and that, within this framework, Denmark would continue with its commitment. He said that Denmark would exert pressure for the return of the CSCE observers to Kosova and a resolution of this matter. He expressed his support for the peaceful policy of president Rugova and the Kosovar people on the road to realizing their aspirations. Danish Prime Minister Rasmussen promised that Denmark would be active in this direction. After the reception and the friendly talks held with the Danish prime minister, the president of the republic of Kosova, Dr. Ibrahim Rugova, addressed the members of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Danish Parliament. Tomorrow, president Rugova is expected to meet Danish Foreign Minister Niels Helveg Petersen and other Danish officials. It is reported that today Dr. Rugova gave several interviews to the Danish press.
