FBIS4-11229 "drlat079_o_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-079 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 Colombia Defense Minister Reacts to Taboada Remarks Defense Minister Reacts to Taboada Remarks PA2304030194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A in Spanish 0000 GMT 23 Apr 94 PA2304030194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Spanish BFN [From the "Seven O'Clock Newscast"] [Text] Reaction from the country's political circles to the outrageous hearing held by the U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Terrorism, Narcotics, and International Operations were not long in coming. Several presidential candidates, who according to Gabriel Taboada are in the pay of drug traffickers, had this to say today. [Begin recording] [Andres Pastrana, Conservative Party presidential candidate] I am concerned to see that the attempt to besmirch Colombia's name continues. When a person makes accusations, he should name names. That is what the country needs. If he has names, let him say so. It is important that the country know if there is drug money in the political campaigns. The information must come out. As far as I am concerned, I am absolutely certain there is no drug money. I have just given my records to the overseer of the National Treasury, the National Electoral Council, and the Colombian people. People cannot continue making these accusations. [Antonio Navarro Wolff, presidential candidate for 19 April Movement Democratic Alliance] I say categorically that Antonio Navarro and Jesus Pinacue have not received a penny from drug traffickers for their campaign. I am not familiar with the rest of Mr. Taboada's statement, and it is hard to comment on something with which I am unfamiliar. [Enrique Parejo, presidential candidate of the National Democratic Alternative] Some of what was said reflects what many Colombians have been saying. There is drug money in the political campaigns and there has been in the past. Drug money has infiltrated institutions. That is a fact, and I have denounced it. [end recording] The government and the Prosecutor General's Office commented on the matter. [Being recording] [Deputy Prosecutor General Francisco Sintura] Senator Kerry, respect Colombian justice and do not get too close to rogues. [Defense Minister Rafael Pardo] Those remarks cannot be taken seriously. They reflect an ill-intended distortion to harm a country that has suffered a great deal from drug trafficking. It is not justified to give credence to someone who has no information and no way to get any and whose charges are not serious. [end recording]
