FBIS3-44947 "drchi007_t_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 Northwest Region Gansu Secretary Addresses Propaganda Work Meeting HK1101133494 Lanzhou Gansu People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 5 Jan 94 HK1101133494 Lanzhou Gansu People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Yesterday [5 January] Gansu Radio held a meeting in Lanzhou on 1994 press and propaganda work. Provincial party Secretary Yan Haiwang, Acting Governor Zhang Wule, provincial party Deputy Secretary Sun Ying, and Shi Zhongyuan, chief of the Provincial Party Committee's Propaganda Department, attended the meeting. [passage omitted] Secretary Yan Haiwang pointed out: In press and propaganda work, prominence should be given to the main theme of patriotism, collectivism, and socialism. [Begin Yan recording] Broadcasting and television constitute an important front in our ideology and propaganda and are an important component of our party's ideological and political work. The task for the next step is becoming heavier, like those on other fronts. This is because since the Third Plenary Session of the 14th CPC Central Committee, Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics should be implemented with great strides. In particular, next year will see the biggest step in reform measures over the the last 15 years concerning the establishment of the socialist market economic structure. We can also forecast that next year's economic development rate will be the fastest. But we are facing complex problems and there are many new situations, maybe we will encounter many new problems. The deeper the reform, the more serious the frictions between new and old structures and between long-term and immediate or local interests. Our broadcasting and television, the entire media, as well as the ideological and propaganda front, are facing the heavy task of how to comply with central requirements in controlling the orientation of the media and giving prominence to the main themes. It is also an arduous task to propagate the party's policies and principles more extensively and more correctly, and to use new, inspiring things emerging in reform and economic construction to educate the masses and boost mass and cadre confidence and enthusiasm. Apart from party committees, which should guide, protect, and bring into play cadre and mass initiative in reform and economic construction, all entire ideological work should also engage in this, and it should be regarded as the most important task in ideological work. Everyone should further emancipate their minds and continue to display the fine tradition of hard struggle. I believe we will fulfill our work better and make greater contributions to the development of Gansu's trades and undertakings. [end Yan recording]
