FBIS4-43298 "drweu115_o_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-115 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 CYPRUS Foreign Minister `Satisfied' With UN Meetings Foreign Minister `Satisfied' With UN Meetings NC1506074094 Nicosia Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation Radio Network in Greek 0430 GMT 15 Jun 94 NC1506074094 Nicosia Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation Radio Network Greek BFN [Text] Foreign Minister Alekos Mikhailidhis concluded the first round of his talks in New York and today will go to Washington for talks with U.S. Government and Senate officials. Mikhailidhis will meet U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott; U.S. presidential adviser George Stephanopoulos; Claiborne Pell, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; and Senator Paul Sarbanes. In New York the foreign minister had meetings with the representatives of all the UN Security Council members except U.S. Ambassador Madeleine Albright, who was not in New York. He also had a working luncheon with UN official Marrack Goulding. In a statement to the Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation correspondent in New York, Mikhailidhis said he was satisfied with his talks, adding that the Security Council members see the need for a new opening. He mentioned that he is starting to be optimistic that continuous involvement by the Security Council, either the entire council or just the permanent members, in efforts to find ways to change the basic problem--the lack of goodwill by the Turkish side--is an idea that is becoming more acceptable. Referring to the talks between Gustave Feissel, the UN secretary general's deputy special representative in Cyprus, and Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktas, Mikhailidhis said it is important whether Denktas has accepted the 21 March UN document in its entirety, not if he has accepted one or the other provision. In his statement, the foreign minister said that all indications show that UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali's communication with the Security Council about the talks between Denktas and Feissel will be based on the report that Feissel will submit to him. Mikhailidhis said this report is expected in New York soon.
