FBIS3-38039 "drsov038_a_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Roundup of U.S. Developments in Ames Case LD2502102094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0910 GMT 25 Feb 94 LD2502102094 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Pavel Vanichkin] [Text] Washington February 25 TASS -- American and Russian officials these days are holding consultations via different channels concerning the arrest of CIA officer Aldrich Ames and his wife on charges of spying for Moscow. ITAR-TASS has learned from reliable sources that U.S. State Department officials are due to meet with Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Georgiy Mamedov in Washington to discuss various diplomatic aspects of American-Russian relations as scheduled before the arrest of the Ames on Monday. The arrest will certainly add a new aspect to consultations. U.S. Attorney-General Janet Reno said on Thursday it had raised the question about the espionage case at a meeting with representatives of the Russian law enforcement agencies on the same day. The local press confirmed on Thursday a report circulated by ITAR-TASS earlier about the U.S. Administration's decision to send CIA officials to Moscow for consultations on the Ames affair. Judging by reports in the American mass media, the delegation will also include FBI and State Department officials. On the whole the passions are flaring around the espionage speculations. At first, American journalists said two Soviet citizens who were spying for the United States were exposed and executed at the end of the 1980's on a tip from Ames, now they say that the number of such people is at least ten. A CIA official, who spoke to ITAR-TASS on condition of anonymity on Wednesday, said he could neither confirm nor deny the fact of the death of two American spies. On Thursday, CIA spokesman David French refused to reply to any questions from ITAR-TASS. He explained his refusal by saying that the Central Intelligence Agency was maintaining contacts only with the American press. Another interesting news reached ITAR-TASS from the Justice Ministry's official John Russell on Thursday. According to him, the judge has decided to postpone hearings in the case of the Ames couple from Friday to next Tuesday. French told ITAR-TASS he did not know the exact reason for the postponement but surmised that the hearings were adjourned on request of the defence attorney.
