FBIS4-64871 "drweu089__a94027" FBIS-WEU-94-089-A Daily Report 6 May 1994 WEST EUROPE ANNEX Spain Anguita Calls Gonzalez `Spain's Biggest Problem' Anguita Calls Gonzalez `Spain's Biggest Problem' BR0605150594 Madrid EL PAIS in Spanish 6 May 94 p 20--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0605150594 Madrid EL PAIS Spanish BFN ["J.R." report: "Anguita Challenges Nationalists To Get Involved in Confidence Vote"] [Text] Madrid -- Demanding that he resign immediately was the nicest thing that Julio Anguita said to Felipe Gonzalez yesterday. The general coordinator of the United Left (IU) called an emergency press conference two hours after the prime minister's appearance. Anguita accused Gonzalez of being "Spain's biggest problem" today. The IU leader demanded that the prime minister call a confidence vote in parliament and that the Catalan and Basque nationalists use that opportunity to dare to maintain support for the government and "take on their share of the blame for maintaining this state of corruption." The IU coordinator felt that Gonzalez's statements maintaining that both the president of Catalonia, Jordi Pujol, and the leader of the PNV [Basque Nationalist Party], Xabier Arzalluz, are continuing to support him cannot remain unanswered. For Anguita, it is preciseley as an exercise in democracy and transparency that the parliamentary representatives of both nationalist leaders should demonstrate their support in the confidence vote. "Let it be clear whether or not they support him and let them brave the consequences of their support in a debate," the IU leader said. Anguita feels that Gonzalez is responsible for practically everything: unemployment, economic ruin, a policy of nonsense and flight from reality, the ideology of the "pelotazo," society's lack of ideals and, lastly, for being the "person most responsible for the corruption." The IU leader feels that the press conference offered Gonzalez a leader's rendezvous "with his dignity and the future of his country." Given the outcome of the prime minister's speech, which Anguita followed on the television next to the staff at his office, "this rendezvous has been neither a drama nor a tragedy; it has become grotesque," he said. Anguita cannot repeat his demand that Gonzalez resign every day, although he will raise the matter again next Wednesday in parliament, when the prime minister appears. For him, as long as Felipe Gonzalez is the head of government, "this request will not be withdrawn."
