FBIS3-58563 "drweu011_p_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 GREECE Turkey `Fomenting Artificial Tension' NC1501162794 Athens ATHENS NEWS in English 15 Jan 94 p 3 NC1501162794 Athens ATHENS NEWS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Greece yesterday accused Turkey of fomenting artificial tension in bilateral relations and said its ambassador in Ankara had requested a formal explanation of remarks made by Turkey's top general about Greece's "hostile" behaviour. And European Affairs Minister Theodhoros Pangalos sharply criticised Ankara for its continued occupation of northern Cyprus. "Turkey is the only country in the world which occupies militarily the territory of an independent state," he told a conference of members of the European Parliament and the U.S. Congress. Turkish Military General Staff chief, General Dogan Gures, was quoted on Wednesday [12 January] in the press as saying: "Greece behaves like an enemy against whom we need to strengthen our armed forces." His bellicose statements were made just a day after Turkish President Suleyman Demirel tried to pour oil on the waters of Greek-Turkish relations, stating that drilling on the northeastern Aegean seabed was being conducted in Greek waters. The statement was interpreted as a tacit gesture of goodwill. Turkey has consistently disputed Greek sovereignty of the Aegean, refusing to recognise the continental shelf of the Aegean islands. Diplomatic sources in Athens described the conflicting tone of the statements coming from Ankara as a deliberate attempt to project a reasonable and conciliatory image abroad and a tough, no-nonsense image at home. But remarks late yesterday by Mr Demirel show the "good cop, bad cop" ploy may be part of Turkey to depict Greece as the spoiler [sentence as published]. "There is no benefit to Greece to create a crisis under present circumstances," he was quoted as saying. Tension between Greece and Turkey rose slightly after the former announced it would proceed with oil explorations on the seabed off the coast of the island of Thasos. Asked whether the drilling would create problems, Mr Demirel said: "If the explorations are confined within the territorial waters of Thasos, no problem will be created. If, however, action is taken in waters where there are Turkish interests, then there will be a problem. The fact that Turkey is trying to safeguard its interests through peaceful means should not be interpreted as weakness."
