FBIS3-46995 "dreas005_l_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 Philippines Army-NPA Skirmish in Aklan Violates Truce BK0701042494 Manila THE MANILA CHRONICLE in English 1 Jan 94 p 1 BK0701042494 Manila THE MANILA CHRONICLE Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Frank Longid Jr.] [Text] Government troopers and communist rebels fired at each other in Aklan early this week, the first breach so far of the 17-day unilateral cease-fire declared by the government and the shorter truce declared by communist rebels themselves. Military reports said soldiers of the 47th Infantry Battalion led by 2d Lt. Fernando Rey battled 15 New People's Army (NPA) insurgents near Barangay [village] Malindong, Ibajay. At least one soldier was killed and another wounded, with undetermined casualties on the side of the rebels. Two Huey helicopters were sent to evacuate the government casualties while an MG-520 gunship provided fire support. The reports said the rebels were believed to have come from a meeting held during the 25th anniversary of the Communist Party last Sunday. The reports said Army troopers were chasing after the rebels. The guidelines for the truce released by Defense Secretary Renato De Villa ban soldiers from going on offensive operations, including combat patrols. They may, however, take purely "defensive actions." In Cagayan, an NPA rebel was captured while being treated in a hospital. He was identified as Benigno Caru, alias Ka [Comrade] Louie, whom the military believes belongs to a rebel group operating in the Zinundungan Valley. Caru was moved to a government hospital where he could be better guarded, the reports said. The arrest was made possible by citizens who reported Caru's presence to the Lasam town mayor who in turn informed the Army's 65th Infantry Battalion. De Villa had said that while the cease-fire is in effect from 21 December to 6 January, all rebels, including communist insurgents, can freely move around the country as long as they do not carry firearms. There was no mention in the report of any firearm found on Caru. Military officials were unavailable for comment.
