FBIS4-3383 "drchi076_w_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-076 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Portuguese Prime Minister To Meet Governor Patten 20 Apr Portuguese Prime Minister To Meet Governor Patten 20 Apr HK2004055094 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS in English 20 Apr 94 p 2 HK2004055094 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS English BFN [By Harald Bruning in Macao] [Text] The Portuguese Prime Minister, Anibal Cavaco Silva, will meet the Governor, Chris Patten, today to discuss the run-up to 1997 and Macao's reversion of sovereignty in 1999. Cavaco Silva, who arrived in Hong Kong yesterday afternoon from Macao for a two day visit, denied that Chinese leaders had given him a message to convey to Patten during his seven-day visit to China last week. Speaking at a press conference before he left Macao yesterday, Cavaco Silva said Portugal would strengthen its presence in Macao after 1999 with the establishment of Portugal's largest mission in a foreign country. Unlike Britain's stormy relationship with Beijing, Portugal has so far avoided any public dispute with China over the 1999 hand-over and both countries regard the enclave as Chinese territory under Portuguese administration. "I am very interested in talking with Chris Patten about the transition periods of Macao and Hong Kong," Cavaco Silva said. "If I had any message from Chinese leaders for Chris Patten, I would not reveal it here [in an interview]." Cavaco Silva also yesterday defended his stance on human rights during his talks with Chinese leaders -- the Premier, Li Peng, and President Jiang Zemin. He has been criticised by the Catholic Church in Portugal which accused him of not pursuing the issue adequately. The Portuguese media also accused Cavaco Silva of avoiding raising the issue in order to acquire trade advantages for Portugal. But the Prime Minister said that a "discreet" and "private" approach when dealing with China on the issue achieved better results than discussing it "on a public square". Cavaco Silva said Portugal advocated the "Western and democratic concept of human rights" in its relations with foreign countries, particularly those in Asia and Africa. The Prime Minister said Portugal would also make efforts to establish itself as a gateway for Asian businesses while Macao constituted an "advantage for the Portuguese" entering China and other regional markets.
