FBIS3-12342 "drnes039_n_94018" FBIS-NES-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 LEBANON Prime Minister, Official, Parties React to Hebron Event Buwayz: Attack Aimed at Ruining Negotiations NC2502131994 Beirut Voice of Lebanon in Arabic 1237 GMT 25 Feb 94 NC2502131994 Beirut Voice of Lebanon Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Foreign Minister Faris Buwayz has declared that the massacre perpetrated in the Ibrahimi Mosque in Hebron today was designed to ruin the negotiations and create a climate of obstruction and chaos that will hinder all the peace efforts. Buwayz said he believes this is neither a new nor a transient Israeli act. These remarks by Minister Buwayz were quoted by the reporters' doyen Milhim Karam, who, along with a delegation from the Journalists Association, met the foreign minister at noon today. [Begin Karam recording] His Excellency Minister Faris Buwayz believes that this morning's massacre at the Ibrahimi Mosque in the blessed month of Ramadan was designed to ruin the negotiations and create a climate of obstruction and chaos that will hinder all the peace efforts. The foreign minister believes that this Israeli conduct is neither new nor transient, because the Israeli Government is a weak government that colludes with and facilitates the acts of every saboteur, fundamentalist, or extremist movement. Reports in the past two days of a prospective Cabinet reshuffle are untrue. Minister Buwayz asserts that any earnest discussion of a reshuffle, Cabinet change, or of ministers swapping portfolios is not in the cards now and has not yet been discussed seriously. [end recording] Shaykh Muhammad Mahdi Shams-al-Din, deputy chairman of the Higher Islamic Shiite Council, speaking during a Friday sermon, called for halting the negotiations or at least freezing them for a time to confront the world with its responsibility. If we do not do this, he remarked, we will be helping to conceal the crime. Shams-al-Din added: We are no longer concerned with protecting the fragile peace, especially if the Hebron massacre is a harbinger of what will come later. He called for reinforcing national unity to confront Zionist aggression, to stop attaching too much importance to minor sectarian and denominational issues, and to renounce personal, factional, and partisan ambitions. The interior minister denounced the incident and demanded international intervention.
