FBIS4-23182 "drafr104_c_94033" FBIS-AFR-94-104 Daily Report 27 May 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA IEC's Kriegler on Election Results, Lessons Learnt IEC's Kriegler on Election Results, Lessons Learnt MB2705200094 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1759 GMT 27 May 94 MB2705200094 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Cape Town May 27 SAPA -- When Mr Justice Johann Kriegler went on the air to announce the final result of South African's first fully democratic election, he did not yet have the final data in his hand, he revealed on Friday [27 May]. Addressing a Cape Town press club lunch, Judge Kriegler, head of the Independent Electoral Commission [IEC] which ran last month's election, said because the provincial legislatures had to be constituted the next day, and inauguration day had been set for the next Tuesday, "we simply had to go public on the available data at that stage". He believed that in future South Africa should have a permanent, parastatal, non-political electoral body to run future elections. The country could "simply not afford" to have 10 different (one national and nine provincial) administrations running a poll. "We will need suckers like Kriegler to be the watchdogs of the public," he added. Asked whether he would do it again, he gave a tentative "yes" but added immediately "but I'm not volunteering for any job!" The experience he and his commissioners had picked up should not be wasted. Answering another question, he revealed that the Inkatha Freedom Party [IFP], the Freedom Front and the National Party had been the three parties to temporarily benefit from a three percent mark-up following the IEC's computer programme failure. A basic problem encountered by the IEC in the whole electoral process had been that "we were supplying an over-sophisticated system to a society that couldn't handle it". "We had a Rolls Royce system for a dirt track." No deal or agreement struck between parties to expedite a result had been brought into the IEC's calculation. Lessons learnt from the election included that never again should a poll be run without a voters' roll, and there should be a permanent professional staff, timeous preparation and no last-minute changes such as the entry of the IFP six days before election day. It was still true, however, that the election had worked. He said he was satisfied there had been no significant evidence of any material irregularities in the KwaZulu-Natal area which had affected the result.
