FBIS3-7338 "dreas059_c_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 North Korea Perry's Remarks Reveal `Dangerous Scheme' SK2703083094 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0821 GMT 27 Mar 94 SK2703083094 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Aggressive Outburt of Warmaniac"--KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 27 (KCNA) -- The U.S. Defence Secretary, William Perry, at a press conference on March 25 announced a series of reckless operational plans for the dispatch of additional U.S. military strength and equipment to South Korea, reinforcement of the combat capacity of the U.S. imperialist aggression forces occupying South Korea and acceleration of the "modernisation" of the South Korean puppet army, crying for "elaborate measures" to counter accidental developments" on the Korean peninsula, according to a report. Perry's remarks fully revealed the dangerous scheme of the U.S. imperialists to unhesitatingly lead the situation on the Korean peninsula to a catastrophic war phase. It is the U.S. imperialist war hawks who are creating the danger of "accidental developments" on the Korean peninsula and it is again them who are driving the situation to the brink of war. Now task forces of the U.S. Navy including an aircraft carrier are moving towards the waters close to Korea, Patriot missile units are heading for South Korea and large aggression forces are ready for departure in the U.S. mainland and surroundings of the Korean peninsula. According to foreign press reports, Perry will fly to South Korea and Japan in a short time to examine and adjust on the spot the preparations of military operations designed to provoke a new war which the U.S. imperialists are now promoting feverishly. This predicts that the U.S. imperialists will lead the situation on the Korean peninsula to a more grim phase by their military frenzy. If the U.S. imperialits think they can frighten us with military threat, it is, indeed, a foolish dream. They must stop running rashly, clearly knowing that the option of confrontation and war will precipitate their own doom.
