FBIS4-58980 "drnes090_a_94003" FBIS-NES-94-090 Daily Report 9 May 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria Imam Decries Killing of French Citizens; 4 Arrested Imam Decries Killing of French Citizens; 4 Arrested LD0905195094 Paris France-2 Television Network in French 1800 GMT 9 May 94 LD0905195094 Paris France-2 Television Network French BFN [Excerpts] The Algerian Fraternity in France, which is considered to be very close to the Islamic Salvation Front, has strongly condemned the killing in Algeria of two French religious figures. For officials of the fraternity, this double killing is probably the work of the enemies of Algeria. It is provocation. It is the case that 34 foreign nationals, including 10 French citizens, have so far been killed in Algeria since September. Jerome Bony and Bruno Giraudon, our special correspondents in Algiers, report: [Bony] People are dismayed in Algiers' Casbah after the killing yesterday of Paule-Helene Saint-Raymond and Henri Verges. Among those who miss the two religious figures most and who dare to say so is the imam of the neighboring mosque: [Begin unidentified imam recording] They were people who helped the needy. They were on the side of the needy. Some people needed them to fill in forms for retirement in France. They came to see them for help. They asked them to write letters to the social security services in France. They did favors for everyone, both men and women, without any distinction. Without any distinction among human beings. [passage omitted] We are asking God ... [pauses] These people must be exterminated with God's help. This is all I can say. [end recording] [Bony] Yesterday, after the killings, the Casbah district was cordoned off by the police and, according to information we gathered on the ground this morning, four young people are believed to have been arrested. More police operations are taking place in Algiers right now, but it is impossible to say who are those behind the double killing of Sister Paule and Brother Henri, who will be buried here, in Algiers, soon.
