FBIS3-6874 "dreas055_a_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Cabinet Instructed To Prepare for Emergency SK2203074494 Seoul YONHAP in English 0729 GMT 22 Mar 94 SK2203074494 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 22 (YONHAP) -- Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa instructed the cabinet on Tuesday to prepare for an emergency as the United Nations Security Council ponders economic sanctions against North Korea. Hosokawa told the cabinet that he is closely watching international efforts to deal with the North Korean nuclear dispute. He said, "President Kim Yong-sam is going to visit Japan from March 24, and we should keep an eye on the situation for seven to 10 days. We must make every preparation for an emergency." Chief Cabinet Secretary Masayoshi Takemura told a press conference in the morning that Japan should exchange information with South Korea and Japan and act prudently. He acknowledged that working-level officials are studying ways to restrict remittance by ethnic Koreans in Japan to North Korea and prohibit North Korean ships from calling at Japanese ports. "But now is not yet the stage for the government to officially confirm that," he said. On the military front, Defense Minister Kazuo Aichi instructed the Self-Defense Forces to reinforce security as tension rises in Northeast Asia. Aichi told the press after the cabinet meeting that Japan is strengthening acquisition of information related to the North Korean nuclear dispute. Tokyo is also preparing for a trade embargo in anticipation of a U.N. decision against the North Koreans. A senior government official said that in order to implement a full-fledged trade embargo against North Korea, the government will need to revise the enforcement regulations of trade-related and other laws. The Japanese Government is working on such revision, he said. It would be difficult to prohibit remittance to North Korea, he said, but "the government should take every possible step. We will try to decide on prohibition (of remittance) as soon as possible." He emphasized that Tokyo should conduct itself in a cool manner because if North Korea has succeeded in making nuclear weapons, it is highly likely they will be targeted at Japan. Meanwhile, Japanese police checked all areas where President Kim Yong-sam is scheduled to pass by or stay on his visit to Japan this Thursday [24 March]. The Japanese police plan to establish a special comprehensive security headquarters, and about 16,000 policemen will be deployed to beef up security around Haneda airport, the Diet and the guest house.
