FBIS3-26236 "drchi024_n_94010" FBIS-CHI-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 Economic & Agricultural `Central Leader' Urges Controlling Inflation HK0302084094 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO in Chinese 3 Feb 94 p 3 HK0302084094 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN ["Special Dispatch": "Central Leader Urges Keeping Inflation Rate Below 10 Percent"] [Text] Beijing, 2 Feb (TA KUNG PAO)--A central leader, while emphasizing recently the need to strengthen agriculture, which serves as the foundation of the national economy, said great efforts must be made to keep the 1994 inflation rate below 10 percent. The leader said: The year 1994 is a year of crucial importance, because in this year many reform measures will be introduced. We must handle well the relationship between reform and development on the one hand and stability on the other and maintain a stable political environment and a favorable economic environment. Price reform will be carried out at a faster pace, but the inflation rate should be kept below 10 percent. To achieve this, we must first of all stabilize agricultural production and ensure a plentiful supply of agricultural and sideline products. The tolerance of the general population must be taken into account when prices are adjusted. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen agriculture, which serves as the foundation of the national economy, and improve our work in rural areas. We must never relax for one bit on agricultural production even under the conditions when the agricultural situation is good; as our tasks become tougher, there will be all the more need for us to put agriculture in the first place of our economic work. The leader pointed out: In adjusting the economic structure, we must strike a balance between industry and agriculture, which are two major sectors of the national economy, and increase the proportion of agriculture in the economy. This concerns not only agriculture but also industry. Industry is not plagued by a lack of funds but by overstocking of products. The biggest market is in the countryside. If the rural market cannot be activated, the industrial foundation will become shaky and the market as a whole will shrink. Therefore, we must adjust the structure in terms of finance, capital construction, and other aspects.
