FBIS4-45493 "jptdd027__l94071" JPRS-TDD-94-027L JPRS Narcotics 15 June 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA LITHUANIA British Citizen From Hong Kong Caught Smuggling Drugs at British Citizen From Hong Kong Caught Smuggling Drugs at Polish Border WS1606093794 Tallinn BNS in English 1610 GMT 15 Jun 94 WS1606093794 Tallinn BNS English BFN [Text] Vilnius, Jun 15, BNS -- A British citizen suspected in smuggling drugs has been detained on Lithuania's border with Poland. Yu Tak Ching Gloria, a British citizen residing in Hong Kong, was detained by Lithuanian customs officials early Tuesday after a large quantity of unidentified medicaments was detected in her baggage. The British tourist was carrying to Poland 23 brands of tablets and 7 brands of medical oils. After testing 6 brands, tablets of two of them tested heroin positive and another two proved to contain cocaine, according to the daily LIETUVOS RYTAS. Any final conclusions about the nature of the confiscated drugs have been put off until more thorough tests are carried out. The British citizen has been detained for a three-day period by a sanction of the prosecutor of the Lazdijai district where the border checkpoint is located. Yu Tak Ching Gloria was advised to stay at the local hotel at her own expense. The British Embassy in Vilnius has been informed about the incident. Two other residents of Hong Kong were detained at the Lazdijai border crossing earlier in the year carrying medications suspected to contain narcotic substances. Two women were detained in each of the previous cases, and both times more careful tests denied any suspicions. In all three cases, including the latest, the tourists claimed to be on the way from Helsinki to Germany. They had all successfully passed the other Baltic countries. Illegal drugs trafficking businesses, are in search of new transit routes through Lithuanian territory, according to the Lithuanian Border Intelligence Service. It is speculated residents of Hong Kong and other Asian countries are sent via Lithuania with narcotic-like substances in order to test the watchfulness of Lithuanian customs services.
