FBIS4-7855 "dreeu067_p_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-067 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 POLAND Sejm Board Hears Report on EU Integration Sejm Board Hears Report on EU Integration WS0704095694 Warsaw NOWA EUROPA in Polish 7 Apr 94 p 2 WS0704095694 Warsaw NOWA EUROPA Polish BFN [Article by "U.K.:" "Report on Integration; Poland-European Union"] [Text] Minister Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, the government's plenipotentiary for European integration and foreign assistance, presented the Sejm Commission for European Integration with a report on the implementation of a program of measures aimed at adapting the Polish economy and legal system to EU requirements. The report, which was prepared on the basis of reports by individual ministries, deals with, among other things, the status of the adaptation and integration processes in the areas of the law and the economy, organizationally and institutionally. "The program has not been and is not supposed to be something for its own sake but, instead, is the outline of a process whose scope and pace can be modified depending on changes occurring in both Poland and the EU," Minister Saryusz-Wolski said. Among the adaptation measures, Poland's legal system has been dealt with as a priority, including measures dealing with the Customs Law, the Banking Law, the law on the protection of industrial and intellectual property, and the environmental protection law. This resulted in 38 scientific studies having been written by famous experts from all branches of law. One hundred and sixty draft laws were also reviewed from the standpoint of their conformity with European law. In terms of long-term measures, experts are being trained, among other things, for cooperation with the European Communities, and work is being conducted on establishing institutional foundations for cooperation between Polish universities and prestigious schools of higher education in the West. The Sejm deputies did not evaluate the working report because it will be debated at subsequent sessions by the commission. It was agreed that agriculture will be one of the first topics. As is well known, the biggest problem lies in adapting legal provision in force in Poland to EU requirements.
