FBIS3-52565 "drnes004_j_94003" FBIS-NES-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Jan 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Oman Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Hands Letter to Sultan LD0501211494 Kuwait KSC Television in Arabic 1800 GMT 5 Jan 94 LD0501211494 Kuwait KSC Television Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Shaykh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir, Kuwaiti first deputy prime minister and foreign minister, has handed a letter from the amir of Kuwait to his brother His Majesty Sultan Qabus Bin-Sa'id of Oman. The letter concerns bilateral relations between the two countries and ways of giving them impetus and bolstering them in all spheres on the basis of the progress of the GCC [Gulf Cooperation Council], the situation in the Arab and international arenas, and issues of mutual concern. Before leaving Abu Dhabi earlier today, Shaykh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir stressed that Kuwait would not attend any Arab summit conference that may be convened to bring about Arab reconciliation unless the causes of Arab disputes had been removed first. In a statement to some Arab correspondents, he said that Kuwait's stance vis-a-vis Arab reconciliation had not changed, stressing that reconciliation may be discussed once the main cause that has created the Arab dispute had been resolved. The first deputy prime minister and foreign minister stressed that there were no differences in perception among GCC states with regards to reconciliation. He pointed out that the GCC states' stance emphasized the need for any reconciliation to be preceded by confronting the wrongdoings committed. In his statement, Shaykh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir stressed that the GCC was the mainstay of security in the region. He said that agreement was reached at the Riyadh summit to develop the strength of the Peninsula Shield force and increase the number of its troops in order for it to become a shield for protecting the region's countries. [passage omitted] The first deputy prime minister and foreign minister reaffirmed Kuwait's welcome of the Palestinian-Israeli agreement as an initial step toward a just and comprehensive peace. He denied that there were contacts between Kuwait and the PLO.
