FBIS4-47258 "jpust012___94012" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 June 1994 CHEMICAL SCIENCES CHEMISTRY Study of Mechanism of Membrane Extraction of Cobalt (II) Study of Mechanism of Membrane Extraction of Cobalt (II) From HCl Solutions Using Solutions of Tri-n-octylamine in Decane by IR-Fourier Spectroscopy 947M0060C Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK RAN SERIYA KHIMICHESKAYA in Russian No. 9, Sep 93 (manuscript received 15 Oct 92) pp 1539-1544 947M0060C Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK RAN SERIYA KHIMICHESKAYA Russian CSO [Article by L. M. Lebedeva, L. M. Kardivarenko, and N. A. Plate, Petrochemical Synthesis Institute imeni A. V. Topchiev, Moscow; Geochemistry and Analytical Chemistry Institute imeni V. I. Vernadskiy, Moscow; UDC543.2-541.127.333] [Abstract] Quasi-liquid membranes may be used in place of liquid extraction to concentrate and separate metals. One of the shortcomings of membrane extraction is the low reproducibility of quasi-liquid membranes. This may be overcome by increasing the contact surface of the phases by multiple emulsification or by using a different type of module. However, there are other ways. When metals are passed through an extraction quasi-liquid membrane, maxima are frequently observed on curves representing stream size as a function of the concentration of carrier-extractant. These maxima represent the presence of parallel processes accompanying metal-carrier interaction. Basically, these are solution processes having an effect on the system viscosity when the coefficient of distribution of the metal in the aqueous and organic phases becomes a function of both the carrier and the concentration of the solvent. However, it is entirely possible that a change in the mechanism of the metal transfer takes place within these maxima. In the present work IR- Fourier spectroscopy was used to study the extraction of cobalt (II) from a hydrochloric acid solution with a tri-n-octylamine in decane solution. A marked increase in cobalt (II) transport over a narrow interval of extractant-carrier during membrane extraction is explained as being due to a change in the transport mechanism, hypothetically differing from either a diffusion or ``relay'' type mechanism. Figures 3; references 22: 8 Russian, 14 Western.
