FBIS4-40807 "drsov119_a_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-119 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Petroleum Club To Promote Joint Projects Petroleum Club To Promote Joint Projects LD2106101094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0957 GMT 21 Jun 94 LD2106101094 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Pavel Vanichkin] [Text] Washington June 21 TASS -- The establishment of a Russian-American petroleum club -- a new nongovernmental and nonprofit organisation -- was announced by Yuriy Shafranik, Russian minister of fuel and power, here on Monday. This organisation will promote an accelerated development of Russia's petroleum sector and establish cooperation between Russian and American companies, Shafranik told ITAR-TASS. One of the main tasks of the club will be to establish direct contacts between large petroleum companies of the two countries, which will render unnecessary go-betweens which quite often only discredit joint projects, he said. "Yet another project which, I hope, will be discussed within the framework of the club envisages transition from the sale of American oil-well equipment to Russia to its manufacture in our country. "With the availability of relatively small financial resources, the Russian side can turn out a very large array of such equipment at defence-industry enterprises subject to conversion to civilian production. Large American petroleum companies support this idea," the minister said. Final details of the work and organisational structure of the club are to be discussed in the coming days within the framework of the Russian-U.S. intergovernmental commission for economic and technological cooperation, Shafranik emphasised. The club is expected to include directors of petroleum and investment companies of the two countries. Its headquarters is to be in Moscow and its missions will be located both in Russia and the U.S. Shafranik also mentioned as very important events at the forthcoming session of the bilateral commission the final stage of discussion and a probable signing of an agreement under a Sakhalin-2 project which will for the first time give access to Russian oil- bearing shelves to an international consortium.
