FBIS3-781 "drafr049_c_94041" FBIS-AFR-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA AWB Affirms Refusal To Participate in Elections MB1303155994 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1506 GMT 13 Mar 94 MB1303155994 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Norman Patterton] [Text] Pretoria March 13 SAPA -- The right-wing Pretoria Boerekommando is uncowed by the public execution of Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging [Afrikaner Resistance Movement--AWB] members in Mmabatho, saying they would not follow Freedom Front leader Gen Constand Viljoen into an election. Speaking at the Wonderboom Fort they occupied in Pretoria on Sunday [13 March], Commandant Willem Ratte, a former 32 Battalion Commander, said: "We can't agree with what Gen Viljoen says. We can't take part in our own funeral by taking part in the Azanian election." Cmdt Ratte and a group of Boerecommando members in army browns occupied the fort while a small but steady stream of right-wing supporters trundled up the hill to express their moral support. The group was armed, and had barricaded the historic fort with razor wire and sandbags. The vierkleur [four-color; flag of the former Transvaal Republic] and South African flags were hoisted on the corners of the half-moon shaped fort, similar in design to the Schanskop Fort they previously occupied. The security forces seemed to take no interest in the occupation this time, after over-reacting at Schanskop. Traffic police were on hand to regulate the traffic of curious arriving visitors. Cmdt Ratte said he expected the city council, which owns the fort, to meet on Monday and to request the police to remove them by force. "The situation may become a little bit serious. We'll see what happens," he said, in an interview at the fort. He said Gen Viljoen intervened last time, ending the Schanskop siege, even though this was against the occupants' wishes. Asked whether the rightwing may avenge the execution of the AWB men in central Mmabatho, Cmdt Ratte said this would be difficult because it would be difficult to identify the guilty party. "The real guilt lies with the South African Government. They created the conditions for that type of situation." Cmdt Ratte objected to being labelled militant, saying Afrikaners were a small group threatened by a mass of Azanians. Afriakners had to choose between slavery under African National Congress [ANC] President Nelson Mandela and South African Communist Party Chairman Joe Slovo, or to making a stand. "It is a question of self-preservation. We will be swamped if we don't make a stand," he said. Asked about the dented image of the rightwing after the Mmabatho fiasco, Cmdt Ratte said the rightwingers had been caught unawares by the Bophuthatswana Security Forces suddenly switching their allegiance to the ANC after they had been promised job security under an ANC government. The ANC and the South African Government, after staging a coup in Bophuthatswana, would now bring similar pressures to bear on kwaZulu, he added.
