FBIS3-25176 "drafr028_e_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 WEST AFRICA Nigeria Ibo Leaders Call For End to Military Administration AB0902180094 Paris AFP in English 1722 GMT 9 Feb 94 AB0902180094 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Lagos, Feb 9 (AFP) -- Leaders of Nigeria's Ibo people have called for an end to military rule and the accession to power of the presumed winner of presidential elections annulled last year, press reports said Wednesday [9 February]. Recognition of the election results and the installation of millionaire Moshood Abiola, a Yoruba Moslem businessman, would remove the "cancer that will afflict the people of Nigeria for generations," the Ibo leaders said in a statement. The June 12 election was annulled by then military ruler General Ibrahim Babangida on the grounds of irregularities, though international observers had called it free and fair. The eastern-based Ibos, together with the Hausa and the Yoruba, are the three main ethnic groups in Nigeria, Africa's most populous nation, with some 89 million people. Plans by the current military regime of General Sani Abacha to hold a constitutional conference to chart the country's future should be scrapped in favor of a national conference, the Ibo leaders added. Members of the conference must be elected and their decisions should be final, they said. The leaders also called Nigeria's very future into question. Nigerian unity had been maintained by force by the northern military class against the people of the" rest of the country, they said, adding that the merger of north with south in 1914 under British colonial rule "was a monumental mistake or so it seems". The government has, however, warned that it will make no compromises on the issue of the continued existence of Nigeria as a entity during the conference scheduled to take place in the first quarter of the year. Nigeria suffered a bloody civil war in the late 1960s after the Ibo Eastern State region of the time tried in vain to secede as independent Biafra, after a dispute over the distribution of oil revenues from the region.
