FBIS3-22929 "jptot008__l94029" JPRS-TOT-94-008-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 1 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA GUATEMALA EGP Destroys Nine Power Pylons in Quiche; Bombs Deactived Local, Army Reactions To EGP Attack PA1602004494 Guatemala City SIGLO VEINTIUNO in Spanish 15 Feb 94, p 3 PA1602004494 Guatemala City SIGLO VEINTIUNO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] Brigadier General Victor Augusto Vasquez Echeverria, commander of the military base in Quiche Department, said: "We will give Galil assault rifles to those who legally organize themselves to protect their properties." Following the attack carried out by guerrillas on the morning of 13 February, the majority of the store owners are furious because the insurgents' actions have only caused them losses, he said. "They have stated they intend to join the Civilian Self-Defense Patrols to oppose the instability caused by the insurgents. The Constitution allows civilians to form groups to protect themselves from foreign forces," he pointed out. On the morning of 13 February, members of the Poor People's Guerrilla Army (EGP) used explosive charges to topple nine electric posts in Chichicastenango and Solola. According to Gen. Vasquez, the operation was carried out simultaneously by groups of four rebels, and authorities found propaganda at the sites from the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG) and the EGP alluding to the anniversaries of the two organizations. He said: "We have sent more than 200 soldiers to patrol the area as the inhabitants of the three affected departments have requested." The URNG operation was executed at a strategic point, since the posts that were blown down interconnected the electricity network between Quiche Department, Chichicastenango Municipality, and Solola Department. Up to yesterday, electrical power had not been restored in any of these places. Businesses opened as usual even though some products that required refrigeration were lost. Gasoline service stations used manual pumps, which caused a certain backlog of vehicles. Nothing like this has been experienced in this area since the beginning of the 1980's when guerrillas destroyed an electric power generator in the outskirts of Quiche. [passage omitted on officials' condemnations of violence]
