FBIS3-46458 "drchi020_w_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Criticizes UK View on Airport Loans HK2901052694 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO in Chinese 29 Jan 94 p 1 HK2901052694 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN ["Special dispatch" by staff reporter in Beijing: "Lu Ping Accuses British Side of Violating Memorandum of Understanding and Refutes Hong Kong Government's New Formulation"] [Text] Beijing, 28 Jan (TA KUNG PAO)--Lu Ping, director of the State Council Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, today refuted the Hong Kong Government's statement on airport loans. He pointed out: Neither side raised the question of loans made by the Airport Authority in building the airport and its rail link when discussing the Memorandum of Understanding [MOU] on the airport projects, otherwise the sum of money would definitely be stated in explicit terms in the MOU. Now the British side is putting forward a new formulation, that is, the ceiling of 5 billion Hong Kong dollars is only restricted to government loans, thus showing that the British side once again violates the MOU. After attending a meeting of the Political Affairs Subcommittee of the Preliminary Working Committee, Lu Ping told this reporter: The Chinese side and its British counterpart stated when discussing the MOU that future liabilities left for the special administrative regional government must not exceed 5 billion Hong Kong dollars and that both sides must consult with each other if the liabilities were going to exceed this sum. He stressed: "At that time, we did not touch the issue at all. The British side never talked about how much money the Airport Authority would borrow in building the airport and its rail link. If they did, it must be definitely stated in explicit terms in the MOU that apart from the 5 billion Hong Kong dollars government loans, how much the Airport Authority was allowed to borrow. Therefore, the British side is now putting forward a new formulation which states that the ceiling of 5 billion Hong Kong dollars is only restricted to government borrowings, showing that the British side once again violates the MOU." Lu Ping also raised the following question: If the British side holds that the ceiling of 5 billion Hong Kong dollars is only restricted to government loans, whereas loans made by the Airport Authority in building the airport and its rail link can be excluded from the ceiling, it is not necessary to consult with the Chinese side at all since the British side can absolutely make their own decision. He said, "The British side will not be able to borrow the money without China's cooperation."
