FBIS4-7180 "dreas082_a_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan LDP Urges Hata Take Blame for `Chaos', Resign LDP Urges Hata Take Blame for `Chaos', Resign OW2704114994 Tokyo KYODO in English 1142 GMT 27 Apr 94 OW2704114994 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, April 27 KYODO -- Japan's top opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) urged newly elected Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata on Wednesday [27 April] to give up his premiership to take the blame for the current political chaos, Diet officials said. LDP President Yohei Kono made the demand in his meetings with House of Representatives Speaker Takako Doi and House of Councillors President Bunbei Hara, the officials said. Kono made the plea to the Diet leaders "as the chiefs of the two chambers of the Diet that voted to confer the premiership" to Hata in Monday's key parliamentary vote, they said. On Monday the Diet voted to pick the successor to outgoing Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa. The Diet chiefs told Kono they had already telephoned Hata, asking him to speed up the process of forming a new cabinet, the officials said. They told Hata his coalition government's failure to form a new cabinet, if it is prolonged, would exert a negative impact on the livelihood of the people, they said. They quoted Hata as replying that he is ready to make utmost efforts to speed up the cabinet formation. The LDP intensified its pressure after the Hata administration was thrown into chaos following the announcement by the Social Democratic Party (SDP) [of Japan -- SDPJ] that it will pull out of the coalition following the creation of a new parliamentary bloc in the lower chamber, excluding the SDP. The SDP reacted sharply to the emergence of the new 130-legislator bloc, saying it was not consulted by its coalition partners beforehand and that the abrupt move represented a Shinseito [Japan Renewal Party]-led attempt to push it to the sidelines of government. The SDP's withdrawal, unless it is reversed, would strip the Hata administration of its governing majority, rendering it as Japan's first minority government since 1955.
