FBIS3-21779 "jptdd010__l94085" JPRS-TDD-94-010L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 7 March 1994 WEST EUROPE SWITZERLAND Bankers To Have `Right' But Not `Duty' To Report Suspicious Deposits BR0203155794 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 0954 GMT 2 Mar 94 BR0203155794 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed SH: "National Council On Repression of Organized Crime--Swiss Banker Will Be Able To Keep Suspicions To Themselves"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Bern, 2 Mar (ATS) -- Swiss bankers will have the right--but not the duty--to inform the authorities if they have reason to believe that the money entrusted to them is the result of a crime. The National Council made this decision Wednesday, when it defined the new penal rule for combatting criminal organizations. This penal rule, which was approved--without opposition--by 158 votes, should enter into force on 1 July. Henceforth, bankers, trustees, or other business lawyers will be able to report their suspicions to the penal authorities without any risk of violating banking or commercial secrecy. In this way, they will avoid the dilemma of acting contrary to either the ban on money laundering, or the obligation of confidentiality toward their clients. Hit Hard Saint-Gall socialist Paul Rechsteiner proposed going further by making it the duty of financiers to report their suspicions. Switzerland acts as a center for international criminal organizations. This is where we have to hit hard, he said. Only the obligation to inform will make the law effective, Jean Ziegler (Socialist Party, canton of Geneva) added. However, the Greens and independents were the only ones who shared this point of view. The left wants to introduce the "principle of informing" that was so dear to the former communist regimes, retorted Suzette Sandoz (Liberal Party, canton of Vaud). Generally speaking, the majority of Swiss feel that the right to inform is enough, especially since an obligation to do so can be introduced at a later stage with regard to the laundering of dirty money. Federal Councillor Arnold Koller stressed that, in any case, no provisions were to imply sanctions to bankers who do not talk. The Rechsteiner proposal was defeated by 101 votes to 58. Definition Contested The left was also beaten on another point: the definition of a criminal organization, whose members would be punishable by a maximum of five years imprisonment. The following definition was chosen: "an organization which keeps its structure and staff secret and whose purpose is to commit acts of criminal violence or to procure income by criminal means." The socialists feel that this definition is too vague, since it could be applied not only to the intended organized crime, but also to small-time crime. It would take just three people to plan to steal from a large store and you could talk about a criminal organization, said Nils de Dardel (Socialist Party, canton of Geneva). Hence, the proposal for a more detailed definition, which includes the crime of corruption. However, this was rejected by 121 votes to 36, while Mr. Koller made assurances that no judge would take a small gang of hoodlums for a criminal organization. Burden of Proof On The Accused The broader possibility of confiscating the illicit property of criminal organizations was not contested. This should make it possible to fight organized crime more effectively, namely by depriving it of its operating capital. It will no longer be necessary to establish from which specific infraction the confiscated securities come. It will be up to the accused to prove that his property was acquired legally.
