FBIS4-32921 "drlat104_k_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-104 Daily Report 27 May 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina Lawmakers Criticize U.S. Ambassador Cheek Lawmakers Criticize U.S. Ambassador Cheek PY2705223194 Buenos Aires BUENOS AIRES HERALD in English 27 May 94 p 3 PY2705223194 Buenos Aires BUENOS AIRES HERALD English BFN [Text] (DYN) -- The President of the Radical Party bloc of deputies Raul Galvan yesterday [26 May] lashed out at U.S. Ambassador James Cheek "for his statements and pressure to get the pharmaceutical patents bill dealt with." Galvan joins a queue of disgruntled legislators who in recent days have aired similar opinions. The Cilfa [Argentine Industrial Center of Pharmaceutical Laboratories] national pharmaceutical chamber also joined in the fray over the transition period allowed under the GATT Treaty and accused Cheek of "avoiding the extensive debate required" for this controversial issue. "It is obvious that Ambassador Cheek has decided to have a say in domestic policy decisions, encouraged no doubt by the government's complacent attitude to previous incursions of this nature," Galvan said. Meanwhile the Senator Jose Genoud who presides over the Industry Commission in the Upper House, which is currently debating the bill, also had something to say on Cheek's attitude, commenting that "the U.S. is now scaremongering." Deputy Alberto Natale (DP [expansion unknown]) even went as far as tabling a motion to get Cheek declared persona non grata. Cilfa Executive Director Pablo Challu also said that he was "surprised that the press release issued by the U.S. embassy has discovered a new classification system whereby Argentina is now intermediately developed," a classification which would deny Argentina the ten-year transition period stipulated in the GATT Treaty.' "This classification is nonexistent for GATT which classifies countries as underdeveloped, developing and developed, while the ten-year transition period is applicable to the first two categories, Argentina clearly belonging to the second one," Challu said. He also criticized the statement in the press release which said that Argentina was not entitled to the ten-year transition period because it already had a patent system for manufacturing processes. Challu said it was not true as the ten-year proviso is applicable to those countries that don't have a product patenting system and therefore Argentina is fully covered by the GATT Treaty.
