FBIS3-24612 "jpust007___94063" JPRS-UST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 September 1993 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Hyperbaric Oxygenation Treatment for Deafness 947C0118A Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI in Russian No. 39, 8 Sep 93 p I 947C0118A Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article under the ``Hope'' rubric: ``Children Will Hear!''] [Text] In Russia a brand new unique method for treating acute deafness in children has been developed. Staff members at Russia State Medical University have had success with the method in 67 percent of cases. Throughout the world, the results of treating this pathology are virtually nil. Staff members in the Hyperbaric Oxygenation Laboratory (that is, treatment in baric chambers under elevated or reduced oxygen pressure) working under the direction of Professor Sergey Baydin developed their own original method to solve the problem. In a conversation with an ITAR-TASS correspondent, Sergey Baydin emphasized that only acute deafness is cured. In other words, the treatment is effective only during the first 3 weeks after the onset of decrease or loss of hearing. To date, in other cases it has only been possible to halt the process' development. ``There are many reasons for the development of deafness in children,'' said Sergey Baydin. ``Included among them are catarrhal illnesses, nervous stresses after family rows, and overdoses of drugs (especially antibiotics).'' The treatment is conducted in domestic baric chambers. In addition to using their new method to treat deafness, the physicians have learned to use it to manage critical diseases in neonates. Special chambers have been designed and constructed for this. In adults, hyperbaric oxygenation has proven effective against cardiovascular diseases, conditions following myocardial infarction, stomach and duodenal ulcers, and purulent tissue lesions. In many cases, treatment in baric chambers makes it possible to avoid using drugs or keep their use to a minimum.
