FBIS3-36994 "drsov030_a_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Further on Failed Phone Call MK1202123094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 12 Feb 94 p 1 MK1202123094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Anatoliy Veslo report under the "Hello" rubric: "Clinton Tried To Reach Yeltsin for Three Days. Yavlinskiy Did Not Sleep an Entire Night"] [Excerpts] Last night a telephone conversation between the presidents of the United States and Russia finally took place. Earlier, according to REUTER, Bill Clinton tried to reach Boris Yeltsin to discuss NATO's decision on an ultimatum to the Bosnian Serbs, but to no avail. [passage omitted] Anatoliy Krasikov, chief of the Russian president's press service, said to your SEGODNYA correspondent that all communications services were in 100 percent working condition, and that Boris Yeltsin was waiting for the call at the agreed time. So, interference, if any, must have been outside Russia. Viktor Ilyushin, first aide of the Russian president, expressed his view to INTERFAX's correspondent: "This is the first such incident in our practice. What remains is to express regret that the two sides did not manage to organize the dialogue." Mr. Ilyushin noted, however, that in order for a telephone conversation to take place both interlocutors should be on the phone. For instance, on Thursday, President Yeltsin was ready to talk for an hour and a half. He had been waiting for a conversation with the White House "for as long as the rules of propriety allow," the presidential aide said. The reaction from politicians, particularly democratic leaders close to the president, was fairly balanced: "Boris Yeltsin has disappeared from the horizon -- so what? This is not the first time." Grigoriy Yavlinskiy, however, complained to your SEGODNYA correspondent that he did not sleep on the night of Thursday and Friday, because his Western acquaintances besieged him with the question of where the Russian president had gone.
