FBIS4-33651 "drlat111_n_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-111 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 Chile Frei Urges Governing Parties To Strengthen Coalition Frei Urges Governing Parties To Strengthen Coalition PY0806172194 Madrid EFE in Spanish 0219 GMT 7 Jun 94 PY0806172194 Madrid EFE Spanish BFN [Excerpt] Santiago, 6 Jun (EFE) -- Chilean President Eduardo Frei today urged ministers and leaders from the Coalition of Parties for Democracy [CPPD] to strengthen the governing coalition, not to yield to populist temptations, and to explain the government's actions. The president was the main speaker at the meeting between the government and CPPD leaders. The five-hour meeting was attended by ministers of state, government officials, and the main leaders of the governing coalition's parties. In his speech, Frei said the Common Pact must be upheld without yielding to populist temptations, and reiterated that a high-quality, excellent, and also personalized government that works with the people must be consolidated. Frei said: "The CPPD must be safeguarded and its influence extended throughout the country because this is the only way to ensure a spirit of consensus at a nationwide level." The president warned that although opposition groups sometime adopt attitudes that promote conflicts and polarization, "the search for agreements that grant legitimacy and grandeur must be pursued." He also mentioned the need to maintain a strict fiscal discipline and a sound macroeconomic policy and admitted that the current government, which came to power on 11 March, is subject to greater pressure than the previous administration because those demands that were made timidly have now become stronger. Frei urged coalition leaders not to yield to populist temptations and asked them to reflect on the consequences of an irresponsible position in this regard. Frei later accepted criticisms of his 21 May speech for failing to mention human rights, and added that he did not think it necessary to continue assessing the transition process and its problems. He mentioned that it is obvious that in a responsible democratic system human rights should be fully respected and added that, regarding constitutional reforms, every possible effort will be made to make the institutions completely democratic since this is Chile's historical tradition. Frei said an attitude of respect for the people in the written and common law must be strengthened and said that soon he will "solemnly and publicly" announce Chilean recognition of the women and men who gave their lives for their fellow citizens during the years of the military regime (1973-1990). He added that the country will thus learn the testimony and examples set by church members, attorneys, and political and social leaders to whom, he said, we owe our appreciation. [passage omitted]
