FBIS3-37958 "drsov038_h_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Moldova Snegur Says Dniester Should Be Given Special Legal Status LD2402230694 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1711 GMT 24 Feb 94 LD2402230694 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Presidential Bulletin" feature No. 38 (528) by diplomatic correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboynikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy and others] [Text] President Mircea Snegur has said he will take all measures so that the forthcoming parliamentary elections February 27 pass democratically with the entire republic's population taking part. At the meeting in Chisinau Wednesday with the U.S. Ambassador Mary Pendleton he said that only a competent and constructive parliament may further develop the process of reforms, whose success will elevate the living standards of the population. A spokesman for the president has told Interfax that the head of state voiced confidence that the problem of Transdniester could be solved if the region is granted the special legal status. Snegur said that President Yeltsin had said about the preparedness to be a mediator at the talks to settle the conflict on the basis of recommendations by the CSCE standing mission. Snegur has confirmed his intention to propose to the new parliament bills on granting a special status for the region of the left bank of the Dniester and for that densely populated by the Gagauz people. Less than one thousand Transdniestrians took part since the beginning of the week in the parliamentary elections in Moldova. According to Snegur's decree, inhabitants of the Transdniestrian Republic are allowed to vote on February 21-27 at the polling stations on the right bank of the Dniester. A spokesman for the Central Election Commission has told Interfax, the authorities of the Transdniestrian Republic put no serious obstacles to the people living on the left bank. The Central Election Commission explains the low activeness of voters by the shortage of transport for carrying people from the left to the right bank, as well as by the fact there is still time for taking part in the voting.
