FBIS3-52629 "drnes004_r_94002" FBIS-NES-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Jan 1994 India Karimov Concludes `Very Satisfactory' Visit BK0501160894 Delhi All India Radio Network in English 1530 GMT 5 Jan 94 BK0501160894 Delhi All India Radio Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] India and Uzbekistan have expressed the resolve to counter religious fundamentalism and terrorism. They have also signed six agreements in joint ventures, economic ties, trade, and science and technology to strengthen bilateral ties. Addressing a joint press conference after the signing of the agreements in New Delhi, the visiting Uzbekistan president, Mr. Karimov, and Prime Minister Mr. Narasimha Rao said the forces of extremism threatened the democratic and secular fabric of the two nations. Mr. Rao said that he had told Mr. Karimov that India is determined to fight cross-border terrorism. Mr. Karimov said his country believes in the principle of noninterference in internal affairs of other states and favors a settlement to the Kashmir issue through negotiations. Their discussion covered several matters, including bilateral cooperation and nonalignment. Mr. Karimov said there is a good scope for Indian enterprises to export consumer goods and set up joint ventures. His country is specially interested in importing tea, tobacco, and textiles from India. Mr. Narasima Rao disclosed that an Indian bank and a cultural center will start functioning in Uzbekistan shortly. He said India has also offered to assist him in training his personnel in banking, management and mass communication, and diplomacy. The agreement signed also covered postal and related matters, telecommunications, setting up of an Indo-Uzbek center for science and technology, transport, and transit. The Uzbekistan president has described his visit to India as very satisfactory. He was talking to newsmen at Rashtrapati Bhavan [President House] before leaving for Tashkent today. The president, Dr. Shankar Dayal Sharma; the prime minister, Mr. Narasimha Rao; and his cabinet colleagues were among those present at the ceremonial farewell.
