FBIS3-38424 "drweu022_q_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 TURKEY Ciller Departs on Humanitarian Visit to Sarajevo TA0202111494 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 0800 GMT 2 Feb 94 TA0202111494 Ankara TRT Television Network Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Text] Prime Minister Tansu Ciller has stated that Turkey would like the guns in Bosnia-Herzegovina to be silenced as soon as possible, adding that Turkey will continue to contribute in every way to achieve this end. Ciller further stressed the need to continue with the uninterrupted transport of humanitarian aid to the Bosnians. Ciller departed for Bosnia on a humanitarian visit this morning. In a statement prior to her departure at Ankara's Esenboga Airport, Ciller stated that she will first visit Zagreb where she will meet with Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. Ciller explained that they will depart for Sarajevo after being briefed by UN military officials. Indicating that their visit is solely for humanitarian purposes, Ciller said: A community in the midst of Europe has been waging a war of survival for the last two years, enduring great sufferings to protect their existence. Unfortunately, the world has been a silent spectator to this tragedy. The aim of this visit is to show the Bosnians once more that we have not forgotten them and to call on international public opinion to be more sensitive to this issue, our visit being another proof of our determination. Recalling that the United Nations is constantly trying to extend humanitarian aid to Bosnia-Herzegovina, Ciller stressed the need for the uninterrupted continuation of this aid. Later, Religious Affairs Director Mehmet Nuri Yilmaz presented Ciller with 30,000 German marks and 250 copies of the Koran. Ciller is accompanied by Foreign Minister Hikmet Cetin on her visit to Bosnia. Necmettin Cevheri, state minister and acting prime minister, several ministers, and other officials saw Ciller off at the airport.
