FBIS3-23473 "jptot013__l94001" JPRS-TOT-94-013-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 28 March 1994 FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 21-25 March Editor's Note: The FBIS Terrorism Desk welcomes suscribers' comments and suggestions at (703) 733-5512. 11111111 11111111 Article Type:CSO Highlights and major incidents in this edition of the FBIS Terrorism Report include: Albania The Albanian press agency reports that bombs are being found in homes of those "who have taken part in the democratic changes." Algeria The Armed Islamic Group took credit for killing a French businessman and his son in Birkhadem. Azerbaijan On 19 March, at least 12 were killed as a bomb went off inside a Baku metro car pulling into 20 January station. A presidential spokesman has blamed the Armenians. Belgium/Iran The "Iranian Socialist Center" called Brussels police on 24 March, saying that a bomb would explode at the Central Train Station at 1440 GMT. Cyprus Theofilos Yeoryiadhis, chairman of the Committee of Solidarity with Kurdistan, was murdered in Nicosia. The local press is blaming "Turkish agents," and police reportedly have a suspect. Egypt An official security source says that the electric circuits found at recent bank bomb sites were made in Afghanistan, the timers in China, and the explosives in Russia. Germany/Syria AFP reports that Germany has demanded that Syria extradite fugitive terrorist Carlos and a "collaborator" in connection with the 1983 bombing of the French cultural centre in West Berlin. Iran/France PARIS MATCH reports that French investigations have linked least three Iranian ministries with the 1991 assassination of former Iranian prime minister Bakhtiar. Jordan Security forces defused a bomb at the Forte Grand hotel in Amman on 23 March. Jordan/Palestinians AL-WATAN AL-`ARABI reports details of the relationship between Abu-Nidal's Fatah-The Revolutionary Council and Jordanian religious extremist groups. Lebanon/Jordan Lebanon has passed the death sentence against 16 men convicted of killing Jordanian diplomat Na'ib al-Ma'ayitah in January. The indictment said that Abu-Nidal's top man in Lebanon was involved, and named Yusuf Sha'ban as the trigger man. Lebanon AL-WATAN AL-`ARABI reports that Hizballah and the Iranian Revolutionary Guard are training fighters of various nationalities in al-Hirmal, "Ja'farite scientific seminaries," Hanta, and Beirut's southern suburbs. Nigeria The government issued a statement asking citizens to ignore any pamphlets from "Islamic Jihad International Organisation of Nigeria." The pamphlets contained threats to attack government edifices and places of worship. Thailand The Thai press and police report that at least two suspects in the truckbomb found 17 March are from the "Middle East." The press speculates that the suspects are linked to the World Trade Center bombings. Ukraine UKRAYINA MOLODA interviews the head of the national counterterrorism office on foreign terrorists in Ukraine, previous terrorism incidents, and statistics.
