FBIS4-15850 "drsov070_d_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-070 Daily Report 9 Apr 1994 Regional Affairs Tatarstan's Oil Industry in `Grave Crisis' Tatarstan's Oil Industry in `Grave Crisis' PM1204101194 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 9 Apr 94 p 2 PM1204101194 Moscow IZVESTIYA Russian BFN [Report by Boris Bronshteyn: "Tatar Oilmen on the Verge of Bankruptcy"] [Text] Kazan -- A financial crisis has arisen in the Tatneft Joint-Stock Company. Consumers' debts, which totalled 197 billion rubles [R] at the beginning of the year, have reached R343 billion. The Tatneft leadership has been forced to take extraordinary measures. IZVESTIYA's correspondent was told in Tatneft's public relations department that the work of drilling teams, teams for the underground and capital repair of wells, and of production facilities and shops not directly engaged in the extraction and preparation of oil was suspended for six weeks from the beginning of April. Employees of the production facilities, which have been halted, are being granted administrative leave with payment of the minimum wage. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that sulfur-bearing oil has entirely ceased to be pumped to Kremenchug Oil Refinery owing to uncertainties in relations between Ukraine and Russia. This has made it necessary to halt all extraction of sulfur-bearing oil, which was being extracted from 5,300 wells. The 50th anniversary of the opening of the first oil field on the Republic's territory was celebrated in Tataria [Tatarstan] last fall. This is only the third year that Tataria, which proclaimed the underground wealth to be its own property, has been independently exporting oil (within the quota agreed with Russia). The stake on petrodollars was very high when formulating and realizing the ideas of the republic's sovereignty. The proceeds from oil sales helped to soften the entry into the market for Tataria's inhabitants. But today, the oil sector's indicators are simply joyless. Suffice it to say that oil extraction in the first quarter of this year fell by 1.8 million tonnes compared with the same period last year. Oilmen believe that only concerted action by Tataria and Russia can ensure a way out of the grave crisis.
