FBIS3-43065 "jpust005___94061" JPRS-UST-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 10 February 1994 LIFE SCIENCES EPIDEMIOLOGY,MICROBIOLOGY, AND VIROLOGY New Possibilities in Optical Reconstructive Surgery in the Anterior Segment of the Eye 937C0101 Moscow OFTALMOKHIRURGIYA in Russian No 1, 1992 [manuscript submitted 28 Jun 91] pp 5-8 937C0101 Moscow OFTALMOKHIRURGIYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by S. N. Fedorov, S. N. Bagrov, A. O. Aksenov, A. V. Osipov, A. V. Bubnov, N. F. Buraleva, Interbranch Scientific and Technical Complex Mikrokhirurgiya glaza; UDC 617.7-089] [Abstract] Injury to the iris worsens considerably the post-traumatic process in ocular tissue, impairs visual function, and contributes to the development of corneal dystrophy, secondary glaucoma, and other complications that lead to work disability. Since reconstructive iridoplasty is one of the primary stages in the comprehensive treatment of anterior-segment pathology, the researchers here set out to evaluate the possibilities associated with optical reconstructive surgery involving artificial iris transplants developed at the Mikrokhirurgiya glaza complex. The transplant is prepared from a fundamentally new biosynthetic material -- a collagen copolymer with monomers of an acrylic series filled with inert dyes. In eight individuals, the clinical course of the postoperative period depended on the severity of the initial injury. In four individuals with earlier injury, local edema of the cornea in the scar area disappeared by the end of the second week. Stages 1 and 2 Tyndall phenomenon were no longer present by days 5 and 6 against the backdrop of steroid therapy. Minor hyperemia was observed for 5-6 days. Visual acuity improved to 0.2-0.3 in four patients within a period of one week to three months. No specific complications were observed in the late postoperative period. Early postoperative response was less pronounced in two individuals with postsurgical colobomas. Two individuals with congenital cataract and aniridia, the postoperative course was uncomplicated. Visual acuity reached 0.5 in two individuals, but vision was not completely restored, because of amblyopia. Figures 3, references 9: 8 Russian, 1 Western.
