FBIS4-12170 "drnes066_r_94002" FBIS-NES-94-066 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 India Officials, Media Comment Before ESCAP Meeting Officials, Media Comment Before ESCAP Meeting Official Blasts `Neoprotectionism' BK0504051294 Delhi All India Radio Network in English 0245 GMT 5 Apr 94 BK0504051294 Delhi All India Radio Network English BFN [Text] India is to ask the ESCAP [Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific] member countries to oppose any neoprotectionist trade barriers. Speaking to newsmen on the issues before the ESCAP New Delhi meet, the commerce secretary, Mr. Tejinder Khanna, said neoprotectionism should not be allowed to cast its shadow on the post-Uruguay Round of world trade [as heard]. India, he said, is opposed to creation of roadblocks in the free flow of global trade under any pretext. He said New Delhi firmly believes that bilateral and multilateral differences should not come in the way of regional economic and trade cooperation. There is also a need for greater interaction between the business community of the ESCAP countries without interference from the government. The commerce secretary hoped that the golden jubilee session of the ESCAP being inaugurated by the prime minister this morning will endorse our stand and establish a trade information network for the purpose. The ESCAP executive secretary, Mr. Rafiuddin Ahmad, told newsmen that member countries have to be watchful of insidious attempts of protectionism in world trade. The chairman of the session and commerce minister, Mr. Pranab Mukherjee, has said technology transfer is an important element in strengthening regional cooperation. He stated this is an interview with our special correspondent, A.K. Sengupta, broadcast in the Spotlight program last night. Mr. Mukherjee said the Asia-Pacific Center have been shifted to New Delhi with India developing an indigenous base for appropriate technologies relevant to the member countries. Representatives of 48 member countries and 10 associate members will participate in the week-long conference.
