FBIS4-42157 "drweu104_n_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-104 Daily Report 30 May 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland Russia's Zhirinovskiy Sues Newspaper, Theater Russia's Zhirinovskiy Sues Newspaper, Theater LD3005155594 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network in Finnish 1430 GMT 30 May 94 LD3005155594 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network Finnish BFN [Excerpts] Vladimir Zhirinovskiy, chairman of the Russian Liberal Democratic Party, is demanding millions of markkas in damages from Finns for defamation. Zhirinovskiy has accused the Swedish Theater in Helsinki of linking him with Hitler and the newspaper HUFVUDSTADSBLADET of describing him as "mad." According to Zhirinovskiy's representative, several other similar suits against Finnish newspapers and television programs are currently being considered. Marja-Helinae Peltonen reports: [Peltonen] During his visit to Finland this spring, Vladimir Zhirinovskiy authorized his Scandinavian representative, George Paile, and his company to deal with articles and performances that Zhirinovskiy feels insult him. The first two claims for damages have now been submitted to Helsinki district court. According to Zhirinovskiy's representative, it is likely that several other court cases will be brought during June. Zhirinovskiy's representative says that the two claims submitted to Helsinki district court are the first court cases of their kind concerning Zhirinovskiy in the West. One of the claims concerns the Swedish Theater in Helsinki. The first night of the play "Mein Kampf," directed by Dick Idman, was in February and the last performance has already been given, i.e., the play is no longer being programmed. Zhirinovskiy or his representative have not previously voiced their displeasure to theater director Georg Dolivo. [passage omitted] The other claim today is connected to an article in the newspaper HUFVUDSTADSBLADET written by journalist Jutta Zilliacus. The article that offended Zhirinovskiy was published in mid-April. Zhirinovskiy finds the word "mad" used about him in the article as offensive. The claims for damages in the two cases submitted to Helsinki district court total about 15 million Finnish markkas.
