FBIS3-18157 "drweu039_n_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland Saab, GM Quarrel Over Calibra Production BR2502112394 Helsinki KAUPPALEHTI in Finnish 11 Feb 94 p 10 BR2502112394 Helsinki KAUPPALEHTI Language: Finnish Article Type:BFN [Kimmo Salin report: "Ecobus Prototype To Be Released in March"] [Text] Work on Saab-Valmet's newest project, a small ecological bus developed at the company's production facility, is progressing. Saab-Valmet CEO Juhani Linnoinen said that the finished product will be presented in March. The bus prototype from Uusikaupunki has also attracted interest abroad, Linnoinen said: "Selling is going to be easier when we can show the ready-made product," he added. Low Effect on Employment Linnoinen does not believe, however, that the bus project will solve the employment situation at Saab-Valmet. The production of this bus will not have any greater impact on manpower requirements, but it will help the plant to keep its high technology know-how in house. This project represents an effort by Saab-Valmet to make use of technologies from car manufacturing to rationalize the production of buses. The product, which is now in its prototype phase, is a good example of cooperation within the Finnish transport equipment industry. "Our bus has a gas-diesel engine from Valmet and shafting from Sisu. We are aiming for a high degree of domestic content, about 90 percent." A New Model Is Still Needed Even with a positive sales launch, the Ecobus does not solve Saab-Valmet's problems in its search for a new model to complement production of the new Saab 900 convertible and the Opel Calibra. Production of the convertible begins next April. The car, which took part in automobile exhibitions in Detroit and Stockholm, was received favorably, according to Linnoinen. "This year's production volume will depend on how many units we can make before the end of the convertible season. We aim to maintain at least the same production volume as for the previous Saab Cabriolet." Linnoinen mentions that, as of April, the Uusikaupunki plant will start producing the Calibra according to the production figures laid down in the new agreement. A court of arbitration obliged Opel some time ago to transfer 45 percent of production of the Calibra back to Uusikaupunki until 1996. GM is expected to produce 27,000 Calibra cars this year. GM tried to transfer the entire Calibra production to Germany on the basis of its claim that the production cost for one Calibra was 4,000-5,000 DM [Deutsche marks] higher in Uusikaupunki than in Germany. GM would therefore, according to this calculation, have to pay $34 million for producing more than 12,000 Calibra cars in Uusikaupunki. Linnoinen replied that the result depends on the method of calculation, i.e., how the various cost factors are taken into account.
