FBIS3-38579 "drweu024aa_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Belgium's Claes Opposed to Bosnia Troop Withdrawal BR0302142394 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE in French 3 Feb 94 p 5 BR0302142394 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed Ch. Ly.: "Willy Claes in Favor of the Belgian Soldiers Remaining"] [Text] At a time when some people in Europe are demanding the withdrawal of the blue helmets from Bosnia-Herzegovina, Belgium intends to keep its soldiers in former Yugoslavia, Foreign Minister Willy Claes said on Wednesday [2 February] during a press conference in Brussels. "On the basis of principles," he said, "I cannot imagine a humanist country like ours reaching the conclusion that we must withdraw" from Bosnia. "Every effort must be made to avoid a new confrontation." Defense Minister Leo Delcroix, who was also taking part in the press conference, shares the viewpoint of the Belgian head of diplomacy, although the soldiers "must be able to work in conditions of relative safety." Lack of Men The limits of the Belgian mission in former Yugoslavia, the two ministers noted, are primarily budgetary and the lack of men. For instance, Mr. Delcroix pointed out that the Engineers do not have enough men to ensure a full relief of those who are in the area of Kakanj, in central Bosnia. At the end of December 1993, a few more than 700 Belgian soldiers were based in Baranja, in Serbian-occupied Croatia, and more than 300 had been sent to Bosnia-Herzegovina. This operation is the one which requires "by far" the most effort from Belgium in the framework of UN missions. Some countries, like Britain, periodically maintain doubt about a withdrawal of their troops in the spring. But in practice, those speaking out belong to the political world, like the RPR [Rally for the Republic] in France or the People's Party (right-wing opposition) in Spain, which are openly hostile to the blue helmets remaining. Butrus-Ghali: We Will Continue Aside from that, the international community seems to be resigned to pursuing its negotiation mandate. This was the message delivered on Tuesday evening by UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali, for whom an "overall reevaluation" of the international effort is planned in the coming weeks. Nothing very specific is filtering through from the chancelleries for the time being. Reports from Bonn refer to a joint initiative by Germany, the United States, France, and Britain which would be presented to the warring sides when they meet in Geneva on 10 February for new negotiations. In Brussels on Monday The idea of the three European countries is to involve the United States and Russia more. But the state of relations between Paris and Washington on this issue, Germany's obligation to keep a low profile, the Americans' refusal to play a more active part in the UN force, and the Russians' natural alliance with Serbia are all obstacles to a new initiative. Bosnia will be on the agenda of the meeting of European foreign ministers in Brussels on Monday, the first Council meeting under the Greek presidency.
