FBIS3-52123 "drnes001_c_94007" FBIS-NES-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 Egypt Al-Alfi: `Terrorist' Plans for 31 Dec Foiled NC3012221093 Cairo MENA in Arabic 2120 GMT 30 Dec 93 NC3012221093 Cairo MENA Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Cairo, 30 Dec (MENA)--Interior Minister Hasan al-Alfi has revealed that the security forces thwarted many dangerous terrorist operations that were supposed to be implemented on New Year's Eve, including an attempt to assassinate about 12 political, media, information, and police figures. Some current ministers were among those targeted. In an interview with the newspaper AL-AHRAM that will be published tomorrow, Friday, al-Alfi said the security forces seized some maps and sketches of the routes followed by the individuals the terrorists were told to assassinate and the methods of attack, which have been thwarted. Hasan al-Alfi said that New Year's Eve was supposed to witness huge explosions near eight large economic centers. He explained that one of the masterminds who planned and arranged the implementation of these operations was the amir of al-Badari, who was killed in a confrontation with the police yesterday. Commenting on the role of foreigners in planning and financing these terrorist operations in Egypt, the interior minister referred to four foreign and Arab countries, without identifying them by name. He said these countries remain silent about terrorist training courses given inside camps on their territories, help in collecting donations, and conduct clandestine and coded communications with the persons in charge of carrying out operations inside Egypt. The interior minister asserted that no less than 10 of the most dangerous al-Jihad and Islamic Group leaders plan, organize, and give orders to implement the operations. Al-Alfi added that there are intensive contacts with those countries to settle this dangerous situation. He explained that the training courses last at least six months and that every member who is instructed to carry out an operation is financed with $5,000, rising to $15,000 for some operations which have been uncovered. At the conclusion of his interview with AL-AHRAM, the interior minister affirmed that no indiscriminate arrests have been made. This is proved by the fact that the defendants who were tried recently had rulings handed down against them. They are all active in terrorist operations and their confessions are full.
