FBIS3-15378 "drsov044cc_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 March 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS CIS Defense Ministers Council Amend Functions LD0403205494 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1403 GMT 4 Mar 94 LD0403205494 Moscow Russian Television Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Military Courier" program] [Text] The functions of the CIS Defense Ministers' Council have been changed. It now becomes the main consultative body on military matters of the Collective Security Council. [Aleksandr Ostrovskiy] The session of CIS defense ministers considered the formulation of the Council and the organization of its activities. It is proposed that it consist of 250 individuals, half of whom will be from the Russian Defense Ministry. The main form for the work of the Defense Ministers' Council will be its sessions, which will be held at least once every three months. The session also considered one of the main issues -- the Tajik-Afghan border -- since the armed provocations against Russian border guards have taken on the form of continual combat actions. Since the start of the year alone there have been intensive rocket bombardments on 21 occasions. [Video shows brief interviews] [Tajik Defense Minister A. Shishlyannikov] There are continual incidents, including attempts to break through and attempted armed provocations, but at least for the present they are all being successfully repelled. [Russian Deputy Defense Minister B. Gromov] I think that under no circumstance should we forget our experience within the Warsaw Pact. You rightly mentioned the matter of interaction and other things and ensuring military-technical cooperation. That is to say, it applies to all aspects. [L.Ivashov, secretary of the CIS Defense Ministers' Council] At present the discussion has been solely about the CIS coordinating bodies, namely the Defense Ministers' Council and the headquarters for the coordination of military cooperation. Naturally a whole range of other issues will also be considered. [Ostrovskiy] The first step has been taken. What will the second step be? [Ivashov] As a second step we hope that Gennadiy Ivanovich Shabannikov, general secretary of the Collective Security Council, will present the Collective Security Council with specific proposals for formulating a model for collective security, and forming the structures of the treaty member states, and some kind of plan for the stage by stage creation of the system.
