FBIS3-23153 "jptot010__l94116" JPRS-TOT-94-010-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 10 March 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA LEBANON Hizballah's Fadlallah on US, Hebron, Peace Talks Fadlallah on US, Church Bomb, Pope NC0103113594 Shanayh Voice of the Mountain in Arabic 1000 GMT 1 Mar 94 NC0103113594 Shanayh Voice of the Mountain Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] [passage omitted] In an interview with AL-SHARQ, 'Allamah Muhammad Husayn Fadlallah said: In the Ibrahimi Mosque massacre, we cannot help but see the ugly American face, because the United States has provided Israel with every means of protection against international moves to condemn it. He said the U.S. president's call to the Palestinians and Israelis to move the negotiations to Washington is meant to save the Palestinians' face and to insinuate that the Palestinians have broken down the Zionist barrier placed by Israel between the United States and the Palestinians. This gives the impression that the U.S. president's direct sponsorship of the negotiations might give the Palestinians the unrealistic dream that Washington will pressure the Jews to accept what they have rejected in Taba. But the issue is this: The United States will exert more pressure on the Palestinians by claiming to discuss the need for peace and for opposing the extremist Jews. Fadlallah said there should be a Palestinian stance that reflects respect for the blood of the Palestinian people and there should also be a firm Arab stance mobilizing all the Arab factors of strength that will confront this massacre and its implications so that the world can know that the Arabs have broken the mold of ineffectiveness. [passage omitted] Fadlallah stressed that the resistance will stay if there is a limited Israeli withdrawal from the south and might stay even if there is a withdrawal from all of the south. He said: I believe President al-Asad understands the value of the resistance in restoring Arab dignity and in pressuring Israel and the U.S. stance. Regarding reports of U.S. fears of possible Israeli operations in the south, Fadlallah said: The method of discussing fears is the strongest form of threat. He said he does not believe the pope's scheduled visit to Lebanon is of any unusual importance. He said: I do not believe it will have any important political impact on Lebanon's major issue, namely, the Israeli occupation. As we can see, the pope's gift to the Lebanese and Arab peoples before his visit was the quick recognition of Israel. We do not believe this gift encourages the Lebanese to think that this visit will greatly benefit their ambitions.
