FBIS4-62290 "drsov094_c_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-094 Daily Report 16 May 1994 Federal Assembly Fedorov Submits Alternative Bill on Central Bank Policy Fedorov Submits Alternative Bill on Central Bank Policy LD1605110294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1055 GMT 16 May 94 LD1605110294 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS parliamentary correspondent Ivan Novikov] [Text] Moscow May 16 TASS -- State Duma member and former finance minister Boris Fedorov, an arch rival of chief banker Viktor Gerashchenko, resumed attacks on the Central Bank of Russia by proposing his own lawbill on the main financial institution of the country which caused bitter opposition of its representatives. Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank Aleksandr Khandruyev told the Duma subcommittee on credit and monetary policy on Monday that the lawbill is "contradicting the constitution in the main provision regarding the independence of the Central Bank from executive and legislative authorities". Fedorov proposed to set up an observers' council for the Central Bank. Besides, he envisaged a possibility for the Finance Ministry to temporarily suspend the activities of the Central Bank which cannot be done even by the president and the prime minister. Khandruyev said that the lawbill establishes "collective leadership" for the bank which contradicts the constitution. Fedorov fired back by saying that he was surprised by "the unconstructive position of the Central Bank". Khandruyev's bitter criticism of the document was not shared by other people participating in the discussion. Deputy Finance Minister Andrey Kazmin qualified the lawbill as "a serious attempt to establish a law of direct action for the Central Bank". Chairman of the Association of Russian Banks Vyacheslav Zakharov said the document "favourably differs" from the one drafted by the Central Bank itself, but admitted that the influence of the Finance Ministry, which Fedorov used to head, can be seen in it. The subcommittee recommended the Duma to consider Fedorov's lawbill as an alternative to the draft of the Central Bank.
