FBIS3-57461 "drsov016_b_94027" FBIS-SOV-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Media Issues Ostankino TV Official on `Economic Solvency' LD2401164694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1602 GMT 24 Jan 94 LD2401164694 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Tamara Ivanova] [Text] Moscow January 24 TASS -- The priority task of the Ostankino TV and Radio Broadcasting Company is to develop an economic mechanism for the company's operation under market conditions, Grigoriy Shevelev, who was recently appointed to the post of the company's first deputy chairman, said in an interview with ITAR-TASS here on Monday. Shevelev noted that state television "cannot adapt itself to new economic conditions" up to this time, while budget financing covers only less than 50 per cent of the company's requirements. He is convinced that a proposal on cutting the volume of broacasting will not yield desired results and is not the only way of tackling the problem. Stressing that only economic solvency can guarantee true independence to the company, the deputy chairman suggested that this problem be settled by introducing rent for tv programmes. But, according to his opinion, this is highly improbable in the near future. He supposed that a solution can be found by turning Ostankino into a joint stock society. In Shevelev's opinion, many organisational and creative problems calling for urgent solutions piled up at the company over the past few years when six chairmen changed at the Ostankino TV station. He claimed that the plotting of the company's economic, organisational and creative course will be among the first moves by the new leadership. The leadership, together with the federal service on television and radio broadcasting, intends to participate in drafting a bill which will define legal guarantees for the operation of the state-owned tv and radio company. Much attention will be also given to the quality of programmes. "The Ostankino Company is Russia's national asset, and it is impossible for us `to lower the plank'," Shevelev stressed.
