FBIS3-58086 "drweu005_o_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 CYPRUS National Guard Staff `Unhappy' Over Leader's Recall NC0701103594 Nicosia CYPRUS MAIL in English 7 Jan 94 p 3 NC0701103594 Nicosia CYPRUS MAIL Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Charlie Kharalambous] [Text] National Guard top brass are unhappy about the removal of their commander Lieutenant-General Yeoryios Siradhakis which they believe is more to do with politics than tactics. The new Greek Government has recalled Siradhakis even though President Glavkos Kliridhis' request that his term of duty be extended was initially granted. But later, Greek Defence Minister Yerasimos Arsenis contacted Kliridhis and told him it was difficult to extend Siradhakis' term of duty here because he had tuned 60 and a re-shuffle of the Greek Army leadership was underway. Kliridhis decided not to insist that the Greeks keep their promise to allow Siradhakis to stay. It is reported that National Guard officers are unhappy with the departure of Siradhakis, who they believe was a good commander who improved the army's efficiency. They also see his removal by the Papandreou government as a political decision, as the new administration seeks to appoint its own supporters within the military. Officers are worried that political differences may now reach the National Guard in the selection of a new commander. They are also worried about the government's lack of clout in getting the commander they want, as their demand for Siradhakis to stay was turned down. As Siradhakis is expected to leave at the end of the month, the procedure for his replacement is now under way. Apart from Greek Vice Marshall Vorvolakos, Lieutenant-General Khondhros, a strong Papandreou supporter, has also been named as a possible contender for the new post. Although National Guard circles are worried about the disruption caused to the Army, they also know there is not much the government can do. Any show of defiance or protest could seriously damage Cyprus' fledgling defence pact with Greece.
