FBIS3-40794 "jpnea008___94004" JPRS-NEA-94-008 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 15 February 1994 NEAR EAST ALGERIA Background Bio Information on Zeroual 94AF0069A Paris LE MONDE in French 1 Feb 94 p 3 94AF0069A Paris LE MONDE Language: French Article Type:CSO [Article by Jacques de Barrin: "A Very Political Soldier"] [Text] On Sunday 16 January, when he appeared on the TV screen in the middle of prime time to call the entire political class to order, many Algerians told themselves--once their surprise was over--that General Lamine Zeroual, who had been recalled from retirement six months earlier to become minister of defense, was someone who might have to be reckoned with. Had he not warned the country's "living forces" that it was their "national duty" to "help overcome the crisis"? Had he not promised everyone that "the Armed Forces will not stand idly by in the face of dangerous deviations and excesses"? Had he not given his compatriots reason to hope that "the desired rupture depends on the establishment of a new national system"? Lamine Zeroual was born in Batna, "capital" of the Aures Mountains and site of the first struggles for independence, on 3 July 1941. His fellow soldiers Gen. Khaled Nezzar, former member of the Higher State Council, and Gen.l Bennabes Gheziel, the current commandant of the Gendarmerie, are from the same town. At 16 years of age, Zeroual joined the ranks of the National Liberation Army (ALN). When peace came, he was sent abroad for military training: first to Moscow and then to Paris. Pursuing a conventional and uneventful career, Zeroual was given command of the Applied Weapons School in Batna in 1975 and then of the Combined Arms Military Academy in Cherchell in 1981. After that he was named head of several military regions in succession: Tamanrasset in the Sahara in 1982, Bechar on the Moroccan border in 1984, and Constantine in the eastern part of the country in 1987. After being promoted to general in 1988, Zeroual was appointed commanding general of the ground forces. His military career was interrupted at that point: as the result of disagreement with Chief of Staff Gen. Nezzar and President Chadli, both of whom supported a professional military no longer under the control of officers from the ALN, he hung up his uniform in December 1989. He was appointed ambassador to Romania, but remained in that post for less than a year, preferring to retire completely from public life. Contrary to all expectations, Zeroual, who is married and has three children, again stepped to the front of the political stage last 10 July, when he was called upon to succeed Gen. Nezzar as minister of defense. On 24 October, during his first public speech, he called on "the political and progressive forces" to "work together to find a consensus solution to the crisis before the end of the year." In his eyes, that solution "must conform to the ideals of November (1954)." `Loss of Confidence' On 16 January, the untalkative but very "political" soldier became insistent, deploring "the weakness of a system that allowed the emergence of a parasitic ideological movement"--meaning the Islamic movement. Acknowledging "the loss of confidence in a government whose words are in complete contradiction with its actual practice," he advocated a "real break with the behavior and management methods of the past." Will Gen. Zeroual keep his word? He is not well-known to the public, and no one knows exactly how he will behave with the reins of power in his hands. Meeting with him during a visit to Algiers in mid-November, Jean-Pierre Chevenement's first impression was that the general did not have the makings of a Pinochet.
