FBIS3-1479 "drafr060_c_94019" FBIS-AFR-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Events Surrounding 28 Mar Zulu March Detailed President Expresses `Extreme Concern' MB2903080394 Johannesburg SAPA in English 2339 GMT 28 Mar 94 MB2903080394 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Media statement issued by the Office of the State President on the SAPA PR Wire Service on 28 March] [Text] The state president, Mr F. W. de Klerk, has expressed his extreme concern over the incidents in Johannesburg this morning in which a number of people were killed and injured. According to present information insufficient care was taken by the organisers of today's march to prevent violence and to discipline participants. He has requested a full criminal investigation into the incidents with a view to ensuring prosecution of anybody who has acted in conflict with the law. There can be no excuse at this critical stage in the political process for provocative and potentially violent actions such as we have seen today. It not only endangers the election and reform process, but also the very fabric of society. He has issued an urgent appeal to the leaders of all parties and organisations to exercise maximum control and restraint over their followers, to ensure that there is no repetition of this kind of incident and to avoid any action or strategies which can lead to violence. The time has arrived for the urgent consideration -- by the government, the TEC [Transitional Executive Council], the IEC [Independent Electoral Commission] and others -- of additional measures or steps which can prevent a repetition of what has happened today and on recent similar occasions. The government intends to discuss this question with the relevant institutions. Obviously such measures or steps should not prevent political parties from campaigning peacefully and democratically. The state president has expressed his condolences to the families of all those who have been killed.
