FBIS3-50221 "dreeu017__a94032" FBIS-EEU-94-017-A Document Type:Daily Report 26 January 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Duray: Mayor Victim of Government `Revenge' AU2101073294 Prague CTK in English 2012 GMT 20 Jan 94 AU2101073294 Prague CTK Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Bratislava, Jan 20 (CTK) -- The mayor of the southern Slovak town of Samorin, Joszef Kvarda, who was removed from office today, is one of the first victims from the ranks of Hungarian minority leaders who organized the Komarno meeting on January 8, chairman of the Egyutteles (Coexistence) Hungarian minority movement Miklos Duray said today. Duray told CTK that Kvarda's dismissal was revenge of the government for his participation in organizing the meeting, at which ethnic Hungarians' demands were formulated. Duray said that even before the Komarno meeting chairman of the district council Eva Bubniakova threatened to remove Kvarda. "At that time we considered it the expression of a momentary mood," Duray said. As a member of the Association of Towns and Villages of Zitny Island (SMOZO), Kvarda was one of the main organizers of the Komarno meeting. Kvarda was not given any reasons for his dismissal. He told CTK that given the fact that his performance had recently been assessed very positively and that on November 24 he was given a bonus for "the fulfillment of exceptional and especially important work tasks," he considered his dismissal to be unambiguously politically motivated. Kvarda added, however, that the chairman of the district council was not obliged by law to give reasons for dismissal, adding that he himself had practically no possibility of legal protection. Duray said it was thus far the first known case of punishment for the organization of the Komarno meeting, but he did not rule out that others will follow as several chairman of district councils attended the meeting. At the Komarno meeting, representatives of ethnic Hungarians raised demands for the creation of regions in which the Hungarian minority would make up majority as well as for educational and cultural autonomy.
