FBIS4-30241 "dreas122_d_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 South Korea Thai Prime Minister Chuan Continues Visit Thai Prime Minister Chuan Continues Visit Trade Prospects Viewed BK2306141194 Bangkok Radio Thailand Network in Thai 1200 GMT 23 Jun 94 BK2306141194 Bangkok Radio Thailand Network Thai BFN [Report from Seoul by Somphon Chitphonprasoet, public relations department correspondent] [Text] Prime Minister Chuan Likphai, accompanied by a delegation, arrived at the Seoul's Air Force Command airport at 1510 local time to begin his official visit to the Republic of Korea from today to 26 June as the guest of Korean President Kim Yong-sam. The prime minister was welcomed upon his arrival by ROK Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu and Chuchai Kasemsan, Thai ambassador to the ROK. The prime minister was accompanied by the Korean foreign minister and they reviewed the guards of honor. The prime minister and his delegation also visited the Korean national monument for a wreath-laying ceremony. Speaking about his visit to South Korea, Prime Minister Chuan Likphai said he will take the opportunity to discuss with Korean leaders about the trade imbalance problem and will persuade South Korea to invest more in Thailand. He noted that Korean investment in Thailand is still very low. He looks forward to the possibility of Korea's opening up its markets for farm products from other countries, especially rice from Thailand, in keeping with the GATT agreements. It is anticipated that Korea might import as much as 50,000 tons of rice from other countries next year. How much of that quota Thailand will be allocated depends on the negotiations. The prime minister said that South Korea is a GATT member and despite its political problems, the country will have to abide by GATT agreements and open the country for farm products. Prime Minister Chuan Likphai said he also learned that the Board of Investment, or BOI, declared 10 more trade categories entitled to promotional privileges. He will inform South Korean businessmen of this and urge them to invest in Thailand. He wishes to see more investment from South Korea since there is still very little interest in Thailand from South Korean businessmen, who still prefer to invest in Vietnam. Korea, he said, is facing a growing wage problem and he will persuade Korean investors to invest in Thailand.
