FBIS4-53914 "dreas100__a94001" FBIS-EAS-94-100-A Daily Report 24 May 1994 ANNEX Japan Progress Likely on Procurement, Insurance Talks Progress Likely on Procurement, Insurance Talks OW2405055594 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 24 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2405055594 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Japanese BFN [From NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 24 May Morning Edition] [Text] With the strong possibility of an agreement being reached to resume the Japan-U.S. economic framework talks, conditions are now ripe for the two countries to enter into negotiations on specific sectors, including automobiles. However, if the two sides fail to narrow the gap on such issues as objective criteria in advance, the negotiations may end up deadlocked similar to what happened during the Japan-U.S. summit talks in February. To ensure that an agreement will be reached, the two countries will probably first go ahead with intensive negotiations on government procurement and insurance out of the three priority sectors and put off negotiations on the focal issues of automobiles and continuing the income tax cut. It is still uncertain whether an overall agreement can be reached before the bilateral summit meeting in July. At the framework talks, the United States has insisted on incorporating objective criteria as targets for the future, while Japan has resisted such targets. Such a disagreement stalled the talks. The reason why the United States has compromised recently is because its previous tough stand toward Japan has contributed to a depreciation of the dollar and a decline in bond prices. It has realized that it would not be wise to have a prolonged deterioration of economic relations with Japan. Japan and the United States were nearing substantial agreement on government procurement and insurance last February. "Once a conclusion is reached on the issue of objective criteria, an agreement will be forthcoming" (according to the Ministry of International Trade and Industry). Through the "step-by-step solution" of dealing with the two sectors first, the two countries can also underscore their efforts toward reaching an agreement to offset speculative moves in the financial and foreign exchange markets. Automobiles and auto parts, where the issue of expanding imports by Japan is pending, remain the toughest sector. The two sides still must resolve the question of the U.S. demand that the Japanese Government guarantee automakers' voluntary import plans. In macroeconomic policy, Japan can hardly come up with a clear-cut statement on continuing with income tax cuts after FY 1994 because of the prevailing political situation. Therefore, it is not certain whether Japan can come up with a solution acceptable to the United States. However, considering the pressure of the U.S. Congress on the administration in anticipation of the upcoming midterm elections, and market trends which may aggravate tension between Japan and the United States, both countries cannot afford to procrastinate.
