FBIS3-317 "drafr043_c_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Portuguese Foreign Minister Meets With Mandela LD0303161494 Lisbon RTP Internacional Television in Portuguese 1200 GMT 3 Mar 94 LD0303161494 Lisbon RTP Internacional Television Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Italicized passages recorded] [Excerpts] Foreign Minister Durao Barroso and Nelson Mandela have met in South Africa. Both came out in favor of peace and of a peaceful channeling of the South African electoral process. [Correspondent Antonio Mateus] An election boycott poses a potential conflict situation in South Africa. After meeting the South African president, the ANC [African National Congress] president, and the PAC [Pan-Africanist Congress] president, Barroso still has reservations regarding the future of this country. The consensus between the government and the ANC raises hopes of a peaceful transition but this is not enough. Six weeks away from the elections the objective is to extend participation in the process. Barroso's message was echoed by some of those involved, anxious to prevent the worst. Barroso found today in Mandela an attentive listener to the Portuguese experience of transition in Africa. [Mandela, in English with superimposed Portuguese translation] They have had a lot of experience regarding the problems that South Africa will have to face, because the former colonies, Angola and Mozambique, had difficult experiences that we do not want to see repeated in this country. I have found the exchange of opinion with him [Barroso] very useful in that regard. [Mateus, interviewing Barroso on the street] After the brief contacts, are you more optimistic regarding the future of this country, or is it too early to say? [Barroso] I still have many reservations because I think that until we can ensure that everyone will participate there will be the potential for destabilization. Essentially, I think there is a great consensus in South Africa -- for which it would be enough that the ANC and the National Party saw eye to eye -- but it is important for that agreement to be as widespread as possible in order to reduce to a minimum the potential for destabilization of some forces. [passage omitted]
