FBIS3-12300 "drnes039_m_94002" FBIS-NES-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 JORDAN Government Reacts to Attack at Hebron Mosque King Offers Condolences for Victims JN2602164294 Amman Jordan Television Network in Arabic 1500 GMT 26 Feb 94 JN2602164294 Amman Jordan Television Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Speech by King Husayn during a visit to the Hebron Charity Society in Amman on 26 February to offer condolences for the victims of the Ibrahimi Mosque attack in Hebron -- recorded] [Text] All of us here share the pain, sorrow, and sadness toward a heinous crime, the most heinous crime one can imagine could happen. This crime happened yesterday, Friday, at dawn, in this blessed month and in the holy Ibrahimi Mosque. Those who passed away to meet with God the almighty are among the righteous martyrs and chaste ones. This consoles us and eases our pains. Here, in this gathering and in this mosque, and in any gathering that brings us together with kinsfolk and brothers who are joining us in the one objective and genuine Arab march, we are not meeting as officials and citizens. In fact, we are meeting as brothers and kinsfolk, and as members of one family. We all assume our responsibilities now and in the future, hand in hand, brothers on the path of right and success, God willing. From this place, and on behalf of all my kinsfolk, brothers, and beloved ones, we emphasize to the kinsfolk, the brothers, and beloved ones in Hebron and in all the other occupied Palestinian territories, that we are with them, not only in these moments but in every moment in this life, in terms of patience, endurance, adherence to the land, defense of justice, and confidence in the inevitable triumph of justice in the long run. We are with the kinsfolk under hard circumstances and in confronting the continuing crucial test and suffering. We are with them with all of our resources and capabilities, the brothers, kinsfolk, and beloved ones who are the families of the martyrs and wounded, who fell as victims of this heinous crime.
