FBIS3-3136 "drchi052_k_94022" FBIS-CHI-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 Political & Social Hu Jintao Calls For Efforts To Boost Gansu's Economy OW1603141094 Beijing XINHUA in English 1307 GMT 16 Mar 94 OW1603141094 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 16 (XINHUA) -- Hu Jintao, a top Chinese leader, today called on China's northwestern Province of Gansu to accelerate its economic growth by using new ideas and new concepts compatible with a socialist market economic structure. Speaking to Gansu deputies attending the ongoing session of the National People's Congress, Hu called on local officials and people to further emancipate their minds and seize development opportunities. Hu, a Standing Committee member of the Political Bureau of the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee, also said that it is necessary to proceed from specific conditions in Gansu, and promote local economic growth through reforms. "We must attach great importance to agriculture as the foundation of the national economy, and improve basic farming conditions," he told the deputies examining the government work report delivered by Premier Li Peng. Hu said that it is imperative to readjust the rural economic structure and develop highly efficient farming that offers greater and better yields. He also called for efforts to expand township-run enterprises in rural areas and increase farmers' income. "We must also further invigorate state-owned large and medium- sized enterprises and continue to enable them to play a leading role in the national economy," said Hu, who worked in Gansu for 14 years. Moreover, it is necessary to promote a social atmosphere of respecting knowledge and professionals, further enhance unity among people of various nationalities and maintain social stability, he said. Hu Jintao expressed the belief that so long as relations between reform, development and stability are handled properly, all kinds of work will be done better this year. He also stressed the need to perfect the national people's congress system in the course of promoting socialist democracy.
