FBIS3-30380 "dreeu023_h_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 HUNGARY Democratic Federation Issues Election Program AU0202173094 Budapest PESTI HIRLAP in Hungarian 2 Feb 94 p 5 AU0202173094 Budapest PESTI HIRLAP Language: Hungarian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "With the Election Program for the Family and Public Safety, the National Democratic Federation Proposes To Reinstate the Death Penalty"] [Text] Yesterday's news conference by the National Democratic Forum focused on the family because this issue is an organic part of the election program of the National Democratic Federation [NDSZ]. According to NDSZ Chairman Imre Pozsgay, this is all the more timely because the United Nations has declared 1994 the year of the family. Analyzing this subject, the NDSZ issued a separate information booklet and NDSZ spokesman Karoly Lorant summed up the content of this booklet. Among other things, he pointed out that while the European countries with the smallest demographic increase showed an average of 0.5 percent increase in population annually in the past decade, the population of Hungary is dropping at an annual rate of 0.4 percent. The role of the family is constantly weakening and the percentage of one-parent families is increasing. In addition, the number of births is decreasing and the health condition of the population is constantly deteriorating. It is probably the result of all these factors that we are witnessing a worldwide unique phenomenon here, namely a decrease in the number of the population in peace time. The NDSZ is convinced that one can and must change this trend, and the key to this is an increase in the role of the family and return to its former social rank. The NDSZ election program wants to find long-term solutions by taking all this into consideration, Karoly Lorant pointed out. The NDSZ is in favor of coexistence of several generations and of support for families with children and for starting a family. The NDSZ wants equal opportunities in education and a job for every person starting his career. In addition, the NDSZ finds it necessary to carry out a thorough modernization of the pension system, with particular emphasis on preserving the real value of the pensions. In the second half of the news conference, Imre Pozsgay and parliament Deputy Zoltan Varga answered questions regarding the elections. Imre Pozsgay said that the NDSZ would probably have a candidate in every individual election district, as well as a list in all the counties and in Budapest. However, Imre Pozsgay declined to say anything about the nominees because the list must first be accepted by the national committee at its meeting scheduled for the middle of February. Imre Pozsgay and Zoltan Biro have not yet decided on whether to run as individual candidates. At the same time, Imre Pozsgay's words allow us to speculate that he would not reject such a development. Zoltan Varga announced at this news conference that together with his colleague Peter Szell, they intend to present a legal amendment proposal to parliament regarding the restoration of the death penalty. Their decision came in the wake of the tragedies in their election district and in Szeged and the ensuing panic mood.
