FBIS4-8166 "dreeu070_p_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-070 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 POLAND Coalition, Walesa `Arguing' Over Defense Board Coalition, Walesa `Arguing' Over Defense Board WS1104104794 Warsaw GAZETA WYBORCZA in Polish 9-10 Apr 94 p 3 WS1104104794 Warsaw GAZETA WYBORCZA Polish BFN [Article by Pawel Wronski and Wojciech Zaluska: "They Are Arguing About the Presidential RBN; Coalition Versus Belweder Again"] [Text] The dispute between the coalition and the Belweder over Rosati has not yet completely subsided, but there is another one looming on the horizon. This time, it is over the National Security Council [RBN]: Is it supposed to be Lech Walesa's advisory body, or is it supposed to strengthen the president's powers? "To clear up the situation, a Walesa-Pawlak-Kwasniewski summit meeting is necessary," leaders for the Democratic Left Alliance [SLD] kept saying yesterday. But they refused to comment on the president's two preconditions, which Lech Walesa says must be met before talks can be conducted: Give up Rosati and establish the RBN. "There cannot be any preconditions," Oleksy said. Sejm Speaker Jozef Oleksy refused to reveal yesterday whether the coalition has a new candidate for finance minister in lieu of Professor Rosati, whose candidacy was rejected by the president. Oleksy kept saying that Rosati is still the favorite of the SLD and the Polish Peasant Party. Aleksander Kwasniewski, who returned from his foreign trip yesterday, kept repeating the refrain: "Rosati is still our candidate." A Dangerous President? Oleksy was also critical of his party colleague [Labor Minister] Leszek Miller, who told journalists that the SLD has found a new candidate. "Miller has extraordinary inspirations sometimes," Oleksy joked. But we learned unofficially that the SLD leaders tried to persuade Bank Handlowy Chairman Cezary Stypulkowski to take over the Finance Ministry. But Stypulkowski does not want to change jobs. In the meantime, the SLD leaders, irritated by Walesa's position, are coming back to the idea of amending the Small Constitution so as to prevent the president from being able to interfere with personnel decisions in ministries. They tried to talk the prime minister into this, but without success. Pawlak does not want an open conflict with the Belweder. But, during confidential talks with the opposition (Democratic Union) before a vote on the president's veto regarding neo-popiwek [wage-controlling legislation], Pawlak tried to convince his interlocutors that Walesa constitutes a threat to democracy and that parliament should resist him. A Dangerous Council? But, instead of peace at the top, as had been expected, there emerged a new dispute between the coalition and the Belweder. Sejm Speaker Oleksy has said that he does not know what the president meant when he talked about the RBN being a forum for meetings between the coalition and the Belweder ("We talked in different languages," the Sejm speaker said), but Andrzej Drzycimski's statement following a Walesa-Oleksy meeting was perceived to be yet another precondition set by the president. Since November of last year, the Belweder has been demanding that the RBN be established as the supreme state organ responsible for the country's security. The council would be headed by the president, while its executive organ would be the Council of Ministers' Committee for Defense Issues [KSORM], headed by the prime minister. Initially, the idea was that the RBN and KSORM were to be established in the spring, thanks to "speedy legislative proceedings." But then the coalition withdrew its support for the idea. "According to the coalition, the establishment of the RBN in this form would mean introducing a presidential system through a back door." The RBN's existence is provided for by the Small Constitution, but it is only described there as the president's advisory organ. "A council such as this may be set up at any time, just like KSORM," Oleksy declared. "But, if this is to be the kind of agency the Belweder wants it to be, there is simply no issue." An Agency or a Plane? Other politicians have also criticized the Belweder's idea of the RBN as a forum for president-coalition meetings. "It does not include, for instance, Aleksander Kwasniewski, chairman of the SLD Sejm Deputies Club. How is one supposed to have political debates then?" asks Jerzy Szmajdzinski, a secretary general of Social Democracy of the Polish Republic. "It is absurd for Lech Walesa to regard the supreme state agency for the country's security as a plane for political games," says Tomasz Nalecz, of the Union of Labor.
