FBIS3-51958 "drlat019_i_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Jan 1994 Nicaragua Government Minister Confirms Arrests During Disturbances PA2701172994 Managua Radio Nicaragua Network in Spanish 1100 GMT 27 Jan 94 PA2701172994 Managua Radio Nicaragua Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "This Morning" newscast] [Text] Government Minister Alfredo Mendieta Artola has confirmed that during the disturbances early 26 January on the northern highway and in other areas of the capital, 206 people, who will be placed under the disposal of common courts, were arrested for disrupting public order and committing other crimes as identified in the current Penal Code. He also said several minors who were arrested as they attempted to remove cobblestones from the streets were released later. Mendieta Artola has explained that no disturbances will be tolerated, adding that police authorities will act in accordance with the law. [Begin recording] [Mendieta] The National Police has sustained some attacks. Later, a cleanup operation during the predawn hours of 26 January, starting at 0500, resulted in 220 people being arrested; of these, we have released those who are minors and we are still holding 206 individuals in prison, individuals who have been placed under the disposal of authorities; they are now being processed by authorities. In this regard, the gentlemen of the National Transportation Commission [CNT] have called for a meeting to discuss the release of these people. We have met with CNT representatives and they demanded the release of these people, but they did not make any commitments that would permit us to guarantee the fact that these people may indeed be waging a civic and peaceful strike. We noted the need for CNT representatives and the Government Ministry to sign a commitment ensuring they would only conduct peaceful actions. This was not possible, because they refused to sign this document. Later, when we learned of the National Assembly document, we discussed it with CNT representatives and explained that the solution to the transportation problem lied, as the National Assembly Manifesto stated, in the possibility of meeting with all transportation sectors. In this regard, we also noted the need for the CNT leaders to display a more serious attitude, because they have given false statements to the media. The statements by CNT representatives are aimed at promoting an atmosphere of violence at this time. [Unidentified reporter] What is the juridical and legal situation of the 200 people who were arrested? Are they all members of the transportation sector? [Mendieta] Yes. Those who were arrested have violated constitutional articles, particularly Article 31, which establishes the right of all Nicaraguans to transit freely throughout the nation. They have also violated Article 325 of the Penal Code, which says that those individuals who damage or destroy communication roadways and who may endanger the security of transportation vehicles commit an offense. They have also violated Article 346 of the Penal Code, which establishes that those who attack authorities are subject to imprisonment ranging from one to three years. [end recording]
