FBIS3-7424 "dreas060_g_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 SOUTHEAST ASIA Burma National Convention Plenary Session Continues BK2903093194 Rangoon Radio Burma in Burmese 0630 GMT 29 Mar 94 BK2903093194 Rangoon Radio Burma Language: Burmese Article Type:BFN [Text] The National Convention Plenary Session continued at 0900 in the Central Meeting Hall of the President's Residence compound on Ahlone Road, Yangon [Rangoon]. The plenary session was attended by Lieutenant General Myo Nyunt, chairman of the National Convention Convening Commission; Lt. Gen. Maung Thint and Brigadier General Myo Thant, vice chairmen; and commission members; U Aung Toe, chairman of the National Convention Convening Work Committee [NCCWC]; U Tha Tun, vice chairman; and work committee members; Brig. Gen. Tin Aye, chairman of the National Convention Convening Management Committee, and committee members; delegates; and local and foreign correspondents. At the plenary session, U Kan Nyunt from the peasants delegate group acted as an acting chairman while Dr. Than Nyunt, Daw May Than Lwin, U San Tha Aung, U Mahn Ohn Maung, U Soe Maung, U Tin Maung, U Khin Maung Htoo, and U Sai Aung Htun acted as members of the Panel of Chairmen. U Khin Maung Myint, director general of the NCCWC Office and the official in charge of meetings, acted as secretary of the meeting. First, the secretary announced the session's validity with 650 out of 694 delegates attending the meeting. According to the agenda, the delegates from the political parties delegate group read out the proposals on suggestions to prescribe fundamental principles related to the state, state structure, and head of state chapters that will be included in constitutional draft. At the plenary session, U Kyang Ha Sheh read the proposal on suggestions by the La-hu National Development Party delegate group, while U Saw Than Aung read the proposal on suggestions by the Union Karen League delegate group. The plenary session recessed at 1100. The afternoon session of the National Convention Plenary Session is in progress at the Central Meeting Hall of the President's Residence compound on Ahlone Road, Yangon.
