FBIS4-1116 "drafr078_b_94004" FBIS-AFR-94-078 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 EAST AFRICA Somalia SNA Officials Meet With UN Special Representative SNA Officials Meet With UN Special Representative EA2104155794 (Clandestine) Radio Mogadishu Voice of the Great Somali People in Somali 1700 GMT 20 Apr 94 EA2104155794 (Clandestine) Radio Mogadishu Voice of the Great Somali People Somali BFN [Text] A meeting to discuss political, security, and relief issues was held in Mogadishu today between Somali National Alliance [SNA] members and Ambassador Lansana Kouyate, the UN special representative to Somalia. The SNA members included Abdulkarim Ahmed Ali, the United Somali Congress secretary general; Abdi Hassan Awale Qaybdid, the SNA chairman for internal affairs; and Lieutenant General Abdirahman Warsame Elmi Aare. They made it clear that the SNA is not responsible for existing problems such as kidnapping, robbery, and murder, and rejected such accusations. They added that these acts are perpetrated by groups and individuals opposed to the good of the Somali people. They also asked the United Nations not to overlook the problems but to assist in solving them, particularly the problems of disease and drought which are prevalent in the country. Ambassador Lansana Kouyate briefed the meeting on the Nairobi meetings of Somali organizations and the technical reasons for the delay of the expected 15 April Mogadishu meeting. He said that God willing, the meeting will be held on 25 April. He also reported on meetings he had held in New York and Washington with the UN Security Council and donor countries. He welcomed improvements in the Somali police force and the start of the work of the joint police committee to combat thieves and bandits. The UN force in Somalia was also discussed during the meeting and Ambassador Lansana Kouyate said that the duty of the UN force is to safeguard humanitarian aid adding that it has nothing to do with compulsory disarmament. The meeting ended well with understandings reached on the agenda. Both sides stressed that joint work between the SNA and UN Operation in Somalia should be strengthened and that relations should be maintained consistently.
