FBIS3-16848 "drsov054_a_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Churkin on Clinton, Gore Talks LD2003225294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1732 GMT 20 Mar 94 LD2003225294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Andrey Naryshkin] [Text] Zagreb, 20 Mar -- "The U.S. leadership has confirmed at the highest level its preparedness to cooperate with Russia in the settlement of the crisis in former Yugoslavia," Vitaliy Churkin, special envoy of the Russian president, said upon arrival in the Croatian capital from Washington on Sunday. "I had talks with U.S. President Bill Clinton, U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, and Vice President Albert Gore. During the talks with Christopher we discussed the main directions of our joint work and agreed that the United States and Russia will work with all sides involved in the conflict," Churkin said in an interview with ITAR-TASS. "In Washington, we discussed the most likely date for a meeting between all Bosnian sides. I believe that this meeting could be held as early as next week," Churkin said. "Everyone supports our initiative in holding this meeting and hopes that the signing of the cease-fire agreement will be followed by further productive steps. But now what is mainly being said is that it is necessary to nudge the sides to the conclusion of this agreement to conclude the months of talks. Stressing as I do the strengthening of our cooperation with the United States, I also invited the U.S. ambassador in Croatia to take part in the Zagreb meeting," Churkin said. Vladimir Ivanovskiy, head of the Russian Federation Foreign Ministry department for the countries of former Yugoslavia, who is in Zagreb, commenting on Russia's approach to the Croatian-Serbian settlement process, told the ITAR-TASS correspondent today that the Croat leadership's talks with the local Serbs should, judging by everything, take place in three stages. The first, if circumstances are favorable, could be completed by 22 March with the signing of a cease-fire agreement and end to hostilities. The draft agreement envisages demarcation of lines of the Croatian and Serbian forces, withdrawal of heavy weapons from a 20-km security zone, and a number of other measures. After this talks could begin on restoration of economic and transport links with the territories under Serbian control. Political questions including the status of the Serb Krajinas should, as the most difficult aspect, be left to the third stage of a settlement, the Russian diplomat said.
