FBIS4-24396 "drchi104_k_94021" FBIS-CHI-94-104 Daily Report 30 May 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Li Tieying Gives Top Prize at Government Film Awards Li Tieying Gives Top Prize at Government Film Awards OW3005163394 Beijing XINHUA in English 1435 GMT 30 May 94 OW3005163394 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, May 30 (XINHUA) -- Senior Chinese official Li Tieying today awarded the top prize to the film "Phoenix Zither" in this year's government film awards. The movie depicts a group of rural teachers who persist in opening classes for dozens of poor children in a mountain area. The movie has moved audiences to tears in many Chinese cities. Li is a member of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party as well as a state councillor. The film represents a group of works depicting heroes among the common people. This category of arts is likely to go over big here and is largely advocated by the government. These works mostly center on humble figures who have the same life problems as the audience or readers. But they always find it a pleasure to assist others, give no thought to personal gains or losses, and help others restore confidence in life. Other prize-winning films fall into the categories of historical events or ethnic issues, for example, "Chongqing Negotiations", which rehashes the historical meeting of Mao Zedong and Chiang Kai-shek. Several children's films, documentary films, cartoon films and translated films were also given awards. In addition, the film bureau recognized a feature film set in the securities market and co-produced by the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong. The government-controlled contest was first staged in 1957 but was suspended during the "Cultural Revolution" (1966-1976) when film production came to an almost complete halt. The contest was revived in the 1980s. It reflects the government's guidelines on film production. In addition to the government film event, there are now two other major film contests in China. In the "Golden Rooster Awards," top works are selected by movie experts and professionals. Prizes in the "One Hundred Flowers Awards" are voted on by film audiences.
