FBIS4-56857 "drlat090_q_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-090 Daily Report 9 May 1994 Paraguay Drug Enforcement Chief Views Money Laundering Drug Enforcement Chief Views Money Laundering PY0905190094 Asuncion ABC COLOR in Spanish 9 May 94 p 93 PY0905190094 Asuncion ABC COLOR Spanish BFN [Text] Superintendent General Publio Fretes Fernandez, retired -- head of the National Narcotics Directorate (Dinar) -- has stated that Paraguay urgently needs a law to stop money laundering because drug money is being actively laundered in Paraguay. He announced that a bill will be submitted to Congress soon. "Money is being laundered on a regular basis in Paraguay. There is no other explanation for the ease with which so many people mysteriously invest money in our country," Fretes said. The high-ranking police officer explained that there is abundant and obvious evidence that a lot of money from doubtful sources openly circulates in Paraguay. He added: "You can see the high-rise buildings, stadiums, and amphitheaters that have sprouted like mushrooms after rain in Asuncion and its suburbs. A lot of money is involved, a lot of investments." He explained: "Even though Dinar does not have a law on which to act, it investigates to the extent possible. It would be impossible for those involved to identify any legal source for their capital. These are reliable signs that drug money is laundered in Paraguay." The chief of Dinar added that since he took over the Police Investigative Department, he has noticed the swift and easy "circulation" of large amount of cash. "At the airport we frequently find people bringing in or taking out $800,000 or $900,000. Asked about the source of this money, they merely say it was taken it out of a bank. We can do nothing because we have no law to back us up. These money amounts are bound to draw attention," the police officer explained when talking about the clues available to the drug enforcement police. Fretes added that his organization, which is under the jurisdiction of the National Antinarcotics Secretariat (Senad), is drawing up a bill which it will submit to Congress in due time.
