FBIS3-37718 "drsov036_b_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Baburin Satisfied With National Union Congress PM2302102994 Moscow SOVETSKAYA ROSSIYA in Russian 22 Feb 94 p 2 PM2302102994 Moscow SOVETSKAYA ROSSIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Nadezhda Garifullina report: "The Russian Path -- The Third Russian National Union Congress Is Over"] [Text] The Third Russian National Union [RNU] Congress took place over two days in Moscow, gathering together around 150 delegates from more than 50 regions of the Russian Federation. The main event of the first day was information from State Duma and Federation Council deputies A. Lukyanov, V. Isakov, S. Baburin, Ye. Pavlov, V. Tikhonov, S. Glotiv, and others on the work of the new parliament, and their answers to numerous questions from the delegates. On the second day there was a general political discussion on two reports: "On Making Amendments and Additions to the Russian National Union Rules," which was delivered by RNU Coordinating Council Chairman S. Baburin, and "On the Political and Socioeconomic Situation in the Country and the Tasks of the Russian National Union," presented by N. Pavlov. On proclaiming the creation of the RNU social movement in October 1991, its initiators stressed the following in the program document: The new movement "must be national in order to embrace Russians and Bashkirs, Yakuts and Ukrainians, Germans and Poles, the peoples of the Volga Region and the North Caucasus. We consider the sole demand upon participants in the movement to be a feeling of love for our common motherland, Russia." Now, however, Nikolay Pavlov believes that the RNU must be a movement of Russian citizens, the Russian people, and that it must defend the interests of the Russian nation. Many who spoke did not agree with him, in the light of which N. Pavlov offered his resignation. However, the congress did not accept it. A far-reaching discussion was also conducted on the draft program statement "The Russian Path," in which the basic aims in the sphere of politics, economics, culture, and the social sphere are defined, and it was again stressed that the RNU is not purely a Russian movement but is open to representatives of any nation and nationality living on Russian territory. "I am satisfied with the Congress, although it did not pass off completely smoothly," Sergey Baburin said when I requested a comment on the results of the forum. "We adopted a decision to reform the sociopolitical movement into a political party -- that is, to effect a reorganization, and to strengthen the party principles of the RNU. Together with this, I consider it to be of major importance that we should preserve the opportunity for RNU members to participate in other political parties and social organizations whose programs do not contradict our political views. Obviously, the criticism directed at our friends and allies was just -- I am thinking of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation, the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia, the Agrarian Party, and others. After all, if all they receive is praise, if we do not criticize, how can they find their bearings? "I was also pleased that the congress participants approached the question of our political line and priorities in the political program very seriously. We adopted the program statement `The Russian Path' as a basis for further work and we hope that regional organizations will work earnestly on the provisions of the program, which we hope to adopt in November 1994. Prior to the registration of our amended rules by the Ministry of Justice, we will be guided by the existing rules, but we will try to keep the transition period -- from movement to party -- down to a minimum. As for Nikolay Pavlov's resignation, the congress rejected it unanimously, and we declared that Pavlov is destined to gain victory together with and as part of the RNU."
