FBIS4-64961 "drweu090_h_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-090 Daily Report 10 May 1994 GERMANY Coalition Backs Use of CSCE Monitors Coalition Backs Use of CSCE Monitors AU1005114094 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU in German 10 May 94 p 4 AU1005114094 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU German BFN [Report by Ferdos Forudastan: "Kinkel Urges Turkey To Solve Kurdish Conflict Politically"] [Text] Bonn, 9 May -- The Christian Democratic Union [CDU] has supported Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel's plea to send CSCE monitors to Turkey where they could get a first-hand impression of the Kurdish conflict. Kinkel had advocated this idea in an interview with FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU. On Monday [9 May], a Foreign Ministry spokesman said that Kinkel was trying to urge Turkey to solve the Kurdish problem politically with the help of the CSCE. So far, the Foreign Ministry has consistently rejected sending CSCE observers. Sources in the CDU/Christian Social Union [CSU] Bundestag Group stated on Monday that Kinkel's "surprising change of mind" was "quite sensible." Since human rights violations against the Kurds had increased, "something has to be done at the international level" now. At the same time, it was, of course, "rather sensitive" to express distrust toward NATO partner Turkey by calling for observers. The government in Ankara denies that Kurds are being tortured and killed and expelled from villages in the southeast of the country. Sources from the CDU/CSU have meanwhile noted that Ankara would be "well advised" not to object to CSCE observation of the Kurdish conflict. Rejection would "not cast a favorable light on a country that wants to belong to Europe even more closely than in the past." Guenther Verheugen, federal manager of the Social Democratic Party of Germany [SPD], told FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU that he was "most positively surprised" at Kinkel taking up the SPD's request for CSCE observers. Now the Federal Government must quickly initiate a decisionmaking process in the CSCE. Only recently, Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel, in a letter to the human rights organization, Amnesty International, expressly rejected sending CSCE observers to Turkey. This position has also been taken by other Foreign Ministry representatives in the past few months, who argued that such a measure would be unusual in the relationship between NATO partners and would lead to confrontation with Turkey.
