FBIS4-18827 "drweu069cc_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-069 Daily Report 3 Mar 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Polish, French, German Defense Ministers Meet Polish, French, German Defense Ministers Meet LD0403000994 Warsaw Third Program Radio Network in Polish 2200 GMT 3 Mar 94 LD0403000994 Warsaw Third Program Radio Network Polish BFN [Text] The diplomatic and political cooperation which has existed so far between Poland, France, and Germany is to be extended to security, the defense ministers of these three countries agreed in Paris. [Reporter Grzegorz Dobiecki] A joint communique, the details of which are still being worked out, confirms the decisive support of France and Germany for the idea of Polish association with the Western European Union [WEU], the military arm of the Community. A binding decision in this matter can be expected in May. The defense ministers of the three countries are to hold annual meetings, just as the foreign ministers of France, Poland, and Germany have been doing for the past two years. Military cooperation is to be equally regular: constant contact between general staffs and joint exercises for army units. One should emphasize that the Paris communique speaks only of Poland as regards the prospect of association with the WEU and of direct cooperation with France and Germany. It generally does not speak about the countries of Central and Eastern Europe or about the Visegrad group. The French defense minister, opening the meeting of the Weimar Three quite clearly said: There is no Poland without Europe, just as Europe without Poland is unimaginable. Polish participation in all European structures is obvious in a time perspective. Today we shall be talking among ourselves about how to achieve the fastest possible rapprochement of Poland to the WEU. [Announcer] Our correspondent found out unofficially that Defense Minister Kolodziejczyk met yesterday the special army representative of the French president who said: Poland will not remain for long in the gray area of security in Europe. It will swiftly enter a field of the same colors as those protecting the western area of the continent.
