FBIS3-32361 "drlat025_e_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA Costa Rica PLN's Figueres Promises To Support Production PA0402225394 San Jose LA REPUBLICA in Spanish 28 Jan 94 p6a PA0402225394 San Jose LA REPUBLICA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Jose Luis Fuentes] [Text] In addition to explaining that in the next elections voters have to choose between two platforms, Jose Maria Figueres, presidential candidate for the National Liberation Party [PLN], during a rally held last night in a public square in Parrita de Puntarenas, has promised to support production, tourism, and housing. When talking to the crowd, which area residents said was much larger than the one that came to hear Oscar Arias Sanchez during the 1986 campaign, Figueres said: "The PLN platform is much different than the other party's." The PLN platform, a platform by which our standard of living has increased, puts us back on the course of progress and development, but theirs (Social Christian Unity Party) is the neoliberal platform, a platform by which the government has concentrated wealth and increased poverty," he said. According to the PLN candidate, the Social Christians are talking of social programs due to the campaign, but the first thing they did was to dismiss cooks from school lunchrooms, because saving a few colones is more important to them than feeding hundreds of thousands of children." He has told the area residents he would stimulate tourism, rectify the housing problem, and amend import rates to boost the productive sector, because "an economy car should not pay higher taxes than a luxury car." Others to speak at this rally were Mario Alvarez, Parrita candidate for deputy; Mario Charpentier, former public security minister; and Luis Paris, former campaign chief for Jose Miguel Corrales. Paris has referred to the unity within the PLN, saying differences were a thing of the past. "Today, our party is united to face the neoliberal politics that are threatening Costa Ricans, politics that have lowered our levels of health, education, and raised the cost of living." Figures has said the current government closed 68 health centers in the last year alone, which led to a strong decline in health in rural areas. For that reason, old diseases, such as dengue, measles, and malaria, have reappeared, and we have new ones, such as cholera, he has said.
