FBIS3-4362 "drchi060__a94007" FBIS-CHI-92-060-A Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 ANNEX Northeast Asia Beijing Likely Not To Veto Sanctions Against DPRK OW2503114694 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN in Japanese 25 Mar 94 Morning Edition p 4--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2503114694 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [By Toshiaki Arai] [Text] Beijing, 24 March -- Touching on China's possible reaction at the UN Security Council [UNSC] over the issue of North Korean nuclear weapons development, a reliable source in Beijing said on 24 March that "China will probably not exercise its veto right." In this way, the source hinted at the possibility that China may abstain from voting should it be forced to express its final stand on the issue of imposing sanctions against North Korea. China's stand on the nuclear issue is clear. It is calling for a settlement through dialogue between countries and organizations concerned, insisting that sanctions or pressure "will complicate the situation and create tension on the Korean peninsula," (according to Premier Li Peng). Reportedly, China at the UNSC is asking other permanent members of the Security Council not to impose sanctions against North Korea. It is also said that China's true intention is to avoid the possibility of being forced to say either "yes" or "no" to the sanctions. Regarding China's possible reaction at the UNSC, the source pointed out a "subtle change" in speeches made by Chinese officials at the UNSC on the nuclear issue. The source said that although Chinese leaders were saying at the initial stage that they would "oppose" applying sanctions against or pressure on North Korea, they are now saying that China will "not approve" it. For example, Premier Li Peng said during his January meeting with Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata and at a news conference held on 22 March that China would "not approve" sanctions against North Korea. According to the source, this change is an indication that China after all will not oppose the idea of imposing sanctions against North Korea but will choose not to vote.
