FBIS4-13827 "drnes079_m_94005" FBIS-NES-94-079 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 JORDAN British Envoy Terms al-'Aqabah Blockade `Excessive' British Envoy Terms al-'Aqabah Blockade `Excessive' JN2404064394 Amman JORDAN TIMES in English 24 Apr 94 p 3 JN2404064394 Amman JORDAN TIMES English BFN ["Special to the JORDAN TIMES" by Ian Atalla] [Excerpt] Amman--The United Kingdom feels that the current U.N. enforced naval blockade of al-'Aqabah should be modified, said British Ambassador to Jordan Peter Hinchcliffe Saturday [23 April] at the Amman Chamber of Commerce (ACC). "My government has felt for some time that the blockade is excessive, and that Jordan is suffering as a result," said Mr. Hinchcliffe. "We would like to see a change in the method of how the U.N. regulations are enforced." "As well, British exports to Jordan have suffered as a result of this blockade," Mr. Hinchcliffe said at the ACC meeting with a visiting commercial delegation of the South of England Exporters Association (SEEA). Mr. Hinchcliffe spoke after ACC President Muhammad 'Asfur emphasised to the ambassador and the SEEA delegation Jordanians' sense of indignation and frustration towards the blockade, and said that since it had begun, "some 1,800 ships have come to al-'Aqabah, and not one ship was found in violation of the U.N. resolutions." Members of the ACC also said that more ways should be found to address the vastly unequal trade balance between the two nations. Where England exported JD 127.9 million worth of goods and services to Jordan in 1993, according to available statistics, Jordanian exports to England totalled a mere JD 2.5 million in the same period. The ACC suggested an increase in joint venture projects between Jordan and Britain to the SEEA delegation as a means towards alleviating the current situation, but Mr. 'Asfur cautioned that "we have suffered before in such programmes." [passage omitted] Mr. Hinchcliffe told the ACC group that Britain was currently working on drawing up a number of mutual tax agreements with Jordan which would add to facilitating trade between the two countries. The SEEA delegation arrived in Amman Friday evening after a visit to Lebanon, and will stay in Jordan until April 26.
