FBIS3-2157 "drchi044_a_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 March 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Asian Meeting on Population, Development Closes in Beijing OW0403132394 Beijing XINHUA in English 1243 GMT 4 Mar 94 OW0403132394 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 4 (XINHUA) -- The 10th Asian Parliamentarians' Meeting on Population and Development (APPD) closed here today. The meeting has further promoted mutual understanding and friendship among the participants from 15 countries including China after their discussions on issues of population and development and women's position and role. Fukusaburo Maeda, chairman of the Asian population and development association, described the two-day meeting as significant. He said that in September this year, the Third International Conference on Population and Development will be held in Cairo, at which a policy on population is expected to be approved. He expressed the hope that this policy will become a program for actions of all countries in the next 20 years. Hao Yichun, deputy head of the delegation of China's National People's Congress (NPC) and vice-chairman of the NPC Education, Science, Culture and Public Health Committee, said with the common efforts by the Asian parliamentarians, the meeting has achieved a complete success. Noting that Asia is the most populous region in the world, Hao said the solution of the Asian population problem will be of great importance to peace, prosperity and development of Asia and the rest of the world. She said many Asian countries have already adopted proper measures to reduce the birth rate and have achieved significant results. However, Hao said the trend of rapid population growth has not yet been checked and the task of improving the quality of human resources is still arduous. The solution of population problems requires the common efforts from Asian parliaments, governments, non-governmental organizations as well as the people from every Asian country, she added. After the meeting Fukusaburo Maeda and leaders from the Asian forum and the UN Population Fund gave a press conference and answered questions on cooperation between China and the UN Population Fund.
