FBIS3-31157 "dreeu030__a94018" FBIS-EEU-94-030-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 February 1994 ANNEX Hungary Dailies Comment on NATO Ultimatum to Serbs AU1102164494 Budapest MTI in English 0928 GMT 11 Feb 94 AU1102164494 Budapest MTI Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Budapest, 11 Feb (MTI) -- "If this is the NATO that Hungary strives so hard to become a member of, then we can rest assured: Perhaps the common conscience of societies is still alive," writes an article in the Friday issue of the national daily MAGYAR HIRLAP, commenting on the NATO ultimatum to the Serbs. "No one is overjoyed that the situation has gone this far. The aim of the ultimatum is to force a withdrawal, rather than to implement air strikes. It is regrettable that the latest manoeuvres of Russian policy weaken precisely the power of threat, and in a manner that almost encourages the Serbs to hold on to their positions," writes the daily. According to NEPSZABADSAG, the ultimatum clearly foreshadows an increase in the arbitrating, or policing, role of NATO. The daily terms it noteworthy that "the United Nations is preparing to strike with NATO's fist for the first time ever." "The elimination of the U.N. Security Council, that is Moscow and Beijing, from such a major decision is the first sign in the reorganization of the world's power positions. "At the end of ten days, when the ultimatum expires, or perhaps even sooner, the world will know whether Russia is as weak as to have the affairs of the world settled without it, or in spite of it," the daily writes. According to UJ MAGYARORSZAG, after the cautious approach of the long months and years, the Brussels decision came almost as a surprise. However, it was at least as late as it was surprising, the daily notes, for Karadzic and his allies have almost fully achieved their goals by now, thanks to the delaying conduct shown by the West. As regards the Russian protest, the daily notes: "Inasmuch as the air strikes do begin, then something could possibly be achieved in Bosnia, however, it would lead to a dangerous break between Russia and the West."
