FBIS3-35059 "drnes034_j_94008" FBIS-NES-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Law Minister Condemns `All Yemeni Officials' PM1802105094 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 18 Feb 94 pp 1, 4 PM1802105094 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Hamud Munsir: "Legal Affairs Minister Karman Urges That All Yemeni Officials Stand Trial"] [Excerpts] Sanaa -- Yemeni Legal Affairs Minister 'Abd-al-Salam Khalid Karman has criticized all Yemeni officials, saying "they are all subject to punishment by law and should all, including Shaykh 'Abdallah al-Ahmar (speaker of the House of Representatives and leader of the Yemeni Reform Grouping), stand trial. Because they all failed to refer to the law. If they did, the situation in the country would not have reached its present state." This came in an exclusive statement to AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT by the Yemeni minister, in a discussion of the legal and constitutional dimensions of Prime Minister Haydar Abu-Bakr al-'Attas' decision to appoint Muhammad 'Ali Ahmad -- one of former President 'Ali Nasir Muhammad's men, former Abyan governor, and an uncooperative member of the General People's Congress [GPC] General Committee (Political Bureau) -- as governor of Abyan again, and the Presidential Council's decision revoking al-'Attas' decision a few hours later. He described the two decisions as "bombs and rockets" in a battle whose two parties are about to meet in Amman to sign the Pledge and Accord Document. Karman stressed that "Yemen is not governed by the law, but by political quarrels." [passage omitted] He added: "They insulted the decisions and laws, and hence themselves. Because they -- the authorities -- are responsible for the decisions and for implementing the laws. And neither history nor the people will have mercy on them." He urged GPC and Socialist Party leaders to "have mercy on the Yemeni people and refer to the law." He accused all those who signed the Pledge and Accord Document of "violating legitimacy and forgetting the signal of the parliamentary elections held on 27 April, which resulted in the formation of the present House of Representatives and hence the ruling coalition."
