FBIS3-9936 "drlat039_i_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 Nicaragua Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Promotes Cooperation PA2802044894 Managua Sistema Nacional de Television Network in Spanish 0200 GMT 24 Feb 94 PA2802044894 Managua Sistema Nacional de Television Network in Spanish 0200 GMT 24 Feb 94 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Maria Elsa Suarez; from the "National Newscast"] [Text] After a meeting with President Violeta Chamorro, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Georgiy Mamedov said Nicaragua and Russia will strengthen trade relations. The deputy foreign ministers of both nations signed a cooperation agreement, and the Russian official met with Presidency Minister Antonio Lacayo later in the afternoon. Mamedov told President Violeta Chamorro of his government's desire to strengthen bilateral relations by creating mixed enterprises, supporting the geothermal industry, and providing technical assistance. He also expressed President Yeltsin's desire to meet with President Chamorro in the near future. [Begin Mamedov recording] We told President Chamorro that the United States could equally contribute to the democratic transformation in Nicaragua. I have also told President Chamorro that I visited her office five years ago when someone else was there, but this time I felt more comfortable. [end recording] Mamedov also met with Presidency Minister Lacayo. They discussed ways to strengthen bilateral trade and the transformation process in both countries. The Nicaraguan and Russian deputy foreign ministers signed a protocol on consultations between both foreign ministries. Nicaraguan Deputy Foreign Minister Jose Pallais spoke during the ceremony: [Begin Pallais recording] Russia has significantly contributed to the achievement of democracy and peace in Central America. In the future, we hope to strengthen and increase commercial relations between our countries. [end recording] Nicaragua's foreign debt with Russia is approximately $500 million. The renegotiation of that debt is pending. [Begin Mamedov recording] My personal opinion is that we could and should forgive part of the debt. [end recording]
