FBIS3-23976 "jpusr023___94039" FBIS-USR-94-023 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 10 March 1994 RUSSIA ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS Agricultural Newspaper Reports Weather, Crop Conditions Effect of Thaws Noted 944K0784C Moscow SELSKAYA ZHIZN in Russian 1 Mar 94 p 5 944K0784C Moscow SELSKAYA ZHIZN Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by health resort physician Asya Uyanayeva under the rubric "Meteorological Dictionary": "These Dangerous Thaws"] [Text] The weather in moderate latitudes is formed in a struggle between warm and moist sea air and cold, relatively dry, air forming in Arctic latitudes. Over the past years on the European territory of the country winters have been warm, with frequent invasions of Atlantic cyclones. The result of this process was protracted thaws. The meteorological dictionary gives the following definition: A thaw is the warming of air temperature to the freezing mark and above in winter time amidst temperatures that have settled below freezing, most often as a result of the spread of warm air. On the European territory of the country thaws result from a stream of either moderate latitude sea air from the Atlantic Ocean or the moderate latitude air returning from southern regions through the Balkans and Asia Minor. Thaws are frequently preceded by snowstorms. They are accompanied by cloudy, foggy weather. What is the danger of thaw periods? First and foremost, the snow begins to melt, which increases the probability that wintering plants will be subjected to the impact of the cold when cold temperatures return. If the snow cover is low, and the impact of warm air is long enough, the snow may to a considerable extent or even completely melt. The southern and western regions of the European territory of the country are subjected to the most frequent thaws. In the current year December and January had plenty of protracted thaws, which were only briefly interrupted by minor cold spells. The most frequent thaws occur in March, when the atmosphere shifts to summer mode.
