FBIS4-27984 "dreas109_a_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-109 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Matsunaga, Kantor Plan To Discuss Talks Schedule Matsunaga, Kantor Plan To Discuss Talks Schedule OW0706015694 Tokyo KYODO in English 0149 GMT 7 Jun 94 OW0706015694 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Paris, June 7 KYODO -- The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is opening its two-day ministerial council meeting at its headquarters in Paris on Tuesday [7 Jun]. The main items on this year's agenda include ways to improve the economy and measures to increase employment within the group, as well as strengthening multilateral trade systems. With the total number of unemployed within the group topping 35 million, discussions will focus on promoting structural changes in industries and creating new business opportunities to increase new jobs, according to meeting sources. Jean-Claude Paye, secretary general of the organization, is expected to issue a special statement after the meeting to urge members to job-creation programs within two years, the sources said. On trade matters, the OECD will call for early ratification of the Uruguay Round trade accord which was completed last December after seven years of negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The participants will then discuss trade issues outstanding after the Uruguay Round, the sources said. The issues concern relationships between trade and five other areas -- the environment, competition, labor standards, investment and regionalism. With Mexico participating as the OECD's newest member, the Paris-based group now gathers ministers and representatives from 25 nations in the world. On the second day of the meeting, Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev will be invited to sign the first agreement on economic assistance, the sources said. Japan has sent Nobuo Matsunaga, the government's representative for external affairs, to the meeting. Schedules of the Diet sessions prevented a minister from being sent. It is the first time in 27 years that Japan has not sent a minister to an OECD meeting. According to Japanese trade sources, Matsunaga is expected to meet with U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor, who is also attending the OECD meeting, to discuss schedules for the ongoing Japan-U.S. trade framework talks. A meeting set initially between Matsunaga and U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher has been canceled, they said.
