FBIS4-35239 "drnes104_m_94005" FBIS-NES-94-104 Daily Report 28 May 1994 JORDAN Russian Envoy Comments After Meeting Prime Minister Russian Envoy Comments After Meeting Prime Minister JN2805122094 Amman Radio Jordan Network in Arabic 1100 GMT 28 May 94 JN2805122094 Amman Radio Jordan Network Arabic BFN [Text] Prime Minister Dr. 'Abd-al-Salam al-Majali received in his office at the Prime Ministry this morning Viktor Posuvalyuk, chief of the Near East and North African Department at the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the special representative of Russian President Boris Yeltsin. During the meeting, they discussed bilateral relations and regional issues, including the peace process. The Russian official briefed the journalists on this meeting. He said: [Begin Posuvalyuk recording, in progress] ...and I would like to thank his excellency the prime minister for giving sufficient time for our discussions, which I consider important ones. Discussions were divided into two parts, so to say: One dealt with relations between our two countries; and the other dealt with international and regional issues, led by the peace process. First of all, I conveyed a salute, through his excellency the prime minister, from President Boris Yeltsin to His Majesty King Husayn. I also conveyed a warm salute from Russian Prime Minister Chernomyrdin to his excellency the prime minister. With regard to bilateral relations, we were agreed that they are generally good. We discussed some details with the participation of our ambassador. We also agreed on the steps that we will take in the near future in order to consolidate these relations; I mean in economic and other technical fields. This is because we believe that political dialogue is under way, and that it is useful for both sides. With regard to the peace process, we emphasized our interest in the Jordanian side, in Jordan's importance in the peace process, and in Jordan's participation in the progress of the Arab-Israeli negotiations on the bilateral and multilateral levels. We also discussed matters that are now developing in a dynamic manner. Thus, consultations should also be dynamic. With much satisfaction, I indicate that we agreed on many issues, and that our views were very close. [end recording]
