FBIS4-15044 "drsov066_a_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-066 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS `Partnership' Issue `Decided,' Despite Confusion `Partnership' Issue `Decided,' Despite Confusion PM0604101394 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 6 Apr 94 p 3 PM0604101394 Moscow IZVESTIYA Russian BFN [Aleksandr Sychev article: "Russia Will Sign Up to NATO Program Anyhow, But It Needs Further Work"] [Text] There has been no split in the Russian leadership over the "Partnership for Peace" program proposed by NATO, Defense Minister Army General Pavel Grachev stated. Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev, as previously assumed, plans to visit Brussels in mid-April and perform the formal act of Russian accession to the partnership program, which has already been signed by 14 countries of Eastern Europe and the former USSR. The subject of the existence of sharp differences in the Russian leadership arose in connection with contradictory statements by presidential press secretary Vyacheslav Kostikov and Defense Minister Pavel Grachev. Kostikov told journalists that it could take Russia six or seven months to adopt a final decision on the partnership program. Whereas the defense minister, answering a question from journalists following his meeting with UN Secretary General Butrus-Ghali, who is in Moscow, stated that the government's position has not changed. The Ministries of Defense and Foreign Affairs have prepared a joint document which has been supported by the president. Answering an IZVESTIYA question about the explanation for such divergent viewpoints expressed within the space of only a few days, the president's press service answered that at the famous briefing Kostikov had been "spelling out the president's position at that moment." It was suggested in the Defense and Foreign Ministries that when he mentioned six or seven months Kostikov had in mind the fact that it could take that long for talks to be held with NATO on clarifying and amplifying the program's provisions. At the Foreign Ministry it is not ruled out that this work could take even longer. The "Partnership for Peace" program is seen in Moscow as a framework document to which substance must be added. As for Russia's joining the program, this question has been decided, as President Yeltsin has repeatedly stated.
