FBIS4-23952 "drafr118_e_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 WEST AFRICA Nigeria Abiola Reportedly Continues To Elude Authorities Abiola Reportedly Continues To Elude Authorities AB1706133594 Lagos Voice of Nigeria in English 1030 GMT 17 Jun 94 AB1706133594 Lagos Voice of Nigeria English BFN [From the press review] [Text] On the political scene in Nigeria, the SKETCH reports that the meeting of the Northern Elders Forum scheduled to take place tomorrow, Saturday, in Jos, Plateau State of Nigeria, may not see the light of day because the police have been urged to stop such political meetings in all parts of Nigeria. It notes that the Federal Government is taking this measure because all political groupings remain banned in the country for the time being. The paper however reports that the police and the security agents are still searching for Chief M.K.O. Abiola, who is declared wanted by the police for allegedly declaring himself president last week. This time, the DAILY TIMES and the TRIBUNE report that Abiola has escaped arrest again. The two papers say an informant told the police that Chief Abiola was having a meeting with his aides in the Surelele area of Lagos but on getting there they were informed that he had left for an unknown destination 30 minutes before the security operatives arrived at the meeting venue. In another story, the TIMES reports that General Sani Abacha has restated his regime's efforts to bequeath a new democratic system to the nation through the Constitutional Conference, which will begin on June 27. The paper says the Nigerian leader has urged the organized private sector to solicit the support of the international community to enable the government achieve its objective towards a new democratic and economic order in Nigeria. The GUARDIAN, reporting in the same vein, says Gen. Abacha may have meetings with various interest groups next week to discuss the political situation in the country and find a means of resolving it through dialogue.
