FBIS3-15506 "drsov044_a_94029" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Report on Land Concessions to China Sparks Dispute OW0703091094 Taipei CNA in English 0734 GMT 7 Mar 94 OW0703091094 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Vladimir Mikh] [Text] Moscow, March 7 (CNA) -- Recent Russian media reports which claim that the Yeltsin administration secretly gave away some two thousand islands to the People's Republic of China have fueled discontent in Russia's border regions. Sparking the dispute was a report which originated in Japan that after 24 years of negotiations, Russia and Mainland China have agreed that the big Ussuri Island belongs to China. The large island is only a few hundred meters off the coast of the Russian city Khabarovsk, and if it is turned over to the PRC, the two nations would only be separated by a small strip of water. The report has raised the ire of local residents, who reportedly are willing to fight to remain under Russian rule. "If the big Ussuri Island is transferred to the jurisdiction of the People's Republic of China, the whole city will take up pitchforks and go out and fight, and I shall be in the frontline," Mr. Viktor Ishayev, the head of the Khabarovsk regional administration, was quoted as saying by SEGODNYA, the Moscow daily. However, reports about the transfer have been denied by Russian officials. Yuriy Arkharov, deputy head of the joint Russian-Chinese Commission on Border Demarcation, resolutely refuted the allegations of a secret "sell-out." Other officials have also denied any of the reported 2,000 island were turned over to the Chinese Communists. Cross-border traffic and disputes have increased since recent relaxations in border controls, SEGODNYA reported. The relaxation of controls has cleared the way for "barbaric fishing practices by Chinese fishermen," and increased Chinese ship traffic, has "exacerbated the poor ecological conditions in the city," the daily said. Regardless of the growing discontent, the official Russian stance is that since no mutually acceptable decision is in view, both sides will put the issue aside for the time being and continue to uphold the status quo.
