FBIS4-8302 "dreeu070__a94070" FBIS-EEU-94-070-A Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Cooperation With Meciar Possible Cooperation With Meciar Possible AU1204121794 Prague CTK in English 0728 GMT 12 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1204121794 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Bratislava, April 12 (CTK) -- Slovak President Michal Kovac said last night he could imagine resumption of his cooperation with former Prime Minister Vladimir Meciar if Meciar's Movement for a Democratic Slovakia (HZDS) wins the early elections. However, there are indications that Meciar is not willing to do so, Kovac said in a televised discussion. If Meciar accepts the assignment to create a new cabinet and then initiate the replacement of the president, Kovac would defend himself. If he fails, he would democratically resign. Kovac said he did not expect any political formation to gain a simple majority in the elections. He said he considered a broad coalition government the best alternative for Slovakia after the elections, adding he would welcome the present variant without top political leaders. Only one month has passed since Kovac's significant speech before the Slovak parliament, in which he proposed the creation of a broad coalition government. Kovac today described as positive the changes which the society underwent within such a short period. He appreciated the calming down of the political situation, the quick agreement on the election date, the smooth constituting of the new coalition government, and the accommodating reaction of foreign countries. Kovac expressed his conviction that in a short time, changes would occur within the HZDS and democratic principles of political work would be pushed through. However, if the thesis "HZDS is Meciar and Meciar is Slovakia" continues to be promoted, Kovac would reconsider his HZDS membership. The membership has been suspended since he became president last year. Kovac admitted he had been little active in relation towards HZDS bodies since the very beginning of the conflict between Meciar and himself. He justified this mistake by the fear that he might be accused of interfering with the HZDS's internal affairs.
