FBIS4-50820 "drchi099_m_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-099 Daily Report 14 May 1994 Military PLA Develops Program-Controlled Digital Telephone Exchange PLA Develops Program-Controlled Digital Telephone Exchange OW2105232794 Beijing Central People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2230 GMT 14 May 94 OW2105232794 Beijing Central People's Radio Network Mandarin BFN [From the "News and Press Review" program] [Text] The People's Liberation Army [PLA] Information Engineering Institute [xin xi gong cheng xue yuan] has developed a new, large-capacity, program-controlled digital telephone exchange system [dian hua cheng kong shu zi jiao huan xi tong], which is up to the highest standards in the world. It has been put to use in the telecommunications network over the last year or so, and has proven to be advanced in design and safe and reliable in operation. It is the product of a new industry. According to the appraisal by a relevant department, it is an important milestone in the development of China's telecommunications industry, marking the end of a long period of our being subject to other's control in this regard. With State Science and Technology Commission approval, a State Engineering and Technology Research Center for Digital Exchange System has been set up in the Information Engineering Institute. It will become the leader of China's digital exchange industry, and is expected to yield an output value of 1.2 billion yuan this year. Shi Quan, deputy commandant of the PLA Information Engineering Institute, is in charge of the development task. A recorded talk made by him follows: [Begin recording] The successful development of the product has made China one of the few countries capable of independently developing large and medium program-controlled digital exchanges. It has ended the situation in which China's telecommunications network is built exclusively with foreign products, as well as the situation in which foreign products dominate the whole world. The product's successful development has won honor for both the PLA and the Chinese nation. No doubt, our country has grasped the technology. For this reason, we are certain that after the technology's application is popularized, we will be able to provide better security to the telecommunications network, and to keep the lifeline of telecommunications in our own hands. Since the new product's design is particularly suitable to China's conditions and market, to popularize its use is of great significance to opening up our huge domestic market. [end recording]
