FBIS3-29592 "dreas035_h_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Malaysia PBS Retains Majority in Sabah Elections Seeks Reconciliation With Mahathir BK2202135994 Hong Kong AFP in English 1107 GMT 22 Feb 94 BK2202135994 Hong Kong AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Mervin Nambiar] [Excerpts] KOTA KINABALU, Malaysia, Feb 22 (AFP) -- As the dust settles on possibly the dirtiest election in Sabah history, Chief Minister Joseph Pairin Kitingan faces the uphill task of repairing ties with Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, analysts said Tuesday. "He has survived for now but the real battle is only starting," said an aide to Kitingan, the embattled Catholic politician who beat Mahathir's Muslim-dominated National Front by a narrow two-seat margin in weekend polls to elect 48 members to the state assembly. Kitingan made his first move toward a reconciliation with Mahathir on Monday, immediately after Governor Mohamed Said Keruak swore him into office after a humiliating 36-hour wait outside the bolted gates of the governor's mansion. "I hope things go smoothly. It's time to sit down and look ahead," he said, although supporters who kept a vigil outside the mansion for fear Kitingan would be denied office seemed less willing to overlook the indignity suffered by their leader. But the chief minister said threats made in the heat of an election campaign should not set the tone for the long-term relationship between his state and the federal government. "Now that the election is over, there must be communication channels and sensibility," said Kitingan, who said Monday he would seek a meeting with Mahathir to improve federal-state ties. [passage omitted] Sakaran Dandai, Sabah head of Mahathir's United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), the largest component in the National Front, said however that Kitingan's government cannot survive. "Several assemblymen have expressed interest in joining the National Front," said Sakaran, a federal minister. Kitingan could also face a legal challenge to his right under the state constitution to appoint six members to the state assembly to fortify his position. "The provision may be in conflict with the federal constitution," according to federal Law Minister Hamid Albar.
