FBIS4-32876 "drlat104_q_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-104 Daily Report 28 May 1994 Paraguay Military Political Affiliation Law Signed Military Political Affiliation Law Signed PY3005224294 Asuncion ABC COLOR in Spanish 28 May 94 p 3 PY3005224294 Asuncion ABC COLOR Spanish BFN [Text] The president's decision to sign the law temporarily suspending the affiliation to political parties of active duty members of the military and policemen was made known at Congress at noon yesterday. The law thus enters into effect immediately. In congressional circles, the executive branch's decision to promulgate the law a few days before it became effective automatically, according to the term stipulated by the Constitution, was interpreted as a positive gesture, and a sign of the president's willingness to respect congressional decisions. The executive branch had until 1 June to promulgate the bill. The law that has just entered into effect has only two articles, and says: "Article 1. The membership of active duty members of the military and policemen in political parties or movements is hereby temporarily suspended, and political parties or movements will erase their names from the party lists." "Article 2. The active duty members of the military and policemen mentioned in Article 1 will recover, at their request, their full membership and seniority in the corresponding political party or movement once they retire." Hurdles Still To Be Overcome Congress passed the bill temporarily suspending military members' and policemen's political membership in November of last year, but the executive branch vetoed the bill. The veto was based on a technicality, as the executive branch said it had agreed on the need to adjust the military and police field of action to what is prescribed in the Constitution. The objection referred to the wording of the bill, which was allegedly imprecise. The executive also objected to the requirement forcing military members and policemen to request their reenlistment once they retired, as it believed the reenlisting should be automatic. Congress dismissed these arguments and overrode the veto. The law could still face a hurdle before implementation, as those who feel affected might file a petition asking that the law be declared unconstitutional.
