FBIS3-51746 "drlat016__a94030" FBIS-LAT-94-016-A Document Type:Daily Report 25 January 1994 ANNEX Cuba Lage on Role of Sugar Harvest in Economic Recovery PA1401145594 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 0044 GMT 14 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA1401145594 Havana PRENSA LATINA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Havana, 13 Jan (PL) -- Cuba sees chances for economic recovery based on efficiency. Carlos Lage, a member of the Politburo of the Communist Party of Cuba (PCC), today said the current sugar harvest, as well as the upcoming sugar harvest, will be decisive in attaining that goal. During a meeting with leaders of the sugar industry in central Ciego De Avila Province, Lage said the 1994-95 harvest must be greater than the current one. He stressed that the recovery of the country's main industry is a precondition to overcoming the current period of economic crisis. Cuba is experiencing a period of severe economic difficulty, following the disbanding of the European socialist bloc, with which it conducted 85 percent of its foreign trade, and the increased U.S. trade, financial, and commercial embargo against the island. Lage, who is credited with being the strategist of Cuban economic policy, underscored the importance of the current sugar harvest, saying that it will provide the resources needed for next year's harvest, which could mark the beginning of the country's economic recovery. According to a report by the National Information Agency, the vice president of the Council of Ministers said no one must stop work now to process a single ton of sugar or sow a single caballeria (11.42 hectares) of cane sprouts. Lage pointed out that life has demonstrated that the country can complete a harvest with less resources than before, during this special period, as the Cubans call the strategy they have developed to overcome the economic difficulties. Nelson Torres, the minister of the sugar industry; Alfredo Hondal, a member of the Politburo and first secretary of the PCC in Ciego de Avila; and the directors of the agroindustrial complexes were present at the meeting, during which they discussed production strategies for the current sugar harvest. The participants agreed that maximum use of all available resources, railroads, and sugar cane for processing are essential to an efficient campaign.
