FBIS4-574 "drafr071_e_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-071 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 EAST AFRICA Sierra Leone Government Retires Army Chief, 13 Other Officers Government Retires Army Chief, 13 Other Officers AB1204184094 London BBC World Service in English 1705 GMT 12 Apr 94 AB1204184094 London BBC World Service English BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] There has been a major shake up in the top ranks of the Sierra Leonean Army. Among the 14 senior officers who have been sacked is the head of the Army, and it comes at a time when the military is finding itself stretched in its drive against the RUF [Revolutionary United Front] rebels. This month, the RUF has staged attacks in northern Sierra Leone for the first time in their three-year-old rebellion. From Freetown, Victor Sylver telexed this report. The Defense Department in Freetown has sent the head of the Army, Major General Jusu Gottoh, and 13 top military officers on compulsory retirement. A spokesman from the Defense Department said the decision had been taken in the best interest of the Army and the country. He did not elaborate further. Apart from Gen. Gottoh, Brigadier (Modibo Lyman), and Brigadier Joy Toure, a former brigade commander and current head of the Army's training center, have also been retired. Four colonels and five lieutenant colonels, including the commanding officer of the 2d Battalion based in Makeni, as well as a major and a captain are also on the list. Although the official reason given for the move is that it is in the best interests of the Army and state, speculation is rife that the NPRC [National Provisional Ruling Council] Government is impatient with the pace of the war and with the apparent success of the rebels. Ordinary Sierra Leoneans are sometimes taken by surprise to note an escalation in rebel activities just when they were beginning to be optimistic that the war would soon come to an end. It would seem that recent action taken by the rebels to hold a section of the Bo-Kenema Highway, and moves to do the same on the Masingbe Matotaka-Kono Highway has finally sapped the government's patience. The first promise made by the men of the 29 April Revolution when they came to power two years ago was to bring the rebel war to a speedy conclusion. The man now charged with this responsibility is Colonel (Kelly Conte), who is the new head of the Army. Sierra Leoneans are eagerly watching to see if he can perform the long-awaited miracle.
