FBIS4-61774 "drsov090_d_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-090 Daily Report 7 May 1994 Regional Affairs Questions Over Phasing Out Plutonium-Producing AES Questions Over Phasing Out Plutonium-Producing AES PM0905124094 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 7 May 94 p 3 PM0905124094 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Aleksandr Chernykh report: "Reactors To Be Peaceful"] [Text] Tomsk -- Of the five nuclear reactors at the Siberian Chemical Combine in the city of Seversk (Tomsk-7) only two are currently operational. They are continuing to produce weapons-grade plutonium while simultaneously providing heat and power for the oblast center. Shutting down the reactors would have catastrophic consequences for the economy and everyday life in the oblast.... A Russian Government delegation headed by V. Mikhaylov, minister of atomic energy, recently visited Washington. Along with foreign specialists it elaborated a plan for shutting down reactors producing weapons-grade plutonium once alternative sources of power and heat supply have begun to function. In this connection an intergovernmental agreement will be signed on ending the military use of plutonium produced after the conclusion of the agreement. Russia proposes modifying reactors to enable them to be switched to a purely peaceful power generating system. Agreements are all very well, but what is the alternative? For Tomsk it could be four power stations burning natural gas. In Seversk it is planned to modernize the heat and electric power station, shutting down the gas turbines. I. Petukhov, deputy chief engineer of the Siberian Chemical Combine, believes that there are still plenty of weaknesses in the plan. It will cost $250 million to bring four gas-turbine stations on stream for the oblast center. Another $120 million will be needed to increase the gas pipelines' capacity. And it will cost $25 million to reequip the assembly shop at the plant which would be producing the gas turbines. Where will these millions come from? The U.S. side has been quite cautious about the possible economic support. Russia has been left to rely primarily on its own resources. Consequently, the expenditure will increase, as will the time taken to implement the plan. That is what people in the nuclear sector think. As a more purposeful idea they are proposing the construction of a nuclear-powered heat and electric power station, which will be comparable in terms of cost, but will have the edge environmentally.
