FBIS3-21990 "jptdd012__l94012" JPRS-TDD-94-012-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 23 January 1994 LATIN AMERICA BELIZE Police Suspected Following Disappearance of Over 10 Kg of Seized Cocaine 94WD0255A Belize City THE REPORTER in English 23 Jan 94 p 1 94WD0255A Belize City THE REPORTER Language: English Article Type:CSO [Text] Police headquarters in Belmopan has launched a top flight investigation into the activities of its Belize City Special Branch Squad after discovering more than ten kilos of confiscated cocaine worth more than $350,000 on the black market, missing from its strong vault in Eastern Division Headquarters. Reports say the heat is being focused on two veterans of the Force, both trusted members of Special Branch, who have become crooked cops. Police Commissioner Sherman Zuniga Wednesday appointed a top brass investigative team headed by Assistant Commissioner Ornell Brooks. The two others are Senior Superintendent Alvan Rowland and Superintendent Raymond Thimbrell. Two officers who have not been identified have been detained, and reports say, one or more arrests are imminent. Police Commissioner Zuniga has promised he will hold a press briefing when the investigations are complete. Police first knew that something was seriously wrong on Tuesday when a package of 2.1 kilograms of confiscated cocaine with special police markings to identify it turned up on the streets of Belize City. Last Tuesday night the police busted three guys who were trying to peddle the stuff in front of the Fort George Radisson. During some intense questioning police learned the name of at least one officer working with the Crimes Investigation Bureau. The investigation has been expanded to include the police Sergeant in charge of the Police strong room where confiscated drugs are kept under lock and key. The Police image has been tarnished time after time by crooked cops who commit crimes and get off with just a rap on the wrist. This time however there is every indication that Police Commissioner Sherman Zuniga will press criminal charges which could lead to extended jail sentences for the guilty officers.
