FBIS4-6078 "dreas074__a94020" FBIS-EAS-94-074-A Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 ANNEX Japan ODA To Fund Export of Industrial Property System ODA To Fund Export of Industrial Property System OW1304141194 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN in Japanese 8 Apr 94 Morning Edition p 7--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1304141194 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Text] On 7 April, the International Trade and Industry Ministry Patent Office disclosed that Japan's official development assistance (ODA) program will be expanded and applied to a private training program on industrial property rights. The aim of private training programs using ODA funding has so far been to promote exchanges of technology. But additional ODA funds will now be used to support a training program on Japanese industrial property rights, which will be carried out from this fall by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation [JIII] (an auxiliary organization to the Patent Office). This is in response to the agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIP) reached in the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations, which urges developing countries to establish an industrial property system. Tokyo plans to assist developing countries mainly in Asia in establishing the system, thereby exporting Japan's system of protecting property rights to those countries. The training program will be carried out mainly by the Industrial Property Patents and International Cooperation Training Center, which was established by the JIII on 1 April. The center will dispatch Japanese private sector patent specialists to foreign countries and also invite specialists from foreign companies so that Japan's patent application system for such products as computer circuits and semiconductors will take root overseas. ASEAN will be a main participant in the project. The project will be funded by a portion of an ODA subsidy (which totals 9 billion yen in fiscal 1993) provided to the Japan Overseas Development Council (JODC) and the Association for Overseas Technical Scholarship (AOTS). The subsidy will cover one-third to one-half of trainees' living expenses during their stay in Japan. Developing countries have been trying to establish an industrial property system following the Uruguay Round agreement, which obligates them to establish one. The United States and the European Union have been working to export their own industrial property systems to developing countries in a bid to help private companies make inroads into those countries in the future. Similarly, Japan's training program is aimed at conforming an industrial property system in Asia to Japan's to back Japanese companies in making inroads into developing countries in Asia.
