FBIS4-68333 "jpusp004___94009" JPRS-USP-94-004 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia: Space 3 March 1994 SPACE SCIENCES Details on KoronaS-I Solar Research Satellite Details on KoronaS-I Solar Research Satellite 947Q0090B Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 3 Mar 94 p 9 947Q0090B Moscow SEGODNYA Russian CSO [Article by Veronika Romanenkova: "Orientation on the Sun. The `KoronaS-I' Station Looks Steadily at the Star"] [Text] An automatic universal station with orientation on the sun, the "KoronaS-I," was launched on the morning of 2 March from the Plesetsk cosmodrome by means of a Tsiklon booster. The implementation of the international project "KoronaS" (Complex Orbital Circumterrestrial Observations of Solar Activity), initiated yesterday, will make it possible to obtain new data on the star closest to the Earth. The sun is not only an energy source vitally important for earthlings, but also is the object responsible for magnetic storms causing malfunctions of equipment and even its complete breakdown. The space vehicle will carry 12 sets of instruments, four of which exceed the world quality level. These include the Russian Terek telescope, the Defos, intended for research on global solar oscillations, the SKL for research on solar cosmic rays and the Sors solar microwave spectrometer. The booster and vehicle were fabricated in the Ukraine. Poland, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, France, the United States and Germany also participated in the project. The participation of these countries in the project is attributable to the fact that Russia already for many years has studied the sun and has attained good results. But recently there has not been enough money to go around. And it has been advantageous for other countries to join with the USSR, saving considerable sums and entering the ranks of leaders in the solar research field. The automatic orbital station, being situated alongside the sun, will make measurements whose implementation from the Earth is impossible. With its assistance it will be possible to make a more detailed study of the sun's internal structure, to investigate the phenomena transpiring on this star, and to ascertain the reason for the "escape" of jets of matter from the sun. The guaranteed lifetime of the KoronaS-I is a year, but Professor Viktor Orayevskiy, doctor of physical and mathematical sciences, scientific director of the project, director of the Institute of Terrestrial Magnetism, Ionosphere and Radio Wave Propagation (IZMIR), Russian Academy of Sciences, hopes that the satellite will operate for six or seven years, to the next solar activity peak. The "KoronaS-I" will operate in a so-called quasisolar synchronous orbit. This means that for approximately 25 days the satellite will not "set" in the Earth's shadow but will "look" at the sun. Then a drift of the orbit will occur, the space vehicle will enter the shadow and after some time will return to its place.
