FBIS3-56457 "drsov011_b_94045" FBIS-SOV-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Russia's Choice Officials React to Gaydar Resignation Secretary Yushenkov Comments LD1601185294 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1700 GMT 16 Jan 94 LD1601185294 Moscow Russian Television Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Vesti" newscast] [Text] A meeting of the bureau of the parliamentary faction of the Russia's Choice bloc was held this morning. Sergey Yushenkov, secretary of the faction, said that members of the bureau unanimously backed Yegor Gaydar's decision to resign from the post of first deputy prime minister. Yushenkov also said that Minister of Finance Boris Fedorov also intends to leave the government because, like Gaydar, he is unable to bear responsibility for a policy that will inevitably result in a new spiral of inflation. However, Boris Fedorov himself has so far declined to give any information about his own plans. He said that Yegor Gaydar's statement on his refusal to join the government came as a complete surprise to him. Meanwhile, leading Russian banking circles have told Interfax that they regard Boris Fedorov as a symbol of reform in Russia and that they might perceive his departure from the top echelons of the government as symptomatic of a possible change in the direction of the reforms. At his press conference, Yegor Gaydar stated that Viktor Chernomyrdin had asked him during their conversation about his view of the possible appointment of Grigoriy Yavlinskiy to the post of first deputy prime minister in the new government. Gaydar said that he would warmly support his candidacy. As for Yavlinskiy, the leader of the Yabloko parliamentary bloc, he told the Interfax agency that no one has offered him a place in the Russian Government. Asked whether he would accept such an offer were it to be forthcoming, Yavlinsky replied: Most probably not, but all the same it is too soon to say. Moreover, an offer to join the government in the post of first deputy prime minister has to come from the president, and I have my doubts as to whether I could work with Boris Yeltsin, Yavlinskiy stressed.
