FBIS4-9691 "drlat062_r_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-062 Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 Peru Argentina To Back Export of Peruvian Radioisotopes Argentina To Back Export of Peruvian Radioisotopes PY3003010194 Lima Radio Programas del Peru Network in Spanish 1800 GMT 29 Mar 94 PY3003010194 Lima Radio Programas del Peru Network Spanish BFN [Report by Enrique Vidal] [Text] Argentine Ambassador Arturo Osorio has said that Argentina will support Peru's bid to export radioisotopes produced at the Huarangal nuclear plant. He said this after visiting the modern facilities located some 33 km north of Lima. In the company of Peruvian Nuclear Energy Institute Director Conrado Seminario, Osorio made the following comments: [Begin recording] [Osorio] We have visited this nuclear plant and can appreciate its optimum level of efficiency, the high level of professional training, and their excellent skill in handling this delicate nuclear plant, which also represents a security issue for the world. It conforms to the strictest nuclear safety regulations and it is really marvelous. It is a great satisfaction for those of us who have worked together to build this nuclear power plant as it will enable us to continue our partnership from a commercial standpoint or through the reciprocal transfer of technology by means of this great work, which is perhaps the most important nuclear reactor in Latin America. [Unidentified reporter] Are you hinting at the possibility of entering into an export partnership? [Osorio] Yes, there is that possibility. [Reporter] How could this be made into something concrete, Mr. Ambassador? [Osorio] That is a subject for experts to address. I believe that once the authorities of both countries discuss things at technical level, we will have, perhaps in the near future, a positive [words indistinct]. [end recording] That was Argentine Ambassador to Lima Arturo Osorio, after making a technical inspection of the Huarangal nuclear power plant and its 10-megawatt reactor accompanied by Conrado Seminario. The plant building, which will also produce radioisotopes used in medicine and in industry, has been possible thanks to the technical cooperation of Argentine experts. We should point out that 35 percent of the electrical energy consumed in Argentina is produced by nuclear power plants.
