FBIS4-44780 "jpest010___94008" JPRS-EST-94-010 JPRS Science & Technology Europe/International 7 June 1994 WEST EUROPE ADVANCED MATERIALS Swedish Navy Tests New Ultra-Light Stronger-Than-Steel Shafts Swedish Navy Tests New Ultra-Light Stronger-Than-Steel Shafts BR2204141494 Toddington NEW MATERIALS INTERNATIONAL in English Apr 94 pp 2-3 BR2204141494 Toddington NEW MATERIALS INTERNATIONAL English BFN [Unattributed article: "Shafts Cut Weight by 70 Percent in Naval Use"] [Text] Shafts made of a new composite material which is stronger than steel, reduces the weight up to 70 percent and lowers installation and maintenance costs, have been introduced by Applied Composites in Linkoping, south Sweden. The new composite, made of carbon fibers, aramid and glass fibers, is in use in an experimental craft, called Smyge, a stealth vessel for the Swedish Royal Navy. Shafts installed in Smyge, which has undergone four years of extensive tests, have shown no signs of fatigue. According to laboratory tests, shafts made of carbon composites transmit over 10 times more torque by weight than a steel shaft, or about 3,300 Nm per kg compared to 150 Nm per kg for a steel shaft. Nor is it necessary to change the transmission system for the installation of composite shafts which are available in a standard production range of 6.5 meters or more in length and up to 2 meters in diameter. By combining different types of fibres and varying the angles, shafts can be tailor-made for different purposes. Using filament winding it is possible to make the composite shafts stronger than steel said the company, which is part of the Celsius Group, the leading Swedish defense industry. The fibers most commonly used are glass, carbon and aramid with epoxy or vinylester resin. As composite shafts have a much higher critical speed than conventional metal shafts, they can reduce or eliminate the need of bearings. Composite shafts are non-corrosive, non-magnetic, non-conductive and have higher damage tolerance and reduced vibrations. They can be used as drive shafts, wheel shafts, rudder shafts and rods. Weight reduction is one of the most important properties of the composite shafts; a traditional metal shaft with a weight of about 7 tons can for example be substituted by a composite shaft weighting approximately 300 to 400 kg.
