FBIS4-506 "drafr070_c_94045" FBIS-AFR-94-070 Daily Report 10 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA NPKF `Blue Berets' To Deploy `This Week' NPKF `Blue Berets' To Deploy `This Week' MB1004092294 Johannesburg SUNDAY TIMES in English 10 Apr 94 p 1 MB1004092294 Johannesburg SUNDAY TIMES English BFN [Report by Peter De Ionno] [Text] The "Blue Berets" of the National Peacekeeping Force [NPKF] are to be deployed in township battle zones this week. On Tuesday [11 April], 1,300 members of Battalion 2 of the NPKF will leave the De Brug training camp near Bloemfontein for the East Rand, where they will take over from the SADF's [South African Defense Force] Group 41. Another 2,000 peacekeepers will be deployed from the base after further training. Other NPKF troops, being evaluated after their initial training at Koeberg near Cape Town, are expected to be sent to Natal in the last week of this month. One of the three senior offices dismissed from the NPKF earlier this week, Captain Johan Loots, said he would begin legal steps tomorrow to challenge his sacking. The NPKF dismissed the officer for allegedly arranging an unauthorised media visit to the De Brug camp and dealing with the media without approval. Captain Loots, a media liaison officer seconded from the SAP [South African Police], said he had been made a scapegoat "because the NPKF has had negative publicity". "I always acted within the code of conduct," he said. NPKF liaison officer Major Muff Anderson said certain media statements had "created antagonism between the troops and the TEC [Transitional Executive Council] ". Colonel Duma Mdutyana, NPKF chief of staff, and Lieutenant-Colonel George Sibanyoni, former commander of Battalion 1, were also relieved of their duties on April 5 after NPKF commander Major-General Gabriel Ramushwana was informed of court cases pending against them. Colonel Mdutyana is facing a charge of drunken driving in an NPKF vehicle in Johannesburg on March 20. Colonel Sibanyoni was charged with culpable homicide after the NPKF vehicle he was driving was involved in a fatal accident in Mamelodi on the weekend of March 11-13.
