FBIS3-5487 "dreas045_a_94015" FBIS-EAS-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan MITI Official Opposed to Macroeconomic Goals OW0803112894 Tokyo KYODO in English 1110 GMT 8 Mar 94 OW0803112894 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 8 KYODO -- A senior official of the Trade Ministry opposed a proposal Tuesday [8 March] for Japan to set quantitative goals in macroeconomic fields as part of its efforts to cut its huge trade surplus. Japan should not make the achievement of a specific ratio of current account surplus against gross domestic product (GDP) into a government commitment, said the official, who declined to be identified. It is impossible for the government to guarantee the fulfillment of such a pledge, the official said, explaining that current account balance figures are easily affected by external factors beyond government control, such as crude oil prices. The official at the Ministry of International Trade and Industry [MITI] was commenting on Monday's proposal by the Japan Association of Corporate Executives (Keizai Doyukai) to reduce the profit ratio to 2 percent of the GDP within three years. To set such an economic goal is tantamount to the "numerical targets" Japan has repeatedly rejected in trade talks with Washington as managed trade, the official said. He said Tokyo cannot go beyond seeking to achieve "a highly significant decrease" in its current account surplus as agreed during the Japan-U.S. summit in July 1993. The comments came amid growing calls from both within and outside the government for Japan to set some macroeconomic goals in order to mend the soured economic ties with the United States. The Foreign Ministry, for example, proposed the GDP profit ratio be cut to 2.8 percent for fiscal 1994 from the 3.1 percent estimated for the current year. On a revival of a U.S. trade provision known as Super 301, the MITI official said he feels the step is designed to smooth the way for a breakthrough in the Japan-U.S. trade dispute rather than targeting Tokyo for retaliation. Under the provision, Washington will identify trade practices it finds unfair to U.S. products, using findings from an annual survey on global trading practices set for release at the end of March. The U.S. administration would then have until September 30 to pinpoint priority countries engaged in unfair trading. The U.S. may have selected a September deadline, rather than an earlier one as previously expected, to reflect Washington's consideration toward Japan and give it more time to take market- opening steps, the official said.
