FBIS4-24338 "drafr126_d_94004" FBIS-AFR-94-126 Daily Report 30 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola UNITA Ambassador on Sanctions UNITA Ambassador on Sanctions MB3006102994 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro in Portuguese 0600 GMT 30 Jun 94 MB3006102994 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro Portuguese BFN [Text] Dr. Marcos Samondo yesterday urged the UN Security Council not to impose sanctions against the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] in view of the progress made in the ongoing negotiations. [Begin Samondo recording] I hope the good sense will prevail so that the UN Security Council does not make the mistake of imposing sanctions on UNITA, because this will just complicate the process, and will not bring peace to Angola. [end recording] Dr. Marcos Samondo, UNITA's representative in New York, later on said that UNITA wants to govern Huambo because it is a matter of survival, since Huambo is a place of security for UNITA, and this should be understood within the framework of reconciliation. [Begin Samondo recording] At present there is an obstacle on the issue of governing Huambo. It is vital that the Security Council understand that Huambo is important for UNITA, because Huambo at present represents a third in security and protection against government intents. As you know populations were massacred in Luanda [words indistinct]. The observers and the mediator have not yet understood the importance of Huambo in the national reconciliation process. I just hope that the Security Council will not state that UNITA should give up its stand on the Huambo issue, because for us Huambo is vital at this stage of negotiations, as well as in this process of reconciliation, and in the agreements which may eventually be signed. [end recording] On the involvement of South African President Nelson Mandela in the Angolan peace process, encouraged by UN Special Representative Alioune Blondin Beye who has been to South Africa recently, and hailed by UNITA, the UNITA representative in the United Nations said this intervention may be void if the UN Security Council imposes further sanctions. [Begin Samondo recording] Chief Beye has recently been to South Africa where he met with South African President Mandela having requested him to play a role in the Angolan process. However, 90 percent of the document on the Lusaka accord is already complete, and only 10 percent remains to be tackled. On the 10 percent, the fundamental issue regards Huambo, and I believe President Mandela may play a positive role, but if the United Nations imposes sanctions on UNITA I do not believe Mr. Mandela will have any chance or opportunity of being involved in the mediation. [end recording]
