FBIS4-60957 "drsov084_l_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 Kyrgyzstan Foreign Ministry Issues Statement on Tajikistan Foreign Ministry Issues Statement on Tajikistan LD3004102494 Bishkek Kyrgyz Radio First Program Network in Kyrgyz 2300 GMT 29 Apr 94 LD3004102494 Bishkek Kyrgyz Radio First Program Network Kyrgyz BFN [Text] The Foreign Ministry of Kyrgyzstan has circulated a statement: The first round of talks on interethnic reconciliation in Tajikistan has taken place in Moscow. It was held under the auspices of the United Nations. Attending it were observers from Kazakhstan, Iran, Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Uzbekistan and Russia. The sides [word indistinct] a special address from the UN secretary general, agreed on and signed a joint declaration which urges the government of Tajikistan and the opposition forces to restrain from any kind of activities which might endanger the negotiating process. A protocol was signed by the sides involved on setting up a joint commission which will address issues of refugees and migrants from Tajikistan. Kyrgyzstan considers the aspiration of its participants to establish a political dialogue as an important result of the talks. The republic regards it as the only way for achieving national accord. Kyrgyzstan, as well as other CIS participants, expressed its concern with the situation on the Tajik-Afghan border still being tense. Kyrgyzstan is Tajikistan's nearest neighbor and therefore it cannot remain indifferent to the situation which has developed there. Kyrgyzstan in its foreign policy is guided by the principle of noninterference in the affairs of Tajikistan as a sovereign state and develops cooperation with it in accordance with the accepted norms of international law, the UN Charter, and Kyrgyzstan's liabilities as the CIS member-state. Kyrgyzstan pursues the policy of supporting peace-making efforts by international organizations and the CIS countries aimed at stabilizing the situation in Tajikistan. Kyrgyzstan stands for further developing of friendly cooperation with the Republic of Tajikistan, and recognizes its government which has been elected in accordance with the Constitution. Kyrgyzstan always spoke in favor of holding a political dialogue between the government of Tajikistan and the opposition. It would have created conditions for overcoming the developed conflict situation and national reconciliation in Tajikistan. The Foreign Ministry of Kyrgyzstan supports the aspiration of the participants of the talks to develop the negotiating process with the aim of achieving national accord. Kyrgyzstan is sure that there are possibilities for political settlement of the situation in Tajikistan, normalization of the situation on the Tajik-Afghan border. All the sides involved should show their good will.
