FBIS4-12518 "drnes069yy_94012" FBIS-NES-94-069 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks PLO's 'Arafat Accuses Israel of `Maneuvering' PLO's 'Arafat Accuses Israel of `Maneuvering' Interview With Spanish Radio LD0804224294 Madrid RNE-1 Radio Network in Spanish 2100 GMT 8 Apr 94 LD0804224294 Madrid RNE-1 Radio Network Spanish BFN [Report on interview with PLO leader Yasir 'Arafat by correspondent del Campo in Tunis on 8 April] [Text] [Announcer] Returning to the international news again, we go to Tunisia where the headquarters of the PLO is. There, barely an hour ago, a Radio Nacional de Espana special correspondent was able to interview the Palestinian leader Yasir 'Arafat at a crucial moment for the history of the Middle East, following the recent explosions of violence, threatening the whole peace process. Gloria del Campo is in Tunisia. Good evening. [passage omitted] [Correspondent del Campo] Good evening. I have to say at the outset that the interview was with a group of 14 European and Japanese journalists, on a mission organized by the United Nations to get to know at first hand the Palestinian problem. This year, Radio Nacional de Espana represents Spain on this mission. Yasir 'Arafat was really pessimistic about the immediate application of Palestinian autonomy in Gaza and Jericho, which was to have begun on 13 April, and he insistently accused Israel of maneuvering in order not to begin this autonomy. This is Yasir 'Arafat: [Begin 'Arafat recording, in English fading into Spanish translation] It is not the first maneuvering. If it is the first manoeuvring, OK, we can let it go. [end recording] [Del Campo] 'Arafat said that this was not the first maneuvering by Israel, but if it was the first they could let it go. But 'Arafat, who, incidently, looked very tired -- he had just returned from Cairo where the negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians are being held -- stressed that Israel has suspended the negotiations in Cairo from Wednesday to Sunday under the formal pretext of the celebration of the day of the Jewish holocaust, but he emphasized that in contrast they have not suspended for the same reason the negotations being held in Paris with the Palestinians and Israelis on economic issues. Thus, 'Arafat said, the date of 13 April, when, as I was saying, Palestinian autonomy in Gaza and Jericho was to begin, is not going to be met -- in line, incidently, with the statements made by the Israeli foreign minister who gives as the probable date the end of the month. 'Arafat says that after 13 April he will convene the Palestinian leadership here in Tunisia to study what is to be done and in addition he called on the international community, the United States and Russia who are the co-sponsors of the Middle East peace process, and also the European Union and Japan, to help to resolve this impasse in the negotiations. That is all for now. [Announcer] Those were the views expressed less than an hour ago by Yasir 'Arafat.
