FBIS4-59996 "drnes097_j_94023" FBIS-NES-94-097 Daily Report 18 May 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Council of Ministers Discusses Country's Conditions Council of Ministers Discusses Country's Conditions JN1805141794 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1200 GMT 18 May 94 JN1805141794 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Text] The Council of Ministers held its regular meeting this morning under the acting prime minister, Dr. Muhammad Sa'id al-'Attar. The Council discussed issues on the agenda, particularly reports presented to it on the military and security situation and the economic, supply, and information conditions under the current comprehensive national confrontation of the plot of apostasy, rebellion, and secession, which led the country to this situation with the aim of realizing the secessionists' desire which is opposed to the people and their unity and democracy, and undermining the constitutional legitimacy. After discussing the various reports, the Council expressed its satisfaction with the great success of the brave Yemeni Armed Forces who are defending unity and legitimacy in confronting the forces of insurgency and secession. The Council emphasized the tasks and duties which the various ministries and departments of public utilities are expected to perform during the present circumstances. Foremost of these tasks are tackling and repairing the disorders which the insurgent secessionists planned, and dealing with the living conditions and the economic and supply situations in the country. This requires the implementation of a speedy plan to make available all the necessary needs of consumer goods in all the republic's governorates. The Council decided to continue its meetings. The next session, which will be held tomorrow, will be devoted to discussing the detailed work of the executive and administrative sector and of each ministry. The Council agreed to the Civil Service Ministry's proposals concerning the holidays for the two great occasions, the blessed 'Id al-Adha and the fourth anniversary of the Yemeni Republic. The Council assigned each minister the task of fixing these holidays in a manner that will not affect the daily work in all ministries and public utilities during the present circumstances.
