FBIS3-38054 "drsov039_a_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Delegation Went Home `Empty-Handed' PM2802094394 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA in Russian 26 Feb 94 p 2 PM2802094394 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Yelena Ovcharenko and Leonid Timofeyev: "Have the Contents of the Slav Safe Been Sold to the Americans?"] [Text] If THE WASHINGTON POST is to be believed, a delegation of representatives of the U.S. special services has already visited Moscow, not postponing a "showdown" or waiting for the chief of the Foreign Intelligence Service to return from Bratislava. "The CIA team, which went to Moscow to discuss the 'Ames affair,' is returning without having managed to receive any useful information from Russian intelligence," AP notes. Our sources in the relevant departments did not try to dispute the Americans' assessmment, and even confirmed that their colleagues went away "empty-handed." But, excuse us: We think that it would be naive to suppose that the U.S. espionage aces visited our glorious city expecting to find out something about the Ameses. What then? Maybe they were trying to sort things out about "poaching"? It is, after all, no accident that a "leak" has appeared in the U.S. press to the effect that the FBI possesses films showing that a meeting had been planned between Ames and a Russian intelligence agent in Caracas. It is probably no accident either that our services recently detained a certain high-ranking person incriminated of spying for the United States. The Americans probably have their "hooks" into other people with Russian passports working both in the United States and in "third" countries. Their Russian colleagues also have such documents. The Federal Counterintelligence Service Public Relations Center expressed to us the hypothesis that the representatives of U.S. special services could be in Moscow in order to ask us not to touch any of their intelligence agents or agencies. But none of the foreigners have appeared in the Federal Counterintelligence Service's lobbies in recent days, and coffee has not been ordered in the reception rooms for the official delegations. No, most likely this was not an exchange of mutual grievances. Most probably, the Americans, who have involved their President in an unprecedentedly tough and hard-hitting role in the spy mania campaign, who themselves blew up the "affair" to the proportions of a national tragedy, came to Moscow to size up the prospects for the contacts which -- as is well known -- exist between the two countries' special services. Have they not gone too far, have they not spoiled everything hopelessly? Of course, no official will say whether this is the case. But experts propose that the "spylords" could have actually taken away specific proposals with them from Moscow. Though we think that AP is right here: They returned from the Russian capital, to a Washington resounding from the spy "fall-out," with nothing at all.
