FBIS3-11884 "drlat059__a94005" FBIS-LAT-93-059-A Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 ANNEX Argentina Military Becoming Involved in Civilian Intelligence PY2203125694 Buenos Aires LA NACION in Spanish 19 Mar 94 p 5--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY2203125694 Buenos Aires LA NACION Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Eduardo Barcelona] [Text] The government has taken another step to involve the Armed Forces in internal intelligence activities, a move that is prohibited by the Defense Law. During the second week of March there was a secret meeting at the headquarters of the Joint Staff that was headed by Interior Minister Carlos Ruckauf with the participation of the intelligence chiefs of the Armed Forces. The social situation was evaluated during the meeting. General Mario Diaz and Hugo Anzorregui, the chief of Argentine spies, also participated in the meeting. Secretary General of the Presidency Eduardo Bauza met in his office on 7 March with Ruckauf and Defense Minister Oscar Camilion. During the meeting, Bauza expressed the president's wish for the military to cooperate in the vigilance of the country's social aspects following what is known, after the events in Santiago del Estero Province and in Mexico, as the Chiapas effect. A high ranking Defense Ministry source confirmed to LA NACION that the meetings did take place, although he made it clear that they were not official meetings in which the Armed Forces were asked to step in and help in a matter that is banned for them. He said that the only subject discussed was "an evaluation of the social sector in case the cooperation of the intelligence forces becomes necessary. The military provide effective logistic support. The military did not report, they listened," the official stressed. During the meeting at the headquarters of the Joint Staff, for example, an evaluation was made of the type of shield and tear gas that the Federal Police used during the 100th march of the pensioners in Plaza de Mayo. The first effective blow this year by Menem occurred when he called an urgent meeting of the military chiefs at the Olivos Residence. The meeting was held on 12 January when the effect of Chiapas was still being felt. The four chiefs of the Armed Forces and Ministers Camilion, Ruckauf, and Guido Di Tella participated in that meeting. Two days later it was learned that the government had set aside 40 million pesos for the purchase of war materiel for the police of the provinces and for the Border Guard. On 17 January, Ruckauf announced the creation of a rapid deployment force in response to the dangers of a social uprising. Radical Deputy Antonio Berhongaray on 18 March requested that Camilion and Ruckauf be summoned before the body for questioning "regarding the orders that the executive branch has given the military intelligence organizations regarding their tasks."
