FBIS3-30102 "dreas038_a_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 February 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Tokyo Critical of U.S. Move To Enact Sanctions OW2502102694 Tokyo KYODO in English 1011 GMT 25 Feb 94 OW2502102694 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Feb. 25 KYODO -- The Japanese Foreign Ministry on Friday [25 February] rapped moves in the United States to draw up a bill targeting trade with Japan, saying it is "unproductive" that Washington would draw such a bill unilaterally. "We think it is unproductive that the United States would draw up these bills unilaterally," Foreign Ministry spokesman Terusuke Terada said. He said the Japanese Government is making efforts to hammer out voluntary measures to open up its market, holding a cabinet-level meeting earlier in the day to discuss the matter. Terada was commenting on moves by a group of U.S. lawmakers led by House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt Thursday to introduce legislation requiring the U.S. Government to retaliate against Japan unless the Japanese meet some U.S.-set import targets. The bill, or the Fair Market Access Act of 1994, requires the Commerce Department to define "objective criteria" for what the U.S. feels would be a fair market share in Japan for U.S. products. The bill was the second salvo this week from Congress on the troubled U.S.-Japanese trade relationship. On Tuesday, two key U.S. senators on trade matters submitted legislation to revive the so-called "Super 301" trade law, a measure that would require the U.S. Government to cite unfair foreign trade practices on an annual basis and retaliate if no settlement is reached through negotiations. Terada said the U.S. understanding that past bilateral agreements with Japan have had no results at all is wrong, saying there is "clear proof" that the two sides have made steady results out of the past arrangements. As such proof, he cited that Japan is the second largest market for exports of U.S. products and that NTT's [Nippon Telegraph & Telephone] procurement of foreign goods has increased 46 times over 13 years ago when an agreement was made. He also said there were 11 cases in 1993 in which Japan purchased supercomputers and that six of them were U.S.-made supercomputers. "So we can't understand the discussion on the other side of the Pacific Ocean that the past arrangements were ineffective, or that there were no results," Terada said.
