FBIS4-65272 "drweu094_o_94010" FBIS-WEU-94-094 Daily Report 15 May 1994 Cyprus Denktas Calls For Solution to Land Registry Problem Denktas Calls For Solution to Land Registry Problem TA1505161194 Nicosia Bayrak Radio in Turkish 1530 GMT 15 May 94 TA1505161194 Nicosia Bayrak Radio Turkish BFN [Excerpt] President Rauf Denktas has said that the Cyprus problem is speedily advancing toward a decision. Pointing out that the Greek Cypriots are taking unilateral steps to join the European Union [EU], Denktas added: This course of events will quickly take us somewhere. We should be morally and financially ready for this. Addressing the Turkish Peace Operation War Veterans Association's 10th General Council meeting in Lefkosa [Nicosia] today, Denktas said that more solidarity and unity are needed at the current stage of the Cyprus problem. Denktas said the Greek Cypriots have, with an unacceptable determination and insistence, begun to take steps toward joining the EU while Greece is trying to increase its territorial waters to 12 nautical miles. He added that the people's complaints regarding land registry problems should be solved in a bid to put a stop to this development. Denktas called on the government to open a new page and give land ownership to the people, adding that he has been fighting for this all along. Pointing out that he is speaking on behalf of the people and that his demands are on the half of the people, Denktas added: If this is not done, then I will choose to be with the people. He noted that one cannot achieve anything by saying that the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus will exist, adding that as long as the people do not say this is my country, land, and house, then nothing much can be achieved by empty words. He asked Prime Minister Hakki Atun to grant the people the ownership of their land and real estate. Also addressing the meeting, Atun said he shares Denktas' views and sentiments, adding that it is his duty to solve the problems of war veterans. He noted that priority will be given to the land registry problem, stressing that it will be solved soon. [passage omitted]
