FBIS3-59201 "drweu019__a94020" FBIS-WEU-94-019-A Document Type:Daily Report 28 January 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Meets Ciampi, Urges G-7 Membership BR2701162694 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 1446 GMT 27 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2701162694 Rome ANSAMAIL Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Premier Chernomyrdin in Rome"] [Text] Rome, 27 Jan (ANSA) -- Economic reforms in Russia will continue with "firm determination," Italian Prime Minister Carlo Azeglio Ciampi told reporters after meeting Chernomyrdin. The Russian premier, Ciampi said, is firmly convinced that reforms will move ahead and asked for Italy's support to be allowed to join the group of seven major industrialized nations. Italy in July will host the G-7 summit in Naples and Russian President Boris Yeltsin is expected to attend the last day's session. Chernomyrdin, Ciampi said, asked Italy to act so that the G-7 may become the "G-8" beginning with the Naples summit. As for reforms, Ciampi said he "heard with great pleasure a clear and full statement assuring that reforms not only will not move backward but will decisively move ahead." According to Ciampi, it is "inevitable" that stabilization and renewal processes have their "ups and downs and alternating phases," but "the firm Russian determination is beyond question." The G-7 summit, according to a joint statement released after the talks, will be "an important occasion" to make a progress report on Russian reforms towards a free market economy and for "a joint evaluation of international political events." The statement speaks of Russian reforms as "fundamental" and also describes Russia as having an increasingly important role in "the construction of a new Europe." The U.S.-sponsored Partnership for Peace, allowing Central and East European states closer ties with NATO, was also mentioned as a possible contribution to the creation of a single security system in the European continent, under the umbrella of the 52-member Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Chernomyrdin also spoke of the conflict in former Yugoslavia, saying that all efforts to stop the civil war there must be "peaceful and civil." Ciampi and the Russian premier signed a political statement and a declaration of principles that will form the basis of a future investment cooperation accord, as well as a separate agreement on the burial of Italian soldiers killed during the Russian campaign of World War II. Chernomyrdin on Friday will be received at the Vatican by Pope John Paul II and will meet Italian President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro.
