FBIS4-17555 "drsov080_i_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 CENTRAL ASIA Kazakhstan Supreme Council Examines `Temporary' Regulations Supreme Council Examines `Temporary' Regulations LD2504171494 Almaty Kazakh Radio Network in Kazakh 1400 GMT 25 Apr 94 LD2504171494 Almaty Kazakh Radio Network Kazakh BFN [Text] At their Saturday, 23 April, session, the parliamentarians examined a draft of the temporary regulations of the Supreme Council presented by Nikolay Akuyev. From the outset of the discussion of the document, it became clear that the deputies are very strict and particular about its endorsement. Serious debates were held with regard to nominations of candidatures for the posts of chairpersons of the parliamentary committees. A provision was adopted that these candidates would be nominated not only by the speaker, but also by the deputies. A statement on behalf of a group of the members of the Supreme Council representing Karaganda and Kostanay Oblasts was made by Boris Marinushkin. The serious economic situation of the Republic is at issue in this statement. The deputies believe that the government and the leadership of the National Bank are to blame for this situation. The deputies put forward a proposal to the Constitutional Court of the Republic to examine the competence and legality of measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank. At today's morning session examination of the draft of the temporary regulation was resumed. Provisions for setting up deputies' factions and groups and organizing hearings in the Council were discussed in full detail. The deputies disputed those articles of the temporary regulations that envisage the setting up and functioning of the coordination council of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council should have a special collegiate organ that will resolve unresolvable problems. The position of those who put the proposal forward got the upper hand as result of the vote. At last, the temporary regulation was endorsed; it has been suggested to produce by 1 July the standing regulation of the Supreme Council for examination by the deputies. The session then began to examine behind closed doors the issue concerning the maintenance and provision of work of the Supreme Council deputies.
