FBIS4-63236 "drsov098_e_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-098 Daily Report 18 May 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Officers Said To Have Participated in Congress in Russia Officers Said To Have Participated in Congress in Russia WS1905124194 Kiev KIYEVSKIYE VEDOMOSTI in Russian 18 May 94 p 3 WS1905124194 Kiev KIYEVSKIYE VEDOMOSTI Russian BFN [Report by Gennadiy Klyuchikov: "Number of Officers Decreases, Whereas That of Officers' Unions -- Increases"] [Text] Information has flashed through Russian media about a congress of the Officers' Union [SO], held under heightened secrecy somewhere in a Moscow suburban area. The main issue on the congress agenda was the creation of a network of military political structures in the system of power ministries both in Russia and other former USSR republics. It addition, it was envisioned that this structure would be under the rigid control of Moscow. Congress participants, who represented analogous organizations in their countries, including Ukraine and the Crimea, expressed their wish to transform themselves into republican branches of the SO and actively work for the restoration of Soviet power in all the Republics of the "disintegrated, but not annihilated, USSR." It is known that the SO has a fairly strong position in the central apparatus of the Defense Ministries of Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus. SO leaders did not hide that they have pertinent information from these ministries on what is going on in the higher echelons of power, including top-secret documents. The leadership of the Ukraine Officers' Union firmly denies any participation by its delegates in this congress. Does this mean that another, virtually unknown, officers' union is operating in Ukraine's Armed Forces? Our Defense Ministry has seemingly not heard of either the SO congress or of the participation of Ukrainian Army representatives in it. Defense Ministry leadership will have to find out who consented to the Ukrainian servicemen's participation in the Moscow congress. However, some conclusions can be drawn right now. The main conclusion is quite clear: The Army is not a place for any unions, since it always tends to be politicized and struggling for power, inevitably splitting servicemen into "good guys" and "bad guys."
