FBIS4-41416 "drsov122_b_94029" FBIS-SOV-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military, Nuclear & Space Issues `Start' Conversion Missile To Be Tested `Start' Conversion Missile To Be Tested LD2306131994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0815 GMT 23 Jun 94 LD2306131994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Anatoliy Yurkin] [Text] Moscow, 23 Jun -- Preparations for the launch of a "Start" missile within a conversion program for the use of weapons systems for peaceful purposes have started. The preparations are under way at the state test range of strategic missile troops in Mirnyy, Arkhangel Oblast. In an exclusive interview with an ITAR- TASS correspondent, Lieutenant General Yuriy Zhuravlev, head of the test range, said that henceforth "Topol" missiles would not be destroyed after their service life. According to him, after modification at the factory, each system will be used for placing non-military satellites into near-earth orbit. Using extra-budgetary funds, enterprises of the defense complex have carried out experimental and design work to improve "Topol" specifications and presented an experimental specimen for tests at the state test range of strategic missile troops. In Gen. Zhuravlev's view, a new rocket, named "Start," has been developed. It has a strictly peaceful purpose promising great economic benefits to Russia. Contracts for launching communications satellites, worth many millions, have already been signed with South Africa and other countries. In Gen. Zhuravlev's view, the "Start" can put satellites in orbit from anywhere in the world. Its movable platform and control block can be carried by different transport vehicles. Preparations for a launch take no more than several minutes. After test range trials the "Start" will put a satellite in orbit, and this will be the first step in using the famous "Topol" system for peaceful purposes. The launch is to take place somewhere in September, and in the meantime preparations for using this unique Russian missile system in a new role are in full swing, Lt.-Gen. Zhuravlev said.
