FBIS4-5320 "dreas069_h_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-069 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Malaysia Christians Not `Target' of Philippine Maid Raid Christians Not `Target' of Philippine Maid Raid BK0804093294 Kuala Lumpur NEW STRAITS TIMES in English 6 Apr 94 p 11 BK0804093294 Kuala Lumpur NEW STRAITS TIMES English BFN [Text] Kuala Lumpur, Tues. -- The round-up of 1,500 Filipino maids at Saint John's Cathedral here on March 27 was not a deliberate attempt to target foreign Christian workers. Deputy Home Minister Datuk Megat Junid Megat Ayub said today that the Government considered such an exercise as routine and part of the on-going operation to detain foreign workers without valid travel and employment papers. He criticised certain foreign newspapers for their reports which had implied the exercise was targeted at Christian foreign workers. "Just because the operation took place in a church area, it has been misconstrued as targeting Christian foreign workers," he said. "Such reports were not only mischievious but also untrue," he added. Megat Junid was speaking to newsmen at his office at the Prime Minister's Department here. He said that in the past the police and immigration authorities had rounded up illegal foreign workers at other places of worship without protest from their governments. "There have been operations where foreign Muslim workers who did not have the proper papers were detained at mosques where they slept" he said. Yesterday, the Philippines Foreign Office in Manila summoned a senior Malaysian diplomat to express deep concern over the round-up of the Filipino maids. Charge d'affaires Mohamed Noh told Foreign Secretary Roberto Romula the action was part of periodic checks by Malaysian authorities against illegal immigrants. Megat Junid said the operation was carried out at Saint John's Cathedral following media reports that some Filipino maids were involved in vice activities. Of the 1,500 who were taken to the Immigration Department headquarters here, 711 were found without valid travel documents.
