FBIS4-29130 "dreas116_j_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-116 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 Indonesia Suharto `Concerned' Over Nuclear Tension Suharto `Concerned' Over Nuclear Tension BK1606104594 Jakarta ANTARA in English 0942 GMT 16 Jun 94 BK1606104594 Jakarta ANTARA English BFN [Text] Jakarta, Jun 16 (ANTARA) -- Indonesia is concerned about the increasing tension on the Korean peninsula and hopes that conflicting sides return to the negotiating table to seek diplomatic solution, head of the Nonaligned Movement (NAM) Executive Board Nana Sutresna said here Thursday. President Suharto has asked Nana Sutresna to investigate what steps he can take as the chairman of NAM to help ease the tension. The tension in Korea has increased after some Western countries accuse North Korea of having nuclear facilities and keep pushing for Pyongyang nuclear inspections. The United States has proposed economic sanction against North Korea at the UN level because Pyongyang resists the inspections. North Korea announced this week it was pulling out of the International Atomic Energy Agency after resisting the inspection attempt. Flanked by State Secretary/Minister Murdiono, Nana Sutresna was reporting to President Suharto results of the ministerial meeting of NAM held in Cairo, Egypt recently. The participants of the Cairo meeting, according to Sutresna, hailed the steps taken by Indonesia as the current NAM chairman, in trying to help solve the problem on the Korean peninsula. President Suharto has sent letters to North Korea President Kim Il-Song and UN Secretary General Butrus-Butrus Ghali regarding the matter, he said. He also explained about the upcoming NAM meeting in Jakarta to discuss the debt burden faced by the 18 most poorest countries which are members of NAM. Meanwhile, the NAM chairman has appointed some Indonesian economists led by Wijoyo Nitisastro to help the NAM member countries solve their debt problem. He said that apart from the 18 countries, there are other NAM members wishing to attend the Jakarta meeting expected to be held before August 17, the Indonesian Independence Day.
