FBIS3-41612 "jpten004___94082" JPRS-TEN-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 17 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Moscow River `Dangerous to Life' Due to Pollution LD0112221293 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1700 GMT 1 Dec 93 LD0112221293 Moscow Russian Television Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the ``Vesti'' newscast] [Text] The results have been summed up of two years' work on a program for the comprehensive inspection of the water route of the Moscow River within the city's boundaries. After receiving the results of the analysis of the water and its inhabitants, researchers have recognized the Moscow River to be dangerous to life. [Correspondent Yevgeniy Pogorelova, over video showing Moscow River] What is the Moscow River? A port for five seas on tourist postcards or a huge garbage dump with 18 million cubic meters of toxic waste on its bottom? [Video shows map of river] On this map of the Moscow River, the sections marked in red and yellow are dangerous or extremely dangerous zones where permissible norms of contents of salts of heavy metals and toxic substances have been exceeded by hundreds of times. Iron, lead, and arsenic have been discovered in the silt on the bed of the river in the area of the Kremlin, the Yauza estuary, Setun and Skhodnya. The contents of mercury in the river downstream of ZIL [Moscow's major motor works] exceeds all permissible norms by 250 times. [Video shows samples of fish caught in the river] This is fish that lives in the river -- monsters with irreversible genetic changes, without fins and scales, goggle-eyed, and with cancer tumors. According to ichthyologists from the Moscow State University and the Institute of Evolutionary Morphology of the Academy of Sciences, the process of mutation takes several years with fish and several decades with human beings. The laboratory assistants who are conducting research into mutants' internal organs have received grave poisoning. The latest research has shown radioactive elements in the water in the area of Strogino. The Moscow River is turning into a dead reservoir and everyone who comes into contact with it is being subjected to the danger of mutation and cancer.
