FBIS3-44897 "drchi006_d_94018" FBIS-CHI-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 Northeast Asia Reports on ROK's Yi Man-sop's Visit to Beijing Li Peng Welcomes Yi OW0801125394 Beijing XINHUA in English 1237 GMT 8 Jan 94 OW0801125394 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 8 (XINHUA) -- Chinese Premier Li Peng said here today that the economies of China and the Republic of Korea (ROK) are highly complementary to each other and that bilateral cooperation in this regard has bright prospects. Li made the remarks at a meeting with Yi Man-sop, speaker of ROK's National Assembly, and his party here this afternoon. The Chinese premier extended a warm welcome to Yi, who is the first speaker of the ROK National Assembly to visit China since the two countries established diplomatic relations. He expressed the belief that the visit would play a positive role in promoting the development of bilateral ties, mutual understanding and cooperation between the two peoples and two parliaments. The satisfactory development of bilateral cooperation and exchanges in every field was the result of the joint efforts on both sides, he said, adding that the two parliaments have also done their bit in this respect. He noted that ROK's economy has been developing rapidly and that the country has economic and technological advantages of its own. China's economy is also growing vigorously and the prospects of cooperation between the two countries are bright, he stressed. The Chinese people are now concentrating on their economic development at home and pursuing a foreign policy of peace abroad, Li said. "We attach special importance to developing friendly ties of cooperation with our neighbors," Li noted. On domestic affairs, Li said China's economic growth in the past decade resulted from the reform and opening-up policies initiated by Deng Xiaoping. "We are going to put forward a series of reform measures in the future," he said. These reforms would be active as well as sustained and the relations between reform, development and stability would be handled properly, he added. Speaking of his visit here, Yi said his delegation had extensive contacts and mutual understanding with China's National People's Congress (NPC) and other departments. The ROK's National Assembly would play an active role in promoting ROK-China ties, Yi noted. "We admire Mr. Deng Xiaoping very much. We have seen with our own eyes the great achievements China has made while maintaining its stability," Yi told the Chinese premier. Tian Jiyun, vice-chairman of the NPC's Standing Committee, took part in the meeting. This moring, Deng Pufang, president of the China Association for the Handicapped, met with Yi at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse. The two had a cordial talk.
