FBIS3-4645 "dreas039_d_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 South Korea Contact Fails To Reach Full Agreement SK2602025294 Seoul YONHAP in English 0236 GMT 26 Feb 94 SK2602025294 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] New York, Feb. 25 (YONHAP) -- North Korea and the United States, resuming their working-level contact at UN headquarters on Friday to discuss Pyongyang's acceptance of nuclear inspections and other issues, failed to reach a final agreement. After the meeting, Ho Chong, deputy chief of the North Korean mission to the United Nations, told reporters that he and U.S. officials had discussed taking four simultaneous steps but that they could not narrow their differences. Ho said a meeting would be held again later in the day, but U.S. representative Tom Hubbard, deputy assistant secretary of state for Asian and Pacific affairs, had a doubt about the possibility. Hubbard was unsure whether another contact would take place later that day, citing the U.S. position that this was unnecessary unless North Korea offered a compromise. At Wednesday's contact, Pyongyang proposed that it and Washington take four simultaneous steps including joint announcement of a third round of high-level talks and suspension of this year's Team Spirit military exercise. The other two steps are North Korea's positive consideration of meeting with South Korea on an exchange of special envoys, and Pyongyang's acceptance of International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspections, according to a North Korean official. The U.S. delegation which attended Wednesday's contact returned to Washington on Thursday, but North Korean officials asked the Americans to resume their talks after receiving instructions from Pyongyang, according to sources. Announcement of a final agreement had been expected at Friday's contact, but the two sides seemingly failed again to agree on an exchange of special envoys between South and North Korea, diplomatic sources said. Pyongyang maintains that if Seoul proposed exchanging special envoys, it would agree to preparatory talks, while Washington asserts that the exchange must be realized. Washington is saying that a decision on the schedule for the third round of high-level talks with Pyongyang and suspension of Team Spirit are possible only after the IAEA begins inspection of North Korea's nuclear sites. North Korea, on the other hand, is insisting that all steps be taken simultaneously.
