FBIS4-40602 "drsov118_a_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Foreign Ministry Statement on Talks With SRV Foreign Ministry Statement on Talks With SRV LD1806134394 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0734 GMT 18 Jun 94 LD1806134394 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Andrey Bychkov] [Text] Moscow, 18 June -- Russia and Vietnam consider the results of Vietnamese Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet's official visit to Moscow, which ended 17 June, on the whole to be successful. Russia and Vietnam converge in the opinion that the visit will contribute to future progress in Russo-Vietnamese relations, upgrading them significantly, says a report distributed to the press by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs today. The ministry notes that the treaty signed by Viktor Chernomyrdin, chairman of the Russian Federation Government, and Vo Van Kiet on the bases of friendly relations between the Russian Federation and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam "formulates the basic principles of cooperation between the two countries in light of the changes that have occurred both in Russia and Vietnam and in the international arena on the whole." Also taking into account the three intergovernmental agreements concluded, which regulate capital investment problems and matters of cooperation in areas such as fishing and the agroindustrial complex, Russia and Vietnam now have approximately 15 intergovernmental documents, the result of work over the past two and a half years. However, Moscow and Hanoi do not intend to stop there. The two countries' governments have thought it expedient to continue work on compiling a list of the treaties, agreements, and other intergovernmental documents concluded between the former USSR and Vietnam. It is planned to step up efforts to implement existing agreements in practice. The fuel and power complex, including hydroelectricity, was described at the talks as being among the most promising areas of cooperation. The press release stresses that cooperation between individual regions of the two countries, particularly the Russian Far East and Vietnamese provinces, occupies an important place in the development of Russo-Vietnamese relations. In discussing the international situation, the governmental heads of Russia and Vietnam confirmed that their views either coincided or were close on most of today's most urgent problems and called for the expansion of constructive cooperation aimed at creating a new, nonconfrontational system of interstate relations in the Asia- Pacific Ocean area and Southeast Asia, in particular. Foreign Ministers Andrey Kozyrev and Nyugen Manh Cam went into greater detail on matters of international politics. They exchanged opinions on specific ways of coordinating the work of the Foreign Ministries "under the conditions of perceived changes for the better in the international climate."
