FBIS4-40025 "drsov113_c_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 11 Jun 1994 Federal Assembly Draft Law on Lobby Activity Pending Draft Law on Lobby Activity Pending MK1106090194 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 11 Jun 94 p 2 MK1106090194 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Gleb Cherkasov INTERFAX-based report in the "Legislation" column: "Yet Another Profession Will Appear in Russia. Lobbyists Will Be Registered by the Ministry of Justice"] [Text] It is quite likely that this fall domestic legislation will be supplemented by an enactment regulating lobbying activity in Russia. At least, on the decision of the State Duma Council, the bill "On Regulating Lobbying Activity of Federal Bodies of State Power" has been sent to parliament committees for finalization. Under the draft, lobbying is understood as activity by "corporate entities or individuals with respect to federal bodies of state power aimed at influencing the latter in exercising their powers as stipulated by the Constitution and laws of the Russian Federation." It defines, among others, the following forms and methods of lobbying: presentation of draft laws, edicts, orders, and other enactments to federal bodies of state power drafted by a lobbying person or group of persons, as well as expert assessment of these documents. The bill specifies that "parliament deputies, elected officials of the Russian Federation or its components, as well as bodies and officials from the executive or judicial branches may not act" as lobbyists. True, parliamentarians, ministers, judges, and others of that ilk may try themselves in the lobbying domain but not until at least a year after they have left their posts. Each person acting as a lobbyist must register with the Russian Federation Justice Ministry. The lobbyist is obligated to send an official report in writing about his activity to the same body no later than 20 days after the end of each calendar half-year. Income received by the lobbyist is taxed according to the laws currently in force.
