FBIS4-21129 "jptdd016__l94008" JPRS-TDD-94-016-L JPRS Narcotics Reaction to the 1994 U.S. State Department International Narcotics Control Strategy Report 5 April 1994 LATIN AMERICA COSTA RICA Security Minister Plays Down Report Security Minister Plays Down Report PA0504033094 Panama City ACAN in Spanish 0206 GMT 5 Apr 94 PA0504033094 Panama City ACAN Spanish BFN [Text] San Jose, 4 Apr (ACAN-EFE) -- Costa Rican Security Minister Luis Fishman today played down a U.S. State Department report that "money laundering" and drug trafficking and consumption are on the rise in Costa Rica. Fishman said the report admits that "there is virtually no corruption" in Costa Rica's police force, which is prevented from taking more effective action against drug trafficking by a lack of financial resources. "I am proud because they say there is no corruption," the minister told ACAN-EFE, saying that contrary to what Washington says, Costa Rica has dealt "harsh blows" to drug traffickers in recent years despite the limited resources. Fishman said he "disagrees" with the assertion that Costa Rican policemen are unprofessional. He said that Puerto Limon on the Atlantic coast is a problem area and added that many resources have been allocated to fight drug trafficking and consumption. The State Department's annual report, released today, highlighted the progress made by Central American governments, with the exception of Nicaragua and Costa Rica, in the fight against drug trafficking and money laundering. The report says that the "laundering of drug money" is particularly serious in Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicaragua, but virtually nonexistent in El Salvador. The State Department gave Guatemala the most praise for its cooperation with Washington in several campaigns to eradicate cocaine and opium and to arrest drug traffickers. According to the State Department, meager resources and a lack of professionalism among security services preclude significant progress in the counternarcotics struggle in Costa Rica. The report says that Puerto Limon has become the main point of contact between the Colombian island of San Andres, the Nicaraguan coast on the Caribbean, and the United States. At the same time, however, the report said there is virtually no corruption.
