FBIS4-56025 "dreeu102_h_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-102 Daily Report 25 May 1994 HUNGARY Party Campaign Chiefs View Election Prospects Party Campaign Chiefs View Election Prospects AU2505205694 Budapest NEPSZABADSAG in Hungarian 25 May 94 pp 1, 4 AU2505205694 Budapest NEPSZABADSAG Hungarian BFN [Correspondent's report: "One Can Count on a Calm Election Finish"] [Text] The second round of the elections will be held in less than a week. We asked the campaign heads of the parties that reached the 5 percent threshold about their plans until 29 May. Balint Magyar, Alliance of Free Democrats [SZDSZ] From the viewpoint of the election campaign, one cannot count on any special surprise in the coming period. Compared with the campaign before the first round, the current campaign between the two rounds is calmer, more meditative, and more argumentative. The SZDSZ will focus on the television and radio debates in the last week. In addition, the party will also organize local talk shows. According to our experience so far, the people came to like this political genre because it is more interesting and faster paced than the usual political meetings. Of course, just as until now, the SZDSZ continues to advertise on billboards, flags, in the radio, on television, and in the newspapers. Istvan Eszes, Christian Democratic People's Party [KDNP] We have 12 candidates still running in the second round. In places where we are not present, we will mainly support the candidates of the Hungarian Democratic Forum [MDF] and the Independent Smallholders Party [FKGP]. There is no sense in holding national meetings; therefore, we concentrate on local events popularizing our still running candidates, including new billboards and leaflets. Some eight to 10 of our candidates have real chances of obtaining a parliamentary mandate. Mrs. Nagy Agnes Maczo, FKGP Our campaign continues to be a puritan one. We are the party that spends the least, and we can prove this. Our advertisements from the first round will remain on the radio and television; we have no money for new ones, and we do not advertise in newspapers at all. Until the end of the campaign, we will hold at least two meetings, but generally four meetings, naturally, in places where our candidates are still running. The leading speakers at these festive meetings that attract large number of people are FKGP Chairman Jozsef Torgyan and myself. After the success of the first round, in addition to its own large camp of supporters, the FKGP can justifiably count on the votes of the members and sympathizers of the Agrarian Federation, with the exception of the chairmen of the agricultural cooperatives, as well as on the support of followers of the succumbed Hungarian Justice and Life Party [MIEP] and those who became disappointed in the MDF. Thus, we consider all our 47 candidates to be potential winners. Karoly Herenyi [MDF] In the remaining days until the second round, the MDF thinks it is important to draw attention to the dangers of a possible two-thirds majority government, where the role of the opposition could become only formal. The MDF acknowledges the fact that the voters sent this party into opposition, but the second round will decide whether the society wants a strong opposition or not. The campaign is also a period of promises and occasional irresponsible promises as well. With four years of government experience behind it, the MDF knows exactly what opportunities the new government will have. Therefore, it is our obligation to draw the voters' attention to the fact that there are quite a few unrealistic promises among the many promises made now. We do not want to change our campaigning style in the remaining period. Instead of central events, we only regard as important to support our 98 individual candidates still running in the second round. We also want to see as many people participating in the second round as in the first round. Imre Szekeres, Hungarian Socialist Party [MSZP] In the remaining few days, the MSZP does not want to change its current campaigning style. It will not deal with other parties and their election results; instead, the MSZP will concentrate on making people aware of the solutions that we offer in case we form a government. Janos Ader, Federation of Young Democrats [Fidesz] After the withdrawals from the cooperation agreement of the liberal parties, there are Fidesz candidates in five individual electoral districts. The Fidesz supports them with local campaigns.
