FBIS3-9533 "dreeu058__a94007" FBIS-EEU-94-058-A Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 ANNEX Bulgaria Assembly Passes Act on Surveillance Services AU2403204994 Sofia BTA in English 1903 GMT 24 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2403204994 Sofia BTA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Sofia, March 24 (BTA) -- The National Assembly today passed on second reading a Special Surveillance Devices Act. It regulates the application of methods such as photography, filming, opening letters and others, without the knowledge of or against the will of persons under surveillance. This is a priority law whose passage has been repeatedly urged by the prime minister and the president. Under the act, information acquired by special surveillance devices can be requested and used by the Interior Ministry, the National Investigative Service, the National Security Service, the National Investigative Service, the Border Troops, the Central Service for Organized Crime Control and the intelligence and the counterintelligence services with the Defence Ministry. Special surveillance devices can be supplied, installed and used only by specialized services of the Interior Ministry. Their use has to be ordered and permitted by the interior minister. These devices may be used without such a permission only in case of imminent danger of a crime against national security, or if there is available data of preparations for a terrorist act. In such cases the respective body should be informed within 24 hours. The act fixes a two-month term for the use of special surveillance devices, which can be extended by another four months. Data collected by special surveillance devices can only be used for detecting or preventing a crime. The act charges the interior minister with the control on the application of these devices. Vasil Mikhaylov, MP of the Union of Democratic Forces, suggested that the act provides guarantees that such devices will not be used in the absence of data of guilt, but the motion was rejected by a majority of mostly Socialist MP's. Mr. Mikhaylov also suggested that the act comes into force after texts are added to the Criminal Code providing for penalties for the misuse of special devices and information thus obtained, but this motion also failed to pass.
