FBIS3-9781 "dreeu061__a94021" FBIS-EEU-94-061-A Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 ANNEX Czech Republic Havel Appoints Last Constitutional Court Judge AU2903195994 Prague CTK in English 1710 GMT 29 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2903195994 Prague CTK Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Prague, March 29 (CTK) -- Czech President Vaclav Havel today appointed Pavel Varvarovsky the fifteenth and the last justice to the Czech Constitutional Court. Justice Minister Jiri Novak and Constitutional Court Chairman Zdenek Kessler attended the ceremony. In his address Havel voiced satisfaction that the Constitutional Court had been filled. He said the Court was a guarantee that the state would serve all its citizens and would exercise its power in the framework of the law. Through its decisions about the constitutionality of laws and other legal norms the Constitutional Court significantly influences the legislative process of their preparation and drafting, Havel said. The Constitutional Court helps to ensure that the law in the Czech Republic is brought into harmony with the legal norms of the European Union, he added. Minister Novak also expressed satisfaction that the Constitutional Court was complete and could start working within its full complement. Under the Czech Constitution the President appoints justices to the Constitutional Court with the agreement of the Senate, an upper house in the Czech Parliament. As the Senate has not yet been filled, its functions are carried out by the Chamber of Deputies. Varvarovsky was born in 1945 in Ceske Budejovice, south Bohemia. He worked as a judge in the Supreme Court Trade Division. He is a permanent resident of Brno, where the Constitutional Court is situated. In the Constitutional Court he will be acting as an expert in administrative law, the field he was engaged in while working in the Supreme Court. The law on the Constitutional Court took effect last June. The first 12 justices were appointed by Havel in July, after their candidacies were approved by parliament, and the other two in November. Havel submitted a proposal to Parliament this January for appointing the fifteenth and the last justice. The Constitutional Court is designed to protect the Constitution. It is composed of 15 justices who are appointed for the time of 10 years. The Constitutional Court justice starts exercising his duties after swearing an oath to the president.
