FBIS3-27216 "drchi035_k_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social XINHUA Views NPC's Increased Activity in `93 OW2102084194 Beijing XINHUA in English 0644 GMT 21 Feb 94 OW2102084194 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, February 21 (XINHUA) -- The year 1993 witnessed redoubled efforts by the country's legislature, the National People's Congress (NPC), in making laws to facilitate the establishment of a socialist market economy. The NPC Standing Committee passed 20 laws and 13 provisional regulations, and deliberated eight other draft laws, last year -- all record figures in its history. A package of economic laws to regulate market forces, maintain market order and strengthen macro-economic control were promulgated to safeguard, enhance and guide the healthy development of the socialist market economy. The Corporate Law, published last December 20, was the first law regulating the activities of the numerous existing companies in the country. It is seen to have great importance in promoting a "modern enterprise system" in line with international practices. The NPC Standing Committee also passed the Law Against Unethical Competition, the Consumers' Rights Law, the Law of Registered Accountants, the Amendment to Laws Against Producing and Selling Fake and Shoddy Goods, and the provisional regulations on value-added tax, consumption tax and business tax for overseas enterprises. Both inside and outside China, these moves aroused widespread interest. Economic experts said these laws and regulations will effectively curb unfair competition, cut down crimes in producing and selling fake and shoddy goods, and protect the legal rights of all those involved. The legislature also revised the Economic Contract Law, the Individual Income Tax Law and the Accountants Law to cater to the demands of the market economy. The Budget Law is aimed to improve the country's financial system and strengthen macro-economic control. It was deliberated by the NPC Standing Committee last year and will be submitted to the Eighth NPC's Second Plenary Session to be held from March 10 in Beijing. The lawmakers also passed the Agriculture Law, the Law of Science and Technology Development, the Education Law and the Red Cross Law in 1993. They deliberated the draft securities law, the draft foreign trade law, the draft law to protect investments by Taiwanese, the draft state reimbursement law, the draft law on state medals and state honors. All the laws and the draft laws are based on China's realities and commensurate with norms of international conduct. The legislative experiences of other market economies were "boldly" imbibed and learned from, experts said.
