FBIS4-11919 "drnes064_m_94004" FBIS-NES-94-064 Daily Report 3 Apr 1994 JORDAN Envoy to U.S. Cited on Meeting Delay Envoy to U.S. Cited on Meeting Delay JN0304110794 Amman AL-RA'Y in Arabic 3 Apr 94 p 25 JN0304110794 Amman AL-RA'Y Arabic BFN [By Caroline Faraj in Amman] [Text] Jordanian ambassador in Washington Fayiz al-Tarawinah has stated that U.S. officials assured him that the reasons for postponing the expanded meeting scheduled for last Thursday [31 March] among representatives of various U.S. Government departments and bodies concerned with foreign affairs to discuss available options concerning the naval inspection of ships bound for al- 'Aqabah port are purely technical and that the meeting is expected to be held next week. In a statement to AL-RA'Y by telephone from Washington, al-Tarawinah said that senior U.S. Administration officials have understood with complete seriousness [tafahhamu bijiddiyah tammah] his majesty's stand as expressed during his meeting with ambassadors of the permanent member states on the Security Council on the current blockade on al-'Aqabah and that the situation was very clear to everybody. During his meetings and contacts with a number of U.S. officials, al-Tarawinah asserted that Jordan's position on the al-'Aqabah blockade stems from its being an extremely sensitive political issue and not a procedural or bureaucratic matter. He said that some officials gave him to understand that next week's meeting at the State Department to make a decision on al-'Aqabah blockade is expected to be in Jordan's interest. A State Department official said recently that the meeting was postponed until next week for reasons connected with revision of schedules and times convenient to representatives of U.S. departments and bodies concerned with foreign affairs. It is worth mentioning that Jawad al-'Anani, minister of state for cabinet affairs and Information minister, told a news conference last Tuesday [29 March] that Jordan had proposed that a neutral technical committee, such as the Lloyds company, might inspect the ships upon docking at al-'Aqabah port.
