FBIS4-37237 "drnes118_j_94008" FBIS-NES-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen UK's Hogg Rules Out Military Intervention UK's Hogg Rules Out Military Intervention JN1806070994 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0430 GMT 18 Jun 94 JN1806070994 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Text] Douglas Hogg, British minister of state at the Foreign Office, has reiterated that Britain only recognizes one Yemen, the united Yemen established on constitutional bases. He noted that Britain has its own definite bases and rules to recognize independent states, adding that what is taking place in Yemen is not in harmony with these bases. In a statement to the London-based AL-HAYAH published yesterday, Hogg said that Britain welcomed the UN initiative and supported the UN secretary general in his move to dispatch Lakhdar Ibrahimi to Yemen to end the fighting and resolve the crisis. He said: We are waiting, with concern, for his final report on this mediation. Asked whether the UN envoy would fail in his mission and about his view regarding the imposition of international sanctions or military intervention, Douglas Hogg said there will be no Western or Arab military interference. He said: Nobody wants to compete with another on sending troops to Yemen, because such initiatives would be unwelcomed by this country. He said: The issue of military intervention or economic sanctions is out of question. He stressed that such methods would not stop the Yemeni war that has been raging among the sons of one homeland. The British minister of state noted that the Arabs and the United Nations can only find a tool or method to end the war through dialogue and mediation to restore peace to Yemen. Asked by AL-HAYAH about the size and kind of danger resulting from the events in Yemen, Hogg said there is no particular danger posed to the Gulf states, Saudi Arabia, or Oman from the war in Yemen, but it is difficult in this case to be fully certain of this. He said: However, I reiterate that the Yemeni war will remain confined within the Yemeni territory.
