FBIS4-34402 "drlat118_o_94019" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 Colombia Pastrana, Samper Make Campaign Statements 17 Jun Pastrana, Samper Make Campaign Statements 17 Jun PA1806035694 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Network in Spanish 1730 GMT 17 Jun 94 PA1806035694 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Network Spanish BFN [From the "Midday Television Newscast"] [Text] Barely 43 hours before the election that will decide who will be the new president of Colombia, voter preference is more divided now than in previous elections. Recent polls indicate a virtual tie between the two candidates. The election results on 19 June will surely be a photo finish. This is why Ernesto Samper Pizano and Andres Pastrana Arango will begin a bona fide Colombian tour in order to secure the votes that will take them into Narino Presidential Palace. Andres Pastrana will visit Armenia, Pereira, Medellin, Moteria, Cartagena, Barranquilla, Santa Marta, Valledupar, Cucuta, and Bucaramanga this weekend. Meanwhile, Ernesto Samper Pizano will visit Popayan, Pasto, Neiva, and a half dozen other cities in the southwest. The two candidates are asking Colombians to defeat abstention on 19 June. Before beginning their tours, the two candidates expressed their confidence in winning: [Begin recording] [Unidentified reporter] Why should Colombians vote for you? [Pastrana] For change. The country realized on 29 May the country can change. People saw change was, in fact, possible; that is why we are telling the people that if one extra person votes for Andres along with the 2.5 million Colombians who did the last time, we will have consolidated change in Colombia. [Reporter] Why should Colombians vote for you? [Samper] Because I believe I have the necessary experience and knowledge to administrate the country. I have an excellent running mate, Humberto de la Calle. We represent the new Colombia. We represent those who do not want to be discriminated against and want better living conditions. I am ready to make the social turn Colombia needs. [end recording]
