FBIS3-46233 "drchi018_t_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-018 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Jan 1994 Northwest Region Qinghai Province Registers Economic Development HK2601102794 Xining Qinghai People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 21 Jan 94 HK2601102794 Xining Qinghai People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Text] On the afternoon of 20 January, the provincial government held a news briefing on the province's national economic development in 1993. In 1993 Qinghai comprehensively implemented macrocontrol and regulatory policies, and as a result it made progress in production and construction. Last year the GNP amounted to more than 10 billion yuan, an increase of 10.5 percent over the previous year. Industrial production showed signs of speedy growth and there was a change for the better in output value and economic results. Heavy industry grew at a double-digit rate and thus stimulated the development of other industries. Large and medium-sized industrial enterprises still occupied an important position in the province's industrial economy and their output value accounted for 66.1 percent of the province's gross industrial output value. Last year the province continued to see improvement in the position of agriculture as the foundation. Agricultural development and construction yielded results. According to statistics, last year the total output of grain and oil-bearing crops broke previous records. It was the seventh consecutive year of increase in grain production and the 10th consecutive year of increase in oil-bearing crops production. The scale of fixed assets expanded, the increase in productive investment was faster than that in nonproductive investment, and investment in tertiary industries grew. A number of key projects including the Qinghai oil field fulfilled or overfulfilled the annual investment plan. Last year transportation improved, postal and telecommunications service grew, market sales remained stable, local revenues increased, the monetary and credit field saw improvement in controlling willful loan releases and arbitrary spending, and bank deposits continued to grow, thus ensuring funding for key economic construction projects.
