FBIS3-21888 "jptdd011__l94100" JPRS-TDD-94-011-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 14 March 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Drug Culture Reportedly Spreading Beyond Cities 94WD0241A London THE TIMES in English 14 Feb 94 p 8--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94WD0241A London THE TIMES Language: English Article Type:CSO [Text] The illicit drugs culture, once the preserve of Britain's inner cities, has extended its influence. The country cousins of streetwise metropolitan youths are experimenting with cannabis, Ecstasy, LSD and amphetamines. In the market towns and cathedral cities of England's shires, an underground distribution network has evolved which makes most substances available. Michael Levi, professor of criminology at the University of Wales in Cardiff, said that recognition of drug offending was "quite low" in the countryside, because statistics depended on the amount of police activity. "It is invisible, because drugs squads aren't so likely to operate in rural areas," he said. One of the few studies took place in East Sussex, where 2,047 schoolchildren were questioned last year at a cost of £16,000. The Home Office paid most of the bill. Researchers discovered that a fifth of all pupils aged 14 and 15 had tried an illicit drug. The proportion was broadly the same in rural and urban areas. Boys were more involved than girls. "It is prevalent, it is accessible. Anybody can get it if they want to," Rosalind Turner, who worked on the study with East Sussex Drugs Advisory Council, said. Children were arranging deliveries of drugs to their villages from telephone booths, "almost like dialling a pizza," she said. Magic mushrooms and veterinary tranquilisers are more commonly abused in the countryside, according to the addiction charity Release. Cannabis has become as common in rural villages as in the inner cities, and while cocaine's popularity is spreading, crack is only occasionally brought to the countryside. East Anglia has a problem of amphetamine abuse. Particular health problems arise from the abuse of drugs in the shires. Addicts may have to travel long distances for advice, or to receive regular supplies of methadone. Those who inject drugs live long distances from the nearest exchange point supplying clean needles, vital to prevent the spread of HIV. The highest rate of drugs seizures in Britain according to latest figures, (for 1992) is in Greater London (2,849 per million population). In England, the other highest counties are Merseyside (1,962), Wiltshire (1,621) and Gloucestershire (1,428). Scotland has a high rate of drugs seizures, particularly in Strathclyde (1,966), Central (1,640), Lothian and Borders (1,586), and Tayside (1,576). In Wales, Dyfed-Powys has the highest rate of drugs hauls (1,646). THE TIMES visited three of England's ancient shires, Lincolnshire, Gloucestershire and Wiltshire, to discover how widespread drug use has become. COPYRIGHT: TIMES NEWSPAPERS LIMITED, 1994
