FBIS3-23185 "jptot010__l94001" JPRS-TOT-94-010-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 10 March 1994 FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 25 February-3 March FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 25 February-3 March 11111111 11111111 Article Type:CSO Editor's Note: The FBIS Terrorism Desk welcomes suscribers' comments and suggestions at (703) 733-5512. Highlights and major incidents in this edition of the FBIS Terrorism Report include: Algeria Security services report that Armed Islamic Group leader Djaafar El Afghani and nine other group members were "liquidated" in Algiers on 26 February. The government released Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) leaders Abassi Madani and Ali Belhadj from prison and placed them under house arrest as a Ramadan goodwill gesture. Brazil/Middle East Brazil's ISTOE reports that Brazilian and foreign intelligence officers have found Arabs attempting to buy explosives from local arms dealers. The report also elaborates Brazilian concerns and evidence of Middle Eastern terrorists in the region. Paris magazine AL-WATAN AL-ARABI says that Hizballah has a presence in certain South American countries. Egypt The Islamic Group has ordered its members to escalate their attacks to avenge the victims of the Hebron massacre. On 4 March, the "Islamic Battalions" gave Americans 48 hours to leave Egypt or "be a target." On the same day, a German tourist was wounded when gunmen opened fire on a Nile cruise boat. On 26 February, Egypt executed the two men convicted of killing writer Faraj Fudah. France Two men riding a motorbike shot and killed Parliament member Yann Piat in Hyeres on 25 February. No motives or suspects have emerged yet, but LE FIGARO speculates that "the drug mafia" may be responsible. Iran/Italy The Iranian National Resistance Council said that two men "sent by the Khomeyni regime" tried to kill a Resistance Council member in Florence. Italian police have arrested the two men. Jordan A German tourist, a local doctor, and the doctor's Russian wife were stabbed in separate incidents 1 and 3 March. The press says the attacks were reactions to the Hebron mosque massacre. Kuwait A bomb went off in front of a cinema near Kuwait City 28 February. The cinema company's manager said that he suspects "Muslim militants." Lebanon A bomb exploded in the Church of Sayyidat al-Najat in Wata Zuq Musbih on 27 February, killing 10 people. Authorities arrested one or more suspects. Lebanon/Japanese Red Army The Japanese Red Army has sent a document to supporters in Japan explaining JRA operations. KYODO press agency believes that the document was written before the 13 September Israel-PLO agreement. Sudan/Palestinians Cairo daily AL-AHALI publishes an "exclusive" report detailing the "secret sessions" of Khartoum's Popular Islamic Conference in December 1993. The report also says that the Sudanese uncovered a plot to kill PLO Chairman 'Arafat during the conference.
