FBIS4-10077 "drlat067_i_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 Nicaragua Presidency Spokeswoman Denies Fainting Reports Presidency Spokeswoman Denies Fainting Reports PA0704021694 Managua Radio Corporacion in Spanish 2300 GMT 6 Apr 94 PA0704021694 Managua Radio Corporacion Spanish BFN [Statement by Maria Alicia Talavera Sevilla, assistant director of the Presidency's Social Communication Directorate, in Managua; from the "Five O'Clock Sharp" newscast -- live] [Text] We want to deny all information disseminated by cable news agencies from Guadalajara implying that President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro suffered a fainting spell at noon today shortly before giving a speech at the Regional Forum on Women's Participation and Development sponsored by the Inter-American Development Bank in that Mexican city. We talked directly with President Chamorro a few minutes ago as she was about to leave the hospital, excuse me, the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Guadalajara, where she and the official delegation accompanying her are staying during their visit to Mexico. We will now present you -- through Radio Corporacion, which has so kindly offered us the opportunity -- a brief statement by President Chamorro. We recorded this a few minutes ago here at the Social Communications Directorate. [Begin Chamorro recording] Hello, this is Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, president of Nicaragua. I would like to deny the news that has reached Nicaragua -- being sent from this city or wherever -- that I fainted and am about to die. I have never fainted in my life, thank God. There has been some confusion. I was told about this and my blood ran cold. A lady from Uruguay or Paraguay.... [pauses] Where is this lady from? Uruguay, I think. Anyway, she was the one who fainted. I do not know her and I do not know what her condition is now. I hope she is feeling better because you feel bad when you are sick. Personally speaking, I have not fainted. I feel very well. I will go and represent Nicaragua in a short while. I will talk about women at the bank's event so....[pauses] I repeat, I have never fainted in my life. Never, knock on wood. I have not fainted, I am not in poor health, and I have not given up -- nor have I (?betrayed) my homeland. Please, I want all Nicaraguans who love Violeta to know I am all right, thank God, and that I will come home tomorrow. [end recording] This was a brief statement by Nicaraguan President Violeta Chamorro, who confirmed that she did not have a fainting spell as was reported from Guadalajara. She also confirmed her return to Managua tomorrow. Thank you and good afternoon.
