FBIS4-40696 "drsov118_v_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 Lithuania Prime Minister Comments Prime Minister Comments WS2006103394 Vilnius ELTA in English 1716 GMT 17 Jun 94 WS2006103394 Vilnius ELTA English BFN [From "News Bulletin" No. 524 ] [Text] Vilnius, June 17, ELTA -- Prime Minister Adolfas Slezevicius and the new Ministers Vladislavas Domarkas, Albertas Vasiliauskas, Bronius Bradauskas and Aleksandras Vasiliauskas held a news conference on Friday morning. Yesterday Seimas [parliament] considered the interpellation to the government. The results of the voting were as follows: 65 members were confident in the government, 51 -- expressed the non- confidence in it. The government managed to survive. Slezevicius said that half a hundred votes for the non-confidence did not surprised him at all. He promised to take into consideration all critical remarks when drawing up a new program. The program will deal with the privatization, tax control, improvements in the work of customs-offices and investments. Asked about the rumours about the litas devaluation, Slezevicius said that this was a kind of intimidation of the population. Meanwhile there were no prerequisites to devalue the national currency. "Our main purpose is to withdraw investment cheques from the circulation in order to make the privatization function in compliance with the economic laws," Economics Minister Aleksandras Vasiliauskas said. Environmental Minister Bronius Bradauskas said that the environmental protection was impossible without the firm economic footing, thus, the new ministry would see the strengthening of economic, legal and ecological education services. According to Educational Minister Vladislavas Domarkas, his major purpose was to achieve the consideration of education as a priority. Forestry Minister Albertas Vasiliauskas noted that his ministry had been unfairly accused of abuse of its power by the press and a number of deputies. Thus, his purpose was to restore the good name of the ministry.
