FBIS4-35242 "drnes104_m_94008" FBIS-NES-94-104 Daily Report 30 May 1994 JORDAN Talks Explore Economic Ties With Palestinians Talks Explore Economic Ties With Palestinians JN3005190394 Amman Jordan Television Network in Arabic 1700 GMT 30 May 94 JN3005190394 Amman Jordan Television Network Arabic BFN [Text] Jordan constitutes a strategic extension of the Palestinian economy. This was stressed by the Palestinian side during its meeting with the Jordanian side at the Amman Chamber of Commerce this morning. The two sides discussed ways of establishing and enhancing Jordanian-Palestinian economic cooperation in the fields of trade, industry, agriculture, tourism, hotel management, finance, services, transportation, and contracts. The two sides also discussed the possibility of establishing joint companies to market Palestinian and Jordanian products and promote goods in foreign and local markets. The two sides also tackled ways of attracting capital and investment companies in order to create a Palestinian-Jordanian economic entity by establishing joint industrial, trade, agricultural, housing, services, and touristic projects in the interest of both sides. They then reviewed joint coordination to unify standards and specifications and establish the proposed standards and specifications center in Palestine that will fully coordinate with the standards and specifications center in Jordan. [Begin 'Abd-al-Rahman Abu-Layl, head of the Palestinian Chamber of Industry, recording] We have come here to coordinate with our brothers in Amman the future economic march in the interest of both the Palestinian and Jordanian economies and to establish joint cooperation. We view Jordan as a strategic extension of the Palestinian economy. Therefore, doors will be opened, and we will have an outlet to the Arab world from our beloved Jordan. So, we would like to lay the groundwork for building that economy. We are now talking on behalf of the Palestinian businessmen and the Palestinian private sector that will carry out that duty. [end recording] The Jordanian-Palestinian conference on development and investment, which will be held under the patronage of His Highness Crown Prince Hasan, was one of the most important proposals made by both sides during today's meeting--a conference which will be a manifestation of economic cooperation between the two countries. More than 300 people will be invited to attend the conference, in addition to both sides' officials.
