FBIS3-14394 "drnes059_c_94007" FBIS-NES-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 Egypt CIA Accused of Spying on Officials' Phone Calls Claims Detailed NC2803133294 Cairo AL-AHALI in Arabic 23 Mar 94 p 1 NC2803133294 Cairo AL-AHALI Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Midhat al-Zahid: "An American Watergate in Egypt; the CIA Taps Senior Officials and Party Leaders' Telephone Communications"] [Text] AL-AHALI has obtained information confirming that the American apparatuses used computer programs and phone tapping to spy on senior officials in state departments and on party leaders. The American Reliance Company, which helped set up the unified telephone network in greater Cairo and Alexandria, established an information line between the Egyptian Telephone Exchange network and the central computer in the United States. The line could be used to tap the telephone communications of various ministries, parties, trade unions, and different subscribers. In unifying the network, the American company Reliance depended on a central computer in which data concerning subscribers was stored on floppy disks connected with sets in every telephone exchange. These programs could be used to cut in on subscribers for testing and for other purposes, such as listening in. The programs are started by a specific signal that could be sent from some distance from the United States using the information line between the Egyptian Telephone Exchange and the American central computer. With slight changes, signals could be received indicating that the line of the subscriber they want to tap is busy. Thus the telephone conversation can be taped. The CIA tapped President Husni Mubarak's telephone calls during the Achille Lauro crisis, contrary to reports circulated at the time that bugs were planted in the president's office. The devices were also used in taping Palestinian leader Yasir 'Arafat's telephone calls on the settlement talks. The recordings were used in an attempt to show that the Palestinian stance was racist. According to information, the National Telecommunications Authority had started to implement measures to guarantee secrecy and prevent the use of devices and advanced technologies that seek to serve subscribers for purposes other than those for which they were designed, particularly activities that threaten Egyptian national security.
