FBIS3-45634 "drchi014_n_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 Economic & Agricultural `Sensitive Questions' Answered HK2001064594 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in English 1408 GMT 19 Jan 94 HK2001064594 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 19 (CNS) -- China, being at a stage of rapid economic growth, is suffering from inflationary pressures now, the Vice Minister of the State Commission for Restructuring the Economy, Mr. Wang Shiyuan, said in reply to a number of sensitive questions raised at a press conference held today. He noted, however, that the government had done much work on the prevention of inflation and many measures had been adopted to achieve this end. It is expected that the price rise for this year as a whole will be kept under 10 percent. Mr. Wang said that the inflationary pressures at present mainly came from several fields. First, the adjustment of prices for production means in the past consecutive years and the continuous great scale of investment caused the rise in costs which in turn led to inflation. Second, a price rise of 13 percent last year made a high start for the expected inflation during this year and adverse effects resulting from that inflation will appear this year. Third, a unified exchange rate for the renminbi and price reform to be carried out at a suitable time during the year will cause a price hike. Fourth, an excessive supply of money for maintain continuous economic growth last year will also lead to a price rise this year. Mr. Wang said that the government was aware of the potential inflationary pressures and made the curbing of inflation and the maintenance of economic growth at a rapid, continuous and healthy pace for this year its priority. The key to the controlling of inflation, according to Mr. Wang lay in the balance between general supply and demand, in the keeping control of economic growth to a suitable rate and control on the scale of investment.
