FBIS3-33547 "drlat038_b_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Haiti MOP Supports Aristide Plan, 29 Mar Return FL2502000994 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio in French 1130 GMT 24 Feb 94 FL2502000994 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio Language: French Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] The Movement for the Organization of the Country [MOP] has come out against the accusations of intransigence and bad faith brought against the Haitian head of state. President Aristide cannot be held responsible for the failures already recorded. [passage omitted] The party is convinced that one cannot support the return of President Aristide while seeking the best way to implement Article 148 of the Constitution [which provides for assumption of power by the prime minister in the event the president of the Republic is unavailable]. Likewise, one cannot be opposed to the bloody 30 September coup d'etat and at the same time support the clean-sweep policy or reactivation of Article 149 [which provides for the Court of Cassation president to act as provisional president of the country pending new presidential elections within 45 to 90 days]. [passage omitted] The MOP, which is not promoting any candidacy for the post of prime minister at this time, urges the entire diplomatic sector to unite in demanding respect for the Constitution, the commitments made at Governors Island, the end of repression, full enjoyment of public liberties, safety guarantees for all, the normalization of institutions, and the return of President Aristide on 29 March so he can complete his constitutional mandate. This is not a difficult solution to enact. The year 2004 [marking the bicentennial of Haiti's independence] will soon be here. So let us make this 29 March the starting point for preparation of a grand celebration of the bicentennial of national independence. MOP leader Gesner Comeau supports the counterproposal sent to UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali by President Aristide. This new plan worked out by the head of state provides for his return to Haiti during the 10 days that follow the appointment of the new prime minister. Let us listen to Gesner Comeau. [Begin recording, in Creole] I think that if such a plan is applied, it would be perfect and in the interest of the waiting Haitian people. [passage omitted] [end recording]
