FBIS4-18109 "drweu062_h_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-062 Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 GERMANY Mosad Link Suspected in $1 Billion Iraq Deal Mosad Link Suspected in $1 Billion Iraq Deal AU3003202294 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE in German 30 Mar 94 p1 AU3003202294 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE German BFN ["ulf"-signed report: "The Billion-Dollar Deal With Iraq Is Being Investigated"] [Excerpt] Frankfurt, 29 Mar -- According to new information, German authorities suspect that the apartment block where the firm "Ary Design Jewelry" resides -- the company has applied to the Iraq Sanctions Commission for a permit to export goods worth $1 billion to Baghdad -- is also being used as a base for a Middle Eastern intelligence service, which is suspected to be the Mosad. That could explain why the UN Iraq Sanctions Commission noticed inconsistencies in the export application from a German company. Other circles maintain that the owner of the firm "Ary Design Jewelry" is a certain Ariel Schweininger, who has frequently attended international conferences on the proliferation of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons, including ones in Stockholm. Schweininger, who uses only the Christian names Axel and Andreas in Germany, could not be reached on Tuesday [29 March]. Apparently -- it is rumored in New York -- a Middle Eastern intelligence service has lodged applications with the Iraq Sanctions Commission on several occasions, some of which have been approved. Now, the people in New York have become "suspicious." According to information from the German authorities, the Mannheim company's application for the export deal with Iraq is being checked with "great skepticism." On Tuesday, a spokesman for the Federal Export Agency in Eschborn said the authorities had submitted certain questions to the owner of the company but these had not been answered as yet. The Federal Office of Foodstuffs and the Federal Office for the Agricultural Market also reported that the business was "very dubious." The Mannheim state prosecutors office has launched a preliminary investigation in connection with the affair. The Foreign Ministry denied that there had been omissions in its handling of the export application from the Mannheim firm "United Oil Company" as this newspaper reported on Tuesday. [passage omitted]
