FBIS4-19955 "drweu079_e_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-079 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Hurd: Serb Compliance With Ultimatum `Encouraging' Hurd: Serb Compliance With Ultimatum `Encouraging' LD2404111794 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 1155 GMT 24 Apr 94 LD2404111794 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By Sarah Womack and Chris Moncrieff, PRESS ASSOCIATION political staff] [Text] There are "encouraging" signs about the situation in Gorazde, although it remains tense, Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said today. His comments came after a United Nations spokesman confirmed that while Bosnian Serbs were still in their positions around the Muslim enclave, it had been largely quiet since a 1am deadline for them to withdraw or face air strikes. No immediate NATO air strikes were ordered against Bosnian Serb forces around the UN-designated safe area because they were complying with the ultimatum to withdraw, said the UN. Mr Hurd told BBC Radio 5 Live: "It is obviously still a tense situation, but the signs this morning are a bit more encouraging as to what is actually happening on the ground. ``Air strikes are not an end in themselves. The threat is there to bring about a result, to stop the killing in Gorazde by the Serbs and to get the Serbs out. ``We have got a ground effort run by the UN with British troops, we have got an air effort run by NATO with British planes. Those two efforts clearly have to work together.'' But he conceded: "There was a failure at Gorazde, we are seeking to retrieve that failure by the joint efforts of NATO and the UN." UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali said any decision to withdraw troops would have to be taken by the UN Security Council. "I am in favour of maintaining our presence, to continue to work on the ground until we find a solution to this problem," he told the BBC TV Breakfast with Frost programme. He admitted the UN been humiliated in Gorazde, adding: "But this is one setback -- you must see it in the context of situations where we have been successful, in Cambodia, El Salvador and elsewhere." Meanwhile, the UN relief agency was today planning to airlift 600 wounded people from the town, as 400 British and French troops were due to set out from Sarajevo to join a 200-strong contigent already deploying along the Gorazde confrontation lines. Elsewhere, General Andre Soubirou of the UN Protection Force was holding meetings with Bosnian Muslim and Serb military commanders in and near Gorazde.
