FBIS3-13247 "drnes048_j_94005" FBIS-NES-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Egyptian Mediation Said of `Considerable Importance' PM1103104194 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 10 Mar 94 pp1, 4 PM1103104194 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Reports by 'Abdallah Hammudah in London and Hammud Munsir and Naji al-Harazi in Sanaa: "Sanaa Seeking Egyptian Role to Resolve Yemeni Crisis; the General People's Congress and the Reform Grouping Consider Excluding the Socialist Party From the Government"] [Excerpt] Political circles in the Yemeni capital see President 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih's visit to Cairo yesterday evening "as a move reflecting Yemeni interest in an Egyptian role to end the political crisis between the General People's Congress [GPC] and the Yemeni Socialist Party [YSP] which has become a complicated problem between the north and the south and a threat to Yemen's unity." Sources say that the Egyptian role is of considerable importance at this stage because "it gives the Gulf states some kind of reassurance that the Jordanian mediation could not provide." A senior source in the GPC, which is led by the Yemeni president, has stated that "there are increasing notions about secession among the southern brothers and I do not know whether or not that is based on any specific calculations." He said that local calculations have become more complex since the introduction of the system of political pluralism, and that is what "the secessionist desires" would face, unlike foreign calculations "which are based on a desire to calm the situation and avoid a military explosion in Yemen, regardless of whether or not secession occurs." The GPC official played down the significance of what went on during a joint meeting of the lederships of the GPC and the Yemeni Reform Grouping [YRG], part of which was attended by the president before leaving for Cairo. The meeting was said to have discussed more coordination between the GPC and the YRG with emerging inclinations to terminate the ruling coalition in Yemen with in order to exclude the YSP from government. Some of the conferees also called for intervention to settle the crisis by military means. The GPC official said that "discussions which take place in the absence of the president are of no great importance because no decisions are made and no clear policies are decided in such discussions." He added that "decisions have already been made on these matters and the position will be determined in the light of the solution which might result from the current attempts to resolve the crisis." He said that "the YSP's notions about secession are perhaps meant to pave the way for a federal solution." Meanwhile, the son and nephew of Yemeni Agriculture Minister Shaykh Sadiq Amin Abu-Ras have been released as a result of efforts made by Shaykh 'Ali Bin-Naji al-Ruwayshan, chief of the al-Yamaniyah al-'Ulya tribe in Khawlan. [passage omitted]
