FBIS3-1352 "drafr058_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Government Responds to Latest UNITA Demands MB2503053194 Luanda TPA Television Network in Portuguese 1930 GMT 24 Mar 94 MB2503053194 Luanda TPA Television Network Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] Another plenary session has been postponed in Lusaka, Zambia. The session was expected to examine the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola's [UNITA] reply presented to the mediator yesterday. Our correspondent in Lusaka, Joao Ligio reports. The new document presented by UNITA asks for the continuation of the Voice of Resistance of the Black Cockerel's [Vorgan] broadcasts on shortwave, the return of its property in good condition, and the granting of party installations and houses for its leaders. UNITA also announced the introduction of a new list of its 70 deputies. The government, which was expected to give its official reaction had the plenary session had taken place, said that Vorgan Radio should operate on shortwave only until December. Thereafter, it should join other medium wave national broadcasts. On the return of property, the government says: Give me what is mine, and you will have what is yours. If you impose conditions on what is mine, you will receive equal treatment. On the granting of party installations and houses for UNITA leaders, the government referred to the law regulating the acquisition of immovable property in the country. On the new list of UNITA deputies, the government wants to know the fate of those who in parliament speak in the name of UNITA. What is strange is that this document does not mention the debate over ministries and provinces. This could mean the parties are making progress in this direction. According to UNITA's Jorge Valentim, his delegation accepts the government's offer of the Ministries of Health, Tourism and Hotel Industry, and Public Works. The Public Works Ministry will still be debated, in view of its nonexistence. Jorge Valentim said UNITA accepts the Provinces of Uige, Lunda Sul, and Cuando Cubango, and it is presently negotiating the Provinces of Benguela and Huambo, which the government says are negotiable.
