FBIS3-50852 "drlat006_o_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 Colombia Naval Commander Confirms U.S. Troops in Meta Department PA0801014594 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0000 GMT 8 Jan 94 PA0801014594 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "24 Hours" newscast] [Text] The Colombian Navy today confirmed the presence of more U.S. Marines in Colombia. General Octavio Gnecco, commander of naval infantry [as heard], said that in December U.S. military personnel not only arrived at Malaga Bay in Valle del Cauca Department, but also some 30 others arrived in Puerto Lopez, Meta Department. [Begin recording] [Reporter Alvaro Ayala] With the arrival of U.S. military personnel at Malaga Bay on 29 December, it became evident that U.S. troops are present in several regions of Colombia. According to the two governments, their presence has a humanitarian objective. The naval infantry commander said that a group of U.S. military personnel has been in Puerto Lopez, Meta Department, for several months, carrying out engineering projects. Nevertheless, he said he does not know why the public was not given an explanation about the presence of foreign troops there. [Gnecco, in progress] ...of the U.S. Navy who are helping us build a river outpost. This work will conclude in February, and they will be returning to their bases. [Ayala] How many are there? [Gnecco] Approximately 30 men arrived in December. [Ayala] But Uncle Sam's troops are not only in Juanchaco, Ladrilleros, Malaga Bay, and Puerto Lopez. The National Indian Organization has charged that Monochoa in Caqueta, Barrancon in Guaviare, and Leticia in Amazonas also have a foreign military presence. Regarding Colonel Rodrigo Quinonez, who has been accused by a Navy noncommissioned officer of being the leader of a gang of paid assassins to eliminate union leaders of Barrancabermeja, Gnecco said that one must wait for the results of the investigations. Col. Quinonez, who is being investigated, is currently the Navy intelligence chief headquartered here at the Defense Ministry. [end recording]
