FBIS4-38362 "drsov104_a_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-104 Daily Report 30 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Grachev Meets German Official, Comments on NATO Pact Grachev Meets German Official, Comments on NATO Pact LD3005175794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1733 GMT 30 May 94 LD3005175794 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Mikhail Shevtsov] [Text] Moscow May 30 TASS--Russian Defence Minister Grachev said that Russia may join NATO's Partnership for Peace programme within two to three weeks. Speaking at a meeting with visiting parliamentary state secretary of the German Defence Ministry Michaela Geiger, Grachev said that the final date of signing will depend on how soon Russia's proposals are considered and approved by NATO. Grachev stressed that the results of his visit to Brussels and his speech at the NATO headquarters have been approved by Russian President Boris Yeltsin. He added that technical aspects of Russia's accession to the programme will be ironed out through diplomatic channels. He expressed the confidence that Geiger's visit will help boost Russian-German ties, especially in the military sphere. "Strong German-Russian relations will guarantee stability in Europe, because in terms of military might Germany is second only to Russia in Europe," Grachev said. Speaking about his recent visit to Brussels, Grachev said that Russia's position was met with understanding by NATO leaders, adding that he was "pleasantly surprised" by the positive reaction to Russia's proposals from the Baltic states. He stressed that Russia will not seek to take part in discussions on NATO internal issues. It only wants to coordinate with NATO on matters concerning peace-keeping operations and prevention of conflicts. The talks with Geiger were also attended by First Deputy Defence Minister Andrey Kokoshin. During the visit, Geiger will tour one of the military units, a Moscow aircraft plant and a space training centre. Russian governmental circles confirmed on Monday that no concrete date when Russia will sign the Partnership for Peace programme has been named so far. They said it will depend not only on Moscow, because the NATO leaders need to study Russia's proposals concerning key elements of partnership.
