FBIS3-9343 "dreeu056__a94027" FBIS-EEU-94-056-A Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 ANNEX Hungary Belgian Prime Minister Makes Official Visit Hears Committee Debate on NATO AU2203093294 Budapest MTI in English 2009 GMT 21 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2203093294 Budapest MTI Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Budapest, 21 Mar (MTI) -- Belgian Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene, on an official visit to Hungary, on Monday heard Hungarian parliament Foreign Affairs Committee talks on NATO and minorities. Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Laszlo Kovacs (Hungarian Socialist Party) said after the meeting that MPs were unified on full membership being of fundamental importance for Hungary. There was also agreement on Hungary's wish that countries in Central Europe be treated individually for application. Kovacs said that the new Hungarian Government to be formed after the elections will have to try to help minorities outside Hungary with better bilateral relations with the countries concerned. The socialists also agree that international forums should be used to create an effective minority protection system. Committee Deputy Chairman Gyorgy Csoti (Hungarian Democratic Forum) said his party feels the rights of Hungarians living beyond the borders should be ensured as the first step, as good neighbourly relations are inconceivable without this. Still, the HDF believes in constant dialogue with neighbours. They agree with the socialists that guarantees that cannot be elaborated on bilateral bases should be given to minorities internationally. Over relations with NATO, the views of the two parties differ. According to the HSP, NATO would best serve stability were the countries of the region to receive identical security guarantees. These might or might not be linked to membership. The HSP considers the peace partnership programme as a compromise which does not exclude one single country. The HDF believes all countries of the region should receive security guarantees at the same time, and in their view, the peace partnership embodies this. The HDF expects NATO to define a clear system of criteria by which countries of the region can win membership in the North Atlantic Alliance.
