FBIS3-33471 "drlat037_m_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 Brazil Finance Minister, Labor Negotiate URV Salary Adjustment PY2302111894 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO in Portuguese 22 Feb 94 p 22 PY2302111894 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] Brasilia -- Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso has informed Labor Force President Luiz Antonio de Medeiros that after the adoption of the URV [Real Value Unit], all salaries will be compulsorily converted into the equivalent of the average dollar value of salaries in the past four months. After meeting the labor leader, the minister said the average value will be the minimum value for workers, who will negotiate their final salary values in URV's with businesses. Workers earning higher-than-average salaries, like those with a collective agreement renewal date in February, will have their salaries converted into URV's at the nominal value, Medeiros said. According to Medeiros, the Finance Ministry is determined to set the minimum salary at a figure that will be equivalent, in URV's, to slightly more than $60 -- $63 or $64. Medeiros, who said on 21 February that he would not agree to negotiating the average value, said after the meeting that he was satisfied. "It is a good beginning for the negotiation," he said. Cardoso said that "in this transition phase we do not want the purchasing power of workers to drop," adding that he intends to talk with other labor leaders, like CUT [Sole Workers Center] President Jair Meneguelli and Vicente Paulo da Silva Campo, aka Vicentinho -- the president of the metalworkers' union of Sao Bernardo do Campo. The minister said the government has not made a decision yet on the salary conversion proposal. The method for compulsory indexation of private sector salaries by the average value is ready. According to Finance Ministry sources, all workers, except for B Group workers -- for whom salaries will be converted to URV's in March -- will benefit more than under the existing salary policy. This will happen because the URV will adjust real salaries on a monthly basis, while the existing salary policy guarantees partial adjustment only of salaries equivalent to up to six minimum salaries. The finance minister said that, apparently, the "minimum salary" equivalent to the average of the last four months is the formula that will best preserve salaries, despite the fact that other alternatives also are being considered. According to the minister, salaries will not be increased and the URV will serve as a safeguard, giving them daily protection against inflation. The Position of Team Members in the Balance of Power The Winners Edmar Bacha -- The special Finance Ministry adviser advocated adoption of a fixed rule for converting salaries by the average value, on the grounds that free negotiations between workers and employers still must be approved by Congress. Sergio Cutolo -- The Social Security minister, who like Bacha has experience in previous stabilization plans, claimed that the time required for free negotiations would be longer than the period expected for the transition from the URV to the new currency. Winston Fritsch -- The economic policy secretary, who in the beginning was for freedom of the market, finally was convinced by Bacha's claim that the government needs to establish salary conversion rules. The Losers Persio Arida -- One of the designers of the stabilization plan, Arida is against any type of government intervention in the private sector. He has always advocated that conversion to the URV should be voluntary and not compulsory. Walter Barelli -- Since the beginning of the talks, he has upheld the thesis that the government should adopt a single criteria for converting prices and salaries into URV's. His position was defeated on 21 February. Pedro Malan -- Identified as a neoliberal, the Central Bank president also has advocated the URV's voluntary adoption by society. He was defeated by Bacha's arguments.
