FBIS3-22523 "jptep005___94054" JPRS-TEP-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 3 March 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA ALGERIA Update on Outbreak of Diphtheria Situation Under Control 94WE0172A Algiers EL WATAN in French 10 Jan 94 p 4 94WE0172A Algiers EL WATAN Language: French Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article: "Diphtheria Deaths Declining"] [Text] Since September 1993, 391 suspected diphtheria victims have been hospitalized in the affected wilayas (Tizi-Ouzou, Ghardaia, Bouira, Ouargia, Tamanrasset, and El-Oued), according to officials in the Ministry of Health and Population Affairs. Of those cases, 115 have been confirmed, and 31 of the victims have unfortunately died. In almost half the cases, according to ministry sources, victims were between ages 10 and 20 and either not vaccinated at all or not fully vaccinated against the disease. The number of deaths, rather high at the outset, has declined considerably, and the situation is now under control, despite constraints related to the unavailability of large quantities of vaccine and antidiphtheria medicine. At this point, with outbreaks confined to isolated cases and small-scale epidemic flare-ups, health authorities say the percentage of the populace enjoying vaccinal protection -- now that vaccination is mandatory -- is easily large enough to prevent outbreak of a major epidemic. A recent nationwide assessment of the epidemiological situation for diphtheria showed that centers of contagion are still persisting, even increasing, in the wilaya of Tizi-Ouzou, and there has been a major new outbreak in Ghardaia. However, diphtheria has died down at least temporarily in Bouira, Tamanrasset, El Oued, and Ouargia, the assessment showed. In Ouargia the situation has been brought almost fully under control, and the isolation unit has closed down. In Tizi-Ouzou, all health sectors are affected, with a total of 87 reported cases, 34 of them bacteriologically confirmed, and six deaths. In the same wilaya, health officials have treated 46 healthy carriers identified by analysis of throat cultures. In Ghardaia, 79 persons have been hospitalized with 49 cases confirmed, but there have been no deaths. Finally, the Ministry of Health and Population Affairs reiterates that the large-scale population movements seen in recent years across our borders, especially in the south, have contributed to propagation of the infection and were probably responsible for the virulent form it assumed when the epidemic first broke out.
