FBIS4-17590 "drsov080_a_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-080 Daily Report 26 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Grachev Says Fleet Issue Stymied Until Election Grachev Says Fleet Issue Stymied Until Election PM2504154594 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 26 Apr 94 p 1 PM2504154594 Moscow IZVESTIYA Russian BFN [Viktor Litovkin report: "General Grachev Sees No Tragedy in Breakdown of Sevastopol Talks"] [Text] "The dividing up of the Black Sea Fleet, in my view, is part of the election campaign, and it is impossible to resolve this problem until the presidential elections in Ukraine," Russian Defense Minister Army General P. Grachev stated in answer to a question from your IZVESTIYA correspondent. On his return to Moscow from Sevastopol, where he headed Russia's official delegation at the talks with Ukraine on the problem of dividing up the Black Sea Fleet, the general held a press conference for Russian and foreign journalists. Grachev described the Ukrainian delegation's stance vis-a-vis Russia as discriminatory. Kiev proposed creating a base for the Russian Black Sea Fleet, which, as is well known, includes 85 percent of the fleet's ships and craft, in a small coastal settlement. Kiev's representatives also refused to discuss dividing up the fleet's infrastructure, namely bases, aircraft, airfields, depots, and shore units, without which the fleet cannot exist. Moreover, the Ukrainian military proposed that Russian ships should put to sea and return only via a single channel, each time securing the Ukrainian side's permission three days in advance. The Russian defense minister said that his department has no confrontation with the Ukrainian military. No tragedy occurred. Russia expressed its viewpoint and listened to the Ukrainian side's position, and let the presidents now put the military right. The two sides simply must resolve the problem on a compromise basis in the interests of both countries, their peoples, and the sailors of the Black Sea Fleet. Russia's position is this: We must continue the talks, set up a state commission under the leadership of the prime ministers or their first deputies, and include in the delegation not only military men and diplomats, but also specialist economists, financiers, and others.
