FBIS3-15423 "drsov044_t_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia Envoy Hopes Talks Will Resume WS0403211694 Tallinn BNS in English 1915 GMT 4 Mar 94 WS0403211694 Tallinn BNS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Moscow, Mar 04, BNS - Artur Laast, minister-counsellor at the Estonian Embassy in Moscow, at a press conference today said there was strong hope that the talks between Estonia and Russia will continue despite recent indications of the contrary. Laast told reporters in Moscow he would rather not try predicting the decision the government in Tallinn is going to make on the issue, but he added there was "a strong feeling that the talks will go on." The Estonian diplomat quoted an interview by Alexandr Udaltsev, the senior official in charge of relations with the Baltics at the Russian Foreign Ministry, in which Udaltsev said his country may return to the deadline of Aug. 31 for pulling out its troops from Estonia, if Estonia abided by the conditions several times repeated by Russia. Laast underlined that Russia has not finally given up the deadline, but is just stipulating this date as connected with certain conditions. Laast dismissed as ungrounded the accusations by some Russian diplomats that Estonia had promised to pay 23 million U.S. dollars to build houses for the repatriated Russian military. He said that this money could have been only provided to Estonia by Western countries, which, however, don't want to finance the building of houses for officers in active military service. The Estonian diplomat further said there had been no backing down by his country on the two other issues which Russia says had prompted the decision to review the deadline. Laast added that the first of these issues -- giving up mutual claims for the value of the army property left behind, and for damages inflicted by the presence of troops, respectively, had been virtually settled and was not even worth to be spoken about any longer. Neither have there been any changes in Estonia's position on the second issue, that of the presence of retired Russian military in the country. The dispute, he said, exists over principles that are contradicting Estonia's citizenship law.
