FBIS3-59078 "drweu017_k_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Jan 1994 PORTUGAL * Main Lines of PSD's European Agenda 94P20255 Lisbon O DIABO in Portuguese 4 Jan 94 p 9 94P20255 Lisbon O DIABO Language: Portuguese Article Type:CSO [Article by Adelino Cunha: "Less Demogoguery Without Federalism"] [Text] In the campaign for the European elections, social democratic candidates wish to teach the Portuguese people what the European Union really is, demystify the role of the European Parliament and strengthen the idea that Europe is not just a faucet that drips money. As our newspaper has ascertained from Social Democratic Party (PSD) "European" strategists, federalism is an issue that will be clarified within the context of European construction to explain to the electorate that "what exists is a mixture of federalism, confederalism and intergovernmentability." Thus PSD deputies will tell the Portuguese people that if elected, they will fight for "this dosage never to be exceeded so that small countries will not be jeopardized. We cannot let Europe slide into a model with excessively federal characteristics." Thinking of Money "Even while defending socioeconomic cohesion and the grant of structural funds to poor countries, the PSD must tell the electorate very clearly that Europe is not only money," party sources told our newspaper. "European" social democratic deputies believe that it is bad strategy to "`beckon' the voters over with money." In other words, "as the funds are already guaranteed, the party must (re)introduce issues such as subsidiarity and the role of the European Parliament." On this last issue, the governing party wishes to prevent the opposition from making unfulfillable promises, "since Eurodeputies can only emit opinions, which are just that," according to a PSD official. Meanwhile, there is little probability that even with the talk about subsidiarity, the fields of competence of the European Parliament, the flow of money into Portugal and the federalism that the PSD rejects, social democratic candidates will succeed in significantly propagating the party's message. That is why, "within the context of our enlightenment task, we must say clearly that we are the best, providing concrete examples of what we have done," a party member located in Strasbourg told our newspaper. This is how the PSD hopes to "see" stars in the sky.
