FBIS3-14931 "drsov040_b_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Yeltsin Warns Amnestied Figures Could Be Arrested LD0103131094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1252 GMT 1 Mar 94 LD0103131094 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Moscow March 1 ITAR-TASS -- Russian President Boris Yeltsin met Chairman of the Federation Council Vladimir Shumeyko and Chairman of the State Duma Ivan Rybkin in the Kremlin on Tuesday to express his view on the political situation in the country in the wake of the amnesty proclaimed by the parliament. Yeltsin said he was aware of the negative reaction of the public both to the political amnesty of the people accused of crimes against the state and to the haste with which the parliament resolution was fulfilled, as a result of which the first to be freed were the persons charged with the gravest crimes against the state. The president said that the Constitution, the law and the procedural code were violated in the process. The president then heard the State Duma chairman's explanations of the motives behind the house resolution on amnesty, as well as his assurances that the State Duma would draw appropriate political lessons and ensure a more balanced approach to the adoption of resolutions which are likely to entail serious political and moral consequences. Yeltsin noted that he understood the concern expressed by the public, the press and individuals but refused to share the excessive evaluations and conclusions concerning the state power in Russia. "At present I see no real danger for civil accord and am in full control of the social and political situation," the president said. The president said he decided against immediate tough measures taking into account the announced intention of the State Duma to act towards national concord and an understanding by the considerable part of the deputies of the fact that by passing a resolution on political amnesty they thereby assumed responsibility for the possible political activity of those they amnestied. The president stressed that he regarded the agreement of the defendants to accept the amnesty as their recognition of guilt of criminal activities. "Should the slightest attempt be made at destabilising the situation in the country, they will be arrested straight after," Yeltsin said. The president has issued appropriate instructions for the purpose. During the meeting, the president and the chairmen of the Federal Assembly's chambers coordinated plans for the upcoming activity of the Federation Council, the State Duma and the president.
