FBIS4-42897 "drweu112cc_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS WEU Head: Austria Can Play `Vital Peace Role' WEU Head: Austria Can Play `Vital Peace Role' AU0906100794 Vienna NEUE KRONEN-ZEITUNG in German 9 Jun 94 p 31 AU0906100794 Vienna NEUE KRONEN-ZEITUNG German BFN [Ferdinand Hennerbichler report: "Neutral Austria Welcome!"] [Text] WEU [Western European Union] Chief Eekelen tells NEUE KRONEN-ZEITUNG: If Austria joins the European Union [EU], it need not give up its neutrality. Wars among EU partners would be impossible. If we were attacked, multinational WEU troops would come to our rescue. Regarding EU security issues, Austria need not do anything that it does not want to do voluntarily. "Neutral Austria is welcome in the WEU. It can participate fully and can play an important peace role." In an exclusive interview with NEUE KRONEN-ZEITUNG, WEU Secretary General Dr. Willem van Eekelen confirms: Austria can fully participate in the EU's security policy without having to give up its tried and tested neutrality. The WEU chief's statements in NEUE KRONEN-ZEITUNG are the most effective arguments so far against storytellers in our country who claim that we would have to give up our neutrality if we joined the EU. As Dr. Eekelen makes clear, all of Europe has changed drastically -- the WEU like the issues involving neutrality. We would approach each other, grow together. Neutrality is "no obstacle to actively participating in the EU's security policy." The three great principles of Austria's military neutrality -- not to join any military alliance, not to tolerate any foreign troops, and not to declare war on anyone -- are nowadays accepted all over Europe as general principles for safeguarding peace. First, there are no longer and Cold War military alliances. Van Eekelen: "The WEU is a military alliance that is changing in the direction of a global European security system." Austria is playing "a vital peace role" in this process. Second, the question of having foreign troops on Austrian territory is no longer topical if we join the EU. In case of war the EU would come to rescue Austria from attackers and would drive away enemy troops. Third, the WEU "will never declare war on anyone." Asked whether Austria would then have to shed all its blood on Europe's battlefields in the WEU's defense wars, Eekelen gives a determined answer: This is "not the case at all." The WEU is establishing a "multinational task force" for emergencies. This task force is organized along national lines. It will ensure peace with arms. Participation is "voluntary." A WEU army is not planned. Further, Austria will "not be forced to do things it does not agree with." Decisions on security issues are "made only unanimously" in the EU. Austria, too, has the right to veto decisions. Regarding international peacekeeping missions, the WEU would "not do anything without the United Nations and the CSCE." Van Eekelen: "Let us build this European security system together!"
