FBIS4-43112 "drweu113aa_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS North Atlantic Cooperation Council Meeting Begins North Atlantic Cooperation Council Meeting Begins TA1006150494 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1000 GMT 10 Jun 94 TA1006150494 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-report over video] [Excerpt] The North Atlantic Cooperation Council meeting began in Istanbul today. Attending today's meeting are a total of 41 countries, including 16 NATO member countries, 22 countries which signed the Partnership for Peace program, and Slovenia, Finland, and Sweden as observers. The meeting started with Foreign Minister Hikmet Cetin's speech. Cetin declared that the meeting in Istanbul, which links Asia to Europe, is fulfilling the function of a bridge between different communities and former adversaries. In short, this is where East meets West and north meets south, Cetin stated. He remarked that recent changes have eliminated the rigid unions of the past and countries which attained their independence have now occupied the places they deserve in the international arena. Cetin continued: We are well aware, however, that this transition period has not always been civilized and peaceful. Old dangers such as excessive nationalism, racism, and xenophobia have resurfaced in certain places. We observed the total eradication of logic and humanitarian feelings of compassion. Certain communities appear to prefer a struggle to the death instead of rapprochement and a quest for reconciliation. They seem to have abandoned all the values of the civilized world. Cetin announced that Russia's participation in the program is important and said that he expects this to happen. Also addressing the meeting, NATO Deputy Secretary General Sergio Balanzino noted that cooperation is the most viable way to achieve security and stability in Europe. Otherwise, Balanzino remarked, we will be faced with instability and division, stressing that the efforts of the North Atlantic Cooperation Council on this matter are very important. After the speeches, the meeting continued in camera. [passage omitted]
