FBIS4-489 "drafr070_c_94027" FBIS-AFR-94-070 Daily Report 10 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA PAC Official Calls Monitors `CIA Agents' PAC Official Calls Monitors `CIA Agents' MB1004193494 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1824 GMT 10 Apr 94 MB1004193494 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Report by Ben Maclennan] [Text] East London April 10 SAPA -- International and local observers were labelled "CIA agents" by a PAC [Pan-Africanist Congress] official at a funeral in Ngangelizwe, Transkei, on Saturday [9 April]. A schoolboy who reportedly tried to take a short cut through the stadium where the funeral was taking place, was shot and killed, allegedly by a PAC marshal. The funeral, on Saturday, was of the chairman of the PAC's Port St Johns branch, Mr Mvumelwano Mapipa, killed in a shooting incident on the Port St Johns-Umtata road last month. A member of the PAC's Transkei executive, Mr Victor Zamela, told the crowd of about 300 that United Nations, international church monitors for peace and network of independent monitors observers in the stadium were "CIA agents", and that they were there to foil the PAC's struggle for freedom. Earlier, a Ngangelizwe schoolboy, Xola Jafta, was shot dead at the stadium, allegedly by a PAC marshal. A source said the youth had apparently been trying to take a recognised short cut through the stadium grounds to shops on the other side, and got into an argument with a marshal. "This PAC marshal took a gun and shot him right in the chest," he said. When the police were summoned, the marshals fled, and the PAC leadership made no attempt to help the police, the source said. Jafta was dead on arrival at Umtata hospital, he said. Speakers at the ceremony also claimed the ANC was responsible for Mr Mapipa's death, and attacked Transkei ruler Major General Bantu Holomisa, saying the PAC had protected Transkei and now Transkei was turning against them. The comments came only two days after IEC [Independent Electoral Commission]-brokered peace talks in Umtata between the ANC and PAC. The talks, called to halt months of violence in the Port St Johns area, ended with a commitment from both sides to an immediate truce, and to a peace summit.
