FBIS3-38474 "drweu023_h_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 GERMANY Right-Wing Extremists Step Up International Ties AU0202152894 Berlin DIE WELT in German 2 Feb 94 p 3 AU0202152894 Berlin DIE WELT Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report by Friedrich Kuhn: "Right-Wing Extremists Step Up Cooperation"] [Text] Bonn -- According to the German security authorities, some 25 German right-wing extremists, mainly neo-Nazis, are fighting in Croatia and Bosnia as volunteers against the Serbs. This proves that there are efforts by right-wing extremist circles in Germany to intensify connections with like-minded people abroad. Another example that has been mentioned are the more frequent joint appearances of the head of the German People's Union [DVU], Gerhard Frey, and the Russian right-wing extremist Vladimir Zhirinovskiy. In a meeting with Frey in August 1992, the latter declared that his party would bring its influence to bear "to solve the East Prussian question in Germany's favor." Since then German right-wing extremists have been seen to be supporting the settlement of Russian Germans in East Prussia. According to security experts, German right-wing extremists met with like-minded people in Vellexon, France, Diksmuide, in West Flanders, Naumburg (Saxony Anhalt), and Madrid. Contacts with U.S. citizen Gary Rex Lauck, who smuggles Nazi propaganda material to Germany from Lincoln, Nebraska, are regarded as particularly dangerous. That way, Lauck spares the German right-wing extremists the risk of prison terms of several years for producing the material in Germany itself. Several German publishers of right-wing extremist material now have their newspapers, leaflets, and books printed abroad. According to the Cologne-based Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, signs of a "networking" of right-wing extremist tendencies in Germany have become "more obvious" in the last year. The right-wing extremists are trying to overcome the fact that they are divided into many groups through "means of communication." "Organizational structures are being replaced increasingly by specific interlinking through technology," sources form the Office said. The use of information technology through coded information via mail boxes and mobile telephones enables the right-wing extremists "to mobilize on a federal level within a short time and to react flexibly in each individual case." This has also benefited Hamburg neo-Nazi Christian Worch, who is trying to establish a network under the name of "Anti-Antifa" [anti-antifascist] Direct control over the approximately 5,600 militant right-wing extremists in the entire FRG has not yet been observed. At the moment, 1,500 right-wing extremists are organized into 27 groups.
