FBIS3-35319 "drnes036_s_94015" FBIS-NES-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 SOUTH ASIA Iran Cable TV Operation Depends on Voice, Vision Approval 94LA0080D Tehran SALAM in Persian 19 Jan 94 p 1 94LA0080D Tehran SALAM Language: Persian Article Type:CSO [Text] (News Service) -- The creation of a cable television network is prohibited without approval from the Voice and Visage organization and no one has the right to have a cable television organization. The public relations office of the Voice and Vision organization reports that Mr. Mohammad Hashemi, chief of this organization, gave a speech at a gathering of public relations managers in the Voice and Vision organization, in which he announced the above. He said: The question of cable networks was not raised in the way it was discussed in the press. In an agreement with the Ministry of Guidance, the Voice and Vision organization announced that if films made by that ministry are produced in accordance with the Voice and Vision organization's broadcast rules and criteria, this organization will broadcast the films on national and province center networks. He noted: The goal in doing this is to occupy the free time of the people, and especially those who are unable to buy video equipment. Hashemi discussed the responsibility of the public relations office of the Voice and Vision organization. He said: The Voice and Vision organization is not understood by the general public because of the complexity and variety of its work and activities. Many people do not know about the problems of radio and television programming. For this reason, to show these complexities, the public relations office of the Voice and Vision organization must set up production programs in order to take effective steps to make better contact with its audience. Mohsenian Rad, a university professor, also spoke at this meeting on the role and place of public relations in society. He said: Public relations must try to create a positive outlook in society and it must oppose negative outlooks. He said that the success of a desirable public relations office depends on increasing the knowledge and information of the individuals in that public relations office on a daily basis.
