FBIS4-41461 "drsov123_a_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS `Russia Has Nothing to Hide' on Chemical Weapons `Russia Has Nothing to Hide' on Chemical Weapons LD2406133794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1322 GMT 24 Jun 94 LD2406133794 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Anatoliy Yurkin] [Text] Moscow June 24 TASS--"Russia does not develop and produce binary chemical weapons," Professor Viktor Petrunin, doctor of chemical sciences, said in an exclusive interview with ITAR-TASS today. The scientist heads the State Scientific Research Institute of Chemical Technology. According to Doctor Petrunin, the American side was fully acquainted with all works in this sphere even during the preparation of the treaty on a universal ban on chemical weapons. The over all volume of 40 thousand tonnes of poisonous compounds and their location on the country's territory is no more a secret for the world community. Foreign delegations and representatives of ecological organizations have been to all depots, he said. The recently held international conference on chemical disarmament "Moscon-94" [as received] in Moscow, in the scientist's opinion, had additionally devised technology of destroying chemical weapons. Many foreign specialists have visited scientific research institutes and enterprises of the so-called military-chemical complex. Russian colleagues did not hide from them any secrets, assuming that chemical weapons are a historical anachronism. Many Russian scientists and manufacturers now are more interested in problems of conversion, including financing of the best projects and technologies to destroy and utilise poisonous compounds, the Russian scientist said. According to Professor Petrunin, Pavel Syutkin, who has been appointed acting chairman of the conventional problems of chemical and biological weapons committee under the Russian president, will" continue openness of the disarmament programme". Russian scientists are prepared to show laboratories and industrial installations to U.S. specialists, as was done earlier. Russia has nothing to hide. It is sincerely fulfilling its all international obligations," Viktor Petrunin emphasised.
