FBIS4-1339 "drafr080_e_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 WEST AFRICA Liberia Taylor on NPFL Demobilization, New Minister Taylor on NPFL Demobilization, New Minister AB2504174294 Gbarnga Radio ELRL in English 1200 GMT 25 Apr 94 AB2504174294 Gbarnga Radio ELRL English BFN [Text] The National Patriotic Front of Liberia [NPFL] says it has demobilized and submitted more arms to the expanded ECOMOG [Economic Community of West African States Cease-Fire Monitoring Group] under UN supervision, more than ULIMO [United Liberation Movement for Democracy in Liberia] and AFL [Armed Forces of Liberia] combined. The NPFL commander in chief, Charles Gankay Taylor, says the NPFL is the only faction under the Cotonou Peace Accord that has submitted artillery pieces in furtherance of the disarmament process. He said there are our detractors who continue to make [word indistinct] action of the NPFL, saying even when we do good, some say we didn't do good. Mr. Taylor said there is no need for Liberians to continue killing each other and cautioned those who desire the leadership of this country not to pursue the electoral process. The NPFL leader said politicians are delaying the peace process because they are afraid to go to elections. At the same time, the NPFL has demonstrated confidence in the ability of Liberian women to play a key role in the reconstruction and development of Liberia. The leadership of the NPFL in expressing support for greater involvement in government and other key sectors in society for Liberian women, said the NPFL, through its political wing, will continue to ensure that Liberian women who have the potential are sent to high offices in the new Liberia. The assurance was given over the weekend by NPFL leader, Charles Gankay Taylor, when he appointed Mrs. Dorothy Musuleng-Cooper as the first woman minister to the post of foreign affairs to the transitional government. The appointment of Mrs. Cooper was greeted with an applause of acclamation coinciding with formal pronouncement of the decision by the NPFL to take its seat on the transitional government.
