FBIS3-18696 "drweu045cc_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 March 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Conference Discusses Drug Problem in Europe NC0503192994 Athens ATHENS NEWS in English 4 Mar 94 p 2 NC0503192994 Athens ATHENS NEWS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Half of Greece's prison population is taking drugs, officials revealed in Athens yesterday. New ways of fighting the ever-increasing drugs problem were discussed at the start of a three-day European Union conference on illegal drugs, held at Zappion Hall, Central Athens. The opening day seminar was on drug-addicts and prisons. Addressing representatives from all over Europe, European Affairs Minister Theodhoros Pangalos said the production and trafficking of hard drugs was an increasingly serious problem for Greece's neighbours. Mr. Pangalos joined in wide-spread allegations that The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia [FYROM] produces heroin. "New networks of producing and processing drugs, heroin in particular, have developed in some countries that used to have a communist regime," he said. "Information is there, easy to be proved," he added, pointing at records of arrests that Greek authorities have had at their disposal during the last few years. Justice Minister Yeoryios Kouvelakis said that Greek law punishes drug traffickers but was unfair in how it treated drug addicts. He did not rule out the possibility of a future amendment to the law. "The issue of people taking drugs and the way of facing them remains open," said Mr. Kouvelakis. According to data presented by Manolis Skoulakis, deputy health minister, over half the people detained in Greek prisons are on drugs. Mr. Skoulakis said that medical staff will soon be hired by all Greek jails in order to tackle the problem: "A model unit for the psychological rehabilitation of drug addicts will be founded in Khalkidhiki, in the near future." He added that "the purpose of the project, costing one billion drachmas, will be to face the needs of drug-dependent prisoners," stressing that it will function on a voluntary basis.
