FBIS4-26574 "drchi121_v_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-121 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 TAIWAN Government Opening Markets in GATT Entry Bid Government Opening Markets in GATT Entry Bid OW2306082394 Taipei CNA in English 0735 GMT 23 Jun 94 OW2306082394 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Y.C. Tsai] [Text] Taipei, June 23 (CNA) -- In an attempt to speed up Taiwan's bid to join the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT, the government is working to further open domestic service markets, a ranking government official said Thursday [23 June]. Hsiao Wan-chang, chairman of the Council for Economic Planning and Development (CEPD), noted that the "initial commitment list" of service industries will come out by the end of this month. The strategy to promote the liberalization of the service sector -- a requirement to become a GATT member -- also fit into the government's ambition to build Taiwan into an Asia-Pacific business- operations center, Hsiao stressed. Taiwan, which has observer status with the Geneva-based world trade regulating body, is expected to become a full member by the end of the year. The CEPD service-liberalization task force has reached a preliminary consensus on the service-opening package, Hsiao pointed out. He said the government is set to open the import-export shipping container trafficking business in accordance with an amendment to the highway law, and will relax restrictions on foreigners who want to work as tour guides, with the residency requirement for a foreign guide being lowered from three years to six months. In telecommunications, he said, the government must adjust its monopolistic hold over local, long-distance, international, and cellular phone services. The value-added network service market will also be open to foreigners in a step-by-step approach upon the completion of the revised telecommunications law, he said. Moreover, he said, foreign insurance companies will be allowed to open branches in Taiwan in line with the revision of the guidelines on permits for foreign insurance companies, which is expected to be completed by the end of August. Currently, only US insurance firms are allowed to operate here. Restrictions on foreign banks' establishing branches will also be relaxed. A foreign bank is now allowed to open three branches here annually.
