FBIS4-21150 "jptdd016__l94029" JPRS-TDD-94-016-L JPRS Narcotics Reaction to the 1994 U.S. State Department International Narcotics Control Strategy Report 8 April 1994 EAST ASIA TAIWAN Justice Minister Criticizes Report, Will Ask U.S. To Justice Minister Criticizes Report, Will Ask U.S. To `Clarify' Allegations OW0804073394 Taipei CNA in English 0711 GMT 8 Apr 94 OW0804073394 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Debbie Kuo] [Text] Taipei, April 8 (CNA) -- Justice Minister Ma Ying-jeou Thursday [7 April] criticized a U.S. State Department report on Taiwan's alleged role in international drug smuggling and said the Justice Ministry will ask the State Department to clarify the allegations. Ma said conclusions about Taiwan found in the summary of the 1993 International Narcotics Control Strategy Report ran counter to details in the report's appendices. The summary depicted Taiwan as a market and transshipment point for Southeast Asian heroin and a safe haven for drug fugitives. Taiwan was also said to be producing illicit amphetamines and increasingly playing a role in money laundering. In the appendices, however, Taiwan is not listed as a major drug producing, manufacturing trafficking or money laundering nation, contrary to some foreign wire reports, he said. Ma criticized the report's conclusion that Taiwan is a safe haven for drug fugitives. He blamed this misunderstanding on the lack of an extradition agreement between the U.S. and Taiwan. The problem can be easily resolved by signing an extradition treaty, he said. Ma added that the Justice Ministry will see to it that a law to prevent money laundering is enacted as soon as possible to put an end to the crime in Taiwan. Meanwhile, Ministry of Justice Investigation Bureau Director Wu Tung-ming denied reports that Taiwan is a major drug producing and trafficking country. Wu explained that Taiwan is actively cracking down on illicit drug trade and abuse, has implemented laws and regulations to control drug-related crime, and is stepping up international drug smuggling information exchanges.
