FBIS3-43878 "drafr011_e_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 WEST AFRICA Liberia More Fighting Noted Between Peace Council, NPFL AB1601194894 London BBC World Service in English 1705 GMT 16 Jan 94 AB1601194894 London BBC World Service Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Fighting between the Liberian Peace Council [LPC] and Charles Taylor's NPFL [National Patriotic Front of Liberia] has intensified in Sino County in the southeast of Liberia, and as Nii Artey Allison reports in this telex from Monrovia, the weekend's fighting saw the Peace Council making substantial advances against the NPFL. [read by announcer] NPFL sources confirmed yesterday that the Liberian Peace Council overran Paynestown last week, bringing to six the number of main towns in Upper Sino County now under LPC control. A resident of NPFL territory told me yesterday that NPFL officials were trying to play down the losses. The NPFL named (Gettyporg), Po River, (Pankfield), Lexington, and Buto as other towns lost to the LPC in the last four weeks. It was confirmed yesterday that Charles Taylor has replaced top battlefront commanders responsible for the Sino and Rivercess region to strengthen NPFL defenses in the area. According to several NPFL commandos whom I spoke with, the LPC had entered Sino County by amphibious landing craft to the port of Greenville. Meanwhile, the NPFL reopened its portion of the Gbarnga to Kakata highway yesterday before a sizable crowd of residents from Gbarnga. United Nations staff and diplomats also attended the occasion at Kanela Mission School campus, 40 miles north of Monrovia. The highway was closed when the NPFL attacked Monrovia in October 1992. However, the reopening of the NPFL section of the highway may make little difference since ULIMO [United Liberation Movement for Democracy in Liberia] imposed a blockade on the highway some two weeks ago. Recently a 12-car convoy of UN staff, ambassadors from the United States, Lebanon, and Egypt, and journalists, including myself, were held up for two hours by ULIMO forces brandishing assault rifles and rocket propelled grenades. One ULIMO commander shouted: Turn back, turn back. You stupid people are the ones causing the problem here. The situation was later brought under control by the colonel in charge of the ECOMOG [Economic Community of West African States Cease-Fire Monitoring Group] Kakata Command.
