FBIS3-61502 "jpust004___94082" JPRS-UST-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 26 January 1994 LIFE SCIENCES BIOTECHNOLOGY Polymer Lipid Membranes: Production, Properties, and Applications 947C0093A Moscow BIOLOGICHESKIYE MEMBRANY in Russian Vol 10 No 3, May-Jun 93 pp 229-254 947C0093A Moscow BIOLOGICHESKIYE MEMBRANY Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by V.V. Chupin, A.V. Anikin, G.A. Serebrennikova, Moscow Institute of Fine Chemical Engineering imeni M.V. Lomonosov; UDC 577.352] [Abstract] The increasing use of the simulation method in the science of membranes which traditionally employs models membranes--liposomes, monolayers on the water-gas surface, and "black" lipid membranes as well as biological membranes which are highly labile, thus limiting the selection of research methods, and reports about the high stability of polymer liposomes which are used, inter alia, to study the mechanical interaction of liposomes with the cells and fix enzymes in the lipid membranes, prompted a review of the preparation of polymer membranes from polymerizable lipids--the closest analogues of natural phospholipids--and using these membranes in simulating membrane-dependent biological processes. Various methods of initiating polymer reactions in lipid bilayers are considered, and the stability of polymer membranes from diacetylene-, dien-, styrene-, methacryloyl-, and thiolipids is analyzed and compared. The issues of polymer membrane applications in simulating the intercellular recognition processes and examining phase transitions are addressed. In particular, the general approaches to producing polymer lipid membranes, the types of polymerizable phospholipids and the properties of polymer membranes, and biological process simulation using polymer membranes are examined in detail. Special attention is focused on protein incorporation in polymer membranes and polymer liposome interaction with the blood component cells (hemocompatible materials). Figures 10; tables 2; references 107: 10 Russian, 97 Western.
