FBIS3-41631 "jpten004___94101" JPRS-TEN-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 17 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA BELARUS Inspection Reveals High Iron Levels, Bacteria in Water WS2211103993 Minsk SEM DNEY in Russian 13 Nov 93 p 4 WS2211103993 Minsk SEM DNEY Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Text] Usually they do not talk about water. And if they do, it means there is a problem. This article was prompted as a result of a drinking water inspection conducted by local organizations of the Belstandart in conjunction with representatives of the Sanitary and Epidemiologic Services at the Belarusian Health Ministry. Of 39 inspected water-supply facilities, only seven had water that was up to present safety standards. Serious violations of chemical and microbiological requirements were reported at the remaining facilities, which is 82.5 percent of those inspected. For example, drinking water supplied by the Berestovtsy Housing and Municipal Property Amalgamation failed to meet requirements as to iron levels and intestine bacilli, while the water supplied to residents of Novopoltsk was excessively hard and had a high concentration of ammonia and its ions. Also alarming are the results of an inspection conducted at the Buda-Koshelev Housing and Municipal Property Amalgamation, where the iron content and turbidity of drinking water are beyond established limits. What are the main reasons for such high pollution of the drinking water? In the first place, it is an excessive concentration of iron in underground waters, inefficient iron-removing facilities or lack of those, lack of water-treatment equipment, lax control over the quality of drinking water on the part of relevant agencies. Local Belstandart organizations levied fines on enterprises violating water requirements. Officials found guilty of permitting use of dirty water were severely reprimanded. Findings of inspections of the Horodok, Beshenkovichi, and Mozyr Housing and Municipal Property Amalgamations were sent to the prosecutor's office.
