FBIS3-56002 "drsov009_a_94016" FBIS-SOV-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Yeltsin Press Secretary on First Clinton-Yeltsin Talks LD1301115094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1127 GMT 13 Jan 94 LD1301115094 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Ivan Ivanov and Gennadiy Talalayev] [Text] Moscow January 13 TASS -- After the end of the first round of Russian-American summit talks, press secretary of the Russian president Vyacheslav Kostikov told journalists that, from the point of view of Russia, the meeting is taking place "in a new political situation for the first time since the adoption of the Russian Constitution." "Russia has joined the club of constitutional democracies, and this cannot but influence the talks," Kostikov stressed. "The role played by the great powers in the world will steadily grow," he believes. Kostikov reminded that the hope for stabilisation in the world, cherished by people quite recently, has not come true in a number of regions, speciically, Yugoslavia, the transcaucasian region and Latin America. He said "the world needs a strong new order, and Russia will play the role of a great power in it." Speaking about the content of the first round of talks between Yeltsin and Clinton, Kostikov pointed out that "they began in an atmosphere of genuine partnership." In his opinion, both sides proceed from the assumption that nothing can be done in the world without Russia and the United States. Kostikov said that during the first round of talks the sides discussed the problem of the correlation of power of the president and the parliament. Yeltsin told the U.S. President about the situation in the country after the December elections in Russia. They also mentioned the recent summit meeting of the NATO member states in Brussels. Clinton set forth the main ideas of his "Partnership for Peace" initiative. According to Kostikov, the initiative is still little known in Russia. "So far it has been an attractive formula which should be thought over carefully and thoroughly," he said. Kostikov said as well that the problem of a possible expansion of NATO was also mentioned during the first round of talks. Yeltsin and Clinton stated the need, as well as their intention, for promoting the elimination of all dividing lines in Europe. The two presidents discussed as well the implementation of the agreements, reached at the Tokyo summit meeting of the seven main industrially developed countries.
