FBIS3-60290 "jpten001___94071" JPRS-TEN-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 13 January 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Technology Developed To Extract Lead From Batteries 94WN0091B Moscow MOSCOW NEWS in English No 47, 19 Nov 93 p 7 94WN0091B Moscow MOSCOW NEWS Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Roman Gerasimov and Dmitry Kossakovsky; first paragraph MOSCOW NEWS comment] [Text] An ecologically pure technology of producing secondary metal has been developed at the Institute of Electro-Chemistry of the Russian Academy of Sciences. After the disintegration of the USSR the commercially developed lead deposits for Russia's customers found themselves outside of the country's borders, whilst the price of lead from the CIS countries is quite often higher than it is on the world market. At the same time the demand for it can, to a considerable extent, be met by using the storage batteries which have exhausted their service life. In the industrially advanced countries up to 95% of used batteries are processed, and 75% of requirements in lead are being met with secondary metal obtained in such a way. Its cost is approximately three times less than primary. In Russia less than 50% of used batteries are being collected, which is creating a serious ecological problem. The nearly 90,000 tons of lead scattered annually in the environment contaminate it more than the releases from burning ethyl petrol. The pyrometallurgical method of the treatment of old batteries, used in our country, contaminates the environment with sulphur dioxide and lead aerosols. The Electro-Chemistry Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences has worked out an electrochemical technology which not only has a number of ecological advantages (absence of harmful effluents into the atmosphere, minimum amount of solid waste, closed cycle of water-supply), but is also economically more profitable than pyrometallurgical technology. It is particularly convenient for the treatment of a small number of storage batteries (about 3,000 a year), which makes it possible to site production not far from the places where used batteries are collected and so save on the storage facilities and transportation expenses.
