FBIS3-30529 "dreeu024_p_94012" FBIS-EEU-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 POLAND Sejm Commission Unyielding on Milewski Appointments LD0302221694 Warsaw PAP in Polish 1728 GMT 3 Feb 94 LD0302221694 Warsaw PAP Language: Polish Article Type:BFN [Text] Warsaw, 3 Feb (PAP)--The Sejm National Defense Commission has not changed its stand and continues to be against the linking of posts in the Ministry of National Defense and in the National Security Bureau by Minister Milewski. It is also disturbed at the changes being carried out in the Ministry of Defense, weakening civilian control over the military. This was reported by Tomasz Nalecz, deputy chairman of the National Defense Commission, after the Thursday meeting of its Presidium. On 16 December last year, in a recommendation to the prime minister, the commission queried the linking of posts in the Ministry of Defense, the National Security Bureau, and the Presidential Chancellery. In the view of deputies, this "strikes at the constitutional principle of the division of the supreme state authorities and also creates confusion as to prerogatives." The deputies are still waiting for the prime minister's reply. According to the Defense Ministry, the linking of posts by Milewski is in accordance with the law. In the view of the commission, the announced reorganization in the Defense Ministry is leading to the weakening of civilian control over the army. "Deputies [in the commission] found out about these changes from the press, despite the fact that Minister Milewski promised the commission that he would not have any secrets from them," Nalecz said. He added that he is "also surprised by the tone of hostility toward parliament in certain statements by representatives of the Ministry of Defense." The changes in the Defense Ministry are based on the reorganization of the ministry's management structures and also of the departments answerable to the secretary of state in the Ministry of Defense, Milewski. The plans envision that two deputy ministers posts will remain and the linking of two civil-military hierarchies, those for welfare matters and for defense policy.
