FBIS3-11279 "drlat054_a_94028" FBIS-LAT-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Workers' Proposals To Improve Economy Lauded PA1903021994 Havana Radio Havana Cuba in Spanish 0000 GMT 18 Mar 94 PA1903021994 Havana Radio Havana Cuba Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Commentary by Roberto Morejon] [Text] The balance of the workers' proposals on how to make factories more efficient and how to improve the nation's finances has begun to be reported in the 14 Cuban provinces and the special Isle of Youth municipality today. It is immediately obvious that the wide array of suggestions and evaluations will be very useful to the parliament. This leading government organization last December studied measures to confront the negative balance of domestic finances. Prior to approving those measures, the organization decided to see what the consensus was among the people. The unions accepted the initiative and have held approximately 80,000 grass-roots meetings which, after almost three months of constant conferences to hear opinions, concluded this Wednesday. Following this free flow of opinions, it was observed that there was consensus on several possible measures for correcting domestic finances. Other ideas were widely discussed but did not receive unanimous support. Among the most accepted considerations were the implementation of actions with greater economic efficiency, the elimination of nonessential gratuities, the closure of nonproductive centers, and the implementation of monetary, fiscal, and price measures to face the significant fiscal deficit of 4,200 billion pesos, which has the same value in dollars according to the official rate. The majority was in favor of increasing the price of nonessential articles and others items that are necessary but which have such low prices that they do not even cover production costs. Workers also favored measures to encourage savings and understood the need to implement a tax system. There is not much information on tax systems because they do not exist in Cuba, so the issue was obviously cause for concern. There was no consensus on a possible change of currency given that such a measure could be ineffective in the long run. Thousands of Cubans, however, proposed establishing commitments to freeze funds for several years. These are some of the numerous considerations handled in the so-called parliaments in the workplace, which was the name given to the trade union assemblies that followed the last meeting of the People's Government National Assembly in December. Provincial and national union leaders will today begin to study the proposals and ideas presented by the rank and file, a process that should portray more clearly the opinion of the majority of Cuban workers about economic matters.
