FBIS4-24254 "drafr124_e_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 WEST AFRICA Sierra Leone Factional Fighting Leaves 50 Dead Near Border Factional Fighting Leaves 50 Dead Near Border AB2706223794 Paris AFP in English 1641 GMT 27 Jun 94 AB2706223794 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Freetown, June 27 (AFP) -- Clashes between rival groups in an armed Liberian faction left at least 50 people dead over the weekend on the Liberia-Sierra Leone border, reports said Monday [27 June]. Reports reaching the Sierra Leone capital Freetown said hundreds in the Tonkia chiefdom, some 260 kilometres (160 miles) southeast of the capital, fled and one witness, named as Tommy Fefegula, put the number of dead at around 50. Fefegula said the fighting began between United Liberation Movement factions belonging to the rival Mandingo and Krahn clans in the two Sierra Leone border villages of Njama and Tigbema. He said the Mandingo faction Saturday ordered the civilian population to leave their villages in order to teach a lesson "once and for all" to Krahn fighters. "They then opened fire with heavy guns which resulted in many casualties among the combatants," he added. A local chief told AFP by telephone that a Krahn detachment had earlier crossed into Liberia to fight the Mandingo faction at their base in Kawalahun on Friday evening. Last week, tribal leaders petitioned the military government of Captain Valentine Strasser in Sierra Leone "to remove ULIMO soldiers from the chiefdom." ULIMO troops have been helping Sierra Leone combat its own rebels of the Revolutionary United Front in the area for over two years. But villagers have complained about the ULIMO presence, accusing them of attacking villagers and military posts. The acting chairman of ULIMO's military affairs committee, Major General David Bropleh, said Monday the incident over the weekend was being investigated. Inter-ethnic violence within ULIMO broke out in the west of Liberia four months ago, after the Krahn faction complained that Mandingos were given most of the movement's posts in transitional institutions set up in Liberia since March 7. ULIMO is one of the three signatories to a peace accord signed in 1993 to end the Liberian civil war. The agreement gave each one-third of the posts in Liberia's collective presidency, government and transitional parliament.
