FBIS3-32184 "drlat023_b_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 Inter-Caribbean Affairs CDB Considering Support Program for Banana Producers FL0202132794 Bridgetown CANA in English 2155 GMT 1 Feb 94 FL0202132794 Bridgetown CANA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Richard Cox] [Text] Bridgetown, Barbados, 1 Feb, CANA -- Banana producers among borrowing member countries (BMCs) of the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) may be in line for some financial assistance to improve their competitiveness, according to CDB vice-president in charge of operations, Marius St Rose. St Rose, speaking Tuesday at a news conference at the Barbados-based regional institution, said a programme is being developed to improve the competitiveness of the banana industry to ensure continued access to vital markets. The vice-president said the CDB was considering a 160 million dollar (one EC dollar; 37 cents US) support programme, to be pursued over a three to four-year period. The intention is to improve the quality of bananas and reduce the cost of production by about 20 to 25 per cent. "As it now stands," St Rose said, "even though the Windward Islands have ... preferential access (to the European market), they are one of the highest cost producers and if something is not done to reduce those costs, they are going to lose the market." As far as the CDB is concerned, the cost reduction should occur at three levels: the level of the farmer, the level of the growers' association, and the level of the distributor. At present, for each dollar earned from bananas, the farmer gets about 30 cents, the association gets about 30 to 35 cents, and the distributor, Geest Industries, gets another 35 cents. St Rose told reporters governments of the Windward Islands met last Saturday to discuss the programme. The European Union is expected to join CDB in financing the proposed programme. This comes at a time when the Caribbean banana industry is adversely affected by a number of factors, principal among which is the depreciation of the pound sterling. Moreover, as CDB President Sir Neville Nicholls pointed out, "uncertainty about the future deepened as a result of significant changes in the arrangements for marketing caribbean bananas in the European Union." Sir Neville said this uncertainty had induced strong competition through increased access for lower-cost Latin American or dollar area bananas. He added it would eventually result in the phasing out of preferential access to Europe for the banana-producing countries in the Caribbean, Africa and the Pacific.
