FBIS3-29164 "dreas031_a_94041" FBIS-EAS-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 February 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Hosokawa on Elections, Fiscal Shortfall, Parties OW1202132694 Tokyo NHK General Television Network in Japanese 1023 GMT 12 Feb 94 OW1202132694 Tokyo NHK General Television Network Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read report; from the "NHK News 7" program] [Text] Prime Minister Hosokawa met with a group of Japanese reporters who are accompanying him on his visit to Washington. During the meeting, the prime minister said he intends to set up a consultative body of the ruling coalition parties as soon as possible to discuss the issue of securing financial resources to make up for a fiscal shortfall arising from tax cuts. He also indicated that he hopes the consultative body will draw a conclusion on the issue before an extraordinary Diet session is convened in autumn. As for the future realignment of political parties, the prime minister said: I think that the realignment of political parties will progress in parallel with progress in the demarcation of the single-seat constituency. I think that there will be some moves toward the realignment of political parties before the current ordinary Diet session ends. My frank feeling is that if the ruling coalition parties fail to hold themselves together, they would be unable to fight in elections. With regard to the timing for the dissolution of the House of Representative and general elections, the prime minister said: I am not thinking of holding the general elections. Asked by one of the reporters about the relationship between the enactment of a bill on the demarcation of single-seat constituency and the dissolution of the House of Representatives, the prime minister said: There will be three months of notice. I will have to think of dissolving the lower house based on that. It will be a question of political timing for the dissolution of the House of Representative after the passage of three months. On the cabinet reshuffle, the prime minister said he is not considering it.
