FBIS4-63386 "drsov099_a_94050" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 20 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Finance Ministry on Tajikistan's Joining Ruble Zone Finance Ministry on Tajikistan's Joining Ruble Zone LD2005192794 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1639 GMT 20 May 94 LD2005192794 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] The Russian Finance Ministry believes that it is too early to discuss Tajikistan's joining the ruble zone, Deputy Russian Finance Minister Andrey Kazmin told the Financial Information Agency. He emphasized that this issue could be considered only in the distant and not in the near future as Tajikistan would prefer. By the end of 1993 Tajikistan was the only republic of the former USSR where old issue rubles were still in circulation. This led to the complete collapse of the Tajik monetary system. Trying to remain in the ruble zone, Dushanbe made quite a risky decision and seized old issue rubles without introducing its own currency units. This resulted in crisis. To overcome it the Russian government agreed to allot a credit of 120 billion cash rubles. Tajikistan has already received 80 billion rubles of it. The Russian Finance Ministry believes that Tajikistan must focus on restoration of its own monetary system. Tajikistan must introduce its own currency together with Russian rubles. This seems to be the most reasonable alternative in the present situation, Kazmin pointed out. He referred to the April memorandum of the Russian government and the Central Bank submitted to the International Monetary Fund. The memorandum said that the merging of the Russian monetary system with the monetary systems of the CIS states could be carried out only if the economic systems of these states would suit the purpose. The economic potential of Belarus, which has signed such an agreement with Russia, significantly exceeds that of Tajikistan. However, many problems must be settled before the Russian-Belarussian treaty is implemented. Russian Acting Finance Minister Sergey Dubinin has recently recommended that Tajikistan introduce its own national coupons and cover its expenditures without Russian credits. Dubinin announced that Russia had already printed coupons for Tajikistan.
