FBIS3-18384 "drweu041_h_94031" FBIS-WEU-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 GERMANY Study Challenges Arms Export Ranking 94EN0236B Hamburg DIE WELT in German 15 Feb 94 p 11 94EN0236B Hamburg DIE WELT Language: German Article Type:CSO [Article by Ruediger Moniac: "Confusion About Arms Exports: Ebenhausen Foundation Contradicts SIPRI Statistics"] [Text] The news from the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute [SIPRI] received widespread attention in Germany. Even in the German Bundestag it was accepted as true and authentic by most parliamentarians: In 1992, the FRG moved into third place behind the United States and Russia in worldwide arms exports. Overall, united Germany has exported weapons and weapons systems for about $1.9 billion to all parts of the world. The former USSR was slightly ahead with an export volume of $2 billion. According to the SIPRI researchers, the United States was the unchallenged leader with $8.4 billion. What really lies behind these SIPRI statistics was now studied by the Foundation of Science and Policy (SWP) in Ebenhausen with surprising results: First, the German arms industry "is involved" in global arms exports "only to an infinitesimally small degree" and, second, Germany's top ranking computed by SIPRI results "from applying a questionable method of calculating revenues." Therefore, the SWP analysis sees the SIPRI work as a "distorted picture of German arms export policy." The public discussion ultimately does not even take note that the modification of the arms export policy desired by the Federal Government "in its core aims at reestablishing Germany's alliance and cooperation capability and not, as imputed, at unrestrained expansion of arms exports." According to SWP, Bonn so far has neglected to clarify "these correlations." The SWP study is based on data of a register kept by the United Nations since 1992 on exports of conventional weapons. They showed that "the German arms exports" reported by SIPRI "consist almost exclusively of used NVA [National People's Army] and Bundeswehr equipment passed on" to NATO allies and Scandinavian countries. As a result of disarmament agreements, the Bundeswehr had to muster out considerable weapons inventories and passed this materiel on to NATO allies with less modern equipment. The result: The Bundeswehr saves the costs of scrapping; the receiver country, for little money, gets more modern armed forces; and NATO ultimately has better equipped armed forces overall. SWP uses a second example to illustrate the criticized "distorted picture" painted by SIPRI: Among other things, this deals with exports of "demilitarized" NVA ships, especially to Indonesia (six) and Tunisia (four). SIPRI had calculated this--like other--materiel on the basis of a "hypothetical revenue volume of 40 percent of its potential new value" and had thus arrived at an "exorbitant total sum of $1.9 billion." SWP judges this method: "If SIPRI had looked at the actual revenue obtained, the FRG would have landed on one of the lower places."
