FBIS3-34675 "drnes030_k_94008" FBIS-NES-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 IRAQ Envoy Views Talks JN1402110194 Baghdad AL-THAWRAH in Arabic 11 Feb 94 pp 1, 2 JN1402110194 Baghdad AL-THAWRAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [By Khalid 'Abd-al-Rahim] [Text] Asif Ali Zardari, personal envoy of Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, has said the three-year-old embargo against the Iraqi people is an inhuman crime committed by countries that claim to be civilized and to care about human rights. In a statement to AL-THAWRAH, Zardari said the fact that the embargo has been in place for more than three years confirms the barbarity of these nations, which are killing the elderly and children through this embargo. The nations which claim to be civilized should reconsider their stands and heed international appeals for an immediate lifting of the embargo against the struggling Iraqi people. They should also have a humanitarian view and translate it into action. On the effects of the embargo on the economy of Pakistan, Zardari said Pakistan had previously broad trade and economic interests with Iraq and the other Arab states. The embargo has greatly affected trade in Pakistan. We have lost a great deal due to the embargo's impact on trade and economic ties which had earlier revived the Pakistani economy. The embargo has harmed these interests and inflicted great harm on the Pakistani economy, he said. Assessing Iraqi-Pakistani ties, the Pakistani envoy said: Iraqi-Pakistani relations date back thousands of years. They have always been strong and close. Since a friend in need is a friend indeed, Pakistan had to side with Iraq because it is experiencing difficult circumstances that require extending all kinds of support to it. I also consider Iraq my first country because I come from the Sind province, which shares deep-rooted relations with Iraq since the Islamic conquest. Therefore, the purpose of our visit is to enhance relations between the two Muslim peoples and friendly countries. On his talks with Iraqi officials, the Pakistani envoy said: The talks were conducted in a cordial, frank atmosphere. We exchanged views to promote cooperation in the interest of our two peoples. Asif Zardari handed a written message to Prime Minister Ahmad Khudayyir on 9 February addressed from Benazir Bhutto to President Saddam Husayn.
