FBIS4-14512 "drsov063_h_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 Moldova Russian Defense Chiefs Deny Increased Attacks on 14th Army Russian Defense Chiefs Deny Increased Attacks on 14th Army MK3103103094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 31 Mar 94 p 2 MK3103103094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Report by Yuriy Golotyuk under the "Property" rubric: "Struggle Flares Up in Moldova for the 14th Russian Army's Legacy." Tiraspol Wants Its Share on a Par With Chisinau"] [Excerpt] [Passage omitted] Moldavia [Moldova] has instantly reacted to Tiraspol's "legislative initiative." A report quickly circulated through ITAR-TASS channels speaks of the fact that "Lieutenant General Aleksandr Lebed, commander of the 14th Russian Army in the Dniester Region, has ordered his soldiers and officers to resolutely cut short, even with the use of weapons, any attempts to attack the facilities and personnel of the Army." This was allegedly done "in connection with the latest increasingly frequent cases of attacks on servicemen and threats of violence against them and members of their families from armed mafia-like groupings operating with the tacit approval of the Dniester Region authorities." Our correspondent was told at the Russian Federation Defense Ministry and the main staff of the ground troops that there have been no reports coming from the Dniester Region about a worsening situation around 14th Army subunits. On the contrary, there have been of late no cases of attacks on servicemen or Army facilities. As for "cutting short any attempts to attack the facilities and personnel of the Army," the servicemen must do that in accordance with service regulations, and with the use of weapons if need be. Thus, there is nothing new in it. The report from Chisinau must have been most probably "timed" to coincide with the eighth round of talks between Moldavia and Russia. Chisinau continues to insist on a speedy pullout from the Dniester Region of 14th Army units. The more radically minded politicians in the Moldovan leadership demand that this be done before the end of this summer. Moscow maintains that this is virtually impossible. It is in order to "press" the Russian military into making the decision sooner that Chisinau wants a worsening of the situation around the 14th Army units or at least a semblance of such a worsening.
