FBIS3-33227 "drlat035_t_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 Venezuela Banco Latino Intervention Board Resigns in Protest PA1802170994 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network in Spanish 2350 GMT 17 Feb 94 PA1802170994 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From "The News" newscast] [Text] Members of the Intervention Board investigating Banco Latino have disclosed that they sent a message to Bank Superintendent Roger Urbina resigning from their duties at that financial institution. Members Julio Santodomingo, German Ollar, and Tasalio Cadena were appointed to the Intervention Board on 21 January. The three board members said they were to have broad powers of administration, disposition, control, and surveillance, including all duties that the law and by-laws grant to the general assembly, the board of directors, and the other bodies of the intervened institution. Nevertheless, the treasury minister reported that the executive had decided -- within a special program set up to handle the Banco Latino problem -- to appoint an administrative board that would cooperate with the Intervention Board. Tesalio Cadena, Julio Santodomingo, and German Ollar Sabal rejected the appointment, saying that there cannot be an administrator of the administrators. In any event, these high-ranking officials believe they have fulfilled their duty to the extent possible. [Begin recording] [Tasalio] We are acting in keeping with our consciences. We were not consulted on this measure. We have our self-respect, and that is why we have resigned. [Unidentified reporter] So where does that leave the Bank? [Tasalio] That's the problem of the other board. [Santodomingo] Our priority was to protect the account holders. I do not participate in politics. I am not looking for a ministry or an economic position. I accepted this position only to defend the depositors. [end recording] In any event, the new intervention board must wait for a report on the Bank's current status to decide if this financial institution can be salvaged or not, although the auditors have the last word. Meanwhile, Bank Superintendency Director Roger Urbina replied to the members of the Banco Latino Intervention Board. [Begin Urbina recording] I have not been officially informed of their resignation. If I receive their resignation, another intervention board will be appointed; if not, the same board will continue, whatever is appropriate. The important thing is to do whatever must be done quickly, because we can't lose another minute in Banco Latino's follow-up, intervention, and possible recovery. [end recording] The Banco Latino situation, far from being solved, is becoming more difficult as it will force the Venezuelan Government to make specific decisions to punish those responsible for this financial institution's crisis. In any event, Roger Urbina will not accept the Intervention Board's resignation until it is official.
