FBIS3-3427 "drchi054_d_94035" FBIS-CHI-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 Northeast Asia DPRK, ROK Exchange Accusations OW1903145194 Beijing XINHUA in English 1430 GMT 19 Mar 94 OW1903145194 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Panmunjom, March 19 (XINHUA) -- Pyongyang and Seoul exchanged accusations today over the collapse of inter-Korea talks, each side urging the other to change positions. The eighth working-level contact between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) and South Korea broke down at the truce village of Panmunjom, deadlocking the planned inter-Korea exchange of special envoys. Pak Yong-su, head of the DPRK delegation, told reporters after the one-hour meeting that the collapse occurred because of a "sudden change" in South Korea's position. The south would "take a strong position" against the north, restore suspended joint military exercises with the United States, go ahead with its plan to deploy "patriot" missiles in the south, and take part in international sanctions against the DPRK, Pak said. Chief South Korean negotiator Song Yong-tae accused the north of blocking the exchange of special envoys, warning that if the nuclear issue remains unsettled, Pyongyang would face "unpredictable consequences." However, his North Korean counterpart denied the charges, saying his country was ready to respond to either dialogue or war. Each side called on the other to soften its tough stand, but no date was set for the next round of talks. South Korean Deputy Premier and Minister of National Unification Yi Yong-tok issued a statement this afternoon expressing his disappointment over the failure of the talks. Seoul will cooperate closely with the international community in seeking a solution to the problem arising from the suspected North Korean nuclear weapons development program, Yi said. He added that there was no change in South Korea's position on finding a peaceful solution to this problem through dialogue, and hoped that the north will return to the negotiating table as soon as possible.
