FBIS3-35509 "drnes038_l_94021" FBIS-NES-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 ISRAEL `Violent' Clashes Ensue Following Hebron Attack Riots Reported TA2502121194 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew 1000 GMT 25 Feb 94 TA2502121194 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Text] There are violent incidents and riots by residents in numerous places in the territories. Our correspondent Moti Amir reports that 28 residents were wounded in the Gaza Strip by IDF [Israel Defense Forces] gunfire. Fire was directed at an Israeli car and a Border Police patrol in Bethlehem. The car was damaged, but its passengers were not harmed. A while later, an Israeli bus was stoned, and one of the passengers fired his gun, killing one of the stone throwers. The IDF imposed a curfew on the Bethlehem area. Stones were hurled at cars in the garages in Nazareth. Calls were heared from the town's mosques not to forgive the massacre. The commander of the police's northern district conferred with area notables, expressed his sympathy for the Arab population, and tried to calm down moods. The defense minister's media adviser denies Hebron physicians' claims that the IDF and Israeli hospitals refrained from extending aid to the Hebron casualties. He told our correspondent Hayim Hecht that the IDF offered helicopters for the transfer of the wounded, and that Jerusalem hospitals prepared to receive them, but the Arab physicians rejected all IDF offers. The Health Ministry has deployed over the last hour to extend all possible medical aid to hospitals that treat the Hebron wounded. Our correspondent 'Ofra Nehmad notes that Dr Yehoshu'a Shemer, the Health Ministry's assistant director general announced that he instructed the blood bank to prepare as many blood units as necessary for the Arab medical elements, as well as to extend any other medical assistance. Our correspondent notes that seven of the Hebron wounded reached the Jerusalem Hadassah hospitals, and Magen David Adom ambulances are on the alert to transfer wounded people to the town's hospitals.
