FBIS3-15320 "drsov043_o_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 Uzebekistan Karimov Speaks About Results Visit to Russia LD0303215394 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1800 GMT 3 Mar 94 LD0303215394 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report over video by correspondent Aleksandr Shkirando, including recorded remarks by Uzbek President Islam Karimov on recent visit to Russia, date and place not given; from the "Novosti" newscast] [Text] [Shkirando] It is rather difficult to say something specific about the results of a visit by the Uzbek president which has just ended, especially as on the eve of the visit some kind of nervousness could be felt in Russian-Uzbek relations. This was caused by the issue of protection of the Russian-speaking population and also by the fact that Uzbekistan is, in some way, drawn towards Turkey, Iran and Pakistan. However, the large package of documents signed in Moscow shows that Uzbekistan nevertheless wants closer ties with Russia practically in all spheres. [Karimov] This is a new step in relations between Russia and those states which were created after the disintegration of the Soviet Union. And I want to say that in this Russia acted honorably. [Shkirando] The Uzbek leader made some critical remarks concerning some issues, above all economic problems. It seems to me that not only the Russian commercial structures should think about this. [Karimov] Russia is a great power. It should not lose the markets which it had on the territory of the former Soviet Union. If Russian enterprises do not export their production to these regions, other corporations and companies will come. They are waiting for just one thing -- to quietly infiltrate these regions and these markets, and to gain these markets through credits, sometimes credits given on preferential terms. Who in this world would give up their positions voluntarily as far as the markets are concerned?
