FBIS3-12858 "drnes044_o_94004" FBIS-NES-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 SYRIA Paper Urges International Observers in Territories JN0503072794 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0545 GMT 5 Mar 94 JN0503072794 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [From the press review] [Text] In two articles, AL-THAWRAH speaks about the dimensions of the Ibrahimi Mosque massacre and its impact on the Middle East peace process. The first article, under the headline "Settlers, A Major Pillar of Occupation," talks about the dangers Israeli settlement activity poses to the peace process and the impossibility of achieving peace under this settlement activity, which is a form of occupation. AL-THAWRAH asserts that contrary to the expectations of Israeli rulers, the monstrosity of the Ibrahimi Mosque massacre has revealed to the whole world that the complex of racism controls Zionists, particularly the settlers. The massacre revealed the extent of their black rancor against Arabs, to the point of physical liquidation. Those people do not care about the negative -- in fact destructive -- impact this will have on the peace process, on which the world community pins great hopes of achieving a just and comprehensive peace. AL-THAWRAH says such a peace cannot be established before the Israeli occupiers and the Zionist settlers leave the occupied territories. Let the settlers be the first to do this. The paper adds: If the international community wants the bilateral peace talks to resume, then appropriate resolutions should be issued to provide international protection for Palestinian citizens in the occupied territories, to disarm the settlers, and to deploy international observers as a prelude to dismantling the Zionist settlements. In the second article, under the headline "Incapable Security Council", the paper speaks about another aspect of this issue. It explains that the Security Council's slowness in issuing an appropriate resolution regarding Israel's responsibility for the massacre and the situation in the occupied territories has exacerbated matters and encouraged the Yitzhaq Rabin government to go further in its measures to kill Palestinians and impose a tight military siege and curfew following the massacre. AL-THAWRAH adds: Rabin has shown an extreme disregard by not ruling out a repeat of the Ibrahimi Mosque massacre elsewhere in the occupied territories. He wants to threaten the Palestinians with new massacres and takes lightly the Security Council. The paper says Arabs have a fair and necessary demand before the Security Council. They want the Security Council resolution to refer to an international deployment to ensure the security of Palestinian citizens in the occupied territories, including the city of Jerusalem as part of the 1967-occupied territories. The paper adds: Israeli policy, which is drowning in terrorism, aims at depriving Washington of any peaceful achievement, as long as the United States does not intervene and only asks the parties concerned with the peace process to reach solutions, and avoids applying pressure. The paper concludes: Israel does not really want peace. The evidence is the obstruction of the peace talks, the increase of Israeli crimes, and the continuing construction of settlements and the occupation of Arab territories. Peace does not coexist with occupation.
