FBIS3-41741 "jptep004___94075" JPRS-TEP-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 18 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Condition of Epidemiology Service Epidemiologists Present Demands 94WE0019B Moscow SMENA in Russian 4 Aug 93 p 1 94WE0019B Moscow SMENA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Galina Kolesova; first paragraph is large-type boldface SMENA introduction] [Text] Seventy-five Russian territories are already lodging serious complaints to the government in connection with the collapse of a most important social service -- the Russian Federation State Committee for Sanitary-Epidemiological Oversight [Gossanepidnadzor] system. As of today, the Russian government's debt to all federal services amounts to 40 billion rubles, 16 of which is to the Gossanepidnadzor. A selective conference of representatives of the public health services of 75 regions throughout Russia convened yesterday morning to discuss one matter: development of a set of demands to the government. These demands, the ``13 Points,'' were developed and approved by the participants at the Petersburg Conference of Workers at Gossanepidnadzor Institutions back on 28 July. But because our city health service is in the same situation as all other such services in Russia, the essence of the regions' demands has not changed. The main demands are as follows: Provide the total financing for the sector's institutions that was allocated from the federal budget, including wages to its workers, and classify medical education and scientific institutions as socially significant services... And only one item caused disagreement: the need to temporarily shift the service to financing from the local budget. There have already been similar precedents in Russia. And what initially seemed like a rescue turned out to be fraught with new problems because, as is a well-known fact, he who pays calls the shots. In Yakutiya, for example, the local authorities financing this service sharply cut the size of the service itself. In other regions, authorities actively opposed the closure of ``ecologically dirty'' enterprises... In any case, there are grave doubts on the matter in Petersburg and no hurry to ``go begging to Sobchak.'' It is precisely for this reason that the collective of the city agreement committee especially insisted on government guarantees regarding repayment times in the event that short-term interest-free loans from ``local funds'' are granted to the service. And our city service is trying to resolve yet another important matter. It is trying to obtain permission to use 50 percent of all fine sanctions at its own discretion. The Malyy soviet already denied this request in the spring. The agreement committee members were convinced that the the amount -- 50 percent -- frightened the deputies, whereas they believe that the city cannot receive even this sum because there is nothing more frightening than a ``corrupt sanitary inspector.'' And, as they emphasize, it is only one step from poverty to corruption. The chairman from Krasnodar, speaking at the selective conference, said ``A blow to the public health service is a last blow to the people.'' Perhaps it was right after this phrase that premier Chernomyrdin yesterday morning gave Finance Ministry Director Fedorov permission to grant emergency appropriations to repay the service's debt. Fedorov, they say, handed the directive down -- to the local authorities.
