FBIS3-14920 "drsov040_u_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 Latvia Minister on Collapse of Talks With Russia LD2802180094 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network in Finnish 1530 GMT 28 Feb 94 LD2802180094 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network Language: Finnish Article Type:BFN [Text] Latvian Defense Minister Valdis Pavlovskis is highly critical of Russia's attitude in its negotiations with Latvia. According to Pavlovskis, Russia is constantly imposing new conditions for withdrawing its troops from Latvia. Valdis Pavlovskis is the first Latvian defense minister to visit Finland after the Second World War. [Correspondent] A couple of weeks ago, Russia and Latvia were already close to agreement on the withdrawal of Russian soldiers from Latvia. However, the talks came to a sudden halt without any result. [Begin Pavlovskis recording, in English] Unfortunately, the talks have stalled. I think in recent days the Russian attitude has hardened, has become more negative. [end recording] [Correspondent] According to Latvian Defense Minister Valdis Pavlovskis, the reason why the talks broke off was the Russian attitude that has hardened and become more negative. [Begin Pavlovskis recording] Now I understand the Russians are imposing new conditions, stalling the old conditions and we just had...[fades to correspondents report] [Correspondent] Pavlovskis says that Russia is now imposing new conditions for withdrawing its troops that are linked in particular, to the situation of the Russian soldiers in Latvia. According to him, it is not sufficient for Russia to reach agreement on the position of the disputed Skrunda high power radar. Pavlovskis admits that one reason why the talks broke off was that Latvia did not accept the annual rent of 11 million marks that Russia had offered. For this money, Russia would have been allowed to keep the radar for another four years. According to Defense Minister Pavlovskis, the rent for the radar station is, however, a matter on which agreement can be reached in the negotiations if there is the will. Pavlovskis says that the rise of the conservative forces in Russia is clearly noticeable in the entire negotiation set-up. According to him, Russia now wants to argue about whether Russia invaded Latvia in 1940. [Begin Pavlovskis recording] Now what the hell was it, if not an occupation? It was a historical fact, it was an occupation, (?but) troops that marched in and took us over...[fades to correspondents report] [Correspondent] Pavlovskis demands that Russia should admit outright that it invaded Latvia and separate this historical manipulation from the current withdrawal negotiations.
