FBIS4-41692 "drsov124_a_94025" FBIS-SOV-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Greek Minister on Moscow's `Stabilization' Role in Balkans Greek Minister on Moscow's `Stabilization' Role in Balkans LD2706175194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1736 GMT 27 Jun 94 LD2706175194 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Yuriy Malinov] [Text] Athens June 27 -- The Greek Defence Minister Yerasimos Arsenis said in an interview carried by the TA NEA newspaper on Monday that Russia, taking part in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme, might play an important stabilising role in the Balkans. He pointed out that preparations for signing an agreement on cooperation between Greece and Russia in the military sphere are under way. The Greek defence minister said that he was given an opportunity to talk with the Russian President Boris Yeltsin and the Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev before their departure from Athens. During the meeting the sides confirmed that the Greek defence minister would visit Moscow next month. Aresnis said that during the visit, like during his recent trip to the United States, the sides will discuss problems of security in the Balkan region and the eastern part of the Mediterranean region. Speaking about the system of collective security in the region, the Greek defence minister said that the Partnership for Peace programme envisages interaction between NATO and former Comicon countries. In this framework, Greece might put forward initiatives, urging for certain kinds of cooperation with other neighbouring countries at a political and military level, and possibly, with such nato countries as the United States. The U.S. Defence Minister William Perry is arriving in Greece on an official visit on July 19. The sides will discuss problems of cooperation between the two countries with the aim of creating a system of security in the region, the Greek defence minister said. According to Arsenis, Greece, as a member of the European Union and NATO, might assume a certain decisive role in the Balkans on behalf of these organsations.
