FBIS3-29538 "dreas034_h_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Malaysia Mahathir Discusses Bosnia, Free Trade Issues BK1802080294 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA in English 0515 GMT 18 Feb 94 BK1802080294 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Kuala Lumpur, Feb 18 (OANA-BERNAMA) -- Russia should tell the Bosnian Serbs to withdraw all their heavy weaponry from the whole of Bosnia-Herzegovina and not just Sarajevo, Malaysian Prime Minister Dr. Mahathir Mohamed said today. Sarajevo is [word indistinct] everything; the whole of Bosnia should be liberated from the Serb (forces) and they should withdraw all their weapons, said the prime minister. This was to allow the Bosnians to participate in negotiations without being threatened, he added. He was responding to reporters' questions about a possible Serbo compliance with an ultimatum by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) fo the withdrawal of heavy guns around Sarajevo to help bring about a comprehensive solution to the Balkan conflict. Russia was reported to have asked the Bosnian Serbs to comply with the NATO ultimatum. Dr. Mahathir was also asked about the likely impact of imminent U.S. trade sanctions against Japan following the failure by both countries to reach a trade agreement. He said the government was studying it first, at the moment, it was not sure what the effects would be. But, he said: we agree that while we should open th market for everybody there should not be any numerical quota of imports by anybody... You buy what you think is fair and what you need, not on the basis of quota. As to the possible effects of the U.S.-Japan trade impasse on the recently concluded Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations and the General Agreemant on Tariffs and Trade, Dr. Mahathir said the US had withdrawn certain items from what they had agreed to in the Uruguay Round. This is not a good omen... What is to stop other people from withdrawing items, then there would be no Uruguay Round, no GATT agreement, he added.
