FBIS4-64535 "drweu086_q_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-086 Daily Report 4 May 1994 TURKEY Cetin Departs for PLO-Israel Signing Ceremony Cetin Departs for PLO-Israel Signing Ceremony TA0405104194 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 0700 GMT 4 May 94 TA0405104194 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Text] Foreign Minister Hikmet Cetin has stated that steps are being taken toward a new Middle East -- politically, economically, and socially -- and added that Turkey will continue to contribute in that direction. Cetin departed for Egypt to participate as an observer in the Gaza-Jericho agreement signing ceremony in Cairo. In a predeparture statement at Ankara's Esenboga Airport, Cetin said that the agreement is a historic turning point with regard to formulating the structure of Palestinian self-rule in Gaza and Jericho. Pointing out that peace is a process which needs time and patience, Cetin explained that there have been difficulties since the Declaration of Principles agreement was signed in Washington. Stressing that peace-loving countries in the region made great efforts, Cetin added: [Begin Cetin recording] The personal contributions of Egypt's -- friend and brother Egypt's -- President Husni Mubarak expedited the signing of the agreement. Turkey, from the start, contributed to the Middle East peace process and stated that only by negotiations and dialogue can peace be achieved in the Middle East. Within this framework, Turkey participated in all the multilateral meetings -- five working groups -- and perpetuated its contributions toward the peace process. From the beginning, Turkey supported the five working groups and was an active participant in these multilateral meetings. As a matter of fact, Turkey used its historical, brotherly, and cultural relations with the Arab world and its good relations with Israel, as the only Muslim country which recognized it from the beginning, positively. Turkey always used its relations with Israel and with brotherly and friendly Arab countries toward peace. The point reached today is historical. [end recording] Expressing great happiness at being able to participate as an observer at such an important agreement, Cetin said that Turkey will continue to contribute to the peace process in the restructured Middle East. Cetin will return to Turkey after the Gaza-Jericho agreement signing ceremony.
