FBIS4-32483 "dreeu123_b_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-123 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 BULGARIA SDS To Examine Parliamentary Boycott SDS To Examine Parliamentary Boycott AU2706103294 Sofia DEMOKRATSIYA in Bulgarian 23 Jun 94 p 1 AU2706103294 Sofia DEMOKRATSIYA Bulgarian BFN [Declaration of the Union of Democratic Forces National Assembly Faction: "This Form of Boycott Helps the Bulgarian Socialist Party"; adopted at 22 June meeting of the Assembly faction] [Text] On 22 June 1994 the parliamentary faction of the Union of Democratic Forces [SDS] discussed the parliamentary boycott and decided: 1. Article 3 of the Decisions of the Sixth SDS National Conference points out specific extraparliamentary actions, including a parliamentary boycott, which, against the background of the governmental crisis that existed then, were expected to lead to toppling the cabinet and the holding of early parliamentary elections. 2. This decision was not fully implemented. Only the decision on the SDS parliamentary faction walking out of the National Assembly sessions was adopted and implemented. 3. In this manner, the parliamentary boycott, which was not supported by the extraparliamentary actions, did not prompt the fall of the government and the holding of early parliamentary elections. 4. This form of boycott did not block, but rather facilitated the work of the parliamentary majority of the Bulgarian Socialist Party [BSP], which aims at recommunization, and contradicts the interests of the country. 5. The specific form of the boycott that was adopted -- selectively participating in or walking out of the National Assembly sessions -- jeopardizes the authority of the SDS as a serious political force in and outside the country. The parliamentary faction's work has been disorganized and deactivated. Thus, the manner in which this specific political action is being effected rather serves than hurts the interests of the BSP. Therefore, for the aforementioned reasons, the SDS parliamentary faction decides as follows: It insists that the SDS National Coordinating Council analyze the implementation of Article 3 of the Decisions of the Sixth SDS National Conference and the results of the currently implemented form of parliamentary boycott, and express its opinion whether the recommendation of the aforementioned decisions has been implemented, and whether the boycott produced results that prompt early parliamentary elections.
