FBIS3-58463 "drweu010_h_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 GERMANY Poll Shows Officials Say Zhirinovskiy Dangerous AU1301174994 Hamburg BILD in German 13 Jan 94 p 2 AU1301174994 Hamburg BILD Language: German Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report on poll among German officials on their attitude toward Russian ultranationalist leader Zhirinovskiy: "Poll: How Dangerous is Zhirinovskiy?"] [Text] Hans-Ulrich Klose, head of the Bundestag group of the Social Democratic Party of Germany, believes that "the man is highly dangerous. There is an example that demonstrates what happens if one does not take words seriously -- Hitler!" Wolfgang Schaeuble, head of the Bundestag group of the Christian Democratic Union/Christian Social Union, stated: "It would be terrible if we had to take him seriously. Yet it would also be terrible is a man in his position were not taken seriously." The director of the ZDF television station, Dieter Stolte, thinks that "it is his irrationality that is so dangerous. His spontaneous, emotional, and sometimes aggressive statements are a cause for extreme concern in Europe and the world." Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel (Free Democratic Party of Germany) stated: "The behavior of this man is absolutely inappropriate and unacceptable! Denying him a visa was a difficult decision, but it was justified. He wanted to start a propaganda tour here. We could not accept that." Ignatz Bubis, chairman of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, pointed out: "I believe Zhirinovskiy is a man controlled by the KGB; four years ago, he wanted to found the Jewish community as an agent under orders to the KGB! Fortunately we quickly discovered that." Cardinal Georg Sterzinsky stated: "I think he is more dangerous than people generally believe him to be. I was in Russia in November, where I heard the name for the first time -- from people who stressed that the strongest should get the votes. He is a populist, a demagogue, and he is attractive for politically naive people who want a strong hand." Annemarie Renger (Social Democratic Party of Germany) believes that "the man is very dangerous. He is trying to find fascist alliance partners in Europe."
