FBIS4-34231 "drlat117aa_94019" FBIS-LAT-94-117 Daily Report 14 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Further on Summit Leader Speeches on 14 Jun Further on Summit Leader Speeches on 14 Jun Honduras' Reina Proposes Economic Community PA1606175394 Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 1904 GMT 14 Jun 94 PA1606175394 Mexico City NOTIMEX Spanish BFN [Text] Cartagena de Indias, 14 Jun (NOTIMEX) -- Honduran President Carlos Roberto Reina proposed here today to create authoritative organizations with economic integration decision-making power. He invited other countries to stimulate the creation of an Ibero-American Economic Community. Speaking during the first session of the Fourth Summit of Ibero-American Heads of State and Government, which opened on Tuesday in this Colombian port, Reina extended an invitation to endorse "the gradual and progressive creation of an Ibero-American Economic Community." "The leading role played by commercial enterprises in the new interdependence schemes should not lead us to think that this role ends with the creation of free trade or tariff-free zones," he said. Reina pointed out that the Central American countries are willing to negotiate commercial agreements jointly with third countries and establish a shared economic policy "based on sustainable development." According to the Honduran president, the proposed alliance between Central America and the United States for sustainable development is "the pioneering creative framework" for a regional economic integration process. He expressed his desire that the multilateral agreement, which was reached during the so-called Summit of the Americas, to which the United States invited all of the regional countries with the exceptions of Cuba and Haiti and which is scheduled to be held in Miami in December, be signed. Reina, who is participating in an Ibero-American summit for the first time, also asked for the recognition of developmental differences among countries that participate in economic convergence processes. Regional interdependence "can take place only within the context of equality in which all costs and profits can be shared equitably ," Reina said. According to Reina, development imbalances are compatible with integration processes, "provided differences in the countries' competitiveness are recognized and taken into consideration at the time of the negotiations." Tomorrow, the 22 heads of state and government, in addition to Dominican Vice President Carlos Morales Troncoso, will close the Ibero-American Summit in this Colombian Caribbean port located 1,200 km away from Santa Fe de Bogota.
