FBIS3-36959 "drsov028_e_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Foreign Minister Pays Official Visit to Spain Pleased With First Day of Visit LD1002074294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0709 GMT 10 Feb 94 LD1002074294 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Vladimir Shekhovtsov] [Text] Madrid February 10 TASS -- The first day of my visit to Spain was very strenuous and effective, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Anatoliy Zlenko, now on an official visit here, told ITAR-TASS. He said his conversation with head of the Spanish Government Felipe Gonzalez was interesting and substantial. They discussed a number of international problems, as well as prospects of the development of Spanish-Ukrainian relations. On the same day, Zlenko continued, he had talks with his Spanish counterpart Javier Solana. The two sides initialled the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and Spain, signed a document on the freedom of movement of their citizens on each other's territory and discussed a number of agreements due to be signed soon. Aside from it, during the talks some matters were settled, which are connected with the preparation of an official visit of Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk to Spain, which is planned to take place in the first half of the current year. According to Zlenko, a lively interest of Spanish business people in developing cooperation with Ukraine came as a surprise to him. He discussed the development of economic relations with Minister of Trade and Tourism Javier Gomez Navarro and at a meeting with representatives of the Spanish business and financial circles. During the talks with Defence Minister Julian Garcia Vargas the sides devoted much attention to the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina, where both Spanish and Ukrainian soldiers are serving as part of the U.N. peace-keeping contingent. They exchanged views concerning the propopsals on the settlement of the Balkan conflict, which are being discussed at the NATO headquarters. The stands of Ukraine and Spain on those proposals are almost identical. Both sides believe it is necessary to further look for political ways of settling the conflict. Maximum effort should be exerted for attaining a peaceful settlement without permitting the militarisation of that region. Otherwise U.N. troops made up of soldiers from Spain, Ukraine, Russia and other countries may become hostages of the ill-considered decisions taken by politicians or diplomats, Zlenko said.
