FBIS3-40454 "jpjst005__l94004" JPRS-JST-94-005L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 31 February 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness AIST To Reorganize Regional Laboratories 93FE0811C Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO in Japanese 23 Jun 93 p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 93FE0811C Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] Eliminate Duplicate Research Through Rationalization and Specialization by Field To strengthen basic, creative research, the Agency of Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) has begun to restructure Government Industrial Research Institutes located in regional areas. The plan is to change from the conventional multifaceted research and development program to specialization by field founded on regional characteristics. AIST initiated a large-scale restructuring in January of this year by reorganizing its Tsukuba laboratories. This undertaking will spread to other regions. The objectives are to eliminate duplicate research as much as possible throughout AIST, to rationalize research activities while advancing the priority allocation of research appropriations, and to further strengthen basic, creative research. According to AIST, the plan is to establish future research pillars for specialized fields by having Hokkaido GIRI use the research resources at its Microgravity Laboratory and perform research on cold region biotechnology; Tohoku GIRI, research metals; Nagoya GIRI, fine ceramics; Osaka GIRI, functional materials; Chugoku GIRI, ocean environment research; Shikoku GIRI, marine resources; and Kyushu GIRI, natural resources. Each region has unique characteristics and an established research base. For example, in Kamisunagawa, Hokkaido, the invention of materials for use in a microgravity environment is being tackled based at the only microgravity research facility in Japan. Also, in the Chugoku region, the closed marine region of Japan's Inland Sea is used for research on marine environments. In Kyushu, natural resources like coal and clay are used to advance research on environmentally friendly materials. AIST will revise its administrative rules and change the name ``Government Industrial Research Institute'' to ``Government Industrial Research Laboratory,'' effective October 1 of this year. It was decided that the change to an appropriate name was important given the true state of research. With the shift towards basic, creative research, in addition to advancing multifaceted research, for instance, in biotechnology, new materials, and mechatronics, specialization in specific fields was planned for each research laboratory. This restructuring will not take place over a short period of time, but will proceed over the next five to 10 years at AIST. The policy is to further the appointment, placement, and transfer of researchers, and the provision of facilities.
