FBIS4-8409 "dreeu071_i_94021" FBIS-EEU-94-071 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Muslims Reportedly Forewarned of Air Strike Muslims Reportedly Forewarned of Air Strike LD1204161894 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1551 GMT 12 Apr 94 LD1204161894 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN [Article by Scepan Aleksic] [Text] Cajnice, April 12 (TANJUG) -- Moslems from Gorazde were told when the NATO-U.S. planes would carry out the second attack on Serb positions near the town, a number of Serb fighters, who witnessed Monday's attack launched a little after 14:00 hours told the TANJUG correspondent. Two U.S. planes carried out the raid which lasted 45 minutes. Civilian targets and Serb positions near Gorazde were attacked and six missiles were fired accompanied by incessant machinegun fire, According to Serb fighters on the front line in the Serb village Bare, two kilometers south of the town on the right bank of the river Drina. According to the Serbs a full hour before the attack the Gorazde Moslems had informed the Serb fighters by radio when the U.S. air raid would take place, Goran Saric, a commander of a Serb unit in the Gorazde battlefront said. As soon as the planes flew in a huge crowd came out on the streets of Gorazde and many climbed on roofs of buildings and looked on with binoculars, the deputy commander of the unit Ljubisa Borovcanin said. They had nothing to fear because the Serbs had not shelled the town in the last 15 days, he added. For all their sophisticated electronic equipment the U.S. planes seemed to fire clumsily, with imprecision and at random, Borovcanin said adding that they used very powerful missiles judging by the ten meter long and two meter deep craters they had left and which were also seen by the TANJUG correspondent. We did not have the authorization from our command to fire on U.S. planes and that is why we did not do so, commander Saric said. "However the fighters are already losing patience, especially after the death of their friends and I am sure that they will fire on the planes next time not heeding anybody's orders." In NATO's Monday attack two Serb sanitary cars, clearly marked with Red Cross signs were destroyed, two Serb paramedics were killed and two Serb houses razed to the ground and not tanks as is claimed by NATO, according to information from the command of the Herzegovina Corps of the Bosnian Serb army.
