FBIS4-1774 "drchi064_n_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-064 Daily Report 2 Apr 1994 Economic & Agricultural Government Approves Emergency Funds To Fight Drought Government Approves Emergency Funds To Fight Drought HK0204063094 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 2 Apr 94 p 1 HK0204063094 Beijing CHINA DAILY English BFN [By Liang Chao: "Emergency Funds To Combat Drought"] [Text] The central government yesterday approved a 28 million yuan ($3.2 million) emergency fund to fight the severe drought devastating North China. The money will go to cash-strapped local governments and farmers who cannot afford to pump water to their fields, said an official of the State Anti-Drought Office (SADO) who declined to be identified. The drought has affected more than 17 provinces, regions and cities since last autumn and poses a major threat to spring and summer crops. North China's major grain producing provinces will be particularly hard hit, said the official. The severe drought threatens to destroy over 4 million hectares of wheat and made it difficult to sow 9 million hectares last month, SADO said. Meanwhile, more than 6.8 million people and over 34 million heads of livestock are suffering from a severe shortage of drinking water. Some rain is expected this month in North China, according the latest weather forecasts. But it is too early to estimate its impact, the official said. The affected crop land accounts for 4.5 percent of China's farmland, the official added. But its impact on crops has been much greater. Beijing and Tianjin and Hebei and Henan provinces have been plunged into the worst spell of dry weather. Hebei Province has only received 3.8 millimeters of precipitation -- 68 percent less than in normal -- since last December. And the soil moisture content there has dropped sharply due to dry and windy weather. Many plants are dying right after they sprout. At least 30 percent of the province's wheat farms have been badly affected, SADO's statistics said. The province's major reservoirs contain only 700 million cubic metres of water, while many small reservoirs in the area have dried up. Ground water has even dropped three metres in some parts of the province. Similar reports have come from Beijing, Tianjin, Henan, Shaanxi and Gansu. Barely any rain has fallen west of Qinghai Province. To fight the drought, local authorities have renovated irrigation ditches and conserved water. To date, they have brought badly needed water to more than 3.2 million hectares of wheat farms.
