FBIS3-33549 "drlat038_b_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Haiti Cedras Fails To Appear in Senate on 23 Feb FL2402175594 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio in French 1130 GMT 24 Feb 94 FL2402175594 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] Once again General Raoul Cedras did not show up. For the second consecutive day, he did not answer a call from the second office of the Senate. Nevertheless Senator Romel Manigat remains optimistic about a positive response from the commanding general of the Army. This delay is understandable: He is preparing his case, the senator stated. [Begin Manigat recording, in Creole] (?Despite the delay), we have no doubt that the commander will come because Gen. Cedras is a man of honor, he is a man of his word, a man who knows how to respect his commitments toward the Senate. So, we believe the case is so important that we cannot treat it thoughtlessly. If the high command deems it necessary to take some time to present a good case, it is normal that we, Senate members and wise men, understand the difficulties and we will wait for him because the steps we have taken have not been taken for ourselves, but have been taken on behalf of the Haitian nation. The military institution really needs to provide many explanations to the Haitian community. [end recording] The senators waited until very late for the arrival of Gen. Raoul Cedras. Sen. Thomas Eddy Dupiton was sent to the Army General Headquarters to inquire about this delay. According to Sen. Dupiton, the commander in chief of the Army was trying to contact the various commands in the nine geographic departments of the country before coming to the Senate to answer the senators' questions. However, there was tension, sharp tension at the Senate. Sen. Bernard Sansaricq even demanded a vote on a censure motion against Gen. Raoul Cedras, an idea that is not shared by some parliamentarians including Sen. Dupiton, Sen. Ebrane Cadet, and Sen. Margareth Martin.
