FBIS4-47362 "jpust012___94116" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 June 1994 ENGINEERING AND EQUIPMENT INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING Analysis of the Dynamics of a Shaft Line With Rigid and Analysis of the Dynamics of a Shaft Line With Rigid and Elastic Deadwood Bearings 947F0086A Moscow PROBLEMY MASHINOSTROYENIYA I NADEZHNOSTI MASHIN in Russian No. 1, 1994 (manuscript received 13 Apr 92) pp 25-30 947F0086A Moscow PROBLEMY MASHINOSTROYENIYA I NADEZHNOSTI MASHIN Russian CSO [Article by A. S. Kelzon, N. V. Yanvarev, V. G. Muramovich, St. Petersburg; UDC 629.12.037.6] [Abstract] A shaft line with a mass distribution featuring a suspended mass on two supports one of which is pliable is mathematically modeled to examine the effect of the rigidity of the pliable support on the dynamic characteristics of a propeller shaft-stern deadwood bearing system. The dynamics of the shaft drive on the Arktika nuclear icebreaker are calculated using this model. It was found that as the capacity of icebreaker power plants increases, the amount of vibrations in the stern end of the hull becomes untenable, and leads to fatigue cracks and damage to the deadwood bearings. The energy of the interaction of the propeller and the ice must be optimally distributed. Two cases are examined: 1) a single impact of the propeller blade with the ice and transition processes in the shaft line caused by the impact; 2) induced transverse vibrations of the shaft line due to a periodic pulse load caused by the interaction of the propeller with the ice. The optimal rigidity of the deadwood bearing support is 150 MN/m. The problem of determining the rigidity parameters of the supports of the deadwood bearings should be solved by optimizing the bearing parameters in each case using supports with an adjustable rigidity, which makes it possible to adjust them away from the critical frequency over the entire range of frequencies of rotation of the propeller shaft. Figures 5; references 4 (Russian).
