FBIS4-68180 "jptot021__l94046" JPRS-TOT-94-021-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 18 May 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA GEORGIA Armenian Theater in Tbilisi Bombed Armenian Theater in Tbilisi Bombed Explosive Type Identified NC1805131494 Yerevan ARAGIL ELECTRONIC NEWS BULLETIN in English 0713 GMT 18 May 94 NC1805131494 Yerevan ARAGIL ELECTRONIC NEWS BULLETIN English BFN [Text] Yerevan ("LRAGIR," "AZG" dailies), 05/17/94--Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze phoned the RA [Republic of Armenia] President Levon Ter-Petrosyan and said, Georgian authorities will do their best for catching the terrorists, who has blown a bomb in the Tbilisi Armenian Drama Theater. Georgian Minister of the Interior Aleksander Chikavidze accepted the Armenian Charge d'Affaires Levon Kachatryan and reported on measures taken for revealing the crime. He hoped that this action won't affect the relations between Georgia and Armenia. Georgian Procurator General P. Babilashvili and Chairman of the Security Service Sh. Kviria are ordered to carry operative investigation, periodically reporting its results to the President. "AZG" reports, quoting the editor of the "VRASTAN" Armenian-language newspaper, published in Tbilisi, Vahan Bayburtyan, the information by Western agencies was wrong, and nobody was killed as a result of the explosion. According to the editor, only 5 persons are now in hospital, 3 of them children wounded by glass splinters. Only one of the 5 injured is in a heavy [serious] condition. This is Mikhail Hovsepyan, 61, dance teacher of the theater, who inhaled the hot air of the explosion, and burnt his lungs. Doctors are now struggling to save his life. Among the injured is the deputy director of the theater Rafik Grigoryan. According to Mr. Bayburtyan, the investigation has shown that the explosive and detonator used were of the same type as those, used during the Sadakhlo bridge explosions. This lead is probably pointing to Baku. V. Bayburtyan also reported that Georgian President Shevardnadze allocated 45-50 million rubles for eliminating the consequences of the explosion.
