FBIS4-27973 "dreas109_n_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-109 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 Vietnam Radio Condemns Khmer Rouge Report Radio Condemns Khmer Rouge Report BK0306152094 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam in English 1000 GMT 3 Jun 94 BK0306152094 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam English BFN [Station Commentary] [Text] Khmer Rouge Radio on 31 May ran a story about the so-called statement by 154 students and teachers in various localities in Cambodia on the establishment of the National Temporary Committee against the second (?war) aggression by the United States in the country. Copies of the statement were then distributed to the press. The Khmer Rouge statement said the United States has declared a second aggression against Cambodia, and called on the entire Cambodian population to fight this aggression. The statement [word indistinct] said at present tens of thousands of Vietnamese people are coming for business activities and natural resource exploitation, endangering Cambodia. The distortion of facts has become a nature of the Khmer Rouge. Most recently they accused Vietnam, the United States, France, and Australia of backing the Cambodian Government troops in attacks on Khmer Rouge bases. Concerning the latest fabrication, a spokesman of the Cambodian Information Ministry, Mr. Sieng Lapresse on 1 June said the allegation used by the Khmer Rouge was an insult to Cambodian teachers and students. He also pointed out that the Khmer Rouge who had burned schools, books, and killed intellectuals cannot represent teachers and students to trick people; and that the Khmer Rouge should be outlawed and chased out of the Royal Palace. Mr. Sieng Lapresse also termed the Khmer Rouge as butchers who have destroyed the country's culture, and sold off the country interest to foreigners. At the beginning of the peace process in the country, the Khmer Rouge sought all means it could to destroy peaceful reconstruction. Quite recently,the round table peace talks also failed due to the Khmer Rouge absurd demands. It is of no surprise that the Khmer Rouge resorts to other tricks.
