FBIS4-30260 "dreas122_a_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-122 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Coalition To Reject SDPJ Call To Disband Cabinet Coalition To Reject SDPJ Call To Disband Cabinet OW2406083594 Tokyo KYODO in English 0803 GMT 24 Jun 94 OW2406083594 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, June 24 KYODO -- The ruling coalition parties will reject a demand by the Social Democratic Party (SDP) [SDPJ -- Social Democratic Party of Japan] that Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata immediately disband his cabinet to reconcile with the SDP, a former member of the ruling bloc, coalition sources said Friday [24 June]. The sources said leaders of the coalition partners met and reached a consensus that there is no reason for the Hata cabinet to resign en masse. At the meeting, the minority alliance decided on policy proposals for a new government to be proposed to other parties not including the SDP, they said. During talks on Friday afternoon with the ruling coalition parties, the SDP once again called for the Hata cabinet's resignation, the sources said. The coalition parties said they will discuss the SDP request among themselves, they said. The minority coalition and the SDP are meeting in an attempt to woo the second largest opposition force back into the fold in the face of a no-confidence vote being sought by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). Hata on Thursday hinted that he is ready to resign with his ministers if it is necessary to bring the SDP back into the fold. The SDP left the coalition in April, giving risevernment in four decades. The LDP, Japan's largest political party which was driven out of power last August by a reformist coalition after 38 years of rule, on Thursday submitted the no-confidence motion against the Hata government. The fresh round of talks between coalition partners, led by Hata's Shinseito, and the SDP was focused on plans to raise the 3 percent consumption tax to cover income tax cuts, welfare funding and other key financial needs. The SDP, which opposed the consumption tax when it was introduced in 1989, is demanding it be replaced with other forms of indirect taxation.
