FBIS3-14006 "drnes055__s94056" FBIS-NES-94-055-S Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 INDIAN VIEWS Panun Kashmiri Pandits Say Government Vacillating 94AS0219D Bombay NAVBHARAT TIMES in Hindi 25 Feb 94 p 3 94AS0219D Bombay NAVBHARAT TIMES Language: Hindi Article Type:CSO [Commentary: "The Center has Lost its Credibility by Changing Positions on the Kashmir Issue in International Forums"] [Text] Bombay, 24 February (NP)--Panun Kashmir, the organization of Kashmiri pandits, says that the government of India, in changing its stand on the Kashmir issue repeatedly, has lost credibility at the international level. The position of our government has been weakened ethically. Dr. Ajay Charungoo, spokesman for Panun Kashmir, told reporters today that the government is beginning to blame Islamic fundamentalism for the Kashmir problem. Before, the government blamed Pakistan's internal policy and drug smugglers for the problem. Dr. Chrungoo returned on Monday after taking part in the human rights meeting in Geneva. In addition, Mr. Moti Kaul, president of the Kashmiri Pandit Association's Bombay branch, and Dr. Vijay Sazawal, president of the Indo-U. S. Kashmir Forum, participated as representatives of Panun Kashmir at the conference. The Panun Kashmir spokesman said that the Indian government accused Pakistan of spreading unrest all over the country. It claimed to have proof of this. Why does not it sever diplomatic relations with such a country? The organization said that there is no sense in asking the United States to declare Pakistan a terrorist nation. According to the spokesman, this task should be done by the government of India. Dr. Ajay Chrungoo said that the government had not explained the Kashmiri pandits' situation to other countries; that is why Western nations have learned only of Pakistan's side. He said he was doing the government's job. According to him, the government is giving too much importance to Asia Watch and Amnesty International. There are other human rights organizations; however, the government does not invite them. Panun Kashmir has blamed all parties, including the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party], for the Kashmir problem. The spokesman said that the BJP should handle the Kashmir problem by rising above Article 370. He said that leaders like Vajpayee and Jaswant Singh are sitting on the same platform with the National Conference leaders, while the stand of the conference is clear. They want autonomy for Kashmir. *
