FBIS3-56030 "drsov009_d_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 Regional Affairs Omsk Governor To Head Influential `Siberian Agreement' MK1201131094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 12 Jan 94 p 2 MK1201131094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Vladimir Todres report under the "Territories" rubric: "`Siberian Agreement' To Be Headed by Omsk Governor. Creation of `Siberian Faction' in Parliament Postponed, But Apparently Not for Long"] [Text] Chiefs have changed in "Siberian Agreement." From now on the association's council will be headed by Leonid Polezhayev, chief of the Omsk Oblast administration, not Vitaliy Mukha, who was fired by Boris Yeltsin from the post of Novosibirsk governor for disloyalty. Mr. Polezhayev promised that under him the association will continue to work "for the benefit of Siberia and all of Russia," but at the same time "new opportunities" that opened up after the elections would be used. The official creation of a "Siberian faction," however, has so far been postponed: Too many disgruntled members turned up on 10 January for the association's council meeting. According to Vladimir Shumeyko, he "would like supraparty deputy groups to operate at the Duma, while at the upper chamber there should be no factions at all." Newly elected Duma members from Siberia, having realized that even deputy seats will not save them from their local bosses' control, on the contrary advised that "such a group should be set up precisely at the Federation Council" and that independent Duma deputies should be left alone. Nonetheless, "Siberian Agreement" is seriously intent on setting up a "Siberian cohort" that would operate in both chambers of the Federal Assembly and is even ready to assume all expenses of this deputy group's staff. It seems that this lobby will be formed at an accelerated pace precisely at this stage until next year's budget is drawn up. "We are as yet unable to get anything either from this Fedorov or from this Central Bank," Buryatian Prime Minister Vladimir Saganov exclaimed. Currently, the association is summarizing all demands voiced by Siberian regions so as to present them to the government, and what all of them want is to resolve the nonpayments crisis while avoiding bankruptcies of enterprises. Aleksandr Shokhin, who attended the council meeting, confided that "taking the regions' demands into account in the budget will be a difficult task." Nonetheless, the place of "the regions' advocate" on Staraya Ploshchad has never been empty, and Vladimir Shumeyko is apparently going to replace the outgoing Sergey Shakhray in this capacity. At any rate, it was he who suggested on Monday that "Siberian Agreement" determine "an amount required for priority Siberian programs -- and we will back it at a government meeting." Apparently, it is precisely Leonid Polezhayev's push-through qualities that landed him in the seat of the head of an association of raw material and military-industrial regions, although his purely agrarian Omsk Oblast has no bearing either on raw materials or the military-industrial sector. Even Vladimir Zhirinovskiy indirectly confirmed his reputation of a "strong manager" by announcing recently his intention to nominate Mr. Polezhayev to the government from his party. The Omsk governor himself, however, told your SEGODNYA correspondent that he was hearing about this for the first time and did not have any connections with the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia leader.
