FBIS4-10181 "drlat068_t_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-068 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 Venezuela Coupists Return From Peru, Seek Accord Compliance Coupists Return From Peru, Seek Accord Compliance PA0804010594 Caracas EL UNIVERSAL in Spanish 5 Apr 94 p 1-17 PA0804010594 Caracas EL UNIVERSAL Spanish BFN [Report by Berenice Gomez Velasquez] [Text] Most of the servicemen who have returned from Peru have voiced their disappointment and puzzlement because the pledges made to them have not been kept. They are anxious to know their immediate fate since reality is very different from what they were promised. Lawyer Virginia Contreras has briefed the local press at length on this situation on behalf of her clients. The servicemen wish to resume their military careers, but they feel a public statement constitutes another matter. Unofficially, the servicemen indicated that when they were in Lima an agreement was signed "and now nobody knows where it is," so that the idea is to ignore the terms of the agreement. They specifically agreed that in order to have the charges against them dropped, they only needed to return to the country. Now they are also being told to give statements accompanied by their defense lawyers, something that was not planned. Hugo Chavez' release proved to them that there is no need to testify to have the charges dropped. He did not appear with the law, did not read the records of the proceedings, and did not even appear before a judge, maintained an attitude of contempt of court, and was always making statements. To be pardoned, an arrest warrant should have been issued. Is the president dropping the charges based on privileges of rank? Is this hierarchical discrimination? They protest the demand of prior request for discharge because it is not legal and because they wish to return to the Venezuelan Armed Forces. They charge that the authorities request they limit themselves to appointing counsel for the defense who would allow their defendants to request a discharge. The officers regret the noncompliance of their commander in chief, who had promised to drop charges once he gained power. They question why they are told "the forces do not want them," when that statement can only be made by the High Command, the majority of whom were detained or confined by the coupists who were obeying superior orders.
