FBIS4-12988 "drnes073_l_94007" FBIS-NES-94-073 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 ISRAEL Baraq: IDF Operational Troops Not Part of Redeployment Baraq: IDF Operational Troops Not Part of Redeployment TA1404200794 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1800 GMT 14 Apr 94 TA1404200794 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1800 GMT 14 Apr 94 Hebrew BFN [Interview with Lieutenant General Ehud Baraq, chief of staff, by Army affairs correspondent Alon Ben-David; place and date not given -- recorded] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] [Ben-David] A week ago we witnessed the removal of equipment from IDF [Israel Defense Forces] bases in the Gaza Strip. This was done despite the face that the negotiations with the PLO are still in progress and no agreement on the evacuation of Gaza and Jericho has been signed. Has the IDF not evacuated somewhat prematurely? [Baraq] The IDF has brought forward the evacuation date of objects and logistics. If necessary, we can remain there just as we are for as long as 12 days, 12 months, or 12 years. The IDF's operational forces will neither leave nor redeploy in accordance with the new plans -- incidentally, the redeployment is also inside the Gaza Strip, around the Qatif Bloc, around settlements and along traffic axes -- until we achieve an agreement we consider reasonable from the security angle and the political echelons consider reasonable from the political point of view. [Ben-David] We are waging a war against terrorism in the north as well. The question is whether our negotiations with Syria will be accompanied by protracted terror there, too, carried out under Syrian auspices, more or less. [Baraq] In my opinion, we should work on the premise of and with a mental and physical preparedness for continuing terror in the north. In the long run, however, political arrangements may offer a certain chance for a long-term reduction of tension and enmity, provided they reflect an appropriate sensitivity to the security issue. Nothing can turn us into the Netherlands and Belgium or Switzerland and France in this generation, but a proper balance of security-related emphases in the political content with a technical, a physical military preparedness.... [pauses] At present, we face almost no existential threat. The State of Israel is very strong today in the sense of being able to defend its existence. What is threatened is the personal safety of its civilians, who are faced with terror. [Ben-David] We are celebrating our Independence Day, and yet the IDF's POW's and MIA's are still not with us. Is there anything new in this respect? [Baraq] There is no news; however, we will continue doing everything that may contribute to the discovery of new information about the fate of the MIA's and to return the POW's home. [passage omitted]
