FBIS3-22904 "jptnd007___94029" JPRS-TND-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 26 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Defense Ministry Substantiates Chemical Arms Destruction LD2602115394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0804 GMT 26 Feb 94 LD2602115394 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Roman Zadunaiskiy] [Text] Moscow February 26 TASS -- The Russian Defence Ministry is preparing an adequate substantiation for a Russian programme to destroy chemical weapons. Commenting on aspects of this programme in Saturday's issue of the KRASNAYA ZVEZDA newspaper, Chief of the General Staff of Russian Armed Forces Mikhail Kolesnikov noted that the Russian Defence Ministry is the state customer of work on the development of ecologically safe technologies for the destruction (utilisation) of chemical weapons. According to the general, the Defence Ministry uses the principles of openness to choose adequate technologies, discusses, together with representatives from various regions, sections of the draft programme which are of interest to them. The ministry actively helps the mass media and scientific publications in describing various aspects of chemical weapons' destruction. "The time of taking "hush-hush" decisions has gone long ago," the general staff chief stressed. According to Kolesnikov, the production of chemical weapons in the former Soviet Union was discontinued in 1987 and has never been resumed. Their stockpiles were not replenished and not updated. He stressed that the stockpiles of chemical weapons in Russia are under 40,000 tonnes by weight of toxic agents and are housed at seven arsenals specially equipped for their safe and reliable storage. Russia will carry out the destruction of chemical weapons only at specially built facilities, the location of which will be determined by a government commission set up by the Russian president's decision of August 9, 1993, Kolesnikov continued. In the general's opinion, "the safety of population and environment is the guiding condition for destruction." For this purpose, the Defence Ministry closely cooperates with regional and republican supervision bodies to conduct monitoring of public health and to take samples from surrounding terrain. Such work has already been done near the city of Kambarkiy (Udmurtia), in the Krasnopartizanskiy (Gornyy village) and Volskiy (Shikhaniy village) districts of the Saratov region. Skilled medics are invited to participate in this work. The results of population's medical checkups are reported to regions where this work is done.
