FBIS3-1012 "drafr052_c_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Mandela-Zwelithini Meeting Reportedly Canceled MB1703115894 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1141 GMT 17 Mar 94 MB1703115894 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by C. Doonan] [Text] Ulundi March 17 SAPA -- Friday's meeting between Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini and African National Congress [ANC] President Nelson Mandela appears to be off. Inkatha Freedom Party [IFP] National Chairman Frank Mdlalose told the kwaZulu legislative assembly [KLA] on Thursday that the ANC had objected to the Ulundi venue and had requested it be changed to Durban. Dr Mdlalose however said King Zwelithini wanted to meet in the kwaZulu capital. He said the ANC's Natal premier Jacob Zuma had expressed fear for Mr Mandela's safety in Ulundi. Dr Mdlalose said the ANC had expressed fears of an assassination attempt on Mr Mandela in Ulundi. He relayed details of telephonic contacts between himself and Mr Zuma on Wednesday night and Thursday morning in which Mr Zuma said his headquarters had received reports of "disturbances of the meeting and the assassination of Mr Mandela". Dr Mdlalose said he had assured Mr Zuma of the ANC president's safety, and had invited security personnel to the kwaZulu capital before and during Friday's planned meeting. He added that Mr Zuma had also expressed reservations about a planned gathering of Zulus outside the meeting venue and had suggested it be moved to Durban. "I indicated I did not know where in Durban a spot would be where Zulus couldn't get to," he said. Dr Mdlalose said Mr Zuma had told him that unless the meeting could take place in Durban it should be postponed. Meanwhile, addressing the KLA later, Inkatha Freedom Party President Mangosuthu Buthelezi said he had arranged for extra South African Police in Ulundi on Friday, saying "only an insane person" would try to assassinate the ANC leader. He said Friday's meeting would go ahead with or without the ANC president, adding that the king would address his subjects on elections and the constitution at a mass gathering in Ulundi.
