FBIS3-59143 "drweu018_h_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-018 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Jan 1994 GERMANY SPD Calls For End to UK's EC Budget Rebate PM2601141294 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 26 Jan 94 p 9 PM2601141294 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:BFN [Robin Geyde report: "Britain's EC Rebate Under Fire as Bonn Seeks Cuts"] [Text] Bonn -- Germany is to call for its contributions to European Community funds to be reviewed following demands by the opposition Social Democrats (SPD) to scrap the rebate negotiated for Britain by Lady Thatcher in 1985. Frau Ingrid Matthaeus-Maier, the SPD's financial spokeswoman, said that if the German parliament was unable to insist on eliminating Britain's entire rebate, "then at least the German contribution must cease." The SPD, hoping to turn the issue into a major bone of contention in an election year, argues that the costs of German reunification have reduced the nation's relative wealth in Europe. "We have moved from second to sixth place, on a level with Britain. At the same time, we pay the lion's share of Western aid to East Europe and the former Soviet Union," Frau Matthaeus-Maier said. "It was a serious omission by Chancellor Kohl that he did not negotiate away Britain's rebate at the 1992 Edinburgh summit." Herr Theo Waigel, finance minister, under intense pressure to act, agreed to demand a review of Germany's EC contributions, which came to 9.14 billion [U.S. trillion] pounds last year, including 460 million pounds to help fund the EC rebate to Britain. A Finance Ministry official said yesterday there were constant discussions in the EC over reducing German contributions, "but Frau Matthaeus-Maier must remember that her popular demand must be politically feasible . "We must not forget that any such changes are subject to a unanimous vote -- and that includes Britain's agreement." With opinion polls showing a steadily decreasing enthusiasm for European monetary union, Bonn could be forced into taking a tough stand on the issue. Even Bavaria's Christian Social Union, sister party to Herr Kohl's Christian Democrats, has expressed reservations about European political and economic union, and lent its backing to the SPD's call for an end to the British rebate, in a rare example of cross-party unanimity.
