FBIS3-55157 "drsov004_v_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Jan 1994 Lithuania Further on Former Arms Deals WS0501094494 Vilnius RESPUBLIKA in Lithuanian 18 Dec 93 No. 245 p 3 WS0501094494 Vilnius RESPUBLIKA Language: Lithuanian Article Type:BFN [Second article in a series by Virginijus Gaivenis: "Who Armed National Defense? (2)"] [Excerpts] Prosecutors Are Estimating State Losses Last spring, not only the employees of the State Inspection Department, but also the police and the Prosecutor's Office became interested in the Kaunas association "Selma" and its formerly convicted president Vladas Laurinavicius. The latter took care not only of the arming of Lithuanian soldiers but also of the welfare of Russian servicemen in Kaliningrad Oblast [reference to the construction of military housing]. [passage omitted] Having received 615.77 million rubles [R] in cash from the National Defense Ministry, the "Selma" association deposited only R41.054 million into its current bank account. The remaining cash, as the inspectors from the State Inspection Department have established, were used for other purposes. [passage omitted] Minister Will Not Tolerate Illegal Actions Current Lithuanian Defense Minister L. Linkevicius maintains that he has known "Selma" president V. Laurinavicius since the time he belonged to the Seimas [parliament] Foreign Affairs Committee. The active and business-like person from Kaunas made a good impression not only on L. Linkevicius. It was clear from conversations with V. Laurinavicius that he had good contacts not only with Kaliningrad, but also with Russia's ruling circles. Minister L. Linkevicius cannot account for the activities of the former Defense Ministry leadership, its decisions, and the mysterious links with the criminal world. The minister did not know, however, that V. Laurinavicius had been convicted. "We must make clear today which actions were legal and which were illegal. However, we must assess this from the viewpoint of benefit to the state. No illegal actions will be tolerated in the future," promised Minister L. Linkevicius.
