FBIS3-29590 "dreas035_h_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Malaysia PBS Retains Majority in Sabah Elections Kitingan `Locked Out' of Mansion BK2002090994 Hong Kong AFP in English 0617 GMT 20 Feb 94 BK2002090994 Hong Kong AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Mervin Nambiar] [Excerpts] KOTA KINABALU, Malaysia Feb 20 (AFP) -- Sabah's Catholic Chief Minister Joseph Pairin Kitingan, elected to another term, was unable to take his oath of office Sunday because he was locked out of the governor's mansion. [passage omitted] The independent federal Elections Commission later declared the PBS the winner with 25 of the 48 seats in the state legislature, after a bruising campaign. The remaining 23 seats went to the National Front of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamed, who had vowed to hound Kitingan out of office for deserting the federal coalition on the eve of parliamentary elections fours ago. In Kuala Lumpur, Mahathir accused Kitingan of "unlawfully locking up" PBS legislators who wanted to switch their allegiance to the National Front. "The PBS should allow them to decide. Give them the freedom to move," he said. Mahathir also said that his National Front would not form a coalition with Kitingan, adding "There is no stalemate. It is up to the governor to decide" (who to swear in). Kitingan told reporters early Sunday after that the governor's aides had told him through the locked gates that the governor was too sick to receive him. He accused the National Front of using money -- some "dropped by helicopter" -- to buy votes. He also claimed that large numbers of Filipino and Indonesian immigrants were intimidated into voting for the federal coalition to avoid expulsion. "The elections were not fair," he said. The lock out was a virtual replay of Kitingan's first stunning election victory in 1985, when he was also refused entry into the then-governor's residence, and Muslim leader Mustapha Harun was sworn in as chief minister. This time, the 76-year-old Mustapha, frail and ailing, briefly joined Kitingan outside the governor's residence on Saturday and again on Sunday in a show of support for his one-time Christian enemy. Kitingan said he feared his elected assemblymen might buckle under pressure and defect. "We have heard that there may be some attempt to get our people to go to the other side," he said. The election outcome showed a marked swing away from the PBS among Muslim and ethnic Chinese voters although Kitingan performed well in his traditional, mostly Christian, strongholds. Those areas are dominated by the Kadazans, the largest of several indigenous groups. Mahathir had warned Sabah's almost 600,000 voters that a PBS victory could bring racial and religious strife between Christians and Muslims. He said the PBS had fanned racial, religious and parochial sentiment in the run up to the polls. "Does the PBS want to turn this country into a Bosnia-Herzegovina or Northern Ireland or Kashmir?" he said in a statement released Thursday. [passage omitted]
