FBIS3-31917 "drlat020_m_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 Brazil Minister Seeks To Avoid U.S. Retaliation Over Patents PY2801233294 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL in Portuguese 27 Jan 94 p 3 PY2801233294 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Maria Helena Tachinardi] [Text] Brasilia -- A group headed by Ambassador Roberto Abdenur, secretary general of the Brazilian Foreign Ministry, will visit Washington in early February to try to prevent the United States from retaliating against Brazil, which will probably not be able to meet the 28 February deadline to approve a bill on industrial property rights (trademarks and patents). The fatal deadline imposed by the United States is already the extension of an investigation into Brazilian industrial property law. Last November the U.S. Government decided to bring forward by three months its decision on whether to adopt restrictive measures on Brazilian exports. This subject was discussed yesterday by Foreign Minister Celso Amorim and 20 businessmen from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The minister does not think there will be difficulties in the talks with the United States, because the Brazilian draft bill being discussed in Congress "will be very similar to the intellectual property agreement" of the Uruguay Round of GATT talks which concluded last 15 December. "An action that does not take into consideration what was attained bilaterally and multilaterally would be technically precipitate and politically inopportune. If Brazil had wanted to, it would have hindered the GATT intellectual property agreement," Amorim said. The main point of controversy in the Brazilian draft bill is the requirement that pharmaceutical products must be manufactured in Brazil in order to obtain a license. The text of the GATT agreement on the subject is ambiguous, and has not yet been clarified within the Paris Convention which deals with intellectual property rights. "The text of the agreement deals with the subject indirectly. Political vision is necessary to deal with this ambiguity, which will in time be resolved," Celso Amorim said. The foreign minister also spoke with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce businessmen about the Common Market of the South, the Uruguay Round of the GATT talks, and trade problems between Brazil and the United States, such as problems in the iron and steel industry and in the shoe and tobacco sectors.
