FBIS4-16082 "drsov072_s_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 Georgia Geneva Talks on Peacekeeping Operations Continue Geneva Talks on Peacekeeping Operations Continue LD1304153494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1325 GMT 13 Apr 94 LD1304153494 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Konstantin Pribytkov] [Text] Geneva April 13 TASS -- U.N. and Russian experts reconvened in Geneva on Wednesday to discuss military aspects of a possible peace-keeping operation in the zone of the Georgian-Abkhazian conflict. The talks attended by representatives of Georgia, Abkhazia, Russia and the United Nations focused on determining the areas for deploying U.N. peace-keepers. U.N. secretary-general special envoy Edouard Brunner told ITAR- TASS that the U.N. and Russian diplomats are studying proposals made by the Georgian and Abkhazian delegations on Tuesday. Georgia suggests deploying peace-keepers along the entire perimeter of the war zone, including along the Psou and Inguri rivers, at mountain summits, along the sea coast and at Sukhumi and Bombara airports, as well as in places of location of Russian border troops carrying out radar control of the sea. It stressed that U.N. troops' aim will be to prevent possible resumption of hostilities and check arms shipments and personnel reinforcements to the war zone. However, Abkhazia believes that U.N. forces should be placed along the Inguri river dividing the warring sides to disengage them and prevent penetration of troops into the 6-10 kilometer wide demilitarised zone on both sides of the river. Georgian Interior Ministry Commander Vladimir Chikovani told ITAR-TASS that his delegation disagrees with Abkhazia's proposals. He noted that the deployment of U.N. peace-keepers along the Inguri river will not ensure safe return of refugees because after passing the "corridor" they will find themselves in Abkhazian-controlled territory. In his view, arms supply routes can be blocked only if U.N. troops are placed along the whole perimeter of the war zone. The talks continue and may take a day longer than was planned. Much will depend on the conclusions and proposals of U.N. and Russian experts. The group has no power to make decisions on deployment of U.N. peace-keeping forces. However, its suggestions will be conveyed to U.N. secretary-general who will then present them to the U.N. Security Council.
