FBIS3-16508 "drsov052_r_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 CAUCASUS Azerbaijan Party Leader Comments on Results of U.S. Visit NC1603194794 Baku Azerbaycan Radio Televiziyasi Television Network in Azeri 1600 GMT 16 Mar 94 NC1603194794 Baku Azerbaycan Radio Televiziyasi Television Network Language: Azeri Article Type:BFN [Text] Etibar Mamedov, leader of the Azerbaijani National Independence Party, held a news conference today for the Azerbaijani and foreign reporters. [Unidentified reporter] Etibar Mamedov said that the news conference was devoted to the results of his visit to the United States. Speaking of his visit to the United States, Etibar Mamedov said that he had received an invitation last year to visit that country, but it was not until this year that the visit became possible. He said that during his contacts at Congress, the State Department, and the Institute for International Strategic Studies his delegation met high-ranking officials and discussed a number of issues. He said his meetings with the U.S. National Security Council official responsible for Russia, the Caucasus, and Asia, as well as the active members of the Armenian lobby were particularly important. He said that following his contacts he came to the conclusion that the Americans were not well informed about Azerbaijan and developments here, and that this situation was mostly due to the influence of the Armenian lobby in the United States. The Armenian lobby is organized and financed by Armenians living in the United States. Regrettably, one cannot say the same for the Azerbaijanis. Besides, there was no factual information on the occupation of Azerbaijani territory and the tens of thousands of refugees. Speaking of the sociopolitical situation in the republic, Etibar Mamedov referred particularly to the latest discovery of illegally-held arms and to the discovery of a considerable amount of arms at the headquarters of the Azerbaijani People's Front. He also expressed his views on the results of the meeting between the leaders of the Armenian and Azerbaijani parliaments on the peaceful resolution of the conflict. At the end of the press conference, Etibar Mamedov also replied to reporters' questions.
