FBIS3-26811 "drchi031_q_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 Southwest Region Tibetan Official Warns Against Westernization OW1002103694 Lhasa Tibet People's Radio Network in Mandarin 1430 GMT 9 Feb 94 OW1002103694 Lhasa Tibet People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [From the "News" program] [Excerpts] Chen Hanchang, standing committee member of the regional party committee and director of the Propaganda Department, toured Nagqu on 7 and 8 February, where he met with propaganda personnel who work in an area 4,500 meters above sea level all year round. On the morning of 8 February, Director Chen joyfully got together with personnel of the Nagqu prefectural party committee Propaganda Department. He extended New Year and Spring Festival greetings to them on behalf of the regional party committee and its Propaganda Department. [passage omitted] Chen Hanchang said: The situation on the nation's propaganda front has entered another high tide since the founding of the PRC. We must remain sober-headed and maintain a sense of trials and tribulations [you huan yi shi]. Although China has broken the Western economic blockade and sanctions, Western countries have stepped up activities to Westernize and divide us. In our region, the struggle against separatism will continue to be a long-term task. We must act in line with the central authorities' demands, step up propaganda and ideological work, and educate and train well our next generation to turn it into a new generation of qualified personnel who will span this and next century. Director Chen said: Along with the deepening of reform and opening up, China's economy has entered a phase of vigorous development. While recognizing the current excellent situation, we must also realize where the region lacks. After the promulgation of the region's economic reform measures, we must subordinate ourselves to and serve the needs of the region's overall interests. The responsibility of the propaganda departments will hence become even heavier. We must immerse ourselves in the grass roots to do a good job of propaganda and guidance to ensure smooth implementation of reform measures. Director Chen urged propaganda personnel to learn to pluck up their spirits constantly and work in a down-to-earth manner and with a stronger faith to score new success and raise propaganda and ideological work to a higher level in the New Year. [passage omitted]
