FBIS3-27306 "drchi036_w_94011" FBIS-CHI-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Guangdong Secretary Stresses Hong Kong, Macao Ties HK2102044494 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 21 Feb 94 p 10 HK2102044494 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Daniel Kwan] [Text] Guangdong's dream of becoming the fifth Asian economic dragon is inseparable from Hong Kong's prosperity, the province's Communist Party secretary, Xie Fei, said last night. Mr Xie underscored the close ties between the two neighbours after meeting a group of Hong Kong delegates to the Guangdong People's Congress. But he stopped short of suggesting any high-level visits between the two governments to boost co-operation. Such visits have been seen as politically sensitive since Governor Chris Patten tabled his political reform package to the legislature. In addressing the delegates, the party official gave an account of Guangdong's development blueprint from 1990 to 2010 and admitted that the future might not be all that rosy. According to Mr Xie, Guangdong will have to establish a market economy, perfect its legal system, and improve its present people's congress system and anti- corruption work in the coming six years. "My view is that our targets in the first 10 years (1990 to 2000) are relatively easy to achieve but difficulties await us in the second (decade). "That's why we have to lay a very solid foundation... now." He said that Guangdong would pay extra attention to the development of agriculture, basic infrastructure and education, and science and technology in the run-up to 2000. Meanwhile, the Government hopes to adjust the province's industry mix, clean up the environment and control population growth in that period. "Whether we can succeed in the second 10 years will very much depend on how we fare in these areas," Mr Xie said. He highlighted the role of Hong Kong in Guangdong's ambitious plans. "The realisation of these targets is closely linked with the prosperity of Hong Kong and Macao," he said. The territory could continue to contribute to Guangdong's economy by serving as a channel for "investment markets, management know how, and information."
