FBIS4-15440 "drsov068_v_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-068 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 Lithuania Presidents Release Statement Presidents Release Statement LD0804105394 Vilnius Radio Vilnius Network in Lithuanian 0900 GMT 8 Apr 94 LD0804105394 Vilnius Radio Vilnius Network Lithuanian BFN [Text] The presidents of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have urged the Russian president, Boris Yeltsin, to state personally and publicly that Latvia's inclusion into the countries where Russia intends to establish military bases is a mistake, and to confirm his previous obligations to withdraw speedily and completely the army from Estonia and Latvia. The Baltic presidents also appeal to the international community not to stand aside at a time when Russia is hardening its policy toward these states. The statement by the Baltic presidents was prepared yesterday and made public this morning. The three presidents welcome reports from Russia that the leaders of that country's government acknowledged that a mistake was made in the Boris Yeltsin edict of 5 April by including Latvia among the countries where Moscow intends to establish military bases. In welcoming this news, we notice with concern the consequences of such incidents to our countries, our relations with the Russian Federation and, on the whole, to the possibilities of all countries to work with Moscow's government, the document states. The presidents note that such actions, such as the 5 April edict and the Moscow decision on the same day at the negotiations with Estonia and Latvia to repudiate matters already agreed upon have consequences which reach much further than the negotiations between our countries and Russia. Such actions obviously intimidate our nations and, in addition, they increase tension in Europe, raising the question of the reliability of the Russian Government as a partner in negotiations. The Baltic countries have always negotiated with the Russian Federation benevolently, and will continue to do so. In addition, our governments will do everything in their power to reduce the consequences of these ill-fated incidents. But our efforts have obvious limits, and therefore we apply to all interested countries to help us in our efforts, the statement by the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian presidents notes.
