FBIS4-67332 "jptdd022__l94097" JPRS-TDD-94-022-L JPRS Narcotics 23 April 1994 WEST EUROPE GREECE Customs Officials Seize 121 Kg of Heroin Customs Officials Seize 121 Kg of Heroin 94WD0367A Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA in Greek 23 Apr 94 p 15 94WD0367A Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA Greek CSO [Article by Olga Orfanidou: "Triple Score on Heroin"] [Text] Alexandroupolis -- The smugglers figured that the customs officials would be preoccupied with the TV broadcast of the "Olympiakos" [team] basketball game. But they lost their nerve when they saw the officials at their posts. A few minutes later the customs officials discovered 121 kilograms of heroin concealed inside the walls of their mobile home. Giorgen Mery, 31, a cosmetics merchant, and his 36-year-old wife, Anette Duna, confessed that they purchased the heroin in the Turkish town Yialova and planned to take it to London and sell it for 100,000 D.M. (approximately 38 million drachmas) [over $158,000]. This is the largest quantity of heroin discovered in Greece and the authorities believe that they have dealt a heavy blow to the circuit which moves heroin from Turkey to Europe. Those arrested also confessed that in previous years they had transported large quantities of heroin from Turkey to Europe using the Smyrna-Brndizi ferry boat. This time they used their mobile home which they had remodeled with the help of Turkish drug dealers. But this first transfer by land failed because their information regarding the inadequate policing of the Kipoi customs post proved false. A Large Circuit Stavros Tzioras, director of the Kipoi customs post said that a large circuit of European and Turkish drug dealers is behind the arrested couple, and that after this blow they will think twice before they try again to pass narcotics through Evros. Late in the afternoon the couple was taken to the public prosecutor. The customs officials estimate that the value of the heroin exceeds 2.5 billion drachmas, but with additives this quantity is increased threefold for the street market and the value increases proportionately. --Two construction workers, refugees from Kazakhstan, arrested yesterday in Drama, had in their possession seven kilograms of hashish. They are Nikos Motkalidis, 36, and Rafik Toulkerogli, 34, who were arrested following surveillance. Today they were to be sent to the public prosecutor.
