FBIS4-16604 "drsov075_t_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-075 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia Dangers of Dismantling Paldiski Reactors Noted Dangers of Dismantling Paldiski Reactors Noted LD1804224394 Tallinn Radio Tallinn Network in Estonian 1700 GMT 18 Apr 94 LD1804224394 Tallinn Radio Tallinn Network Estonian BFN [Text] It is possible for the dismantling of Paldiski training reactors to start at the beginning of May. This has been reported by Juri Tikk, the government's special representative in Paldiski. The necessary equipment for dismantling the reactors and the containers for transporting nuclear fuel are in place and are located at the training complex on the Pakri peninsula. In the words of Tikk, the Russian side demands social guarantees to those Russian officers who will participate in the dismantling work. The Russian side wants a single agreement for dismantling and evacuation to Russia of both the reactor nuclear fuel and the entire reactor complex. The Estonian side wants a separate agreement concerning the removal of the reactor nuclear fuel from Estonia and a separate agreement concerning the reactor complex being emptied of the reactor fuel, said Tikk. The nuclear fuel can be taken away in a container either by railway or by sea. The entire reactor, the complex weighing (?over) 100 tonnes, can be taken to Russia by railway or by sea, by using a floating crane and [words indistinct] special containers. But none of the projects have as yet been finally confirmed, stated Raul Luks. The most dangerous stage during the dismantling of the two reactors located on the Pakri peninsula is, in the words of Raul Luks, the lifting of the reactor lids to remove the nuclear fuel. At the nuclear facilities in Russia, in the words of Tikk, on three occasions when the lids of reactors have been opened. A radioactive steam cloud has escaped into the atmosphere. This has a radius of approximately 10 kms, stated Tikk. Estonia does not intend to conceal anything during the dismantling of the reactors, explained Tikk. In his words, a radiation monitoring service operates in Estonia which relays information on the level of radioactivity.
