FBIS4-18093 "drweu062__a94031" FBIS-WEU-94-062-A Daily Report 31 March 1994 ANNEX Turkey Belgium's Claes Reassured on Kurdish Deputies Fate Belgium's Claes Reassured on Kurdish Deputies Fate BR3003120594 Brussels BELGA in French 1636 GMT 29 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR3003120594 Brussels BELGA French BFN [Article signed LVE/MTH/PHF: "Willy Claes More Optimistic on Fate of Arrested Kurdish Deputies"; as released by Brussels BELGA Database] [Text] Istanbul, 29 Mar (BELGA) -- Belgian Foreign Minister Willy Claes came out of his meeting on Tuesday [29 March] with Husametin Cindoruk, speaker of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, reassured with regard to the fate of the six Kurdish deputies who were arrested at the beginning of the month after their immunity was lifted for collusion with the Workers Party of Kurdistan (PKK). Mr. Claes said at the end of his meeting with Cindoruk: "This meeting showed me the light at the end of the tunnel. I have every hope that major and relatively long-term progress will be made, and I had the feeling, after listening to Mr. Cindoruk's explanations, that there is less risk of very stiff punishments being imposed." The six deputies, members of the Democratic Party [DEP], stand accused of "separatism" and of "endangering the integrity of the state," charges laying them open to the death penalty. The Belgian foreign minister refused to give further details on the assurances he had received from Cindoruk "in the interests of the six deputies themselves." Even though he does not know with certainty whether the Turk's undertakings were based on concrete facts or a on personal analysis, Mr. Claes expressed the hope that "the fate of the deputies will not be decided in the way we feared." Mr. Claes had already raised the issue on Monday with his Turkish counterpart, Mr. Hikmet Cetin, and the head of state, Suleyman Demirel. He stressed at the time that sentencing the deputies could only lead to negative reactions from the international community and would adversely affect Turkey's credibility. The foreign minister is to return to Belgium on Wednesday evening.
