FBIS4-10821 "drlat075__a94008" FBIS-LAT-93-075-A Daily Report 19 April 1994 ANNEX Cuba Robaina Meets Argentina's Menem in Buenos Aires Robaina Meets Argentina's Menem in Buenos Aires PA1404160994 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 1017 GMT 14 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA1404160994 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, 14 Apr (PL) -- Argentine President Carlos Menem welcomed Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina here in the first activity of Robaina's official 48-hour visit, which the two described as very positive. Robaina, who met for nearly an hour yesterday with the president at his "Olivos" residence on the outskirts of this capital, said that the meeting was "useful, positive, and friendly." Acting Argentine Foreign Minister Fernando Petrella, who also attended the meeting, told PRENSA LATINA that the Cuban minister's visit is "very significant, successful, and important." In statements to reporters, the Cuban foreign minister, who also met with the Senate president and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, pointed out that "there are many more things that unite us than separate us." Regardless of our differences, which stem from our different political systems, the meeting with the president at all times focused on the common ground in Cuban-Argentine relations, he added. During the meeting, the Cuban foreign minister explained to the president the current situation in Cuba with emphasis on economic aspects and informed him of how Cubans are tackling their difficulties. Robaina and Menem reportedly also discussed the opportunities for Cuba and Argentina to promote Latin American integration. PRENSA LATINA learned that the president suggested further exchanges between the two Foreign Ministries and proposed a trip to the island by Argentine businessmen to survey current conditions for investment and trade. After meeting with Menem, the chief of Cuban diplomacy gave a lecture on Cuban foreign policy to a large group of Argentine and foreign diplomats at the headquarters of the Advisory Council on International Relations (CARI). Robaina, who was declared an "illustrious visitor" by the Buenos Aires Deliberative Council yesterday, later met with partners of the Commodity Exchange in this capital, with members of the Cuban community living here, and with leaders of the Grand Front Leftist Coalition, among other activities. The Cuban foreign minister arrived from Peru yesterday after visiting Uruguay and will meet today with Deputy Economy Minister Carlos Sanchez, businessmen of the Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Production, and with the Foreign Relations Committee of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies. He will also meet separately with former President Raul Alfonsin, leader of the Radical Civic Union, and with the Socialist Unity (US) leadership. Robaina will head for Paraguay tomorrow. His visit will conclude today with an activity organized by friendship and solidarity groups, which are demanding an end to the U.S. blockade against Cuba and respect for the country's self-determination.
