FBIS4-44167 "drweu124_e_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Treasury Secretary Portillo Champions Free Trade Treasury Secretary Portillo Champions Free Trade LD2706215994 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 1629 GMT 27 Jun 94 LD2706215994 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By James Hardy, PRESS ASSOCIATION lobby correspondent] [Text] European countries pressing for greater state interference in economic and social issues were today given a blunt "hands off" warning by Treasury Chief Secretary Michael Portillo. He said government intervention was damaging to individual freedom and economic efficiency. Mr Portillo's comments to Spanish business leaders in Barcelona were being seen at Westminster as a veiled message to Brussels bureaucrats to back away from their long tradition of greater centralisation and regulation. He said governments should confine themselves to creating conditions which helped ordinary citizens generate wealth for their countries. Pressure to block free trade through protectionism presented particularly grave dangers to prosperity. "It has recently been argued that the free market is a jungle to be tamed by governments -- it is at least as plausible to argue that governments are a jungle to be tamed by the free market," he said. The majority of emerging democracies were embracing free market principles of deregulation, competition, privatisation and low tariffs on imports. "They see the connection between economic freedom and political freedom clearly. So must we," said Mr Portillo. "We must apply our understanding of the link to our trade policy. That is a difficult challenge for European governments. We must be suspicious of arguments that urge us to impede trade in order to drive up health and safety standards or environmental standards in developing countries." European experience showed the wealth of nations was best increased through trade between them. ``We want to see a free-trading Europe as a prelude to ever-increasing global free trade. There would be no sense in creating the Single European Market if we are not going to extend its principles globally. ``The arguments that apply to individual nations apply to Europe as a whole. If we surround ourselves with barriers to trade, we shall saddle our consumers with higher prices and our productive industries with dead wood. To be a good European you have to know that there is a world beyond Europe.''
