FBIS4-2057 "drchi066_v_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-066 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 TAIWAN Travel Agents To Boycott China Tours Travel Agents To Boycott China Tours OW0604090394 Taipei CNA in English 0749 GMT 6 Apr 94 OW0604090394 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Debbie Kuo] [Text] Taipei, April 6 (CNA) -- Taipei travel agencies are preparing a boycott of tours to Mainland China in protest over the rude and unjust handling of a boat accident which left 24 Taiwan tourists dead. The entire tour group and eight mainlanders died in a suspicious fire during a cruise of Thousand Island Lake in Zhejiang Province March 31. The disappearance of the money carried by the victims and the mysterious nature of the deaths point to foul play. News of the mishap was supressed for two days and all reporters have been barred from the site where the charred corpses are being stored. Announcing the boycott, Hsu Chin-jui, chairman of the Taipei Association of Travel Agents, said travel agents are indignant at the insensitive and rude treatment afforded victims' relatives by mainland authorities. The mainland authorities rejected all requests by the relatives including to see the ship where the accident occurred and to ship the corpses back to Taiwan for burial or cremation, he said. Hsu added that the boycott will begin soon after association members decide on a date. President of the Republic of China [ROC] and Kuomingtang Chairman Li Teng-hui, commenting on the incident, said Wednesday [6 April] that the ruling party should express its grave concern about the accident through proper channels. Li called for appropriate handling of the victims remains and adequate assistance for their relatives. Meanwhile, opposition legislator Chen Shui-bian suggested that Taiwan designate Mainland China a "high risk" area and urge people to avoid travel there until mainland authorities satisfactorily explain the incident. Legislator Chou Po-lun also called for an across-the-board cut in communication with the mainland until authorities there present acceptable reparations for a recent spate of incidents involving Taiwan tourists.
