FBIS3-21188 "jpjst010__l94011" JPRS-JST-94-010L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 8 March 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness Gumma Prefecture Established New Group to Help Local Companies Develop Technology 94FE0080E Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 7 Oct 93 p 19 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0080E Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] The Gumma Regional Technology Exchange Forum (Toshihisa Nezu, chairman; Faculty of Engineering, Gumma University, Kiryu City, Gumma Prefecture; Tel. 0277-22-3181) supports the technology of Gumma industries with the participation of Gumma U, Gumma Technical College, Gumma Prefecture Industrial Research Institute, and Gumma Prefecture Managers' Association. This year it has reorganized its Automation Promotion Sub-panel into the New Technology Development Research Sub-panel. The sub-panel, which is just getting started, will support product development and original technology development of companies in Gumma. The sub-panel recently began its activity with a sub-panel meeting. Gumma Prefecture has aggressively attracted companies to the prefecture, so it has seen the value of industrial shipments rise. Many local companies are sub-contractors to those companies, so it is desirable to support the growth of local companies which can develop their own products and original technology. The New Technology Development Research Sub-panel will address that topic through a forum made up of representatives from industry, academia, and government. The sub-panel will focus on companies that develop their own products and technology without relying on technology introductions and which hold a distinctive position in the domestic market. It will conduct its research by lecturing on actual case studies, factory tours, and so on. The sub-panel is expected to meet twice a year with the meeting held by the target companies. The first meeting was held on 5 October at Katsura Machinery (Yoji Sekiguchi, president; Maebashi City, Tel. 0272-21-1461), Japan's leading block machine manufacturer. It included a lecture by president Sekiguchi and a tour of the company's factory. The second meeting is planned for February 1994.
