FBIS4-65527 "drweu097__a94048" FBIS-WEU-94-097-A Daily Report 19 May 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Craxi To Stand Trial; Passport Confiscated Craxi To Stand Trial; Passport Confiscated BR1305122094 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 2031 GMT 12 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1305122094 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "Craxi Ordered To Stand Trial"] [Excerpt] (ANSA) Milan, May 12 -- Former Socialist Party secretary and ex-premier Bettino Craxi has been ordered to stand trial for his role in the fraudulent bankruptcy of the Banco Ambrosiano and for the kickbacks the bank paid into the party's so- called "protection account" in Switzerland. Also on trial will be Craxi's ex-right hand and former justice minister Claudio Martelli; the head of the outlawed secret free mason P-2 lodge Licio Gelli; the former vice chairman of the state fuels group ENI [National Hydrocarbons Corporation], Leonardo Di Donna; and architect Silvano Larini. All face charges of fraudulent bankruptcy in connection with the collapse, in the early 1980s, of the Banco Ambrosiano of the late Roberto Calvi and for the latter's 20 billion dollar financing of the Socialist Party through a Swiss bank. The trial is slated to open June 16. The court here has also ordered that the passports of those indicted be confiscated. The confiscation of Craxi's passport had already been ordered earlier in the day, while Martelli's passport was confiscated last week, and Gelli has not had a passport for years. The decision was branded by Craxi as being "persecutory" and he claimed he was being unfairly discriminated against through being treated differently than the others. The former premier, and close friend of the current government chief, Silvio Berlusconi, went on to accuse magistrates of conduct which was "discriminatory, politically exploiting and morally odious". The action taken against him, Craxi argued, was not based "on any reason nor any convincing justification. Against every action which is of only a persecutory nature I intend to continue to defend myself. I will do it not only for myself but also to ensure that the balanced and correct use of judicial power represent a civilized barrier for all". [passage omitted]
