FBIS4-2689 "drchi071_h_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-071 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 West Europe Reportage on Portuguese Prime Minister's Visit Reportage on Portuguese Prime Minister's Visit Urges Lifting of Sanctions LD1204170194 Lisbon Radio Renascenca in Portuguese to Europe 1600 GMT 12 Apr 94 LD1204170194 Lisbon Radio Renascenca Portuguese BFN [Excerpts] Portugal and China -- what good friends we are. On this the third day of his visit to the People's Republic, Prime Minister Cavaco Silva announced that Portugal advocates the lifting of sanctions imposed on China over human rights violations. He stated this at a news conference in Beijing. Our special correspondent Marina Pimentel was there: [Begin recording] [Pimentel] The Portuguese Government has offered to help Chinese businesses find markets in the EU, and has called for the lifting of sanctions imposed on China by the EU after the Tiananmen massacre. [Cavaco Silva] We think the continuation of sanctions still being enforced by the EU is no longer justified. [Pimentel] This announcement helps one understand why Li Peng has thanked Cavaco Silva for the role played by Portugal in the rehabilitation of China's international image. When asked by reporters whether the Portuguese Government is not guilty of double standards on the human rights question, Cavaco Silva implies that the moderation of his criticism of human rights violations in China has already enabled him to secure Beijing's support on the East Timorese question. [passage omitted] After 1999 the Beijing authorities will not be imposing Chinese nationality on the so-called Macanese -- a community of some 10,000 people born in Macao but of mixed Portuguese and Chinese descent. The Macanese will be free to choose their nationality. Cavaco Silva stated at the news conference that he has received this pledge from the Chinese authorities. So the fears of the Macanese over their future when Macao is handed over in five years' time have in principle been removed. This is so far the most significant political result of Cavaco Silva's visit to China. [passage omitted]
