FBIS3-28718 "dreas028_i_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 Cambodia KR Radio: Government Attack in Kampot Routed BK1002075294 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia in Cambodian 2330 GMT 9 Feb 94 BK1002075294 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia Language: Cambodian Article Type:BFN [Text] Reports from Chhuk District [Kampot Province], say that on 29 January leaders of the Vietnamese communist puppets and the two-headed government gathered a regiment of troops from Chhuk District, Kampot Province, to attack the people and the National Army of Democratic Kampuchea [NADK] along Route 3 in Chhuk District. However, as soon as as they showed up, they were ambushed and routed by the people and the NADK. The NADK and the people killed 11 enemy soldiers, including a platoon officer who died on the spot, and wounded 13 others. We seized six AK rifles and a quantity of war materiel. The reports also say that the NADK and the people in Chhuk District, Kampot Province, remain constantly vigilant to smash and rout the offensive campaign of the Vietnamese communist puppets and the two-headed government. Furthermore, they say that offensive campaign of the Vietnamese communist puppets and the two-headed government against the people and the NADK is an act killing the nation and people. It is also an act pushing the Cambodian nation, people, and territory into the communist Vietnamese's Indochinese federation strategy. The people cannot accept this. Our people want Cambodia to have independence, peace, and sovereignty with territorial integrity. They want national reconciliation in accordance with the five-point policy of Samdech Euv [Sihanouk] the king. The reports further say that the NADK and the people have warned that by continuing to fuel Vietnam's war of aggression, leaders of the Vietnamese communist puppets and the two-headed government are war criminals. As a retribution, these war criminals will certainly be dissolved and disappear like previous traitors because of the people's curse.
