FBIS3-28861 "dreas030_i_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 Cambodia Cabinet Considers Judiciary, Media Law BK1102065494 Phnom Penh National Radio of Cambodia Network in Cambodian 1300 GMT 10 Feb 94 BK1102065494 Phnom Penh National Radio of Cambodia Network in Cambodian 1300 GMT 10 Feb 94 Language: Cambodian Article Type:BFN [Text] On the morning of 10 February, a plenary session of the Council of Ministers was held under the chairmanship of Prince Krompreah Norodom Ranariddh, first prime minister, and Samdech Hun Sen, second prime minister, of the Royal Government of Cambodia to examine a number of bills and major issues. 1. The meeting discussed and adopted the bill on the establishment and the functioning of the Supreme Council of Judges. This bill, consisting of 22 articles, is very important. It not only ensures the independence of the judiciary but is also the basis of a law to move toward the establishment and the functioning of the Constitutional Council of the Kingdom of Cambodia [KOC]. The state secretariat for relations with Parliament will submit this bill to the National Assembly for examination and decision. 2. In accordance with Article 41 of the KOC Constitution, the cabinet decided to examine the press law at its next meeting to determine the freedom of the press, freedom of publication, and the responsibility of organizations or networks disseminating information to Cambodian listeners. This is to conform with the country's political situation. 3. The cabinet also discussed the legal procedures relating to the cabinet and assigned the cabinet office to supervise and implement this task. 4. The meeting also listened to the report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on goals relating to the consolidation and expansion of international relations, particularly bilateral relations with countries that have diplomatic relations with the KOC. 5. The plenary session also listened to the report by the Ministry of Industry, Energy, and Mines on the progress of oil exploration and on the restoration and repair of hydropower. The cabinet examined a number of concrete measures to ensure proper and firm implementation of the decisions of the cabinet at its plenary session on 26 January, which set the electricity rate at 350 riel per kilowatt/hour for general users. Relevant ministries were requested to consider reducing the rate for light industry. 6. The cabinet also listened to the report by the Tourism Ministry relating to a number of principles for developing tourism. The cabinet closed its plenary session at 1145 with a lofty spirit of unanimity and responsibility. [Dated] Phnom Penh, 10 February 1994
