FBIS3-50888 "drlat006_c_94013" FBIS-LAT-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 MEXICO Chiapas Crisis Stricter Security Measures for Mexico City PA0801141394 Mexico City XEW Television Network in Spanish 0435 GMT 8 Jan 94 PA0801141394 Mexico City XEW Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "24 Hours" newscast] [Text] Federal District Mayor Manuel Aguilera Gomez announced during a news conference on 7 January stricter security measures for all of Mexico City's public services. [Begin Aguilera recording] Additional measures will be taken on a provisional basis. They are aimed at guaranteeing the safety of all government facilities in the city. Given their characteristics, some of these preventive measures might cause some discomfort to the individuals who approach those public offices, but we believe it is worthwhile to take a few minutes and allow a careful search. [end recording] Aguilera said the electric pylons downed by a group of people in Michoacan and Puebla were intended to interrupt Mexico City's electricity supply, but this did not happen, thanks to the Federal Electricity Commission's intervention, he added. [Begin Aguilera recording] They did not achieve their goal, thanks to the timely and efficient intervention of the Federal Electricity Commission, and the damage caused to the electric pylons did not interrupt the city's electricity supply. [end recording] The federal district mayor also said the permanent revision and inspection of public facilities will be performed by the public offices' own security personnel and will not require the Army's support. The federal district mayor said there are still no reports that people involved with the armed group, which operates in Chiapas State, are in Mexico City. He added: Nevertheless, authorities have located some pamphlets and printed matter which refer to that armed group. Mr. Manuel Aguilera Gomez said the life of Mexico City's residents is continuing as normal, and these security measures in public facilities will be of a provisional nature.
