FBIS3-51601 "drlat015_c_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 MEXICO Guerrillas in Guerrero Reported PA2101151494 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1943 GMT 20 Jan 94 PA2101151494 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Chilpancingo (Mexico), 20 Jan (EFE) -- Police have deployed a large number of their men in Guerrero State in view of the reported appearance of armed groups in mountain areas in this southern Mexican state, located some 250 km from the country's capital. According to the local press, about 450 State Judicial Police (PJE) carried out seven simultaneous operations in different areas and in one of them they were attacked by armed men presumed to be guerrillas. No casualties were reported. Unofficially it was learned that the operations were conducted when the police heard about the presence of armed groups in some parts of the state, although PJE spokesman Gustavo Castanon told EFE that "these are only routine operations." The policemen carried out patrols in the villages of San Luis Acatlan, Cutzamala, Papanoa, and San Luis Loma. In the two last villages an armed group fired upon official vehicles, without injuring anyone, according to the newspaper reports. In San Luis Acatlan police arrested three persons and charged them with armed robbery. High caliber weapons were seized. A group of Guerrero State lawyers said that in the event that guerrilla groups appear in that state, none of the public security organizations have the capability or information to confront them. They agreed that to confront the armed groups it was necessary to form a special information network that did not depend on the Judicial Police, but the Government Secretariat instead. At the beginning of the 1970's the country's first guerrilla groups were formed in the mountains in Guerrero State: the 23 September Communist League and the Revolutionary Armed Movement headed by Lucio Cabanas and Arturo Gamiz. Following the Chiapas State armed uprising, when on 1 January the Zapatist National Liberation Army (EZLN) rose up in arms against the government, surveillance has increased to other areas that suffer serious social backwardness. Guerrero State, in addition to Oaxaca and Chiapas States, is a state with a large Indian population and also one of the most affected by violence due to extreme poverty and backwardness.
