FBIS3-58546 "drweu011_h_94019" FBIS-WEU-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 GERMANY Plans To Cut Taxes Criticized AU1701203194 Berlin DIE WELT in German 17 Jan 94 p 11 AU1701203194 Berlin DIE WELT Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report signed "HH": "Coalition In Dispute Over Finances"] [Text] Bonn -- The disputes in Bonn's coalition over monetary and fiscal policy are getting worse. Following Economics Minister Rexrodt's announcement that he plans to cut taxes during the next parliamentary term, Finance Minister Waigel said that a certain period of time had to pass before taxes could be cut. He rejected making a comment on the expected duration of the solidarity surcharge. He said it is "dishonest" to promise its abolition for 1996, one year after reintroducing it. According to its monetary policy spokesman, Poss, the Social Democratic Party of Germany Bundestag group considers the Rexrodt statement to be a "clumsy election campaign promise." He said Rexrodt is not even taken seriously within the Free Democratic Party of Germany [FDP]. The FDP Bundestag group's economic policy spokesman, Graf Lambsdorff, had warned against a new hole in the 1994 budget and demanded that Waigel presents a supplementary budget. Waigel's spokesman referred to the positive budget balance in 1993 and warned against the "nonsense of such scaremongering as we have heard from the FDP every time over the past few years." Critics of the monetary policy were supplied with arguments by the Finance Ministry's Scientific Advisory Board. In an expert opinion it demands "a fundamental rethinking in monetary policy." Taking housing, the hard coal policy, and compulsory pension insurance as examples, it shows how "considerable gains in efficiency" could be achieved by privatizing and rationalizing. It calls the hard coal subsidy "a particularly drastic example of government control that completely neglects economic efficiency and is enormously expensive in terms of taxes." It recommends to replace the "existing maze of subsidies by a uniform premium that is linked exclusively to production."
