FBIS3-57726 "drsov019_b_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Dubinin Seen as Best Choice for Finance Minister MK2801101094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 28 Jan 94 p 1 MK2801101094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Ivan Zasurskiy report under the "Appointments" rubric: "Dubinin Becomes Finance Minister. An Absolutely Normal Career"] [Text] Sergey Dubinin has been appointed acting finance minister for the time being. There is hardly any doubt, however, that Sergey Dubinin will survive the trial period and become a full- blown minister. Admittedly, Sergey Konstantinovich Dubinin has worked in the government fairly long and not just by dashing in and out -- although formerly he always played second fiddle. Before becoming first deputy finance minister, he was Vladimir Mashits' deputy at the State Committee for Economic Cooperation. He came there from a scientific environment (they say that Gaydar attended his seminars). Dubinin's work at the Economic Cooperation Committee was fairly effective; he was involved in negotiating interstate treaties on deliveries between the CIS countries and the Baltic states. Dubinin's competence in CIS matters does not raise any doubts as to his orientation toward Russian national interests. Aside from overall economic competence, Dubinin is known for a healthy blend of theory and practice -- at any rate, he is not dogmatic. Another noteworthy feature is his ability to work fruitfully as part of a "team," which is typical for most chiefs who have held first deputy posts. Of course, any postponement of inflation a la the political campaign-94 is out of the question. This does not mean, however, that the tap of credit resources will be fully open. On the contrary, one may expect an improvement in actual results of the ministry's operation, because at Council of Ministers meetings Dubinin will raise conceptual matters instead of newspaper pages, which will be a compensation to a certain degree for the office holder's loss of a deputy prime minister's title: the status of deputy prime minister and the post of the Credit Commission chairman, plus presidential confidence, enabled Fedorov to work (refuse to give money) virtually without discussing his steps. Dubinin appears to be able to bring relations between a finance minister and a Central Bank chairman back to a normal working relationship. On the whole, Sergey Dubinin, keeping a low political profile, is the best choice for Chernomyrdin's government of pragmatists.
