FBIS4-34340 "drlat118_a_94031" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Citizens Report: Water Shortage Worse in Havana Citizens Report: Water Shortage Worse in Havana FL1706020094 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 1155 GMT 16 Jun 94 FL1706020094 Havana Radio Rebelde Network Spanish BFN [Report by Carlos Rafael Jimenez for the "Doing Radio" program in Havana -- live] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] We are in front of the provincial directorate for aqueducts, sewers, and ditches in Havana. Carlos Rollan, Jose Silva, and I are here in an effort to get a firsthand report on water distribution. It is true we have received more calls than usual this morning. People have called us, although they are well aware of the limitations we have concerning the distribution of water, meaning you get it every other day. For example, Mr. Mendez called us today and said La Vibora was scheduled to get water yesterday, but that they got it for only one hour. Others called us from Havana's old sector and downtown areas. In other words, we got more calls than usual to talk about water distribution. This prompted us to come here to the office in charge of Havana's aqueducts. I am waiting for Comrade Humberto Munguia, assistant director of the waterworks. He was located by plant personnel, brought directly from the operations room, and was asked to come here. He said he will be here in approximately 15 minutes. Meanwhile, I have something to announce. El Gato aqueduct will shut down today for maintenance work. Everyone knows it was built some years ago and has helped considerably in the distribution of water in Havana. The facilities in Vento, that historic aqueduct, also faces problems because its reservoir levels are low. I looked at the tanks through which water is gravity-fed at El Alvear, and I saw that their contents are far below the necessary level. Since I am not a specialist on this topic, we will wait for Comrade Humberto Munguia's reprt on the topic that brought me here, meaning that although they are aware of the limitations, people called me to report that the distribution of water in Havana has decreased.
