FBIS3-35083 "drnes034_l_94005" FBIS-NES-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 ISRAEL Minister Calls For Golan Heights' Return to Syria NC1602172894 Cairo MENA in Arabic 1540 GMT 16 Feb 94 NC1602172894 Cairo MENA Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Cairo, 16 Feb (MENA)--Shulamit Aloni, Israeli director of scientific research and communications [title as received], has called for the return of the occupied Golan Heights to Syria. She has also expressed her opposition to the idea of holding a referendum on withdrawal from the Heights, stressing that the Israeli Government has full authority to make a political decision without the need for a referendum. In an interview to be published in the 17 February issue of the magazine AL-MUSAWWAR, she said that in accordance with international law, the Golan Heights must return to Syria. She indicated that the problem with the negotiations lies in the timeframe and the security arrangements. The Israeli minister criticized the Israeli Government's lukewarm reaction to the Geneva summit between Syrian President Hafiz al-Asad and U.S. President Bill Clinton. On the Israeli request for a meeting between President al-Asad and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin, Aloni explained that such a meeting might set things in motion. On Israel's arbitrary measures in the occupied territories, Aloni said: In my opinion, we as a people are living with a sharp moral dilemma. We speak about democracy and human rights while we rob the Palestinian people of their rights. She indicated that the mutual recognition between Israel and the PLO will entrench equality and mutual respect. Regarding armaments and nuclear deterrents, Aloni said: Israel's fears are from Iran and Iraq. These fears extend to the whole region. So Israel is arming itself with long-range weapons that act as a deterrent against Iraq and Iran and, to some extent, against Syria. She indicated that after progress is made in the peace process, this topic will be submitted for discussion with Egypt and Syria. On Israel's withdrawal from south Lebanon, Aloni said Israel has no ambitions in Lebanon. It will withdraw from south Lebanon when peace is established with Syria.
