FBIS4-56433 "drlat086_c_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-086 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 MEXICO Army Sets Up Checkpoints Around EZLN Stronghold Army Sets Up Checkpoints Around EZLN Stronghold PA0305233694 Monterrey EL NORTE (Foreign Edition) in Spanish 28 Apr 94 p 14A PA0305233694 Monterrey EL NORTE (Foreign Edition) Spanish BFN [Report by Daniel Pensamiento] [Text] Las Margaritas -- Mexican Army troops have occupied the three main access roads to the Lacandona jungle to prevent the EZLN [Zapatist National Liberation Army] from getting provisions into this region. Military personnel have set up heavy artillery and have dug ditches to prepare for and bolster surveillance in this zone. Yesterday, military forces dismantled El Encanto camp and set up two checkpoints in the communities of Progreso and Gabino Vasquez, areas in which the Zapatists presumably obtain provisions and medicines. The Army also set up checkpoints along the roads leading to Progreso, Gabino Vasquez, and El Yalcob, which are thought to be the three main access roads into the Lacandona region. The Army still has no control over the Guadalupe Tepeyac buffer zone. According to residents in the area, the military has been conducting ground-based reconnaissance missions at night. The residents also report that soldiers are restricting nighttime movements in the area. Meanwhile, some 40 km away, the EZLN has its own checkpoint to limit access to the Lacandona jungle, where its forces have been hiding since 12 January when the cease-fire was declared. In a tour of this zone by EL NORTE, it was confirmed that the military is maintaining a state of alert, although the second phase of the negotiations on a possible peace agreement is about to begin. As part of the military strategy, the military is resurfacing the dirt roads that lead to the three Mexican Army checkpoints. One military source pointed out that the troops remain restless because there is much movement of EZLN-linked people in this zone. He said: "This region is one of the most important sources of people for the EZLN, and it has been noticed that some of them are lurking around in plainclothes. Therefore, uncertainty reigns."
