FBIS3-2908 "drchi050_k_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Zhu Rongji Discusses Shortages of Funds for Enterprises OW1403145394 Beijing XINHUA in English 1433 GMT 14 Mar 94 OW1403145394 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 14 (XINHUA) -- Vice Premier Zhu Rongji said here today that the central authorities will continue to adopt practical measures to help state-owned enterprises overcome their difficulties. Discussing Premier Li Peng's government work report with deputies from Henan Province, Zhu said major state-owned enterprises' difficulties have resulted from complicated causes. The reform to transform their operational system has played a role in solving their difficulties; establishment of a modern enterprise system will also improve the competitive environment and operational conditions for state-owned enterprises, he said. "Don't link the long-existing difficulties of state-owned enterprises with this year's reform measures. At the same time, don't expect to completely do away with historical burdens of state- owned enterprises overnight," he said. "The party Central Committee and the State Council will continue to adopt practical measures to help enterprises shed their historical burdens," he said. It is wrong, Zhu said, for some localities to encourage or allow a writeoff of loans for enterprises. "This is not allowed by either policy or law," he said. "And it won't help those enterprises change their way of operation for the better and behave in accordance with accepted norms." Zhu attributed the current shortage of operating funds for enterprises to excessive investment in fixed assets rather than to short money supply. First, capital construction projects beyond state plans have squeezed part of enterprises' operating funds; second, newly completed projects having no operational funds have soaked up part of available funds; and third, unauthorized price hikes have taken a bite, he said. "Without control of the excessive investment in fixed assets, it is difficult to change the fund-shortage situation," he said. Banks should and will surely guarantee fund supply for enterprises with good economic returns if no fund misappropriation occurs, he added. In the final analysis, he said, excessive investment in fixed assets and unauthorized price hikes, especially price hikes by monopoly industries, are the main causes for fund shortages and a debt chain for enterprises, he said.
