FBIS4-41681 "drsov124_a_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-124 Daily Report 28 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Foreign Ministry Views Prospects for Conference on Korea Foreign Ministry Views Prospects for Conference on Korea LD2806104794 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0855 GMT 28 Jun 94 LD2806104794 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Andrey Kirillov] [Text] Moscow, 28 Jun -- Assessing the prospects for the Russian Government's proposal to hold an international conference on security on the Korean peninsula and nuclear-free status for it, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Aleksandr Panov said that "if the current bilateral contacts between the United States and North Korea fail, there will be no alternative." In an interview with ITAR-TASS, he described the chances for this Russian initiative as "very strong." The diplomat believes that if the bilateral dialogue between the United States and the DPRK fails, it will become clear that "our position is absolutely right," since it is based on common sense. Aleksandr Panov considers that the consultations between the United States and the DPRK, between North and South Korea, and between the DPRK and the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA] could be rolled into one. "Our proposed format is the best way of going about this," he noted. Russia, he said, now believes that the number of participants in the conference on Korea could be increased. He said that, in addition to the DPRK and the Republic of Korea, it could be attended by the United States, Japan, Russia, China, and representatives of the United Nations and the IAEA, as well as Britain and France. France has already expressed a wish to take part. "We have always said that our proposal is not something sacrosanct," the Russian diplomat said, adding that each party is free to express its feelings and additional suggestions as regards the conference idea. The situation on the Korean peninsula deteriorated after the DPRK announced it was leaving the IAEA and that it might also withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
