FBIS3-34130 "drnes024dd_94010" FBIS-NES-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 Palestinian Affairs Abu-Sharif: Antioccupation Resistance To Continue JN0302183594 Paris Radio Monte Carlo in Arabic 1700 GMT 3 Feb 94 JN0302183594 Paris Radio Monte Carlo Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Interview with Bassam Abu-Sharif, adviser to PLO Chairman Yasir 'Arafat, by correspondent Huda al-Husayni in London; date not given -- recorded] [Text] [Abu-Sharif] There is no doubt that the delay in the implementation of the first-step agreement will make the Palestinians and the Arabs doubt the seriousness of the Israeli Government's stand. Furthermore, the continuation of occupation and shooting at Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank will draw more resistance. This will renew the cycle of violence and endanger the whole agreement. [Al-Husayni] Some people say the continuation of violence in the occupied territory will prompt a negative Israeli reaction and make it refuse to implement this agreement. [Abu-Sharif] The fact is that the cycle of violence was generated by the presence of occupation and the shooting at Palestinians by Israeli soldiers, not the opposite. Palestinian reaction is a legitimate and human resistance. [Al-Husayni] Hamas, however, has been accused of killing Israelis. [Abu-Sharif] The reaction of the Palestinians -- students, women, men, and old men -- is a reaction to Israeli measures, not the opposite. This is the reaction of the Palestinian people. [Al-Husayni] Israeli officials have been stating that they are concerned about Israel's security. Why was the agreement concluded in the first place if it would endanger Israel's security? [Abu-Sharif] We understand Israelis' fears regarding their security. However, they should understand that we also have our own fears regarding the security issue. It is our people who are in need of protection. We can conclude by saying that our people will continue the resistance as long as the occupation continues. [Al-Husayni] My last question is the following: Did Yasir 'Arafat really dispatch some of his personal guards for training in the United States? [Abu-Sharif] I do not know whether they were dispatched to the United States specifically, however, I know that quite a good number of the presidential guards are receiving training in more than one Western country.
