FBIS4-43501 "drweu117_h_94013" FBIS-WEU-94-117 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 GERMANY New DGB Chief Describes Industrial Policy New DGB Chief Describes Industrial Policy AU1606152994 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT in German 16 Jun 94 pp 1, 3 AU1606152994 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT German BFN [`pt'-signed report: "Schulte Calls For Expansion of Decisionmaking Rights"] [Text] An investments program, a reconstruction program for eastern Germany, the introduction of a state industrial and scientific policy, and greater decisionmaking powers are some of the things Dieter Schulte, new chief of the German Trade Union Federation [DGB], called for in his inaugural speech. The government has disregarded the trade unions' earlier readiness to share the burden of problems, said Schulte. "Now is the time for the strong to carry more than the weak, now is the time to finance out of the coffers what has too long been financed out of the pockets of employees," he said. "The social sphere cannot be cut any further." Schulte criticized the Social Democratic Party of Germany's [SPD] announcement that it would investigate all social benefits. "I doubt whether it is a good idea for the SPD to seek agreement with the community of employers. After all, the SPD needs the votes of employees," he said. He warned the Christian Democratic Union against letting itself be dragged into a maelstrom of radical market forces. Schulte reiterated his call for new rules governing the management of assets in the eastern laender and for a reconstruction program for that part of the country. He demanded an investment program involving economic growth and increased employment, and priority for public and private investments. A coordinated state industrial and scientific policy is a prerequisite for an ecological and economic renewal of the industrial society, he said. "To reduce mass unemployment, which the trade unions still consider to be the cancerous tumor of a modern industrial society, it is essential to wage an educational campaign to improve the qualifications of workers and to share available jobs by shortening working hours," said Schulte. "Part-time work only stands a chance of success if a return to full-time work is possible and pensions are guaranteed." Schulte countered the corporate concepts of lean production and lean management [preceding five words in English] with a call for greater voting rights by employees at all levels. "Employees should have greater rights to reach decisions concerning working time and conditions," said Schulte.
