FBIS4-27996 "dreas109_h_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-109 Daily Report 5 Jun 1994 SOUTHEAST ASIA Singapore Six Satellite Slots Requested Six Satellite Slots Requested BK0606153394 Singapore THE SUNDAY TIMES in English 5 Jun 94 p 1 BK0606153394 Singapore THE SUNDAY TIMES English BFN [By Paul Jansen and Derwin Pereira] [Excerpt] Singapore has taken the first steps to have its own satellites in space -- a goal likely to be reached by 1999. It has asked the International Telecommunication Union, a United Nations body regulating the use of satellite orbits and transmission frequencies for six slots, the union told THE SUNDAY TIMES. The satellites Singapore has in mind will have channels capable of redirecting television shows, telephone telegraphic and other communications to vast areas across Asia. Confirming the applications, Mr. Lim Choon Sai, director (radio) of the Telecommunications Authority of Singapore (TAS), said: "Though there is very little domestic need for satellite communications in Singapore, we do require good and efficient telecommunications with other countries because of our extensive trade activities and the external economy policy." Having its own satellites was also "a logical step" for Singapore which has become one of the telecommunication hubs in the world, he added in response to questions from THE SUNDAY TIMES. The applications for the slots were filed by TAS, the regulator of telecommunications development in the Republic. The first application was made in August 1992 and the second in November that year, Mr Lim revealed. Each application was for three orbital slots 22,235 mile (35,576 km) over the Equator known commonly as geostationary orbits. One of the slots is over Singapore and the rest over the Indian Ocean. Though TAS has filed for six orbits, it does not mean that six satellites will be launched. First, exhaustive technical analyses have to be done to determine the likelihood of the new satellites interfering with the frequencies of other proposed or existing satellites. If this is likely, the countries concerned have to work out a compromise in involving modifications to orbits or frequencies. Applications are likely to come to naught unless a compromise is achieved. Reflecting the rush into space, the coordinating process can involve a number of countries and many meetings. Negotiations can take as long as three years. Mr Lim said that for one of the orbits, Singapore will have to coordinate with 17 countries, including China, India, Japan, Indonesia and Malaysia. But there is a deadline: a satellite must be launched within six years after its application has been filed though extensions are sometimes granted. [passage omitted]
