FBIS3-33015 "drlat033_a_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba VOA Report on Conference With Exiles Labeled `Flagrant Lie' FL1602210494 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 1800 GMT 16 Feb 94 FL1602210494 Havana Radio Rebelde Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Commentary by Jose Armas] [Text] Last night, the Voice of America [VOA], an official institution of the U.S. Government, reported during their Spanish broadcasts on the meeting that the Cuban Government and the organizations of our country have just proposed for April, entitled: Cuba and the Exile Community. In essence, the VOA stated that President Fidel Castro had extended an invitation to exiled Cubans throughout the world and that the only condition set on attending the conference was loyalty to the Revolution. Even though the VOA transmissions are aimed at Latin America and the Caribbean and practically all the rest of the world, it is imperative to state the following: The VOA's report is flagrantly false. First: The summons was not made on behalf of Comrade Fidel but on behalf of the Revolutionary government and the Cuban organizations. Second: Nowhere in the text of the call are Cuban exiles mentioned, but persons and organizations who are representative of Cuban emigration. Third: It is a flagrant and miserable lie to state that the only condition demanded by the Cuban authorities to attend the conference was loyalty to our Revolution. The summons states the determination of the Cuban authorities and people to advance toward normalization of relations with those residents abroad who, constituting a majority of emigres, are not relinquishing their ties with the country. They do not condition them on personal and political aspirations or group interests. That is something very different from what the VOA stated. Cuba is not making a call for a political dialogue, even though the summons has, of course, a certain political connotation. The Cuban proposal is based on humanist principles. As for the rest, the VOA can be sure that the conference will be held and that it will not be a dialogue of the deaf, but a dialogue between men and women of good will.
