FBIS3-58108 "drweu005_i_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 FRANCE Paris Requests U.S. Military Assistance in Bosnia BR0701114894 Paris LE MONDE in French 7 Jan 94 p 4 BR0701114894 Paris LE MONDE Language: French Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "According to Mr. Leotard's Entourage, France Requested Military Assistance From Washington"] [Text] A source close to Mr. Leotard revealed on Wednesday, 5 January, that France has called on the United States to provide assistance for two military operations in Bosnia aimed at relieving the Muslim enclaves besieged by Serbs. The same source stated that Paris expects Washington to provide military air support and logistics assistance to reopen the Tuzla airfield in northern Bosnia and to make it possible for a Danish UNPROFOR [United Nations Protection Forces] armored column to relieve a Canadian unit in Srebrenica in the east. Questioned on those statements, diplomats from the Quai d'Orsay [Foreign Ministry] could not explain what France exactly sought from the United States. They said that Paris would urge the United States, at next week's NATO summit, to respect the commitments it made. According to them, this refers to the military air support that NATO pledged to provide the blue helmets with last August if they needed it. But the diplomats stated that the UNPROFOR has never requested any such assistance, except for reconnaissance missions. Mr. Mitterrand: "Unacceptable" Meanwhile, while receiving the New Year wishes of the diplomatic corps, President Mitterrand warned against the possibility of an "even more dramatic situation" in former Yugoslavia. He outlined the dilemma that faces the countries involved in the UNPROFOR. "Should we continue to let people kill each other to the last man? Should we stay and be the target that takes the blows of those who like death, as was said during the Spanish [Civil] War?" he asked. "In both cases, the situation is unacceptable. We thus must ensure that the development (...) of this deadlocked situation does not give rise to an even more dramatic situation."
