FBIS4-31776 "dreeu114__a94039" FBIS-EEU-94-114-A Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Schmognerova Views Significance of IMF Accord Schmognerova Views Significance of IMF Accord AU1306165694 Prague CTK in English 1438 GMT 13 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1306165694 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Bratislava, June 13 (CTK) -- Representatives of the government and of the central bank today signed a protocol on a line of credit from the International Monetary Fund and sent it to IMF director Michel Camdessus. By providing the credit line, the IMF expressed confidence in the economic policy of Moravcik's cabinet, Deputy Premier Brigita Schmognerova said. The IMF thus also made it possible to take out other advance loans, which would not be possible without a recommendation from the most significant international financial institution, she emphasized. She refuted former Premier Vladimir Meciar's statement made last week that the importance of the IMF loan is exaggerated. He said that the BB-rating given to the central bank last year had opened up more opportunities for Slovakia. He also pointed out that planned loans of over a billion dollars had not been issued after his resignation. "The significance of the IMF loan cannot be compared to the rating," Schmognerova stated. Such "stamping," provided by many agencies, indicates only the probability that loans will be paid back, not the level of a country's economic policy, she said. After the application for the line of credit has been approved by the IMF Council of Governors, Slovakia should receive $164 million by the end of the summer, mainly to reinforce its balance of payments. On the basis of the standby loan, the second tranche of the transition loan, $91 million, should also be made available. The amount of money on Slovakia's credit line corresponds to its quota in the IMF. The IMF reserves the right to make three corrections during the loan provision period. The loan will have to be repaid after twenty months.
