FBIS4-9885 "drlat065_a_94011" FBIS-LAT-94-065 Daily Report 3 Apr 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Official Blames Power Outages on Breakdowns Official Blames Power Outages on Breakdowns PA0404235694 Havana Radio Havana Cuba in Spanish 0000 GMT 3 Apr 94 PA0404235694 Havana Radio Havana Cuba Spanish BFN [From the "Evening Information News"] [Text] Since last weekend, electricity generation in Cuba has been seriously hampered because of breakdowns in thermoelectric plants located in various provinces of the nation. The demand for this service is much greater than the generating capacity, and therefore power outages of 8-10 hours daily are currently scheduled for the population. Originally, a lack of fuel forced thermoelectric plants to operate at lower capacity, and now, on top of this, is the problem of equipment breakdowns. In a conversation with Jorge Carballo, the power supply chief at the Electrical Union of the Ministry of Basic Industry, the following was explained: [Begin Carballo recording] We are experiencing very difficult times. On some days, we have no problems with the petroleum supply, but then on other days we lack petroleum, and then on other days it is the [words indistinct]. I can tell you that the current problem is not a lack of petroleum, but there will be a cutback in services because of breakdowns. There will be longer-than-normal power outages of 8-10 hours. Nevertheless, I hope that during the early hours of the day we will be able to [words indistinct], and that during the early hours we will not have power outages. [end recording] A lack of spare parts for electric power plants together with the years the equipment has been operating and the continuous forced shutdowns have all affected electricity production. [Begin Carballo recording] The trouble is that we are working without any spare parts. Can you imagine? If you have a thermoelectric system working at full capacity when the (words indistinct] fails you have a power outage. If you have a thermoelectric system working above capacity, when one of the [word indistinct] fails, what you do is turn on the [words indistinct], but service is not halted. This is the accumulation of many small problems: It is the fuel problem, the quality of the fuel, the lack of maintenance, and the continuous shutdowns because of the lack of fuel. Some equipment is designed to be shut down and started up again, but other equipment is not designed for this. Some equipment is designed to run 24 hours a day. In terms of the equipment designed to work 24 hours a day, if you shut it down, start it up again, and shut it down again, little by little the equipment will eventually wear out. [end recording]
