FBIS3-3702 "drchi056_p_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 Central-South Region Guangdong Stresses Planning in Urban, Rural Construction OW2003162594 Beijing XINHUA in English 1518 GMT 20 Mar 94 OW2003162594 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Guangzhou, March 20 (XINHUA) -- South China's Guangdong Province is taking effective measures to stress planning in urban and rural construction. Urbanization in this fast-booming province has hit a rapid pace in the past decade. However, this is the first time for the local government to begin to stress planning for urban and rural construction. Central townships in the Pearl River Delta will have to make blueprints on local construction before 1995. All cities will have to revise their original blueprints. Certain laws to ensure the implementation of the blueprints will be made, according to the provincial urban and rural construction administration. Infrastructural construction, especially of the sewage and refuse treatment system in urban areas, is to take priority in urban construction planning. Underground facilities must be completed ahead of above-ground buildings. Officials from the administration said in a recent meeting that land which is not yet planned in detail is not to be leased. Construction of buildings in a line along both sides of a highway is banned, and houses already built along highways but in contravention of the new regulations will be removed. In addition, architectural styles will be diversified soon. Alongside major railway stations, ports, public squares, airports, trade and commercial buildings and administrative buildings and along major urban streets, groups of buildings and scenic spots bearing symbols of each local city will be constructed. Guangdong now has 39 cities and 1,462 towns, with a total urban population topping 19.04 million. In the past decade, many small towns and townships expanded to become medium cities. However, a lack of planning has resulted in air, water and noise pollution in the area. Transportation has also become difficult as many shops and other facilities have been built at random along highways.
