FBIS4-56225 "drlat084_f_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-084 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 El Salvador Assembly Approves Armed Forces Administrative Law Assembly Approves Armed Forces Administrative Law PA3004010994 San Salvador Canal Doce Television in Spanish 0300 GMT 28 Apr 94 PA3004010994 San Salvador Canal Doce Television Spanish BFN [Report by Hilda Quijano from the "Up-to-Date" newscast] [Text] The Legislative Assembly has approved the Armed Forces Administrative Law that establishes the constitutional mandate the Armed Forces must fulfill under the country's new conditions. The legislative decree, which contains nearly 100 articles, outlines the Army's new doctrine. The Administrative Law establishes a framework from which the Army must not waver. [Begin unidentified speaker recording] The most basic aspect of this law, although this is not new in terms of our constitutional legislation, is the clear and absolute separation of the security corps from the control of the Armed Forces, which I believe is good for the country. Another important aspect of the doctrine is that the Armed Forces will serve the people and, in turn, will become a guarantor of human rights. The Armed Forces must think of civilians not as their enemies but as the focal point of their duty. [end recording] The Constitution mandates that the Armed Forces defend national sovereignty and territorial integrity, thereby taking away their responsibility for public security. Some deputies say this mandate has always been the same, but there were times when it was not followed. [Begin unidentified speaker recording] The Army has always had specific functions; however, what has happened is that the Army has been used for actions that are not part of its constitutional duties. [end recording] The Armed Forces Administrative Law creates the post of inspector general, who will be a member of the military and will check into the behavior of Army members. The inspector general is answerable to the defense minister. The decree also places all of the Army's work and administrative organization under a constitutional mandate in accordance with the peace agreements.
