FBIS3-42543 "jpusp001___94043" JPRS-USP-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia: Space 16 February 1994 SPACE POLICY, ADMINISTRATION RSA Director, Ministry of Defense Request Special Funding for Space Sector 947Q0035A Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI in Russian No 47, 21 Nov 93 p 2 947Q0035A Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Unsigned article: "Cosmonautics in a Beggar's Orbit"; the first paragraph is an introduction] [Text] The Ministry of Defense and the Russian Space Agency have sent to the government a draft decree of the Council of Ministers entitled "Measures for State Support of Russian Space Activity and Maintenance of the National Rocket and Space Industry." The document is a reaction of the two departments to the promise of Viktor Chernomyrdin to provide government support to "Russian space," which he made during a visit to the NPO Energiya. The draft decree proposes the allocation to the Ministry of Defense of 120 billion rubles for settling debts and paying for standard deliveries for space hardware, scientific research and experimental-design work... It is noteworthy that in the indicated paper provision is made for so- called "selective" state support. Seven enterprises which are participating directly in the production of Russian boosters, the most competitive in the world market, are receiving preferential credits. However, observers note that the government is considerably watering down the draft decree and it is significantly reducing the credits. If this happens, Russian cosmonautics will remain in an orbit of a beggarly existence. The plan for creating (on the basis of key space enterprises) corporations capable of realizing high-technology development work in such important branches as electronics, instrument making, high-speed railroad transport, aircraft construction, etc. is collapsing. The Ministry of Defense cannot update space systems for early warning of nuclear attack, satellites for the monitoring of the movement of armed forces and space communications, which to a high degree have been degraded. Experts feel that this sort of economy (120 billion rubles are needed in space; 100 billion were spent on reconstruction of the "White House") may finally destroy the space production branch.
