FBIS3-13802 "drnes054dd_94008" FBIS-NES-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 Palestinian Affairs Palestinian Officials Condemn Resolution 904 PLO Officials in Jordan React JN1903193294 Amman PETRA-JNA in Arabic 1605 GMT 19 Mar 94 JN1903193294 Amman PETRA-JNA Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Amman, 19 Mar (PETRA) -- UN Security Council resolution 904 condemning the Hebron massacre passed early this morning. It has generated various reactions from political quarters and key figures in the Kingdom [of Jordan]. [passage omitted] Salim al-Za'nun, acting speaker of the Palestine National Council, has said the UN Security Council resolution condemning the Hebron massacre is disappointing because the negative impact of U.S. pressure or the abstention from voting on Jerusalem outweighs the positive points contained in the provisions of the condemnation. This indicates a U.S. retraction in Israel's interest. Al-Za'nun said the UN Security Council's condemnation of the Hebron massacre is just for appearance's sake. Nothing in the resolutions confirms Israel will take any steps to protect the Palestinian people from the settlers' terrorism. He added: The delay in the adoption of the resolution has cost it much of its importance. Al-Za'nun said circumstances on the international level are not in our interest. This calls for a comprehensive Arab assessment of the peace process. He said he hopes the four Arab countries participating in the peace process resume their meetings and coordination in an accurate manner at this critical stage. PLO Executive Committee Member Bishop Iliya Khuri said the UN Security Council resolution has dashed the hopes pinned on it. The United States blocked the resolution for three weeks. When it was issued, it did not contain anything new with respect to the demands the PLO submitted to the United States in the wake of the horrendous massacre. On the U.S. abstention on the two paragraphs, Bishop Iliya Khuri said that by abandoning its previous stand that Jerusalem is occupied territory, the United States has failed itself before failing the Palestinian people and the Arab and Islamic nations. We see it changing its stand in this era where the Arab nation continues to be fragmented despite the sincere calls his Majesty King Husayn makes to reunite this nation.
