FBIS3-55289 "drsov005_b_94025" FBIS-SOV-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Media Issues Yeltsin Edict on Justices Seen as Contravening Constitution PM0601141394 Moscow PRAVDA in Russian 6 Jan 94 p 1 PM0601141394 Moscow PRAVDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Viktor Trushkov article: "Edict Not Bound by Constitution"] [Text] It was dinned into both us and the world that the Russian Federation Constitution would come into force the moment it was published, that is, 25 December 1993. It is logical to assume that Article 90 of this document came into force at the same time. It says, in particular: "The edicts and directives of the president of the Russian Federation must not contravene the Constitution of the Russian Federation and federal laws." Incidentally, it was made the Constitutional Court's duty to monitor this. But what fate befell it? First, the Constitutional Court was preserved, and second, Section 2 of the new constitution stipulates: "Courts in the Russian Federation administer justice in compliance with the powers laid down by the present Constitution. After the Constitution has come into force, the justices of all courts in the Russian Federation retain their powers until the expiry of the term for which they were elected. Vacancies are filled according to the procedure established by the present Constitution." The same document stipulates that in all there are 19 Constitutional Court justices (since 13 justices were elected at the end of 1991, there are six vacancies left), justices are elected by the Federation Council, and the president submits nominations to the upper house. Everything was provided for, no room for false interpretations was left. But.... On the day the fundamental law officially came into force the edict "On Filling Vacancies for Federal Justices" appeared. Already it lays down quite different norms. In particular, it orders...the Ministry of Justice and the All-Union Congress of Justices to submit independent lists of candidates for vacancies in the Constitutional Court. But that is not all. The president has stretched the number of vacancies by including in it the positions now held by V. Zorkin and V. Luchin. Thus, along with the new constitution, the Law on the Constitutional Court has been contravened. This federal law says that justices' powers can be terminated only at their request or when they reach the age limit of 65.... But what we have here is quite a different matter. It seems that the brand-new, spick-and-span constitution, even if it does contain unambiguous norms, does not protect awkward customers from arbitrariness on the part of the authorities. Of course, this is nothing new. The only new element is that the authorities have shown contempt for the fundamental law from the very first day it came into force.
