FBIS4-33129 "drlat106_t_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-106 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 Venezuela Finance Minister Lauds Restoration Finance Minister Lauds Restoration PA0206005694 Caracas Union Radio Network in Spanish 2200 GMT 1 Jun 94 PA0206005694 Caracas Union Radio Network Spanish BFN [Report by Vicente Briceno from Miraflores Palace in Caracas; from the "Union Radio News" newscast] [Text] As is known, the president of the Republic, in full use of his legislative powers, on 28 February decided to suspend economic guarantees nationwide. Today, however, following an end to the problems that prompted the suspension, President Caldera decided to reinstate these guarantees at a cabinet meeting. According to Finance Minister Julio Sosa Rodriguez, once taxes on luxury goods and wholesale transactions were enacted, the continued suspension of economic guarantees was no longer justifiable. In turn, President Caldera decided to fulfill his promise to rescind the suspension soon after these two taxes were promulgated. [Begin Sosa recording] The reinstatement of economic guarantees is not that significant in and of itself, because Venezuelans survived without such guarantees for 30 years. Nevertheless, this action is significant because it proves to various economic sectors that they can maintain confidence in the government's promises and its deeds. The government said it was going to do something, and it followed through on its promise. I believe this move has enormous significance. [end recording] Sosa also expressed confidence that the dollar might fall below 150 bolivares. Sosa added that he hopes the psychological effects that triggered a rise in the price of the dollar will come to an end and, in turn, prompt the stabilization of the foreign exchange market. Sosa said that as a result of his recent trip to the United States, delegations from the Inter-American Development Bank [IDB], World Bank, and IMF will soon visit Venezuela. He also indicated that IDB representatives will assist the government in planning a very important social housing program. The World Bank delegation will arrive in Venezuela on 13 June to consult with Venezuelan officials on the financial crisis. The IMF delegation will examine fiscal problems projected to occur within the 1994-1996 period.
