FBIS4-35579 "drnes106_l_94019" FBIS-NES-94-106 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 ISRAEL Envoy Meets Ethiopian Official on Falash-Mura Issue Envoy Meets Ethiopian Official on Falash-Mura Issue TA0106193994 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1700 GMT 1 Jun 94 TA0106193994 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1700 GMT 1 Jun 94 Hebrew BFN [Report by correspondent Gadi Sukenik] [Text] Ethiopia threatens to expel and detain thousands of the Falash-Mura who are crowding the Israeli Embassy in Addis Abeba. The official in charge of emigration in Ethiopia anticipates that the continued transfer to Israel of those claiming to be Falash-Mura will result in an incident between the two countries and in a political crisis in Ethiopia. These details are included in telegrams which were sent to Israel this week from the embassy in Ethiopia and which reached our political correspondent Gadi Sukenik, as follows: A few days ago Uri Noy, Israel's ambassador in Ethiopia, was sent to a closed meeting with the inspector general of Ethiopia's police who is also responsible for prisons and emigration from that country. At the meeting our ambassador asked that the number of Falash-Mura who want to unite with their Jewish brethren in Israel be increased from 80 to 200 per month. The ambassador also asked that the mechanism for sorting them out in the capital, Addis Ababa, and in Ethiopia's northern districts be expanded, at a time when thousands of Falash-Mura are already knocking on the Addis Ababa embassy's doors and rumors lead many others to flow into the capital from the north. Reports about the meeting which reached Jerusalem and us indicate that (Hasan Shifa'), a senior Ethiopian official, believes this is a very sensitive issue which may, and I quote, harm Ethiopian integration and cause his country to disintegrate. He claims that such organized emigration runs counter to his government's policy and will turn northern Ethiopia into another Israeli district. If this issue becomes the focus of interest, it will explode due to its sensitivity. In his opinion, the transfer of Jews from Ethiopia to Israel is over, and the decision on family reunions is erroneous and will culminate in a disaster. The official in charge of emigration told Israel's ambassador that by Israel's criteria, all northern Ethiopia residents, including even himself, are entitled to immigrate to Israel. In short, the Ethiopians turned down all the ambassador's requests. In another telegram to Jerusalem, Uri Noy recommended that the smaller quota of immigration remain and that very low-profile treatment be accorded those awaiting immigration outside the capital. [Later in the newsreel Immigrant Absorption Minister Ya'ir Tzaban reacts to the above report, saying that "the sensational preoccupation with the Falash-Mura problem makes it very difficult for the government to implement its decision to bring them to Israel as part of its family reunion plan. Those who do not respect the Ethiopian Government's sensitivity about this complex affair may foil the humanitarian solution of this problem."]
