FBIS3-5734 "dreas047_a_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan U.S. Secretary of State Continues Visit Holds Meeting With Hata OW1003111794 Tokyo KYODO in English 1058 GMT 10 Mar 94 OW1003111794 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 10 KYODO -- U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher asked Thursday [10 March] for Japan's support if the issue of North Korea's suspected nuclear development program is brought to the U.N. Security Council for discussion, Japanese Foreign Ministry officials said. Christopher made the call in talks with Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata in reference to North Korea's suspected nuclear development program and ongoing inspections of its seven declared nuclear facilities, the officials said. Hata told Christopher that Japan will fulfill its role as a member of the United Nations in such a case, and gave high marks to Washington's "tenacious" negotiations with Pyongyang, they said. The two men agreed in the meantime to continue cooperation to solve problems regarding North Korea's alleged nuclear weapons program, the officials said. North Korea announced a year ago that it would withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT) but suspended the decision after negotiations with the United States. Late last month, Pyongyang said it will allow inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) of seven of its nuclear facilities and the IAEA inspectors entered Pyongyang on March 1. Washington and Pyongyang are scheduled to hold a third round of high-level talks beginning March 21 in Geneva on the condition that North Korea comply with a four-point accord that includes successful completion of the nuclear inspections. Christopher arrived in Tokyo from Australia on Wednesday on the second leg of a three-nation tour which also takes him to China on Friday. The secretary of state urged Japanese support in pushing China's leadership to improve its human rights record, the officials said. Christopher told Hata that the U.S. considers improvement in China's human rights record as an important condition to extend most-favored-nation (MFN) trade status to Beijing. Hata noted that Japan has been urging China to improve its human rights record. Christopher and Hata both expressed concern over the recent emergence of ultranationalists in Russia, the officials said. Christopher said he does not think a spy scandal involving a high-ranking CIA official will affect U.S.-Russian ties in the long term, they said. He also said Washington welcomes Moscow's initiative in the conflicts in Bosnia-Herzegovina. On Friday, Christopher and Undersecretary of Defense Frank Wisner will hold "two-plus-two" security talks with Hata and Defense Agency chief Kazuo Aichi. Christopher is scheduled to deliver a speech before Japanese business leaders later the same day.
