FBIS4-65061 "drweu092__a94002" FBIS-WEU-94-092-A Daily Report 12 May 1994 ANNEX International Affairs International Study Group on FRY To Convene 13 May International Study Group on FRY To Convene 13 May BR1005141294 Brussels BELGA Database in French 2031 GMT 9 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1005141294 Brussels BELGA Database French BFN [Article signed GGD: "Bosnia: Toward a Ministerial Meeting on Friday"] [Text] Luxembourg, 9 May (BELGA) -- U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher convened a high-level meeting for Friday [13 May] in Geneva of the study group on the former Yugoslavia, which includes the United States, Russia, the United Nations, and the European Union (EU), Luxembourg Foreign Minister Jacques Poos announced Monday in Luxembourg. According to Willy Claes, his Belgian counterpart, it seems that this meeting is to be held at the ministerial level in order to study action to be taken in the conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Mr. Poos, who made a statement at the end of a Council of Ministers meeting of the Western European Union (WEU), hoped that this meeting would revive the negotiations and contribute to "defining a common position among the United States, Russia, and the EU" to "reduce to nothing the hopes" of those who aim to profit from the division of the international community to make territorial gains, a clear reference to the Bosnian Serbs. According to Mr. Claes, the EU should be represented in Geneva by its troika (the past, present, and future presidents of the Council of Ministers, namely Belgium, Greece, and Germany) and by the two countries which have permanent seats in the UN Security Council (namely France and Great Britain). While emphasizing that the main parties involved in the Yugoslav conflict had to demonstrate their political will to jointly reach a cease-fire, "an essential condition for a peace agreement," Mr. Claes had questions about the goals and the final outcome of this meeting. Cautiously making a number of carefully phrased remarks regarding the meeting, Mr. Claes did not rule out its lasting until Saturday, if necessary, to include a meeting of the countries which are providing troops for the UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR) in the former Yugoslavia.
