FBIS3-16991 "drsov055_a_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Further on Japanese Foreign Minister Hata's Visit Kozyrev, Hata Comment on Talks LD2103160994 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1438 GMT 21 Mar 94 LD2103160994 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: by diplomatic correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboynikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy, and others] [Text] Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev believes that this summer the G-7 summit in Naples will discuss the gradual transformation of the G-7 into a G-8, because Russia will join full-scale discussions of the political problems. He made the statement Monday following the talks with Japanese Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata. Kozyrev said he had discussed the problem with Hata. The Japanese side reacted positively, he said. Kozyrev said that in Moscow, on the initiative of the Japanese side, the issue was discussed on signing a peace treaty which would include the territorial problem. "We do not give up on the problem. It will be discussed in detail on the basis of the Tokyo Declaration at the talks to be held by deputy foreign ministers, he said. Kozyrev said that the territorial problem is not the sole issue in the Russian-Japanese talks. We have discussed bilateral and international problems and agreed to raise the level of economic cooperation; to work on, before the visit to Moscow by Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, the draft agreement on supporting small and medium business; and to continue the talks on strategic stability, he said. We also discussed the cases of violations along the Russian border by Japanese fishermen and agreed to cooperate in solving the problem. For his part, Hata said that Kozyrev had handed over to him a personal message from Russian President Yeltsin, who invited Japanese Prime Minister Hosokawa to visit Moscow. The date of the visit will be set following the consultations with the Russian side, said Hata. Hata spoke in support of the earliest signing of a peace treaty. But first we need to settle the territorial problem which is impossible without the support of the Russian and Japanese peoples, he said. He said that Japan gives its backing to the course of reforms in Russia.
