FBIS4-16431 "drsov074cc_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-074 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS Further Reportage on CIS Leaders Summit 15 Apr Further Reportage on CIS Leaders Summit 15 Apr Kyrgyz President Views Summit LD1504214194 Moscow Radiostantsiya Ekho Moskvy in Russian 1800 GMT 15 Apr 94 LD1504214194 Moscow Radiostantsiya Ekho Moskvy Russian BFN [Text] CIS heads of state signed a final package of documents at their meeting in Moscow today. Its basis is a bloc of economic agreements: on Ukraine's joining the economic union as an associate member; on creating an economic union commission; and on forming a free trade zone. In addition, a declaration was approved on the observance of sovereignty, territorial integrity, and the inviolability of Commonwealth borders. In an interview with our correspondent, President of Kirghizia [Kyrgyzstan] Askar Akayev expressed satisfaction with today's meeting between heads of state. In his view, the meeting fulfilled its main task. [Begin Akayev recording] First, it is the creation of a permanently functioning committee. Or rather, the heads of government introduced such an amendment--an economic commission that will be located in Moscow and will monitor the implementation of adopted agreements on trade and economic cooperation. CIS bodies are at last appearing that could develop in the future into an effective mechanism for implementing agreements. [end recording] Despite the fact that Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev's proposal to set up a Eurasian union was not examined today, Akayev said that he wholly supports this idea. [Begin Akayev recording] I see it as the foreseeable future of our CIS. If the mechanisms for cooperation laid down by the CIS are implemented to a significant extent, we will arrive at a Eurasian union. [end recording] For his part, Boris Yeltsin made special note of the agreement signed in Moscow today on extending the term for CIS peacekeeping forces in Tajikistan, and also the joint statements on the situation in Abkhazia and Nagornyy Karabakh [Nagorno-Karabakh]. The next session of heads of state will take place on 9 September.
