FBIS3-50340 "dreeu019_r_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Jan 1994 ROMANIA Coposu Predicts Short Life for New Government AU2701185894 Bucharest TINERETUL LIBER in Romanian 25 Jan 94 p 1 AU2701185894 Bucharest TINERETUL LIBER Language: Romanian Article Type:BFN [Statement by Corneliu Coposu, president of the National Peasant Christian Democratic Party, at a news conference in Bucharest on 24 January: "Mr. Coposu Warns: The Men in Power Will Be Kicked Out of Their Jobs Within 24 Hours of the Change of Regime!] [Text] "The new government will agonize for a maximum three months after its creation. We do not give the new government, if it is created, more than three months to survive," Mr. Corneliu Coposu, president of the National Peasant Christian Democratic Party [PNTCD] said at a news conference yesterday. "This is a very short-term transitional government. According to our information, not even Mr. Ion Iliescu likes the idea of the Romanian National Unity Party [PUNR] joining the cabinet, since he is aware of the image as an extremist party that the PUNR 'enjoys' abroad. The new team will cause negative reactions and will be contested from the very start. The new ministers might not even obtain the endorsement of the parliament, although I do not see why the power should be afraid of that, since its holds the majority there... Anyhow, it is a strong proof of naivete on the part of the people in power to believe that, if they occupy all the decision-taking functions in the current society, they will stay nailed to their chairs. Actually, all these newly appointed people will be kicked out of their jobs within 24 hours of the change of regime..." He also said that Romania risks being ejected from the Council of Europe if the government does not implement the nine amendments imposed by the aforementioned body within a maximum of six months from the date of adherence. A similar situation will occur if the former owners do not get back the assets confiscated by the communists and sue the Romanian state at the Council of Europe. "It is certain that the owners will win their cases and the restitution verdicts will have to be applied immediately," the PNTCD leader said. "Without foreign financing, the government will get bogged down in petty administrative activities, which will also be blocked themselves by the lack of money. But what is worse, I have yet to hear of a program from either the PUNR or the Social Democracy Party of Romania [PDSR]; their so-called salvation programs are nothing but fantasies. We have never considered Mr. Nicolae Vacaroiu to be an authentic prime minister, but rather a candidate for the position."
