FBIS4-7336 "dreas083_c_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-083 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 North Korea Daily Criticizes South for Barring Mun Mourners Daily Criticizes South for Barring Mun Mourners SK2804051094 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0445 GMT 28 Apr 94 SK2804051094 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["Rude and Inhumane Barbarous Act" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, April 28 (KCNA) -- NODONG SINMUN today carries a commentary hitting out at the South Korean authorities for blocking the southern trip of a delegation of the North side which had been invited to a memorial service on the one hundredth day after the death of the Rev. Mun Ik-hwan. Recalling that the Rev. Mun was a pioneer of the reunification movement who fought till the last moments of his life for the reunification of the country, the common cause of the nation, and a highly reputed patriotic champion of reunification widely known to the compatriots at home and abroad, the analyst says: The South Korean rulers had barred a mourners' group of the North side from going to Seoul to express condolences at the bier of the Rev. Mun in January and this time blocked the southern trip of a delegation of the North side which was to attend a memorial service on the one hundredth day since his death. This is a very immoral and rude act. The national funeral committee for the late Rev. Mun Ik-hwan decided to hold the memorial service on the one hundredth day of his death as a national function and invited compatriots in the North and overseas. And the North side decided to send a delegation out of the noble sense of obligation for the deceased and his bereaved family and ardent desire for national unity. Expressing condolences and honoring the memory of the deceased is rather a humanitarian matter than a political matter. Such anti-human group of traitors as the Kim Yong-sam group which seeks confrontation and war in league with outside forces while lowering a checkbar on the Southern trip of fellow countrymen for mourning the deceased, must be removed from the nation.
