FBIS3-53336 "drnes010yy_94001" FBIS-NES-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks Sha'th: Progress Sought Before Geneva Summit PM1301161294 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 13 Jan 94 pp 1, 4 PM1301161294 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Sha'th: Washington Seeking Progress Before Clinton-al-Asad Meeting"] [Excerpt] Cairo, AL-HAYAH -- Dr. Nabil Sha'th, head of the Palestinian delegation to the Taba negotiations concerning the implementation of the self-rule agreement, has said that the talks concerning security issues are "proceeding slowly and facing difficulties as a result of the intransigent Israeli position on some points." He emphasized that Israel is determined to complete the withdrawal on the fixed date, that is, 13 April. He said that discussions "are still continuing to determine the the size of the Jericho area -- a difficult point requiring great efforts." He announced that "the U.S. Administration is seeking to achieve tangible progress before before the U.S.-Syrian summit scheduled for Sunday [16 January]." He pointed to "Egyptian efforts being made to advance the negotiations, with constant follow-up of the negotiation process." Sha'th disclosed to AL-HAYAH that the Israeli delegation presented several maps: one containing new areas added to the Jericho area, one concerning Israeli settlements, and one containing layouts for the crossings. He said that these maps "reflect an advanced position, but it does not fulfill Palestinian demands." He said: "I believe that there is an Israeli change in terms of the security concept." He cited the statement issued by the U.S. State Department urging the Palestinian and Israeli sides to achieve progress. He said that it "is aimed at pushing the negotiations forward before the meeting between Presidents Bill Clinton and Hafiz al-Asad in Geneva on Sunday." Sha'th pointed out that the Palestinian side may seek the intervention of the United States or Egypt "if the situation continues as it stands." [passage omitted]
