FBIS3-16129 "drsov049_a_94041" FBIS-SOV-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Grachev Lauds German Ties PM1403132194 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA in Russian 12 Mar 94 p 7 PM1403132194 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Igor Yavlyanskiy report: "Will They Play the `Slav Woman's Farewell' in Berlin?"] [Text] Bonn -- Three Russian officers will become students at the Bundeswehr Academy in Hamburg this year. And a German colleague will be attending the General Staff Academy in Moscow. Russian and German warships will soon be holding joint maneuvers in the Baltic, and next year the first Russo-German command post exercises will be held in Russia. This was stated at a Bonn press conference by Grachev and Ruehe, heads of the Russian and FRG military departments. The Russian defense minister also announced that a department to retrain officers released to the reserve as a result of cutbacks will open in Moscow at the end of the month. Pavel Grachev made a high assessment of the level of relations between the two countries' military departments. He stressed that it would be a good idea if other states (the hint was clearly addressed to the Baltic republics) were to learn how to organize the Russian troop withdrawal from their territories in a civilized way. One other as it were "ceremonial" issue is still under discussion -- how to hold the farewell parade of Russian troops in Berlin 3 August this year to mark the end of their withdrawal from German territory. Certain Bonn politicians (Foreign Minister Kinkel, for instance) are suggesting that the expediency of holding this ceremony depends on the development of the situation with the Russian troop withdrawal from Latvia and Estonia. On this issue Grachev showed typically military resolve -- whether there is a parade or not is up to Yeltsin and Kohl, nobody else. He was equally clear-cut in answering a question about the future of the 81,000 tonnes of Russian munitions which, in the German side's opinion, are liable to be left on German territory: "You can quote me in your newspapers that all munitions will have been withdrawn from the FRG to Russia by the end of this May."
