FBIS4-55450 "dreeu094_p_94008" FBIS-EEU-94-094 Daily Report 16 May 1994 POLAND Kolodko Outlines Goals, Banking Strategies Kolodko Outlines Goals, Banking Strategies WS1605083994 Warsaw GAZETA WYBORCZA in Polish 14-15 May 94 p 21 WS1605083994 Warsaw GAZETA WYBORCZA Polish BFN [Article by "wk": "Kolodko Visits Bankers"] [Text] Deputy Prime Minister Grzegorz Kolodko has ambitious plans, and he is counting on banks to be his allies in the implementation of those plans. He spoke about what he wants to achieve while addressing bankers yesterday at the end of a conference devoted to developing the system of banking law in Central and East Europe. "There will be no replacement of personnel in banks, and the government has no intentions of exerting such pressures," Finance Minister Grzegorz Kolodko assured bankers yesterday. A few days earlier, there were press reports that the government would replace governing boards in banks so as to make them support the government's economic policies more vigorously. "I would like banks to be our allies in mobilizing the people to save more money," Kolodko said yesterday. The minister also denied rumors about plans to introduce taxes on savings and securities. Kolodko repeated once again that, over the past five years, "one could have achieved more in the economy, and at a lower cost." He did not hear a farewell speech by Ian Hume, a World Bank representative in Poland since 1990, who said: "You can be proud of your achievements." Hume, who is ending his mission to Poland, now plans to trumpet our economic successes around the world. The new finance minister presented his plans to the bankers. He believes he will bring down inflation (to less than 10 percent in 1997) and the budget deficit (from 4.1 percent of the GDP to 2 percent), as well as the unemployment level. In Kolodko's view, the government's economic policies will be "more socially sensitive." Kolodko also announced that, through privatization, he will settle the issue of Poland's foreign debts: Investors will be able to buy Polish debts and then exchange them for shares of companies subject to privatization. "We have a very good privatization program, but we also need to take care of higher budget revenues," Kolodko said. In his view, revenue from privatization was not too high over the past four years--that is, in the range of about 0.37 percent of the GDP. According to his calculations, the budget lost three times as much. The minister promised that, in the immediate future, he will present detailed proposals and instruments with which he intends to achieve these ambitious plans.
