FBIS4-24055 "drafr120_d_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-120 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola UNITA Radio Reports on Fighting UNITA Radio Reports on Fighting MB2106173894 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro in Portuguese 1200 GMT 21 Jun 94 MB2106173894 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro Portuguese BFN [Italicized passages recorded] [Text] Fierce clashes are taking place in N'dalatando, the capital of Cuanza Norte Province, where Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola-Labor Party [MPLA-PT] troops tried to link N'dalatando to Malanje. Over the past few days the Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola [FALA] blocked the warmongering adventure of the Futungo de Belas, which with impressive war equipment tried to break the FALA defensive lines. FALA's prompt response forced Eduardo dos Santos' troops to retreat 25 km following hard clashes in Pamba. At present, everything is secure in the city of N'dalatando. Our correspondent Felix Miranda reports from Soyo: [Miranda] The situation in N'dalatando deteriorated over the past few days when an enormous People's Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola [FAPLA] convoy made up of about 105 vehicles, carrying troops and war materiel to assist its regiments [words indistinct] with about 15 armored vehicles. [passage indistinct] The UNITA armed forces over the past few days destroyed a war helicopter, more than 10 armored vehicles, and captured an assortment of military equipment, including 15 troop transports, 15 radios, and two D-30 guns. Since the Luanda Communist government began intense air and ground raids all over the country on 29 May 1994, the residents of the plateau city of Bie [Kuito] have never experienced peace. Incessant air raids by Eduardo dos Santos' air force have been causing numerous victims, particularly in the most vulnerable group of the society -- old people, women, and children. The situation has grown worse over the past five days. Our correspondent Jardo Prata reports: [Prata] Between 16 and 20 June, more than 300 powerful bombs were dropped by Sukhoi MiG's [as heard] over Cantifula, Fatima, (Quiluto), (Candanga), and (Calumpanga) wards. The two last wards are located more than 15 km from the city of Bie. The human and material losses are extensive. Meanwhile, Eduardo dos Santos' war aircraft once again bombed civilian wards and settlements today. [Prata] This morning, Eduardo dos Santos' MiGs once again bombed (Tecnicombe) and Popular wards twice. In this murderous rampage, at least three people were killed, a 29-year-old woman carrying her baby and an 18-year-old girl.
