FBIS4-66421 "jpjst020__l94007" JPRS-JST-94-020-L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 26 October 1993 Aerospace Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Path to New Century Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Path to New Century Impact on Defense Business by Budget Cut 94FE0116A Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 26 Oct 93 p 3 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0116A Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN Japanese CSO [Text] ``No fancy ideas. Just the execution of rock-bottom rationalization and the promotion of a shift toward commercial business...'' So commented Yutaka Hineno, a managing director and the general manager, the Aircraft and Special Vehicle division, talking about the difficulties of their defense-related business. The sales to the Defense Agency in FY92, which normally amount to about 80% of said division's total sales, drastically reduced due to the defence budget cut caused by the end of the Cold War, resulting in a two digit drop for the first time in four years. Shrinking Pie A budget cut of 580 billion was decided last year for the current Mid-Term Defense Program (FY91-95) which was started with a total budget of 짜22,750 billion. It was a downward adjustment implemented one year earlier of the schedule. Such an adjustment was more or less expected by defense-related companies. The real test is what is going to be announced in the next Mid-Term Defense Program, whose preparation starts next year. Shigeru Hatakeyama, the administrative vice-minister, describing the difficulty in having the budget proposal approved, comments, ``I have been explaining to the Ministry of Finance that the defense budget is stiff and stark and there is very little left to be shaven off. But they insist that, if that's the case, we should reduce the number of airplanes and ships to lessen the burdens of the later years of the term; I feel that they are not ready to give us a break yet.'' As if there haven't been enough problems, the government's intention to increase the purchase of U.S. made equipment, not just because of the traditional dependency on the U.S. technology, but also because of its desire to improve the trade friction with the U.S., is becoming more conspicuous these days, so that the Japanese defense manufacturers may have to face a more difficult time in the future as they have to share the shrinking pie. Hineno himself admits that ``the orders of tanks and fighters have reduced considerably already, and will continue to do so toward FY97.'' Even after that, they'll have to depend on an uncertain prospect that the next generation support fighter FSX, which is being developed, and the next generation small observation and reconnaissance helicopter OHX will enter the production periods. Defense Agency Appreciates The Defense Agency appreciates Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (``MHI'') efforts and asserts, ``We are impressed with MHI's solid quality and technology, but also their pride and strong sense of responsibility as the leader of the defense industry.'' This confidence is shown in the delivery record; the equipment contract for this company for FY92 was 짜339.3 billion (market share: 24.5%), a whopping lead over the second place Kawasaki Heavy Industries's 짜113.3 billion (8.2|). However, the fact that they are the giant means also that they will be hurt most by the defense budget cut. In the mean time, the focus of the technological innovation is shifting toward the software industry linked with electronics technology, as was evidenced in the ``Patriot'' missile in the Gulf War. Hineno avows that, ``The basis of our division is the defense business. The technology will keep improving itself, so that we will do our best to sustain and improve our defense-related basic technology even if it means a lot of pain to us.'' The Defense Agency's top brass coincide by saying, ``We know that the situation is not easy for them, but MHI fully understands that once they lose control of R&D, which is the basis of the defense business, it would be difficult to reconstruct it.'' Commercial Business is the Key The only key to solve this bind is the commercial business. The plan is to double the commercial sales to 짜100 billion by FY97, while preserving the defense technology. The defense business has been allowed to add up the cost under the Defense Agency's auditing, and they have been guaranteed of a certain profit unless they make an exorbitant error. This practice has caused this division to lose sight of a sharp cost awareness. ``The defense division has been treated as a sacred area so far, but no more. From now on, cost reduction shall be the top priority for them, regardless of the fact whether we are asked to do so by the Defense Agency or not,'' declares Kentaro Aikawa, the president. We heard a doubt whether the technologies generated in the defense business can be smoothly converted into the commercial business or not, because the cost is the top priority in the commercial business, while the performance of the product is the top priority. As the cost reduction measures, they are already increasing the ratio of imported parts, rationalizing the production lines, and reviewing the ratio of the direct/non-direct departments. Also, they are evaluating the possibility of applying the research and production technologies generated for the missile guidance electronics to commercial uses. Although it is certain that these countermeasures won't have any impact on immediate terms, the slowdown in the defense business provides them a good chance to tighten the belt on the cost factors, and the effort of creating new businesses will be helpful in restructuring of the division. The defense division, which has always been the core of the company, in parallel with the prime mover division, is now at a major turning point.
