FBIS4-19136 "drweu072_h_94014" FBIS-WEU-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 Germany `Quarrel' Breaks Out in FDP Over Coalition `Quarrel' Breaks Out in FDP Over Coalition AU1304202494 Berlin DIE WELT in German 13 Apr 94 p 1 AU1304202494 Berlin DIE WELT German BFN [Martina Fietz report: "FDP Quarrels About Coalition"] [Excerpt] Bonn -- Helmut Kohl, chairman of the Christian Democratic Union [CDU] and the German chancellor, yesterday expressly thanked the Free Democratic Party of Germany [FDP] for its intention, expressed the day before, to continue the coalition with the CDU/Christian Social Union [CSU] after the Bundestag elections in October. During the first coalition meeting after the Easter break, Kohl assessed the decision by the FDP Presidium as a signal that there is the determination to achieve goals together. The "spirit of comradely togetherness" will lead to success at the elections. At the same time, a quarrel broke out in the FDP about the coalition statement in favor of the CDU/CSU. Juergen Moellemann, chairman of the largest FDP land association, that of North Rhine-Westphalia, demanded that the statement in favor of the CDU and the CSU be linked with conditions. There must not be a "blank check for the CDU/CSU." Moellemann suggested that at the party congress in Rostock at the beginning of July a "statement of preference" should be made, which must be linked to "specific basic topics." FDP Bundestag Deputy Gerhart Baum said that the coalition statement was made too early. Yesterday FDP Chairman Klaus Kinkel refused to comment on Moellemann's demands. According to the decision of the FDP Presidium, now there has to be a wait until the meeting of the Federal Executive Committee on 2 May and the party congress. Hermann Otto Solms, chairman of the FDP Bundestag group, stated that the formulation of the election statement must "in no case" contain options for other government alliances. His deputy, Wolfgang Weng, called on the party to refrain from any speculations about other constellations for a potential government. [passage omitted]
