FBIS4-60827 "drsov084_a_94018" FBIS-SOV-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev Seeks Foreign Ministers' Meeting on Bosnia Kozyrev Seeks Foreign Ministers' Meeting on Bosnia LD2904125794 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1041 GMT 29 Apr 94 LD2904125794 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Russia's Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev hopes that next week the foreign policy chiefs of the United States and the countries of the European Union and himself, as well as representatives of the United Nations, will meet to coordinate plans for a Bosnian settlement. Upon arrival in Moscow from Bonn, Thursday [28 April], Kozyrev told an INTERFAX reporter that a foreign ministers conference on Bosnia stood a good chance and he would work to have it take place even though problems remained. What counted most, he said, was the decision to go beyond NATO's plan for military action. Kozyrev suggested that NATO's moves be seen as a link in the chain that started with the United Nations' call for action and would lead to a Security Council discussion of the Bosnian problem. Thursday evening, according to Kozyrev, U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher said he intended to hold a telephone conversation with his Russian counterpart. Let us wait and see what Secretary Christopher has to say, said Kozyrev. Whether a foreign ministers conference on Bosnia would approve a provisional formula for a settlement depended, in Kozyrev's view, on moves by the ministers' contact group. Moscow refused to rely exclusively on the contact group, he said. Kozyrev's deputy and President Yeltsin's special emissary for Bosnia Vitaliy Churkin has left Moscow for Oslo where he is to meet Friday with international mediators David Owen and Thurwald Stoltenberg. Kozyrev said Churkin's meeting with the international mediators opened an additional channel for work on a Bosnian conference. The ministers were also working on the conference, so efforts were being made, Kozyrev pointed out, in three directions and although he could not be 100-percent sure, he was reasonably confident the conference would take place next week. The ministers could meet, as usual, Kozyrev said, in Geneva. In the meantime, a Western source told INTERFAX the ministers would most likely meet in Finland or some other country of northern Europe and that they had already agreed to meet on next Tuesday or Wednesday.
