FBIS4-21232 "jptdd017__l94075" JPRS-TDD-94-017-L JPRS Narcotics 26 February 1994 WEST EUROPE DENMARK National, Local Drug Policies, Treatment Programs Being National, Local Drug Policies, Treatment Programs Being Reevaluated Copenhagen Targets Youthful Abusers 94WD0269C Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 26 Feb 94 p 1 94WD0269C Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Danish CSO [Article by Mikkel Thrane and Lotte Mejlhede: ``Special Effort For Young Drug Addicts''] [Text] Politicians in Copenhagen have decided to prioritize their antidrug efforts in such a way that there will always be treatment available for the youngest addicts and ``drug-threatened'' young people under 18 years of age. On the other hand, hardened addicts will have to go to the end of the line. ``That is how prioritization works. Our hope is that a solid effort at a very early stage will prevent children from later ending up on the streets,'' said Jens Hansen, a drug-education consultant in Copenhagen. Recently, the authorities have made room for young drug abusers, despite an overburdened treatment system. Care providers have become concerned because new drug users are younger and younger. The rise in life expectancy of drug addicts has stagnated, so that they now live an average of 31 to 32 years. One reason for the increase in younger addicts is the appearance of so-called smoking heroin. There is an abundance of it on the streets and it is less expensive than heroin that is injected. ``Many young people still believe they will not become addicted to the stuff if they smoke it, but of course that is wrong,'' said Lasse Gaardsoe, the leader of 24-Hour Contact in Copenhagen. Thirty to 35 young people frequently visit 24-Hour Contact. Five or six of them have tried smoking heroin. Copenhagen Country has set up several projects for young people under 18 years of age who have been drug users, but they still have no place for detox where they would not be in contact with hardened addicts. According to the Social Affairs Ministry, however, it is a virtual certainty that Copenhagen will soon receive 2.4 million kroner in subsidies for a detox center.
