FBIS3-2085 "drchi043_n_94009" FBIS-CHI-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 Economic & Agricultural Foreign Exchange Business `Brisk in Recent Years' OW0403094394 Beijing XINHUA in English 0740 GMT 4 Mar 94 OW0403094394 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Shenzhen, March 4 (XINHUA) -- China's foreign exchange business has been brisk in recent years, as witnessed by the growth of swap and securities markets, according to a senior finance official. Song Haipeng, deputy director of the State Administration of Exchange Control, made the statement at a recent international financial symposium in this special economic zone in Guangdong Province. Song said that there are 2,292 financial organs in China handling foreign exchange business, including 90 foreign-funded banks or Sino-foreign banking joint ventures. Chinese financial organizations have 230 billion U.S. dollars in foreign currency assets. They deal with various kinds of business in international and domestic financial markets. More than 100 swap markets in the country make it possible for enterprises and individuals to buy and sell their foreign currency. The transaction volume during the past two years has reached some 25 billion U.S. dollars. Since 1991, when China began to issue B shares to overseas securities investors, 30 types of B-share stocks have been listed on the stock exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzhen, pooling more than one billion U.S. dollars in foreign funds. Meanwhile, a number of state-owned large and medium-sized enterprises have listed their stocks on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. In addition, Chinese enterprises succeeded in issuing bonds in Tokyo, London, Frankfurt, Singapore, Luxembourg and the United States last year. Beginning April 1 this year, a nationwide unified interbank foreign currency transaction system will be adopted to make it more convenient for currency sellers and buyers to conduct their business. Song said that during the past few years China's economy has been growing at a high speed and the country is opening wider to the outside world. As a result, China has become a major participant in international trade. All these factors will further promote China's foreign currency business, Song said.
