FBIS3-5687 "dreas047__a94011" FBIS-EAS-94-047-A Document Type:Daily Report 10 March 1994 ANNEX Japan BOJ Still Cautious About Economic Conditions OW0403055994 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 2 Mar 94 Morning Edition p 3 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0403055994 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] The Bank of Japan [BOJ] remains cautious about current economic conditions given in the short-term announcement released on 1 March. The BOJ considers it an encouraging indication that there are signs the economy has hit bottom, as seen in increased shipments of electric appliances. But Kagehide Kaku, chief of the BOJ Research and Statistics Department, said: "It is difficult to predict precisely when the economic recovery will start." This means that should the economy deteriorate further because of worsened labor conditions and the yen's sharp appreciation, the BOJ intends to take prompt measures to induce lower short-term rates. The reason why the BOJ is cautious about the economic future is because while there are some favorable economic factors like increased investments in equipment and expansion of public works projects, there are also unfavorable factors such as those seen in unemployment problems and the yen's appreciation. In other words, the BOJ thinks: "The current situation is a mixture of contrasting factors." The BOJ is particularly nervous about the trend of high yen value and labor conditions. The fact that the private sector's investment in plants and equipment are not expected to grow even in 1994 is also contributing to its thinking that "no clear indications have been identified to confirm the economic recovery." Meanwhile, the financial market is rather optimistic compared with the BOJ, believing: "The economy is recovering after having hit bottom." The BOJ wants to watch how current long-term interest rates will increase in the future. Should the increase be too sharp, thus bringing about a negative impact on the recovery, it will act to further ease the monetary market.
