FBIS3-16399 "drsov051_p_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 CAUCASUS Armenia Azerbaijan's `Provocative Activities' Noted NC1403182194 Yerevan Radio Yerevan in Azeri 1430 GMT 14 Mar 94 NC1403182194 Yerevan Radio Yerevan Language: Azeri Article Type:BFN [Text] Dear listeners, we now present a report on the latest situation in the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic [NKR] and the border between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Before we do so, however, we wish to comment on the meeting the chairmen of the Supreme Soviets of Armenia and Azerbaijan held on the border between Idzhevanskiy and Kazakhskiy Rayons on 12 March. The meeting was anxiously awaited. Undoubtedly, it was very important. It is premature yet to discuss the outcome of the talks. However, several mass media organs have issued conflicting reports. The situation along NKR's front lines is tense. The situation at the front lines has not changed during the past two days. Azerbaijan's National Army [ANA] units have fired intensely on the Armenian positions in several areas with various types of arms. They have also launched wide-scale attacks in an attempt to penetrate the Armenian defenses. As usual, the ANA units failed to achieve their objective. They were counterattacked by the Armenian Armed Forces and forced to withdraw to their previous positions after losing men and military equipment. Positional fighting took place at the NKR front line yesterday. The situation deteriorated on the border between Armenia and Azerbaijan during the past week. This is because several Armenian border areas were fired on from Azerbaijan. The Armenian side has not retaliated in order to avoid worsening the situation. The Armenian Ministry of Defense press service has disclosed that tension has escalated on Noyemberyanskiy Rayon's border. The ANA units fired on the defense positions around Koti with infantry combat vehicles and machine guns yesterday. However, no one was hurt. The Armenian border guards refrained from launching retaliatory operations. The Armenian Ministry of Defense has warned that Azerbaijan will be held fully responsible if tension further escalates as a result of the provocative activities. The ministry said that the situation at other parts of the border was relatively peaceful yesterday and last night. We hope that the talks between the chairmen of the parliaments of the two republics will contribute toward the establishment of peace on the entire border.
