FBIS3-45342 "drchi011_v_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Taiwan Defense Minister on French Arms Sales Decision OW1601155094 Taipei China Broadcasting Corporation News Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 15 Jan 94 OW1601155094 Taipei China Broadcasting Corporation News Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Station reporter Ouyang Ho report; from the "Hookup" program] [Text] Minister of National Defense Sun Chen yesterday presided over a ceremony for the opening of this year's group training of students of universities and colleges at Chengkungling Base in Taichung County. He later expressed his views in light of France's statement concerning arms sales to our country and pointed out that past contracts signed with France for the procurement of weapons would continue to be implemented and that all kinds of parts and logistical supports can also be obtained through various channels. The following is a report from Ouyang Ho: More than 19,000 students from various universities and colleges have taken part in this year's group training. Minister of National Defense Sun Chen presided over a ceremony for the opening of this year's group training. He first (?handed over a gun) to a representative of students taking part in the group training. (Li Cheng-wei), student of [words indistinct] industrial institute, took an oath on behalf of all students. Minister Sun Chen later delivered a speech to the students. [words indistinct] After the completion of the ceremony, a number of reporters interviewed Minister Sun Chen. Reporters asked him whether France would implement its contracts with Taiwan on arms procurement and whether this will seriously affect the repair, maintenance and supply of parts for French-made weapons used by our armed forces, since France might stop arms sales to the Taiwan region under the pressure of Communist China. National Defense Minister Sun Chen said: The Ministry of National Defense has already made appropriate arrangements. [Begin recording] [Sun] The past procurement contracts (?will not be abrogated) and we will make appropriate arrangements for logistical support in the future. [end recording]
