FBIS3-3963 "drchi057_k_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Activist `Reasonably Confident' on Moves To Improve Rights HK2403033694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 24 Mar 94 p 9 HK2403033694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By John Kohut in Beijing and Willy Wo-lap Lam] [Text] Chinese officials have privately hinted at the possibility of more political prisoner releases and have also said that other differences with the U.S. over human rights could be resolved, according to Hong Kong-based human rights activist John Kamm. He said after meetings with State Council, Public Security and Supreme Court officials in Beijing, he was "reasonably confident there will be some moves in the next few weeks". His talks with officials are the first indication that despite the tough human rights stance taken by China since the visit of American Secretary of State Warren Christopher this month, the Chinese leadership might be willing to make concessions quietly. Mr Kamm said while Chinese officials repeated the line that they were prepared to lose the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status, they were at pains to note prisoners who are sick, or who show a good attitude can be released in accordance with Chinese laws. They also said other human rights issues could be resolved with the United States through discussions based on mutual respect. While this is far from a guarantee China will make the "significant progress" on human rights required by U.S. President Bill Clinton for MFN renewal, Mr Kamm said he was encouraged. "They're clearly committed to continuing the dialogue on human rights," Mr Kamm said. As proof of that, he noted that all officials he requested to meet on this trip have agreed to speak to him "I think we'll see releases of sick prisoners and others," Mr Kamm said. But he added: "I was led to believe such moves could not be made immediately after the visit" of Mr Christopher. In stating that Chinese law left room for prisoner releases based on humanitarian concerns or signs of good attitude, the officials tried to make clear that "we will no do these things because of American pressure, but be cause they are in accordance with the law," Mr Kamm said. No names or numbers of prisoners were discussed but Mr Kamm expects to go over a name list with Justice Ministry officials today. Meanwhile, sources in the Chinese dissident community said the authorities had not decided whether to take "resolute action" against a number of activists who they believed would organise protest actions in the run-up to the fifth anniversary of the June 4, 1989, crackdown. The sources said aside from the fear of fanning anti-MFN sentiment in the U.S. Congress, the authorities were worried that an excessive number of arrests would help galvanise the dissident movement. In the past month, different groups have sent private letters to leaders demanding reforms including an end to the incarceration of citizens without recourse to the judicial process.
