FBIS3-41961 "jptnd001__l94038" JPRS-TND-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 31 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL UK Export License Facilitates Computer Exports BR0311163393 London Hermes Database in English 29 Oct 93 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0311163393 London Hermes Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [UK press release from the Department of Trade and Industry: "Department of Trade and Industry Cuts Red Tape for Computer Exporters"] [Text] The Department of Trade and Industry has introduced an Open General Export Licence (OGEL) which will cut red tape faced by computer exporters. Reflecting relaxations on export controls agreed by the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Control (COCOM) earlier this month, the new licence will allow - subject to some conditions - the export of certain computers and signal processing equipment without the need to apply for individual export licences. The new licence comes into force immediately, however existing licenses are still valid for export. Now exporters will be required to include with the official documentation for Customs a note stating that `the goods are being exported under the Open General Export Licence (Computers)'. They should keep records of all goods exported under the licence and must, before or within 30 days of the first use of the Licence, give the Secretary of State their details and an address where the records can be inspected. The two types of goods which will now be eligible for the OGEL are: digital computers whose composite theoretical performance (CTP) is no more than 67 million theoretical operations per second (Mtops); and signal processing or image enhancement equipment with a CTP of no more than 40 Mtops. The OGEL also contains provisions imposing certain conditions on use of the licence relating to the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Destinations to which the OGEL does not apply are: Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Syria, Serbia, Montenegro, the United Nations Protected Areas in Croatia and those areas of Bosnia-Herzegovina under the control of the Bosnian Serb forces. Note for Editors The Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM) was established in 1950 as a non-Treaty based regime which operates informally through a number of committees supported by a permanent secretariat based in Paris. It operates on the basis of consensus and has traditionally been a forum where NATA allies, with Japan and Australia, review the scope of multilateral controls on the exports of sensitive dual-use, military and nuclear equipment and technology. The recent relaxation of these export controls has been brought about by agreement reached within COCOM in response to changing strategic concerns and advances in technology.
