FBIS3-11447 "drlat055_c_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 MEXICO Azano Group Willing To Reach Agreement With AT&T PA2203045494 Mexico City EL FINANCIERO in Spanish 18 Mar 94 p 12 PA2203045494 Mexico City EL FINANCIERO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Miguel Badillo] [Text] Susumo Azano Moritani, president of the Azano Group headquartered in Jalisco, is willing to reach an agreement with AT&T "as long as the agreement is reasonable and fitting," despite 51 years of abuses committed by the U.S. phone company that has sent Jalisco businessmen to jail. Salvador Perez Gomez and Susana Manterola, Azano Moritani's attorneys, handed over a letter to EL FINANCIERO in which their client outlines his position on reaching an agreement with the U.S. company. This letter indicates that AT&T owes the Azano Group $20 million for the building of a digital telephone production plant. Meanwhile, attorneys commented that AT&T had used its influence to pressure the Mexican Government through Jaime Serra Puche, commerce and industrial development secretary, and Claudio Gonzalez, presidential adviser on foreign investments -- both of whom "openly" supported the foreign company over and above the "fair and legal" interests of the Mexican business group. In the document, the president of the Azano Group indicates: "We have always been willing to receive a reasonable payment offer, which AT&T representatives have promised us again and again in countless meetings held to resolve the amount to be paid. Up until now, however, no agreement has been reached on any amount." Azano Moritani's lawyers indicated that AT&T is pressuring their client to accept each and every condition it has established. These conditions include a "confidentiality contract" AT&T representatives want the Jalisco businessman to sign without indicating the amount they are willing to pay for the debt which has been pending for more than three years. Salvador Perez Gomez and Susana Manterola explained that the legal proceedings against AT&T are heading in an "excellent direction," and, therefore, the Azano Group is confident that very soon its suit against that U.S. telephone company will be resolved. AT&T will have to pay $20 million it still owes, otherwise the AT&T plant in Guadalajara will be placed under an indefinite seizure. In addition, AT&T officials would have to serve prison terms for fraud. The attorneys also noted there is a resolution pending -- No. 214/93 -- in the Third District's First Civil Court, where Susumo Azano Moritani has presented evidence against AT&T. This evidence includes the fact that AT&T presented an amparo plea in an irregular manner. This legal document was delivered to Judge Vidal Cuevas Barba's residence at a time when he had no jurisdiction in the case. Meanwhile, the first judge of the civil court refused to execute the arbitration award given the countless procedural violations of a public order nature [violaciones procesales de orden publico], thereby ruling in favor of Avanti Construction Co. owned by the Azano Group. In this ruling, the first judge of the civil court resolved to declare as "null and void everything filed before the ninth judge of the civil court in which AT&T presented the accusations. For this court, the recorded violations are sufficient to uphold the conclusions outlined in the previous paragraphs." Given this, AT&T waived its amparo and asked the judge to return its documents that were grounds for the claim; this implies a dismissal of charges. Regarding AT&T's statements that work at the plant had not been completed, claiming it had been abandoned by Avanti, the attorneys said the telephone plant began operations on 24 July 1991. As evidence of this fact, they presented a thank you letter from AT&T dated 22 August 1991. Two days later, on 24 August of that same year, AT&T President Robert Allen declared in Guadalajara that the first telephone equipment manufactured at the plant was of very high quality on an international level, thereby contradicting the aforementioned claim that work at the plant had not been completed.
