FBIS3-18770 "drweu046cc_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Nordic Council Session Discusses EU Membership LD0803180194 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network in Finnish 1400 GMT 8 Mar 94 LD0803180194 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network Language: Finnish Article Type:BFN [Text] The Nordic Council, which is meeting in Stockholm, held a lively discussion about Finland's, Sweden's and Norway's EU [European Union] negotiations. The debate revealed that Finland may be first among the Nordic countries to hold its own EU referendum, reports Kimmo Henriksson from the conference: [Henriksson] Representing the Swedish Government, Social Affairs Minister Bengt Westerberg of the Liberal Party was most vociferous here in Stockholm in questioning the possibility of organizing Sweden's EU referendum as early as June. Westerberg thought the referendum would be postponed until November, after the Swedish elections. The Swedish Social Democrats have similar ideas. They fear that their supporters will, under a Conservative government, vote no simply to oppose Prime Minister Carl Bildt's policy. Bildt, himself, did not want to comment on the matter, but he, too, has suggested a summer or autumn referendum and may well have to give in to the latter. The Swedish decision would naturally mean that Finland would have to hold its referendum as the first of the Nordic countries because Norway, if it reaches a negotiation result, is of course in no hurry. The order [in holding referendums] would then be the same as the EU recommended to the applicant countries. In Finland support for EU membership is clearly more extensive than in Sweden and Norway, so the example may be significant. Opponents of EU membership have also let their voices be heard in Stockholm. Speeches by the opponents above all have expressed fear that Sweden's and Finland's policy of neutrality will disappear with EU membership. [Prime Minister] Esko Aho of Finland had to explain Finland's nonalignment to (?Joerleis Borgottansen) of the Icelandic left-wing party, who pointed out that only a few years ago Finland announced to the Nordic Council that its neutrality would be preserved. Lars Werner of the Swedish Party of the Left, for his part, wanted to discuss the possibility of Nordic security cooperation, even including military cooperation, as a counterbalance to EU membership. The proposal failed, of course, to please the Swedish Government. Carl Bildt had to walk to the rostrum several times to say that times had changed and consequently neutrality concepts also had changed. This is Kimmo Henriksson in Stockholm.
