FBIS4-5918 "dreas073_n_94009" FBIS-EAS-94-073 Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 Vietnam * Explosives Industry Description Reported * Explosives Industry Description Reported * Defense Industry Serving the Economy 942E0037B Hanoi QUAN DOI NHAN DAN in Vietnamese 16 Feb 94 p 3 942E0037B Hanoi QUAN DOI NHAN DAN Vietnamese CSO [Article by Ho Xuan Nam, engineer, director of Chemical Engineering Corporation 13, and Thanh Cao] [Text] For many years now, along with the Z121, Z131, and Z115 plants, the Z113 Plant has been using the techniques used by the military to produce explosives to produce industrial explosives to serve the national economic sectors. This is an economic commodity for which long-term guidelines have been set. In this sphere, it can be said that since the end of the 1970s, when the country encountered difficulties concerning aid, the national defense industry has been promptly providing a large quantity of explosives for the coal sector to support production. To date, the national defense industry has simultaneously produced everything from fuses and detonators to explosives. Some plants are turning to producing gelatin explosives, which is a type of explosive having many advantages during use. Along with this, the military's control and protection system has been perfected and consists of scientific research organizations, separate storehouses, and special means of transportation. Many of the explosive materials produced by the national defense plants and Z113 have won gold medals at international industrial fairs. In recent years, the use of explosives by the economic sectors has increased greatly. Our national defense plants have satisfied 50 percent of those needs. If the state invests a suitable amount, the national defense industry will be able to satisfy all of the domestic needs for explosives. As everyone knows, explosives are a special type of commodity that can be used for both military and economic purposes. Thus, decentralizing control and investing in expanding production must be examined based on this special nature of explosives. The method that has been used up to now to decentralize control is very illogical. Two decades ago, when the country was concentrating everything for the front lines, the use of explosives in the economic sphere was concentrated mainly in the coal sector. Thus, it made sense for the government to make this sector responsible for controlling the materials. But the war ended a long time ago. Besides the coal sector, many other sectors such as the construction and communications sectors also use explosives. However, because the above decision has not yet been revised, control and distribution matters must go through the coal sector, which has given it a monopoly in distribution. This has created many problems, increased non-production expenses, and done much damage to both the production installations and installations that use explosives. As one of the national defense plants directly involved in producing industrial explosives, we hope that the state will soon issue a decision in line with today's realities. This will enable the national defense plants to manifest their potential and better support economic construction. At the same time, this will contribute to promoting domestic production, to effectively implementing the Politburo's resolution on solidifying and expanding the national defense industry, and to increasing the country's defense strength.
