FBIS3-61429 "jpust001___94027" JPRS-UST-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 6 January 1994 TELECOMMUNICATIONS Determination of Allowable Distances From Communications Cables in Blasting Operations 937K0274B Moscow ELEKTROSVYAZ in Russian No 3 Mar 93 (manuscript submitted 24 Jan 91) pp 25-28 937K0274B Moscow ELEKTROSVYAZ Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by A. V. Kolchenko, S. M. Rak and N. P. Chechenev under the rubric ``Communications Lines''; UDC 621.315.2] [Abstract] Analysis of the effects of powerful explosions on ground areas containing buried communications cables reveals that, in many cases, established limits on such blasting operations may be relaxed without significantly affecting the mainline cable integrity under dynamic load. Allowable distances from the location of the blasting charge, as determined by individual cable characteristics, may even be within the throw zone of the blast. Employing an analogy to underground pipes, the cable is viewed as a structural member resting on a cushion, its momentary deformation independent of the orientation of the blasting charge relative to its location. Moreover, movement of the cable and ground are synchronous and conform to the hypocentric distance from the blast. Formulas for determining the necessary strength of underground cable are arrived at based on computations of the coefficient of seismic intensity, and bending moment and radius of curvature of the cable structure. Final values for allowable distance are determined to be the greater of all values obtained by computation and comparative analysis. Charts specifying inherent characteristics for dozens of different cable designations are provided for selection of the proper cable diameter, rigidity, load-bearing strength, jacket thickness, etc. for use in or near areas of seismic disturbance. The authors offer their findings as a basis for new departmental standards for cable requirements. Figures 3; tables 2; references: 6 Russian.
