FBIS3-46923 "dreas003__a94026" FBIS-EAS-94-003-A Document Type:Daily Report 5 January 1994 ANNEX Mongolia Leaders of Political Parties Review 1993 OW0101023294 Ulaanbaatar MONTSAME in English 1308 GMT 31 Dec 93 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0101023294 Ulaanbaatar MONTSAME Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Ulaanbaatar, December 31 (OANA-MONTSAME) -- This year we managed to preserve the social and political stability which is the most significant result of the year, said in his interview to the MONTSAME correspondent leader of the MPRP Budragchaagiyn Dash-Yondon. Concerning the national economy the government started functioning at the level of intersector correlation as compared to the previous years. The period of extraordinary emergency measures is over, he considers. In the next year there would be laid down basis for restoration of national economy and there is a danger of stagnation. The process of legislatively ensuring the achievements in the sphere of protection of human rights and freedom is going on. In this regard we are committing errors sometimes and taking wrong decisions but it is not intentionally he noted. The opposite opinions on this matters were expressed by leaders of the opposition parties Dabaadorjiyn Ganbold an B. Batbayar. Leader of the National Democratic Party (MNDP) Dabaadorjiyn Ganbold said that the process of reforming is still continuing in the country but a lot of questions to be solved urgently are still out of field of vision of the government. The ruling party experiences a lack of civil and political will for taking really burning measures which is in its turn connected with the absence of a clear cut conception on reforming the society. It seemed that we are going on the path of extremely underdeveloped countries not having a weighty voice even in their own region and dragging out a miserable existence by receiving humanitarian assistance of other countries. Owing to efforts of the present leadership we have entered ourselves to the ranks of the most under-developed countries. The ruling party and the government are being guided by momentary needs. As a whole we begin to fail in all positions having been reached during the previous years leader of the MSDP [Mongolian Social-Democratic Party] B. Batbayar said. It is time to understand that the way back is a fatal way, he stressed.
