FBIS4-17171 "drsov078_d_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-078 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 Regional Affairs Volgograd Loses Court Case Against IZVESTIYA Volgograd Loses Court Case Against IZVESTIYA PM2104141194 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 21 Apr 94 p 5 PM2104141194 Moscow IZVESTIYA Russian BFN [Maks Khazin report: "Volgograd Authorities No Longer Suing IZVESTIYA"] [Text] The Volgograd Oblast Administration had sued the IZVESTIYA Editorial Office and its own correspondent V. Kornev, demanding that it repudiate the information contained in his article "Volgograd Authorities Still Opposed to Reform" (IZVESTIYA No. 95, 22 May 1993). Incidentally, it took the authorities five months to decide whether to deny the report or not. Clearly, they were helped to make the "right" decision by the approaching elections. The first judge to receive the case disqualified herself -- the local administration had promised to allocate an apartment to the Volgograd Central Rayon People's Court, and the judge considered that she had no right, as an interested party, to hear her "benefactor's" suit. Nonetheless, the case remained with the same court. The hearing of the case was tendentious. The plaintiffs did not show up at all for the first two sessions, yet there were no consequences. On the other hand, representatives of the editorial office were twice fined for spurious reasons. Ultimately, the court itself repealed these illegal "fine sanctions." V. Kornev submitted exhaustive materials to the court, indisputably demonstrating the accuracy of all the points in his article and the groundlessness of the suit. Before the end of the hearing an oblast administration representative considered it necessary to abandon all of their claims -- including the claim for 11 million rubles in damages for the "moral harm" done to the administration. At the same time, against all logic, the administration insisted on a repudiation of the article, whose accuracy was no longer in question. The people's court has completely ended the proceedings. I. Shabunin, head of the oblast administration, appealed the people's court ruling at the oblast court. His appeal was rejected.
