FBIS3-59604 "jpest003___94008" JPRS-EST-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 26 January 1994 WEST EUROPE COMPUTERS Germany: Computer Program to Assist in Oil, Gas Exploration 94WS0098a Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT in German 27 Oct 93 p 8 94WS0098a Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT Language: German Article Type:CSO [Unattributed Article: "Computer Program to Assist in Oil, Gas Exploration--Process in Berlin Evaluates Gravity Field and Magnetic Field Interferences"] [Text] The search for crude oil and natural gas deposits is primarily based on seismic measurements which is a rather costly process. However, another possibility is the evaluation of gravimetric and magnetic fields which supposedly can be measured quickly and inexpensively. Now, a software system called Igmas which was developed at the Free University of Berl in (Dr. Hans-Juergen Goetze, Institut fuer Geologie, Malteserstr. 74-100, 12249 Berlin) allows the three-dimensional interactive evaluation of these measurements. As Professor Goetze explains, the gravity and magnetic fields are changed by anomalies in the geological structure. Identification of these anomalies using high-resolution measuring instruments is relatively quick and simple so that these anomalies can be used for the exploration of deposits. However, complex calculations are required to relate the local geological formations to the measured anomalies. These types of calculations require an enormous amount of computing time. Therefore, it was not possible until now to obtain a clear picture of the geological conditions based on the anomalies of the local gravity or magnetic fields. So far, such evaluations were used only to confirm the results of seismic methods. According to Goetz, Igmas is able to provide a much more detailed evaluation of the anomalies measurements. Basically, the program uses the representation of geological structures as three-dimensional polyhedrons of any shape. The user models the geological structures until the calculated anomalies agree with the measured values. As Goetze reports, the result is then illustrated on the screen which greatly facilitates the search for a potential deposit site. Igmas can also be used for the interpretation of gravimetric well hole measurements. The program has interfaces to connect to conventional seismic evaluation programs and therefore allows a complex interpretation of the measured values. Igmas can also be used for environmental purposes such as waste dump and cavity studies.
