FBIS4-20839 "jptac003__l94035" JPRS-TAC-94-003-L JPRS Arms Control 19 March 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Questioning of U.S. Nuclear Non-Use Commitment Questioning of U.S. Nuclear Non-Use Commitment PM2103132594 Moscow TRUD in Russian 19 Mar 94 p 6 PM2103132594 Moscow TRUD Russian BFN [Correspondent Vitaliy Chukseyev report: "Nuclear Passions in the Pentagon"] [Text] Washington -- Discussions have started up in the Pentagon and other U.S. military "think tanks" about the possible use of nuclear weapons against nonnuclear countries as a counterstrike measure or means of deterrence against a chemical- or biological-weapons attack. The justification for this discussion is the annual Defense Department report submitted to the President and the Congress. The weekly DEFENSE NEWS reports that it contains a proposal to look at the possibility of taking such a step in the light of the U.S. renunciation of chemical and biological weapon use. All this introduces a new element into the formulation of a new U.S. nuclear strategy in the conditions following the end of the Cold War. It is very clear that a U.S. repudiation of its pledge not to use these weapons against nonnuclear countries will have far-reaching consequences and will also necessitate major corrections to the priorities by which the Pentagon and the Department of Energy are guided in their expenditure. As Jack Mendelssohn, deputy director of the Arms Control Association, stated, these two departments "are just itching for an excuse to hang on to and modernize their arsenals." The U.S. commitment not to use nuclear weapons against nonnuclear countries which was adopted in 1978 and which became an element in the 1968 Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons is also under threat. Opponents of the review note that it will strike a blow against the efforts being made by Bill Clinton's Administration in the sphere of nonproliferation of nuclear weapons, whereas its supporters believe that this step will act as a deterrent in relations with those countries which are striving to develop the means to wage chemical and biological war. But who will get the upper hand?
