FBIS4-43839 "drweu120_n_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-120 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * Poll Shows Growing Support for Joining EU * Poll Shows Growing Support for Joining EU * Businessmen Favor EU 94EN0396C Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 8 Jun 94 p 6 94EN0396C Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Finnish CSO [Unattributed article: "Businessmen Want Finland To Join Union"] [Text] [no place-name as published] HS-STT -- The Finnish Businessmen's Association (SYKL) feels that it is absolutely necessary for Finland to join the European Union [EU]. The SYKL executive committee justifies its stand on the grounds that without membership Finland will not have enough opportunities to participate in making decisions involving common European markets. In the SYKL's opinion, Finnish firms will only be able to acquire equal competitive status with EU country firms through membership. The SYKL believes that membership in the EU would also create stability and have a positive effect on Finland's image and the country's image on world markets. "The advantages for business activities produced by membership will clearly be greater than the disadvantages. Staying out of the EU would substantially weaken Finland's chances of safely developing its national economy in step with the national economies of the EU countries," they say in the position paper approved on Tuesday [7 June]. The SYKL also published the results of a poll of member company managers' views on the EU. According to the poll, 87 percent of the SYKL's regional and business sector organization and local association chairmen are in favor of Finland's joining the EU. Five hundred chairmen were asked the question: "Should Finland join or not join the EU on the basis of the results of the negotiations between Finland and the EU?" Thirteen percent of the respondents took a negative view of membership. Those chairmen who took a positive view of joining argued mainly that membership would secure Finland's position in western Europe and promote internationalization.
