FBIS4-37392 "drnes119_j_94013" FBIS-NES-94-119 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Sanaa Reacts to U.S. Statement on Aden Sanaa Reacts to U.S. Statement on Aden JN1806124394 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1200 GMT 18 Jun 94 JN1806124394 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Statment issued by "an official source"; place and date not given] [Text] The Republic of Yemen has followed, with concern, the statement made by the official spokeswoman of the U.S. State Department in Wahington last night. In the statement she spoke about assertions received by the U.S. Administration from the Government of the Republic of Yemen that the Armed Forces will not enter into the city of Aden. The Government of the Republic of Yemen would like to affirm that it previously informed the Governments of the United States and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia that the Government of the Republic of Yemen will delay the entry of the Armed Forces, the forces of unity and legitimacy, into Aden to chase the remnants of rebellious secessions, who are using the civilian citizens as human shields, if it finds an appropriate political solution based on ending the rebellion, holding dialogue within the framework of the Republic of Yemen, on adhering to its Constitution and constitutional legitimacy resulting from the elections of 27 April 1993, and on stopping interference in internal Yemeni affairs to end the war and stop Yemeni bloodshed. The Government of the Republic of Yemen would like to remind all that the continuation of the present situation, the continuation of secession and violation of constitutional legitimacy, and the continuation of arms and military hardware supplies to secessionists to prolong the conflict call on the Government of the Republic of Yemen to shoulder its national and constitutional responsibility to end the secession. It finds itself forced -- in accordance with its constitutional and legal right -- to deal with the violators of constitutional legitimacy in the appropriate way and in any part of the Yemeni territory. The Government of the Republic of Yemen hopes that brothers and friends will understand this.
