FBIS4-15173 "drsov067_u_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 Latvia Birkavs, Others Denounce Decree Birkavs, Others Denounce Decree LD0604175594 Riga Radio Riga Network in Latvian 1700 GMT 6 Apr 94 LD0604175594 Riga Radio Riga Network Latvian BFN [Text] After the seminar held by the Cabinet of Ministers on the national programs, an extraordinary government session is due to be held at Jurmala this evening, at which an official statement by the Latvian Government will be adopted regarding the decree of Russian President Boris Yeltsin on creating 30 military bases. As Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Birkavs stated at a news conference this evening, this step by Russia seizes on the intention not to allow the conclusion of a Latvian-Russian treaty on troop withdrawal. The premier explained that this action by Russia makes it practically impossible to conclude this treaty. Such a step was to be expected from Russia, as the package of agreements is favorable to Latvia and guarantees Latvia's membership of Europe and the European Union, which is what Russia dislikes most of all. The Latvian premier believes that the document was adopted in the interests of Russia's conservative circles and under their influence, which, as is evident, concur with the interests of national radicals in Latvia. Birkavs explained that such action by Yeltsin is also unacceptable from the viewpoint of international law. Latvian Defense Minister Valdis Pavlovskis expressed the view that no military bases are in any sense necessary for Latvia. Martins Virsis, leader of the Latvian delegation in the Latvian- Russian interstate talks, also said that this action by Yeltsin is contrary to documents already signed, and no such thing was envisaged in the text of the agreement. This is a new stance in Russian foreign policy, or it could also be viewed as pressure from Russian radical forces on the president of Russia. Virsis said he had consulted Zotov, leader of the Russian delegation, but at present not even he has access to any more precise information. Virsis also reported that consultations are being held with representatives of those countries that advocated concluding such a Latvian-Russian treaty. At present it can be predicted that if this decree is not revoked, then the Latvian-Russian treaty cannot be signed and ratified.
