FBIS4-54264 "dreas103_i_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-103 Daily Report 26 May 1994 Cambodia VGNUFC: More SRV Troops Sent to Battambang VGNUFC: More SRV Troops Sent to Battambang BK2705061094 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia in Cambodian 2330 GMT 26 May 94 BK2705061094 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia Cambodian BFN [Text] On 21 May, the Vietnamese sent 20 truckloads of fresh troops to be stationed on the Route 10-Battambang battlefield. These Vietnamese troops stayed in Battambang Province for one day and one night to change their identity to the Khmer Royal Armed Forces before leaving for Route 10 to help the routed puppet soldiers who are fleeing the battlefield in disarray. It should be recalled that at the beginning of May the Vietnamese sent 20 truckloads of troops to Battambang town to rescue the puppet troops, who had been routed from Pailin and various other important positions on Route 10 as well as the areas around Battambang town. Those puppet soldiers were smashed time and again even after being rescued by the Vietnamese troops. This clearly proves that the aggressor Vietnamese troops have continued to fight in person on the Cambodian battlefield during the operation to seize Pailin. In March, 500 Vietnamese (?troops) also took part in the operation. The Paris agreement demands the total withdrawal of the aggressor Vietnamese troops and forces from Cambodia, but the Vietnamese have refused to withdraw. Instead of overseeing the Vietnamese withdrawal, the UNTAC [UN Transitional Authority in Cambodia] helped the Vietnamese. This is why every manner of aggressor Vietnamese forces -- in military uniforms and civilian clothes -- and 4 million Vietnamese nationals are still in Cambodia. [Words indistinct] under Vietnamese control in the military and civilian aspects. To solve the problem of war in Cambodia, it is imperative to remove all categories of Vietnamese forces -- including the 4 million Vietnamese nationals -- and all foreign interference in Cambodia's internal affairs so as to allow the Cambodian people and king to settle their own problems without any outside interference.
