FBIS3-17935 "drsov061_a_94013" FBIS-SOV-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Perry's Kazakh-Russian Mediation Offer Questioned MK3003082094 Moscow MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS in Russian 30 Mar 94 p 1 MK3003082094 Moscow MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Americans Suggest That It Be Split Three Ways, Although It Is Not Enough Even for Two"] [Text] That an ordinary intrigue is still present among methods of international diplomacy has once again been demonstrated by U.S. Defense Secretary William Perry, who has proven yet another time the classical principle that "a country does not have either friends, or foes; what it does have is interests." He became a source of a little -- albeit unpleasant for Russian politicians -- sensation. Upon arriving in Alma-Ata [Almaty] on an official visit just a few days before Yeltsin's meeting with Nazarbayev, Perry sent to Moscow a thoroughly confidential document. Your MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS correspondent has learned from official sources that the document signaled the Americans' readiness to act as a middleman between Russia and Kazakhstan in talks on the fate of Baykonur (of course, if the CIS countries themselves ask the White House to do so). Evidently, the U.S. secretary's initiative is scarcely of any real value: at this moment relations between the two -- albeit former -- union republics wholly enable them to talk directly, without an interpreter. But Moscow was politely reminded yet another time that a situation where Kazakhstan was in Russia's unquestioned sphere of influence is receding into the past. Indeed, investment attracted into the Central Asian country to finance specific projects alone already exceed $20 billion. On the other hand, the document has elicited a certain distrust from Russian leaders: What if Perry has actually agreed on something behind the Kremlin's back while in Alma-Ata [Almaty] (which, as a matter of fact, may well be the case, too). Although a document on Baykonur, among other things, was signed during the meeting between Yeltsin and Nazarbayev, which is considered very successful, one is getting the impression that the Moscow leaders find it more and more difficult to talk with their partners in the language of stern demands (including about military bases). Perry's letter appears to have played a part in bringing this about.
