FBIS3-6883 "dreas056__a94007" FBIS-EAS-94-056-A Document Type:Daily Report 23 March 1994 ANNEX Japan Cabinet Urged To Focus on Drafting Budget OW2203140394 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 22 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2203140394 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [From NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 22 March Evening Edition] [Text] "Restraint should be exercised over discussions on political realignment until the fiscal year 1994 draft budget has been passed." This summarizes a number of comments successively made by some cabinet ministers at their informal gathering following a regular cabinet meeting on 22 March, in their apparent efforts to put a check on discussions of political realignment issues. Recently, stepped up discussions have been noted among ruling coalition parties over such issues, including a plan by the Shinseito [Japan Renewal Party] and the Japan New Party [JNP] to form a parliamentary group. Home Affairs Minister Kanju Sato (of the Social Democratic Party of Japan [SDPJ]) was the first to begin making the comments. He first expressed concern about the fact that the Diet has remained idle for nearly two weeks, as it remains uncertain as to when the lower house Budget Committee would begin deliberations on the draft budget. He then asserted: "The government and the ruling coalition parties have been carried away with discussing political realignment issues day after day, neglecting the budget. This is one of the reasons the cabinet support rating has dropped." "In light of the current situation regarding deliberations on the draft budget, we should all look forward to the passage of the draft budget and the `higire' bills [bills with a time limit] and refrain from commenting on the political realignment issues," he added. Construction Minister Kozo Igarashi (of the SDPJ) joined Sato and said: "This is a very important matter. Considering the trends in the public opinion poll, we should all strive to strengthen the (cabinet's) centripetal force." Labor Minister Chikara Sakaguchi (of the Komeito) followed suit and said: "It is important to have the people understand that the cabinet is united."
