FBIS3-36231 "drsov023_r_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 Azerbaijan Russian Newspapers Facing Circulation Problems PM0302093794 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 2 Feb 94 First Edition p 6 PM0302093794 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Arif Useynov under the "Former Soviet Union" rubric: "Azerbaijan: Self-Imposed News Blackout"] [Text] Baku -- The situation regarding Russian newspapers in Azerbaijan is blighting the lives of tens of thousands of subscribers. For the fourth month running they have not received LITERATURNAYA GAZETA, KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA, ARUMENTY I FAKTY, and PRAVDA -- these publications were printed in Baku until recently. The Azerbmetbuatyayymy Production Association makes no secret of who is to blame for this scandal: The Azerbaijan Printing House, which is failing to meet its contractual obligations, is the prime culprit. It has its own excuses: The Moscow publishing houses do not always settle their debts on time and the Moscow plants producing printing plates are not delivering their goods. There are also problems concerning newsprint. At the same time, the republic's National Bank has not yet transferred to the publishing houses of Russia and other CIS countries 120 million rubles' worth of subscription fees paid by Azerbaijanis for foreign newspapers and magazines in 1994. The delivery of Russian newspapers in Azerbaijan is therefore altogether problematic. Against the background of all this, the statement by the official authorities that the republic is experiencing a news blackout is bizarre, to say the least. You get the impression that all the obstacles to the distribution of Russian newspapers in Azerbaijan are artificially created. The most surprising thing is the lack of realism shown by the Moscow editorial offices. On top of their disappointed expectations, subscribers are also suffering financial losses, as nobody is minded to return them their subscription fees. In similar situations the Moscow publishing houses have arranged for their publications to be delivered by post. Readers may have received them late, but they have received them. And what is going to happen to the delivery of ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA and NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA, the number of subscribers to which has shot up in Azerbaijan? Here, in addition to applying penalties for breach of contract, the Russian newspaper publishing houses could adopt a different means of financing the printing and distribution of publications in the republic.
