FBIS3-44906 "drchi007_a_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Reports on President Clinton's Trip Views U.S. Interests OW1001111594 Beijing XINHUA in English 1044 GMT 10 Jan 94 OW1001111594 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Brussels, January 9 (XINHUA) -- U.S. President Bill Clinton has comforted Europeans with clear assurances that Europe remains essential to the United States in post-Cold War years. Clinton made the pledge at a conference held here on Sunday [9 January] after his arrival for a NATO summit starting today. "I have come here today to declare and to demonstrate that Europe remains central to the interests of the United States, and that we will help to work with our partners in seizing the opportunities before us all," he said. The President also talked about a new security for Europe and promised that the U.S. will be a "strong partner" in building that security. "The new security must be found in Europe's integration -- an integration of security forces, of market economies, of national democracies," he said. He pointed out that the new security for Europe needs three elements -- military strength and cooperation, greater economic vitality, and democratic process in the Central and East European countries. The first element is the most important, he added. "The Cold War is over, but war itself is not over. It rages today not only in distant lands but right here in Europe and the former Yugoslavia," said the president. Clinton also stressed the importance of NATO's role in providing security for Europe and called for NATO's closer cooperation with the former Warsaw Pact countries. He said the partnership for peace, a proposal due to be adopted at the NATO summit, will create a framework in which former Warsaw Pact member countries and other non-NATO members can participate in joint military planning, training, exercises and other efforts. But he did not give promise to let them become members of NATO.
