FBIS4-3502 "drchi077_w_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-077 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Austria, Spain Impose Restrictions on BNO Passports Austria, Spain Impose Restrictions on BNO Passports HK2104073294 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS in English 21 Apr 94 p 2 HK2104073294 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS English BFN [By Martin Freeman] [Text] Two more countries are imposing travel restrictions on people who use the British National Overseas (BNO) passport. Latest figures from the government show that the number of countries allowing visa-free access for short stays has dropped from 72 to 70, as Austria and Spain join the ranks. The league table of visa-free travel for Asian passport-holders now shows Hong Kong slipping even further behind developed countries in the region. South Korean passport holders can travel without a visa to 82 countries worldwide, Malaysians to 86 destinations, and people with Singaporean documents can go visa-free to 94 nations. UK British passport holders can visit 128 countries without visas. But Simon Vickers, principal assistant secretary for security, said the situation was still "encouraging" and would improve further once agreement with China was reached -- over passport and right of abode -- due to Hong Kong travellers' good reputations. The concern many countries had was over "returnability" -- what happens if something goes wrong and a traveller has to be sent back which could feasibly involve three governments, Britain, Hong Kong and China, he told the Legislative Council's subcommittee on nationality. "There is no precedent for this in international law: Two sovereign states, one responsible for right of abode, the other responsible for the travel document," he said. The Immigration Department was continuing efforts to gain visa- free travel for BNO passport holders and wanted to make the same representation on the proposed special administrative region [SAR] passports which would be issued after 1997. "Unfortunately, as you know, there has been little progress on the talks on the proposed SAR passport through the Joint Liaison Group on this," Vickers said. "We are behind time but we can catch up," he said. Legislators said the government should aim at countries which allowed visa-free travel to the territory's neighbours and encourage those nations to lift restrictions on people travelling from Hong Kong. A legislator, Howard Young, said: "We should watch this like a hawk." The Government is being inundated with applications from people seeking the BNO document. A higher-than-expected number of requests -- 298,815 -- came from the latest age group, those born November 1962 and 1966, in the latest phase which closed on March 31. About 84 per cent of those eligible had applied.
