FBIS3-34315 "drnes025_k_94011" FBIS-NES-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 IRAQ Symposium on Gulf War Opens in Baghdad French Official Interviewed JN0702104794 Baghdad AL-JUMHURIYAH in Arabic 2 Feb 94 pp 1, 2 JN0702104794 Baghdad AL-JUMHURIYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [By Jihad Zayir, Nazirah Nadim, and Rasmiah Minwir] [Excerpts] Baghdad -- A symposium on facts and misinformation in Arab and foreign publications on the Mother of Battles will begin in Baghdad today. [passage omitted] AL-JUMHURIYAH has interviewed Gilles Monet, secretary general of the French-Iraqi Friendship Society, on the sidelines of the symposium. Gilles Monet said: I have had the honor to be received by President Saddam Husayn several times. Saddam Husayn is a man who devotes his life to Iraq, and to place this country on equal footing with advanced countries. That's why the 17 July Revolution took place, and under his leadership oil was nationalized. Monet said that the Iraqis are lucky to have as their leader a man like Saddam Husayn. He said that the United States interferes in the domestic affairs of many countries. It even interfered in France's domestic affairs, as was the case with respect to the GATT agreement. He added that it was the United States which forced France to participate in attacking Iraq. He explained that France's relations with Iraq have started to improve since Edouard Balladur became prime minister Monet said that French companies suffered much from the blockade imposed on Iraq because they lost many of the opportunities that that they previously had, not to mention that France now has a high unemployment rate, and if the blockade is lifted, this will greatly contribute to settling this problem. Monet said he greatly admires the reconstruction process under way in Iraq. He said: The war has had negative results for the Iraqis but, at the same time, has made the Iraqis carry out great work. The Iraqis have proved that they have creative minds and can depend on themselves to attain great achievements.
