FBIS4-23915 "drafr118_c_94020" FBIS-AFR-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC Maintains Rejection of Natal Provincial Capital ANC Maintains Rejection of Natal Provincial Capital Buthelezi: Ulundi Issue `Smokescreen' MB1806121994 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1147 GMT 18 Jun 94 MB1806121994 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Pietermaritzburg June 18 SAPA -- Inkatha Freedom Party [IFP] leader and Home Affairs Minister Mangosuthu Buthelezi on Saturday [18 June] accused the African National Congress of using the KwaZulu/Natal provincial capital issue to try and "demonise" him and his party. Speaking at an IFP victory rally at Taylor's Halt near Pietermaritzburg, Mr Buthelezi said: "If the people of this province wish to have Ulundi as their capital, Ulundi shall be the capital". He said the ANC's opposition to Ulundi as capital was rooted more in political anger and resentment than in rational and sound political argument. He said the attitude was "extremely destructive, counter-productive and contrary to the spirit of provincial reconciliation". According to Mr Buthelezi, the Ulundi controversy was a smokescreen which the ANC was using for a new campaign to try "once again to demonise me and demonise the IFP". He added if the people chose Ulundi as the capital and this created administrative problems, corrective compromises and interim measures would be sought to solve them. He said the resources in administrative offices and infrastructures available in pietermaritzburg would be fully utilised, irrespective of where the seat of government would be. Turning to problems within the IFP, Mr Buthelezi said there were certain party members who were also trying to boycott provincial Premier Dr Frank Mdlalose "because of their own personal convenience". "I wish to warn these members of the IFP and remind them that their primary responsibility is to serve those who elected them into office. "They were put where they are by me and the IFP. There is such a thing as party discipline. "They should therefore not force us to ask them to resign", he added.
