FBIS3-52443 "drnes003_l_94008" FBIS-NES-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 Jan 1994 ISRAEL Olmert Orders East Jerusalem Trailers Removed TA0501071894 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in English 0500 GMT 5 Jan 94 TA0501071894 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] There is to be no decision on the final disposition of the controversial expansion of the Bet Orot Yeshiva on the Mount of Olives until proper approval by the Jerusalem Planning Commission. This was made clear by Mayor Ehud Olmert last night, who ordered the removal of the seven mobile homes placed on land adjoining the yeshiva. The mayor says the religious seminary does not have all the necessary permits for the move. At the same time, Olmert told reporter Mark Weiss, that he still supports the construction of permanent buildings at the East Jerusalem site to house the yeshiva students and their families -- a move opposed by the previous mayor, Teddy Kollek. [Begin recording] [Olmert] I think this is a private property, belongs to a Jew. I see no problem in that particular area, which is not densely populated by Muslims and Arabs; that there can be an institution. I don't think that the east side of Jerusalem should be empty of any Jewish presence; on the contrary. And, I don't remember that anyone was protesting when the Mormons were building a big university and a big campus. It's not Muslim, it's not Arab, and yet it was built and no one protested. Only when a Jew wants to build something in that particular area, and everyone protests. And, I don't quite agree with that. [Weiss] And how do you react to the criticism that a move at this stage in the peace process could jeopardize the talks? [Olmert] I don't see that there should be any connection between this and the peace process. If the peace process does not apply to Jerusalem, as everyone says, why should it be applied? Jerusalem is out of the context at the present time, it's supposed to be out of the context at the present time. We talk about Jericho and about Gaza, not about Jerusalem. [end recording] Meretz Knesset Member Avraham Poraz has called on the attorney general to annul the Jerusalem Planning Commission's decision to allow building on the Bet Orot site. Poraz charges that the decision was illegal.
