FBIS4-48531 "drafr098_c_94025" FBIS-AFR-94-098 Daily Report 19 May 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Government To Cut Export Incentive Scheme To Meet GATT Government To Cut Export Incentive Scheme To Meet GATT MB1905155194 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English 19 May 94 p 3 MB1905155194 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY English BFN [Report by Greta Steyn] [Text] Government planned to cut the general export incentive scheme (GEIS) by about half its present budget in the 1995/96 fiscal year, a Trade and Industry Department spokesman said yesterday. He confirmed that a R[Rand] 500m-R800m cut would be a first step towards phasing out the incentive scheme, which was in contravention of GATT. But at least some of the savings from eliminating GEIS would be used to finance supply-side measures. A plan to achieve the cut had not been finalised and "several alternatives that differ substantially" were being discussed by the National Economic Forum's trade policy task force. A decision was expected next month. Industry sources said there was strong resistance from sections of the business community to an approach suggested by the Trade and Industry Department. It is understood the department wants to change the criteria for qualifying, rather than make an across-the- board cut. The approach would harm industries that are especially dependent on the export subsidies, particularly the steel industry. A source said a battle was expected over the next few weeks. It is also understood industry is hoping SA will negotiate an extension of the benefits beyond the December 31 1997 cut-off. Talk is that SA's trading partners are willing to allow the scheme to continue for up to another three years. The spokesman said an extension would have to be negotiated with the World Trade Organisation. The demand for GEIS subsidies has been growing rapidly. The department said the R1,67bn budget in the past fiscal year would have been exceeded if it had not been for the "significant" backlog of claims. The NEF has set up a subcommittee to look at supply-side measures that could make up for the cut in GEIS. These could include giving greater access to duty-free imports.
