FBIS3-23324 "jptot011__l94140" JPRS-TOT-94-011-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 7 March 1994 WEST EUROPE TURKEY PKK Reportedly Vows to Escalate `Violence' in Southeast NC1003092094 Ankara TURKISH DAILY NEWS in English 7 Mar 94 pp 1, 11 NC1003092094 Ankara TURKISH DAILY NEWS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Diyarbakir/Ankara--Abdullah Ocalan, the leader of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) [Kurdish Workers' Party], has vowed to upgrade violence in Turkey's Southeast in mid-March and said the region "will turn into hell." According to a reliable source with well-placed connections to the PKK Central Committee, Ocalan said this in a recent meeting with his commanders in charge of terrorist activities against Turkey. Ocalan's instructions to the commanders were to upgrade violence in the region until the celebrations for the March 21 Kurdish new year of Nevroz and beginning as of that day, "start a people's uprising." His instructions, said the source, were similar to those in 1992 and implied that the consequences of the Nevroz this year could be similar as well. In March 1992, Ocalan ordered a Kurdish uprising in Turkey and called for the establishment of "liberated zones." A total of 103 demonstrators were killed in clashes with security forces. Local sources in Diyarbakir said, meanwhile, that the PKK's instructions related to Nevroz celebrations had not yet been relayed to anyone but heightened activity and public demonstrations were possible. They note that the recent troop buildup in the region is not only a measure to maintain electoral security but also to insure peace on March 21. According to one security source who asked not to be identified, "if the PKK decides to do anything this year, there will be much bloodshed. But it will be the loser." The general concern among political party executives in Diyarbakir is that Turkey may be preparing for an all-out showdown with the PKK and that any terrorist activity in late March could trigger this "operation."
