FBIS4-8446 "dreeu072__a94018" FBIS-EEU-94-072-A Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 ANNEX Czech Republic Government Rejects Bill on Jewish Property Government Rejects Bill on Jewish Property AU1304203994 Prague CTK in English 1758 GMT 13 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1304203994 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Prague, April 13 (CTK) -- At its meeting today, the Czech Government rejected the bill on the restitution of property to Jewish individuals submitted by Deputy Viktor Dobal from the government coalition Civic Democratic Alliance (ODA), Premier Vaclav Klaus told journalists. He said the government had been preparing its own bill on extra-judicial rehabilitations which would solve the problem of property wrongs committed against Jewish people in 1938-1945. The government disagreed with certain passages in the deputies' bill, Klaus said. That the government bill did not provide for the return of other property than that in the state's possession was one of the main differences. "It is impossible for restitution to concern property already privatized and property in the possession of municipalities," Klaus said. He added that the government favored the idea of paying financial compensation to Jewish people from the state budget for the property which ought to be returned and which was not in the state's possession. Another difference was that the government bill considered only initial owners of property or their legitimate heirs to be eligible for restitution. According to the government bill, only property which was claimed before February 25, 1948 -- the communist takeover -- and which was not returned to its initial owners due to political changes would be restituted, Klaus said. He said that restitution would concern only people persecuted for racial reasons and not all the people whom the post-war decrees of Czechoslovak President Edvard Benes concerned, for example those people who suffered for political reasons in the period from 1938 to 1945. The government did not believe that the land law should be amended to ensure the restitution of property to Jewish people, as the deputies' bill defined, Klaus said. He told journalists that the government's negative stand on the deputies' bill was sent to Parliament today.
