FBIS4-31895 "dreeu116__a94022" FBIS-EEU-94-116-A Daily Report 14 Jun 1994 ANNEX Romania Further Comments Reported Further Comments Reported AU1406202894 Bucharest ROMPRES in English 1706 GMT 14 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1406202894 Bucharest ROMPRES English BFN [Text] Bucharest, ROMPRES, 14/6/1994 -- The leadership of the opposition National Peasant Christian Democratic [PNTCD] triggered at the end of last week the procedure of suspending Romanian President Ion Iliescu from office, its demarche resting on a statement made by the Romanian number one three weeks ago and termed as anti-constitutional. The PNTCD claims that Ion Iliescu sustained that the court decisions on the retrocession of houses nationalized 50 years ago should not be enforced, since the Parliament was debating a bill that would give legal solution to the situation of such houses. His statement was branded by the PNTCD as not being consistent with the principle of separation of powers. Why did the PNTCD keep silent for two weeks and then come up with "an abrupt initiative"? as daily CRONICA ROMANA puts it. PNTCD leader Corneliu Coposu explained the delay was meant to allow the presidency to deny the allegation, but political commentators say that the PNTCD leaders "are too experienced not to know they don't stand a chance of success" and consider that the real explanation of the initiative ought to be looked for elsewhere. The daily VOCEA ROMANIEI attributes to the PNTCD gesture what it calls "the anti- presidential syndrome of the right". From the PNTCD allies' first reactions, termed by the press as "confused" and "puzzled", the political columnists conclude that they were not consulted. The constitutional procedure of suspending the country's president from office stipulates at least two stages to be covered, i.e. the initiative shall be sustained by at least one third of the parliamentarians, and then, there shall be a majority of votes. Daily ADEVARUL notes that the PNTCD initiative is only meant to increase the tension generated by the union actions announced for these days, by the parliamentary disputes and by the arguments among politicians. The daily opines that the PNTCD runs the risk of a "sacrifice of political credit" that can have an impact on the opposition as a whole but it mentions that "the risk has been assumed". The daily EVENIMENTUL ZILEI assessed in its yesterday's editorial that the gesture "has no value" in point of practical efficiency, but it can force some clarifications in the current political climate, which is consistent with the rules of the democratic game.
