FBIS4-1005 "drafr075_c_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-075 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Press Regulations Issued Press Regulations Issued MB1804145394 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1324 GMT 18 Apr 94 MB1804145394 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Statement by the IEC issued on the SAPA PR Wire Service on 18 April] [Excerpts] According to the terms of the Electoral Act and the Independent Media Commission Act, the following regulations apply: 1. Publishing of an opinion poll to reflect the level of support enjoyed by parties or their candidates is prohibited from 21 days prior to the voting period. However, this prohibition does not apply to political parties wishing to use this information for their election campaigning. This information can also be released after the election period. 2. No person may take part in any public demonstration or march 48 hours prior to, until the end of, the election period. No person may hold or take part in any public meeting of a political nature, 12 hours prior to, until the end of, the voting period. 3. The prohibitions surrounding broadcasting during the election is published in the Independent Media Commission Act, which is attached. 4. Full copies of the Independent Media Commission Act is available from the press office of the IEC [Independent Electoral Commission]. [passage omitted] Equitable treatment of political parties by broadcasting licensees during election period. 21. (1) If, during the election period. The coverage by any broadcasting service extends to the field of the election and the political parties and issues relevant thereto. The broadcasting licensee concerned shall afford reasonable opportunities for the discussion of conflicting views and shall treat all political parties equitably. (2) In the event of any criticism against a political party being levelled in a particular programme of any broadcasting service without such political party having been afforded an opportunity to respond thereto in such programme or without the view of such political party having been reflected therein. The broadcasting licensee concerned shall be obliged to afford such political party a reasonable opportunity to respond to the criticism. (3) If, within 48 hours before the commencement of the polling period or during the polling period, a broadcasting licensee contemplates broadcasting a programme in which a particular political party is criticized, the licensee shall ensure that the political party is given a reasonable opportunity to respond thereto in the same programme. Or to do so as soon as is reasonably practicable thereafter. (4) The preceding provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to the contents of any party election broadcast in the circumstances contemplated in Section 19 and any political advertisement in the circumstances contemplated in Section 20. State-financed publications and state information services 22. (1) The publisher of any state-financed publication in existence immediately prior to the commencement of this act shall, within 14 days of such commencement submit to the commission the prescribed information concerning such publication. (2) The publisher of any state-financed publication which is published for the first time after the commencement of this act, shall not later than 14 days prior to the proposed date of publication submit to the commission the prescribed information concerning such publication. (3) The commission may require the publisher of a publication referred to in subsection (2) to provide the commission with a copy of such publication prior to the printing thereof. (4) A state-financed publication shall be submitted by its publisher to the commission free of charge within 48 hours of the completion of the printing thereof. (5) A state-financed publication shall not contain any advertisement or other material which is intended or calculated to support or advance the interests of any political party, whether directly or indirectly. (6) The provisions of subsection (5) shall mutaris mutandis apply in respect of any statement material or advertisement made or issued any state information service.
