FBIS3-2561 "drchi047_w_94009" FBIS-CHI-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Government Presents Electoral Reform Bill to Council HK1003043794 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 10 Mar 94 p 1 HK1003043794 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By staff reporters] [Text] The controversial electoral bill was tabled in the Legislative Council yesterday, as China repeated warnings it would disband the three tiers of government in 1997. In moving the Legislative Council (Electoral Provisions) (Amendment) Bill 1994, the Secretary for Constitutional Affairs, Nicholas Ng Wing-fui, said the proposals on functional constituencies and the election committee were in line with the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law. In Beijing, senior officials and Hong Kong advisers to China warned the Hong Kong administration not to mislead the public into believing the three-tier political structure would survive beyond 1997. A deputy director of the local Xinhua (the New China News Agency), Qin Wenjun, accused Governor Chris Patten of spreading rumours that the Chinese Government would not risk international criticism by dismantling the pre-1997 political structure. "It is a total deception and misleads the public. The political structure formed under the `triple violation blueprint' can never survive (the sovereignty transfer)," Mr Qin said. A vice-director of the State Council's Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Offfice, Chen Ziying, said the tabling of the electoral bill was "no surprise." "Any consequences incurred because of that will have to be fully borne by the British Government," he said. Director of the local XINHUA, Zhou Nan, said Britain's unilateral move would have no major adverse impact on the territory's smooth transition. "I've said in the past that they have damaged (the talks) a long time ago." Under the bill, corporate voters on the existing functional constituencies would be replaced by individual voters in the companies or organisations in each functional group. Together with the nine new functional constituency seats, the entire workforce of more than 2.7 million would be given a vote in the functional constituency polls. The first part of the electoral bill, containing less controversial reforms, was passed last month.
