FBIS4-61738 "drsov090_b_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-090 Daily Report 9 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Further Reportage on Victory Day Celebrations Further Reportage on Victory Day Celebrations Opposition Leaders Speak LD0905143294 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1341 GMT 9 May 94 LD0905143294 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] According to Interfax estimates, taking part in the meeting organized Monday by opposition parties and movements at Lubyanka Square in Moscow which was devoted to the 40th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War, were approximately 10,000 people. Interfax correspondents believe that the problems of political struggle prevailed in statements over the subject of the Victory Day. Former Vice-President Aleksandr Rutskoy called on those present to mark the 50th anniversary over fascist Germany by "the victory over the anti-popular regime which drew the country to the crisis. [quotation marks as received] Viktor Anpilov, a leader of the Workers' Russia, called on those present to prepare for the presidential elections in 1996. He said that it was not enough to focus on one candidature. People has named quite a few worthy persons, Sazhi Umalatova and Vasiliy Starodubtsev, he said. Anpilov called to make a list of candidates from the opposition and hold primary elections. Let the people to choose their own candidate, he said. He believes that a candidate from the opposition should decree the annulment of presidency, mayors and prefects. He should return to the people factories, lands and hard currency accounts in foreign banks now belonging to individuals. Anpilov believes that the restoration of Soviet power should be the first step. Ilya Konstantinov, leader of the National Salvation Front, told those present that this year should be the last one for the Yeltsin regime. He said that those who are sitting in the Kremlin will not give up power voluntarily. Meetings alone are not enough, he said. He called on those present to start collecting a list of signatures for early presidential elections. Police said the meeting passed without excesses. Speakers displayed their negative attitude to those who took part in the Yeltsin's celebrations on Poklonnaya Hill.
