FBIS3-56991 "drsov015_a_94026" FBIS-SOV-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Lukin Opposes NATO Plans for Former Yugoslavia LD2101164994 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1505 GMT 21 Jan 94 LD2101164994 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: by diplomatic correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboinikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy and others] [Text] The Chairman of the State Duma Committee on Foreign Affairs, Vladimir Lukin, has addressed to the Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev a formal request for the package of international treaties and other acts, subject to parliamentary ratification. He told INTERFAX on Friday [21 January] that he had asked the minister to set priorities on the documents' review. In line with the federal Constitution, the Duma endorses the appointment and the calling of Russia's ambassadors. For this reason, Lukin also asked Kozyrev to spell out his suggestions on this score, too. Russia's ambassador to the U.S. before his election to the Duma, Lukin explained that formally he was still ambassador, even though he had sent a letter of resignation to President Yeltsin. He reported that his committee had held its first session on Thursday. "We know what to do, but we don't know where to do it since up until now we've had no premises to house the committee," Lukin said. He said that he had initiated parliamentary debates on the situation in the former Yugoslavia and had drafted an appropriate statement. An alternative draft on the Yugoslav crisis, according to Lukin, had been prepared by three factions -- the Communists, Agrarians, and Liberal-Democrats. Lukin voiced "grave concern" over NATO's persistent discussions on the possibility of hitting targets in the former Yugoslavia. The document notes that force will hardly end the war there but will only aggravate the conflict. In Lukin's opinion, the Duma should urge the president and government "to spare no effort to avoid the escalation of fighting in the former Yugoslavia." In the alternative draft, the Communists, Agrarians, and Liberal- Democrats describe as "inadmissible any coercive measure against the former Yugoslav republics, including the establishment of no-fly zones." The Russian side is requested to adopt "appropriate measures" within the framework of the UN Security Council "for getting these recommendations implemented."
