FBIS4-64154 "drsov104_g_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-104 Daily Report 28 May 1994 Moldova Conference on Security in Central, East Europe Ends Conference on Security in Central, East Europe Ends AU3005180894 Chisinau BASAPRESS in English 1904 GMT 28 May 94 AU3005180894 Chisinau BASAPRESS English BFN [Text] Chisinau BASAPRESS, 28/5/1994 -- The International Conference "Central and Eastern Europe: Search for Security and Stability" finished yesterday in Chisinau. The participants examined several questions regarding the situation in the former Soviet countries. Leader of the Moldovan Socialist Democratic Party (PSDM) Oazu Nantoi pointed out that undoubtedly Moldova is under the military and strategic influence of Russia and this is a negative factor. Nantoi criticized the government coalition of the Agrarians and Socialists. "In my opinion, Moldovan people chose on February 27th the liquidation of independence," said Nantoi. Romanian Presidential Counselor on relations with Moldova, Ion Netelea, stated during the conference that the Romanian Government does not seek unification of the historic Romanian territories. Nonetheless, Netelea emphasized that Bucharest treats the events in 1940 as a territorial usurpation. "Moldova's economic policy leans mainly on Russia. Romania by no means intends to eliminate Russia from the Moldovan economy in order to take its place. However, we would like Moldova to have the choice to have as many options in the West as in the East," stated Netelea. Deputy chairman of the Euro-Atlantic Centre, Vadim Malakhov, made a report on the parallels between the Dniester and Crimean conflicts. According to Malakhov, the same structures for setting up a break-away region were employed in Crimea as in Dniester. Malakhov emphasized that the creation of autonomous judicial organs in Crimea is alarming, as it should lead to a military conflict. Nicolae Turtureanu, of the Moldovan Defence Ministry, stated that although Russia plays a negative role in the conflicts in the former USSR, it cannot be eliminated from the collective security system. "It would be better if a unique Euro-Asian security system would be created in the future," added Turtureanu.
