FBIS4-31019 "dreeu106__a94031" FBIS-EEU-94-106-A Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Moravcik To Meet With Hungarian Cabinet Moravcik To Meet With Hungarian Cabinet AU0106163794 Prague CTK in English 1400 GMT 1 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0106163794 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Bratislava, June 1 (CTK) -- Slovak Premier Josef Moravcik expressed his interest in meeting the new Hungarian government as soon as possible at a press conference today and said a "radical solution" to open questions between the two countries could be expected before Slovakia's autumn elections. General elections are to be held on September 30 and October 1. He said he was satisfied that the Slovak-Hungarian readmission agreement -- Bratislava's condition for the opening of new border crossings -- was ready for signing. Slovakia was also ready to sign an agreement dividing the waters of the Danube between the canal to supply the Gabcikovo hydroelectric power station and the old course of the river. "The basic aim is to find a solution that will improve the environmental situation," he said, adding that "all the possibilities (exist) for achieving a solution." The basic bilateral agreement on good neighborly relations "must contain a guarantee of the inviolability of the borders", which in Bratislava's view is a "condition without which confidence cannot be established," he said. He said some Slovaks were concerned about the possibility the borders with Hungary would be changed, but personally he did not believe this was Hungary's intent. Furthermore the agreement ought to safeguard minority rights to the extent required by international norms, he said. Slovakia insisted, however, on the rights of the individual and opposed the conferment of collective rights for the half-million-strong Hungarian minority. Moravcik rejected the criticism recently leveled by Miklos Duray, chairman of the Hungarian minority movement Egyutteles that Moravcik's government was not honoring the pledges it made on acceding to the European charter on minority languages and community autonomy. He said cooperation with Hungarian minority parties was reflected in the government policy declaration. "We are not bound to any other document," he said. Slovakia had refused to sign this pledge in the charter, and "Mr. Duray knows this".
