FBIS4-36069 "drnes108_j_94013" FBIS-NES-94-108 Daily Report 5 Jun 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen North Reportedly Attacks Aden Oil Refinery North Reportedly Attacks Aden Oil Refinery Sanaa Source `Categorically' Denies Raid JN0506133794 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1200 GMT 5 Jun 94 JN0506133794 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Text] A military source has categorically denied that the aircraft belonging to the forces of unity and legitimacy bombed the Aden refinery or targeted any of its installations today, Sunday. The source said this refinery and other economic installations are the property of the Yemeni people and will never be a target of the forces of unity and legitimacy. Instead, they will be protected and defended by these forces. The source said the hysteria of the elements of the rebellious secessionist gang has reached such an extent that this criminal gang does not hesitate to commit the most heinous crimes against the people, the homeland, and their achievements. The source said these criminal elements are currently destroying vital economic installations in the areas they control, including the shelling of the Aden refinery with a missile today in order to destroy it, arouse public opinion, and evoke an increased sense of grudge and hatred among the sons of the one Yemeni homeland. The source said this secessionist gang did not hesitate to strike cities and innocent people with missiles in the densely-populated residential areas in Sanaa, Zinjibar, 'Ataq, and al-Hudaydah. Being in the last throes of death, this gang carried out the same criminal conduct by destroying and damaging economic installations and targets in many of the areas it used to control, as an expression of the sense of grudge and despair overwhelming it. The source warned this criminal gang against committing more criminal actions against the people and the homeland. He said this gang will never escape punishment. He denounced the continued acts of aggression this gang is carrying out against the citizens and our valiant Armed Forces, thus violating UN Security Council Resolution 924 and defying both the national consensus and the international will.
