FBIS4-50815 "drchi099_l_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-099 Daily Report 23 May 1994 Science & Technology Progress Made in Genetic Studies Progress Made in Genetic Studies OW2305035894 Beijing XINHUA in English 0211 GMT 23 May 94 OW2305035894 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, May 23 (XINHUA) -- China has reported new progress in genetic studies in such fields as anthel culture breeding and microbial genetics, with some of the results being applied in economic development. To accelerate genetic study, Chinese scientists have conducted extensive research in cell genetics, plant transfer of foreign genes and the development of species resources, molecular genetics and molecular biochemical mark. In plant genetics, the "Jinghua No. 1" developed by Beijing Plant Engineering Laboratory, has been hailed by Chinese and foreign scientists as the world's first anthel breeding of winter wheat. The new seed has been proved successful in 540,000 hectares of wheat. Up to now, about ten wheat varieties and 22 rice varieties developed with anthel culture have been used in crops covering up to two million hectares, which helped boost China's agricultural production. The allo hexaploit secale cereal is another new result from the Chinese Academy of Agriculture Sciences which raised per hectare cereal output by 40 to 60 percent above other conventional seeds. The product has been proved highly effective in cattle feeding with excellent quality in milk production. A new soybean seed developed by the Institute of Genetics Research of the Chinese Academy of Sciences by applying chemical mutagenesis technology has been used in over 200,000 hectares of crops since 1990, adding 100 million yuan (11 million U.S. dollars) in economic returns. Meanwhile, new advances have also been scored in bio-organisms and medical genetics of human beings. Scientists in the Chinese Academy of Medical Science have developed a unique way to detect antenatal genes by comparing two genes with hereditary diseases. The new way, which is applicable in different regions across China, has proved to be an easy, fast and accurate way to analyse antenatal genes. The mutagenesis resistant effect of Chinese medicine is also a topic of research in Beijing University and Beijing University of Chinese Medicine. Their results are expected to be revolutionary in the development of Chinese medicine and disease prevention if remarkable progress has been scored, experts said. [sentence as received]
