FBIS4-66892 "jptac005__l94007" JPRS-TAC-94-005-L JPRS Arms Control 2 May 1994 EAST EUROPE CZECH REPUBLIC Doubts Surfacing About 1970's Destruction of Smallpox Virus Doubts Surfacing About 1970's Destruction of Smallpox Virus AU0905144894 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES in Czech 2 May 94 p 2 AU0905144894 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES Czech BFN ["(km)"-signed report: "An Order Was Issued To Destroy the Smallpox Virus; However, It Was Probably Never Carried Out"] [Text] Prague -- Despite the fact that Vladimir Kotlar, the former senior employee at the research laboratory where the smallpox virus was tested in the 1970's, claims that he issued instructions that it be destroyed, another employee at the same institute has cast doubts on its destruction. According to this source, who does not wish to be named because he fears a negative reaction from the public, the virus was not destroyed out of the sheer indolence of the staff involved in the research. "The scientific recommendation from the World Health Organization that supplies of the smallpox virus be destroyed were ignored by us out of laziness, not out of any evil intentions," he declared. The ministerial commission that is now looking into the fate of the dangerous virus has -- to date -- only Kotlar's statement at its disposal. He has admitted that, although he ordered the virus's destruction, he was not personally present for it. Moreover, according to the findings so far, there are no records of this. Meanwhile, the Defense Ministry rejects the possibility that the smallpox virus was unknowingly preserved in the Czech Republic until this February, that is, until the entire bank of viral strains was completely destroyed. According to some employees from the military institute, a test tube with this virus could -- of course -- have been deposited along with the other viruses in a special container with liquid nitrogen and did not have to be registered in the official record of the bank of viral strains. Doctors recorded the last case of smallpox in Czechoslovakia in 1976 when a Czechoslovak Airlines pilot was diagnosed as having the disease after he returned from Bombay, India. The Czechoslovak Health Service stopped inoculating the population against smallpox in 1980 after the World Health Organization had ascertained that mankind was no longer at risk from a smallpox epidemic.
