FBIS4-33933 "drlat114_k_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-114 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina Italian Government Requests Extradition of Former Nazi Italian Government Requests Extradition of Former Nazi Officer PY1306201294 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1928 GMT 10 Jun 94 PY1306201294 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS Spanish BFN [Excerpts] Buenos Aires, 10 Jun (NA) -- It has been officially announced that the Italian Embassy in Argentina on 10 June submitted to Foreign Vice Minister Fernando Petrella an official request for the extradition of former Nazi officer Erich Priebke, who is charged with participating in the murder of 335 Italians during World War II. The Foreign Ministry also announced that Foreign Minister Guido Di Tella immediately ordered that the request be sent to the federal court in Bariloche City, which is presided over by Judge Leonidas Moldes, who is hearing the case involving Priebke's arrest. The Foreign Ministry official communique states that the extradition request was submitted to Petrella by Italian Ambassador to Argentina Giuseppe Maria Borga. It was unofficially reported on 8 June that Italian authorities would officially file for the extradition of Priebke on 10 June. The Foreign Ministry communique adds that the request was checked against the current extradition treaty between Italy and Argentina and then mailed to Judge Moldes "following the participation of Interpol and a Foreign Ministry official." [passage omitted] Discussions will now surely ensue about deadlines for meeting the request. Priebke's attorney, Pedro Bianchi, believes "at least two years" will pass before his defendant's extradition will be approved. Bianchi said he has no objection to "the charges on which the extradition request is filed," but added that there are "some mistakes in the resolution" signed by Italian Justice Minister Alfredo Biondi. Ruben Beraja, head of the Delegation of Argentine-Jewish Associations (DAIA), said: "There is concern at all government levels, including the courts, over resolving this case within a reasonable time." [Italian Prime Minister] Silvio Berlusconi's new administration responded immediately to Priebke's remarks, when Liliana Ferrero, Justice Ministry Criminal Affairs secretary, announced that her government would request Priebke's extradition.
