FBIS4-20521 "jpest008___94017" JPRS-EST-94-008 JPRS Science & Technology Europe/International Economic Competitiveness 27 December 1993 WEST EUROPE SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY POLICY Germany: Social Democratic Party Proposes R&D Priorities Germany: Social Democratic Party Proposes R&D Priorities for 1994 BR2402114194 Bonn TECHNOLOGIE-NACHRICHTEN MANAGEMENT-INFORMATIONEN in German 27 Dec 93 pp 2-3 BR2402114194 Bonn TECHNOLOGIE-NACHRICHTEN MANAGEMENT-INFORMATIONEN German BFN [Text] The SPD [German Social Democratic Party] parliamentary group presented its research and technology plan for the 1994 government program to the public on 10 December. Its research spokesman Josef Vosen described the three most important political measures of the coming years as follows: -- The government and industry must provide more funds again for research and technology; -- All the legal and administrative obstacles in the Federal Republic of Germany must be removed in order to facilitate innovation, and -- A broad, consensus-oriented dialog among industry, scientific organizations, unions and government must be promoted concerning the future trend of technological developments and the specific measures to be taken. "We must also put research and technology to the service of ecological renewal," emphasized Vosen. The SPD intends to target the following areas: Ecological Renewal This should extend to research for new environment technologies, energy saving and renewable energies, for reactor safety, and the safe handling of radioactive wastes. Research into improving the safety of nuclear technology must be safeguarded and continued. The main objective must be to achieve a general reduction in emissions and a kind of recycle economy. Ecological renewal will also strengthen competitiveness considerably and act as a precautionary measure. Improving Competitiveness The SPD intends to improve the competitiveness of German industry and of medium-sized firms in particular, by targeting funds on key technologies of the 21st century, such as information and communications technology, production engineering and manufacturing, transportation (water, ground, air, space), biotechnology and genetic engineering, materials research including superconductors, and laser technology. They expect a major commitment from industry in this respect. New Methods A dialog on technology policy should be developed, in which important representatives from industry, scientific organizations, unions, and other social groups make proposals to parliament as to the common steps that must lead to the future. Technology transfer from basic research to the application stage will be improved by new methods. Moreover, tax procedures related to research promotion will be introduced. The research capacities in the new German laender will rapidly be brought in line with those which are customary in the old laender. A structure committee will be engaged to prepare a report on the current tasks, organization, and funding of major research establishments. Strengthening Preventive Measures The SPD intends to resume research into ways of making working life more humane. The opportunities opened up by biotechnology and genetic engineering for new drugs and high-yield useful plants will be utilized by increased funding. The risks of biotechnology and genetic engineering will be monitored carefully. In the field of preventive health, the SPD intends to try to reduce the risks presented by Aids, rheumatism, cancer, and heart and circulatory diseases by taking new research initiatives. Safeguarding the Advance of Knowledge The scope and funds for basic research will be safeguarded, and the evaluation of the consequences of technology will be extended. Filling in the Funding Gaps The SPD intends to make good the substantial deficit in the research budget that has been incurred in recent years by providing DM1 billion for all these measures. It also aims to provide better funding in the Fourth European Framework Program for Research and Technological Development. Details about the research and technology plan of the SPD parliamentary group together with documentation on R&T initiatives (1991-1993) of the SPD can be obtained from the service department of the SPD parliamentary group, Bundeshaus 53113 Bonn, Tel. 0228/167133, fax 0228/1686800.
