FBIS4-50998 "drchi100_v_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-100 Daily Report 24 May 1994 TAIWAN Latin American Envoys to Taipei Court Investment Latin American Envoys to Taipei Court Investment OW2405094194 Taipei CNA in English 0802 GMT 24 May 94 OW2405094194 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Sofia Wu] [Text] Taipei, May 24 (CNA) -- A group of Latin American ambassadors stationed in Taipei Tuesday [24 May] urged the Republic of China [ROC] to encourage its businessmen to increase investment in their countries. The envoys made the call during a seminar on relations between the ROC and Latin American countries sponsored by Legislator Cheng Chien-jen of the ruling Kuomintang. The ROC has shared long-term friendship with Central American countries. Many of the 29 countries with which it maintains formal diplomatic ties are located in Central America. Due in part to geographical distance, commercial exchanges between Taiwan and the region, however, remain limited. Paraguayan Ambassador Miguel Angel Solano-Lopez Casco said he regrets that many Taiwan companies, while ignoring his call for investing in his country, have made large investments in Mainland China and other countries or areas with which Taiwan does not have diplomatic ties. Paraguay is the only South American country that diplomatically recognizes Taiwan. Lopez said Paraguay not only hopes to promote political ties with the ROC but also wants to strengthen bilateral trade and economic cooperation. Taiwan businessmen's overseas investment activities do not seem to comply with the ROC Government's diplomatic policy, Lopez noted. Speaking at the same occasion, Salvadoran Ambassador David Ernesto Panama [name as received] said mutual interests are key to maintaining longstanding diplomatic ties. Panama said he appreciates all the assistance the ROC has given his country over the past years. He pointed out that his country has also suffered from its close ties with Taiwan, saying that Mainland China has boycotted his country's activities in the United Nations and secretly supported leftists in El Salvador. Panama said he is willing to play the role of "go-between" to help prospective Taiwan investors launch new ventures in his country. "I also hope the ROC Government can actively encourage local businessmen to invest in El Salvador," he added. Ambassadors from other Central American countries, including the Dominican Republic and Honduras, also attended the seminar.
