FBIS3-18888 "drweu046__a94001" FBIS-WEU-94-046-A Document Type:Daily Report 9 March 1994 ANNEX International Affairs EU Calls For UNPROFOR Reinforcements in Bosnia BR0803133494 Brussels BELGA in French 2340 GMT 7 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0803133494 Brussels BELGA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed LVE: "The Twelve Call For UNPROFOR Reinforcements"] [Text] Brussels, 7 Mar (BELGA) -- European Union (EU) foreign ministers stressed on Monday evening [7 March] the need for reinforcements for the UN Protection Forces (UNPROFOR) in Bosnia-Herzegovina, thus responding favorably to an appeal by France. They also stressed the importance of the more active role now played by the United States and Russia in bringing peace to Bosnia-Herzegovina, while pointing out that the EU cannot allow itself to be reduced to playing an "inferior role," in the words of Greek Foreign Minister Karolos Papoulias, whose country holds the EU presidency until 30 June. The Twelve gave their backing to French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe, who had called upon the Twelve and others, notably the United States, to send UNPROFOR reinforcements to Bosnia. Mr. Papoulias refused to say, however, if any of them had indicated their willingness to participate in the effort deemed necessary. His French colleague indicated that France, which has the largest contingent of blue helmets in the area, had "done its duty." France also called upon its European partners to reintegrate the Serbs in the peace process. "You cannot make peace between two in a three-sided conflict," said Mr. Juppe, with reference to the accord between the Croats and the Muslims on creating a federation involving these two sides in Bosnia. He went on to propose a meeting between the Europeans, the Russians, and the Americans in order to achieve peace. Mr. Papoulias went no further than to say that the Twelve "were interested" in the role played by the United States and Russia in the peace process, but still supported the EU's peace plan.
