FBIS3-35783 "drsov021_a_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Silent on Military Cooperation PM3101141194 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 29 Jan 94 First Edition p 4 PM3101141194 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Vladimir Skosyrev and Konstantin Eggert: "Foreign Ministers of Russia and China Establish Order on the Border and Drive Out the Flies"] [Text] Beijing -- Russia wants to raise relations with China to the level of strategic partnership. That was announced by Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev at a press conference in Beijing. Western journalists inquired about the military side of the Russo-Chinese partnership, and even accused Kozyrev of hiding the figures about deliveries of Russian armaments to China and of not abiding by the principle of glasnost. The minister assured journalists that glasnost is alive and well at the Russian Foreign Ministry. Nevertheless, he did not cite any specific facts in the sphere of military-technical cooperation. The PRC leaders are in no hurry to take up the formula of strategic partnership. The head of China's foreign policy department prefers to speak in more cautious terms. The Russian minister spoke about the agreement on border crossing points and cited his conversation with PRC President Jiang Zemin, who said: "When a door opens, people may enter but flies may enter, too. We must ensure that there are fewer flies." By flies the leader of the PRC evidently means any kind of criminal element. The agreement signed recently in Beijing will help to establish order at border crossing points, in the words of Andrey Kozyrev. The question of the demarcation of the Russo-Chinese border was raised at the press conference. This matter is proceeding successfully but nevertheless there are several islands in rivers along the border to which both sides lay claim. The fate of these territories has not been decided yet. However, the two countries' foreign ministers have agreed that this dispute must not harm economic activity on the islands. This means specifically that those Russians who are tilling the soil and gathering hay on the disputed territories may continue with their activities.
