FBIS3-31330 "dreeu033_i_94014" FBIS-EEU-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Serbs Accuse Muslims of Cease-Fire Violations LD1602223494 Belgrade TANJUG in English 2154 GMT 16 Feb 94 LD1602223494 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Belgrade, February 16 (TANJUG) -- The ceasefire agreement for the region of Sarajevo, reached by the Bosnian Serbs and Moslems, is being mostly respected apart from sporadic violations by the Moslem side, Bosnian Serb army sources said on Wednesday. Small arms and sniper fire was opened from Moslem positions on Serb parts of the city, primarily on the suburbs of Grbavica and Ilijas, the Belgrade Street and the Ilidza Hospital, the sources said. They pointed out the fact that the Moslem side is digging trenches and building bunkers and other kinds of shelter. Officials of the United Nations Protection Forces UNPROFOR [UN Protection Force] have over the past few days confirmed that the Moslem side was using the truce and the withdrawal of the Serb artillery to advance closer to the Bosnian Serb defence lines and dig up trenches there. The Serb side has asked UNPROFOR to prevent such activity of the Moslem forces. In other parts of the former Yugoslav republic of Bosnia- Herzegovina, the Moslem forces continued provocations against the Serb side. In the areas of Doboj, Teslic, Gradacac and Ozren in northern Bosnia, the Moslem forces opened fire on Serb positions from mortars and small arms and the situation was similar in the regions of Olovo and Kladanj in north-eastern Bosnia. Moslem small arms attacks were more serious in the area of Brcko in the Sava River valley in northern Bosnia and the Moslem forces were especially active on the Tesliv front, where its infantry was launching attacks backed by strong mortar fire. Croatian radio quoted Bosnian Croat sources as saying that there was no large-scale fighting between Bosnian Croats and Moslems on Wednesday. In the area of Kiseljak in central Bosnia, a Moslem terrorist group attempted to make a break-through while in the Kiseljak- Fojnica region and the area of Zavidovici re-grouping and movement of Moslem troops was observed, the radio said.
