FBIS3-6303 "dreas051_a_94015" FBIS-EAS-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan SDPJ Urges Coalition To Reconcile Defense Gap OW1603111494 Tokyo KYODO in English 1052 GMT 16 Mar 94 OW1603111494 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 16 KYODO -- The No. 2 man of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) urged coalition partners Wednesday [16 March] to come closer to its policy on defense and peacekeeping issues as a prerequisite to fielding joint candidates in the next general election. SDP Secretary General Wataru Kubo told reporters at the Japan National Press Club, "our party opposes a proposal to develop Japan's military capability under the slogan of making Japan a normal country." He apparently was alluding to a best-selling book by coalition strongman Ichiro Ozawa, secretary general of Shinseito, a core party in the coalition. "It is our goal to make Japan an unarmed country and eventually eliminate military forces from the world," said Kubo, secretary general of the biggest force in the seven-party coalition. In the book "Nihon Retto Kaizo Keikaku" (program to reform the Japanese archipelago), Ozawa proposed that Japan expand its role in UN peacekeeping operations so that it is perceived overseas as a "normal country." "I believe we need to maintain some intra-coalition differences on this issue to pursue our goal and live up to the spirit of the Constitution," he said, referring to Article 9 of the Constitution that bans the use of force to settle international disputes. Kubo said the coalition should hammer out a policy coordination accord similar to an agreement reached July 29, 1993 under which they formed an alliance by reconciling policy differences on key issues such as foreign, defense and farm policies. "At that time, the SDP urged other partners to include wording on reform of foreign and defense policies into the text of the seven- party accord document. As a result, it adopted a phrase that says Japan should assume the responsibility of pursuing peace and disarmament," he said. "If the coalition parties want to merge into a new large party, we should sketch out a firm policy coordination agreement as a vital first step that would enable such joint fielding of candidates." Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa has argued that unity among candidates of the seven coalition parties is crucial to defeating the No. 1 opposition Liberal Democratic Party. A political reform package passed in late January is designed to introduce 300 single-seat constituencies and 200 seats chosen through proportional representation in elections for the House of Representatives.
