FBIS4-42957 "drweu112cc_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS EC To Combat East European Drug Trafficking EC To Combat East European Drug Trafficking BR0906144094 Groot-Bijgaarden DE STANDAARD in Dutch 9 Jun 94 p 13 BR0906144094 Groot-Bijgaarden DE STANDAARD Dutch BFN [Article signed MBO: "East European Drug Trafficking Prospers"] [Text] The Russian drug empire is preparing to conquer West Europe. Western amphetamine laboratories (ecstasy and others) are moving one after another, mainly to Poland. From the Netherlands, hashish plants are being taken by truck, mainly to Russia. As soon as the drug mafia has established itself properly in the former East Bloc, much cheaper drugs will flood the West European market. The European Commission (EC) is preparing a large campaign against drug abuse. Interpol Secretary General Raymond Kendall in London called for the decriminalization of drug possession. Drug trafficking from former East Bloc countries to West Europe are assuming disturbing dimensions. That was the conclusion of a three-day international conference on helping drug users which took place in the Russian town of Kaliningrad. Carlo Baeten of the Center for Alcohol and Drug Problems (CAD) in Hasselt was the only Belgian to attend and addressed an international group of specialists, at the invitation of the Narcotic Federation of Moscow. "The drug abuse problem is growing enormously over there due to the lack of economic perspectives and any belief in the future among young people," Baeten said. "The drug mafia is throwing itself into this virgin territory. A daily dose of heroin costs scarcely 200 Belgian francs [BFr] over there compared with nearly BFr3,000 in Belgium. The Russian police are finding that an increasing number of amphetamine laboratories are starting up. They also know that there are new trafficking routes for heroin and cocaine. They are not just targeting the local market, but West Europe as well thanks to their competitive prices." European Plan The EC has drawn up a plan for combating drug abuse. Its main points are: Reducing drug use and implementing preventative measures among high-risk groups (young people, prisoners); combating drug trafficking by more controls on money laundering, more cooperation between police, customs and justice departments and the expansion of Europol; international agreements at the United Nations and the Council of Europe levels and agreements with other countries. The action program will start next year and last until 1999. The EC will set aside 960 million [currency not specified] for combating drug abuse. The number of addicts in the European Union is estimated at 1 million. Five million Europeans are believed to use drugs occasionally. In London yesterday Raymond Kendall called for drug possession to be decriminalized. He believes that drug use is more of a social and health problem rather than a matter for the police. "Combating symptoms is inefficient," Kendall said, expecting little benefit to be gained from the fight against drug dealers without tackling the problem situations which lead to drug use.
