FBIS4-16049 "drsov071_a_94025" FBIS-SOV-94-071 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Further Reportage on Yeltsin's Visit to Spain Further Reportage on Yeltsin's Visit to Spain Text of Russian-Spanish Treaty LD1304105394 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0826 GMT 13 Apr 94 LD1304105394 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [Text] Madrid, 13 Apr (ITAR-TASS) -- The Treaty on Friendship and Cooperation between the Russian Federation and the Kingdom of Spain was signed on Tuesday 12 April during the course of Russian President Boris Yeltsin's visit to Spain. The full text of the treaty follows: Treaty on Friendship and Cooperation Between the Russian Federation and the Kingdom of Spain The Russian Federation and the Kingdom of Spain, prompted by deep feelings of friendship and mutual respect between the peoples of Russia and Spain, and by centuries-long traditions of Russian-Spanish relations, and aspiring to open a qualitatively new period in their development, being firmly committed to the task of building a more just, humane, peaceful, and democratic international order on the basis of common values and in the spirit of new partnership and mutual trust, realizing their responsibility for preserving peace in Europe and in the world, being determined to contribute to the implementation of the aims and principles of the United Nations Charter, reaffirming their commitment to abide by agreements set in the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and by all subsequent CSCE documents, being committed to the task of contributing with all means at their disposal to the furthering of the CSCE process and regarding this process as an essential factor of peaceful development, stability and cooperation in Europe, taking into account the decision of member states of the European Community to set up the European Union, taking into account Russia's membership in the Commonwealth of Independent States, and also the fact that it is the successor state to the USSR, have agreed the following: Article I Being friendly states, the Russian Federation and the Kingdom of Spain will develop relations on the basis of the UN Charter and the principles of the final act of the Conference of Security and Cooperation in Europe. Article II The Russian Federation and the Kingdom of Spain will make joint efforts for the purpose of overcoming definitively the consequences of a split in the European continent and forming consistently a single European space in the political, economic, legal, humanitarian, cultural, and ecological spheres. The Parties undertake to do everything possible to strengthen the process of security and cooperation in Europe, also by way of developing constant mechanisms of security and cooperation for the purpose of promoting the consolidation of peace, stability and security on the continent, and to promote the creation of conditions for progress of all European states. The Russian Federation and the Kingdom of Spain recognize the importance of the contribution that the European Union, the North Atlantic alliance, the West European Union, and the Council of Europe are making to strengthening European security and cooperation and will cooperate in establishing and developing relations between the Russian Federation and these organizations. The Parties will cooperate in the search for ways of using appropriately CSCE experience in the interests of strengthening stability, security, and well-being in adjacent regions, in particular, in the Mediterranean. On this basis the Parties will promote the strengthening of Europe's ties of friendship and solidarity with other world regions, especially with those where one of the Parties has special links based on old historical traditions. Article III The parties will promote the strengthening everywhere of democracy, political pluralism, the principles of a law-governed state, and the protection of human rights, both using European mechanisms and through other means, compatible with the UN Charter. Article IV The parties are agreed that the emergence and strengthening of qualitatively new relations on the European continent require the continuation of the disarmament process both through implementing accords already reached within the framework of the CSCE and through talks on new disarmament and arms control measures -- subject to an appropriate verification system -- in order to enhance security and stability in Europe. The parties assert their firm intention to implement already adopted confidence-building measures and to assist the devising of new measures of trust. The parties will promote the strengthening of the nonproliferation of nuclear weapons, the establishment of nonproliferation of other types of weapons of mass destruction, and also of control over the export of combat missiles and missile technology, as well as the creation of an international system of control over the transfer of conventional weapons. Article V The parties intend to cooperate actively at the United Nations in order to increase its role in the world and to strengthen its collective security mechanisms, including regional ones, created under the UN Charter in order to maintain international peace and security and forestall armed conflicts. Article VI In the event of situations arising which, in the view of one of the Parties, could present a threat to international peace and security, the Parties will immediately contact each other to coordinate actions which could be taken to ease tension and settle such a situation. If one of the Parties considers that its security interests have been affected, it can propose to the other Party that bilateral consultations be held immediately. Article VII In order to stimulate further the development of bilateral relations, Russia and Spain will ensure that political consultations are broader and more regular and will set up the relevant mechanisms for this purpose. Summit-level meetings will be held as needed, as a rule at least once a year. The ministers of foreign affairs will meet at least twice a year. Meetings between other members of the governments will be held on issues of mutual interest. In order to enhance the effectiveness of contacts, a direct line of communication will be set up between the apparatus of the President of Russia and the department of the chairman of the Spanish Government. Article VIII In order to enhance the dialogue and mutual understanding between the peoples of Russia and Spain, the Parties will take the necessary measures to facilitate all possible exchanges. The Parties will pay particular attention to deepening inter-parliamentary ties. Article IX The Russian Federation and the Kingdom of Spain will pay particular attention to strengthening cooperation as regards the functioning of democratic institutions and a law-governed state. This cooperation will encompass the following areas in particular: -- constitutional, legislative and administrative norms; -- constitutional supervision and legality; -- human rights and citizens' rights; -- political and electoral systems. Article X Reliant upon the old traditions of cultural communion between their peoples and guided by the desire to facilitate a fuller exchange in the area of artistic values, the Parties will comprehensively develop cultural cooperation The Parties will facilitate the expansion of ties in the area of science, education, information, sport and the development of youth exchanges. They will encourage direct cooperation between government establishments, public organizations and citizens in the area of culture, science and education and will cooperate in the implementation of joint projects. The Parties recognize as fundamental the importance of teaching the languages and literature of both countries and will take the necessary measures to have the accords in this area implemented. The Parties will facilitate the establishment and activities, on a reciprocal basis, of cultural centers and also scientific, information and other funds and associations capable of ensuring direct access to the culture of their countries, using for this purpose the potential afforded by TV, Radio and other audiovisual resources. Article XI The parties will develop cooperation between their Ministries of Defense in order to ensure a better knowledge of the armed forces of both countries and to strengthen mutual trust. Two-year programs of contacts and cooperation in the military sphere will be devised with that aim. Article XII The parties will further a maximal development of mutually beneficial contacts in the economy, finances, industry, science and technology in order to intensify economic relations with each other. Each Party undertakes to create, within a framework of a relevant national legislature, favorable conditions in order to facilitate investment by the other Party on its territory and to ensure its safety in accordance with current bilateral agreements aimed at promoting effective business activity by economic partners from both parties. Article XIII In order to create favorable conditions for the implementation of joint initiatives and projects the Parties will promote new forms of economic cooperation, especially in the area of investment and joint ventures, even those that include the participation of third parties, as well as direct links between Russian and Spanish enterprises. Article XIV The Parties will cooperate in order to have a wide-ranging exchange of economic information and access to information by businessmen and scientists of both countries and in order to widen cooperation between specialist bodies and business ventures from both countries. Article XV In order to assist the implementation of economic reforms in the Russian Federation, and in particular, to develop a market economy, Spain will give assistance by providing Russia with technical help, developing cooperation programs, as well as training experts and managers in the economic sphere. Article XVI The Parties will widen their cooperation both in fundamental and applied scientific and technical research, giving priority to the increase in the number of works on topics of primary importance to both countries, in accordance with current national and bilateral programs of scientific and technical cooperation. The Parties will facilitate their joint participation in both European and other international scientific and technical programs. Article XVII The parties will take measures to extend Russian-Spanish cooperation in promising less traditional areas, including the use of scientific and technological achievements in industry, as well as space research and conversion of the military industry. Article XVIII The parties will develop cooperation within the framework of the international economic system, and in particular within the framework of international economic and financial organizations. Spain will render assistance to Russia in participating in, or joining, those organizations of which the latter is not a member. Article XIX The parties will develop bilateral cooperation in the area of environmental protection and in solving their ecological problems. They will pay special attention to the protection of the environment in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. The parties will cooperate in drawing up and implementing international and particularly European programs in this area. Article XX Aiming to extend and diversify all kinds of exchanges, the parties will take measures to simplify regulations for the issue of visas. Article XXI The parties will develop humanitarian cooperation, including the promotion of wider contacts between relevant organizations. Article XXII Russia and Spain will develop effective cooperation in the area of legal assistance for civil cases, including family cases, and for criminal cases, and will guarantee the social rights of the citizens of one Party on the territory of the other Party in accordance with the bilateral agreements and their international obligations in force in this area. Article XXIII Russia and Spain will cooperate in the struggle against organized crime and illegal movement of drugs, through exchanging experience and operational information between their respective appropriate bodies. The Parties also pledge to cooperate in combating terrorism, illegal acts directed against the security of maritime shipping and civil aviation, and smuggling, including illegal exportation of cultural valuables. Article XXIV The Parties will, as necessary, conclude separate agreements and accords to implement the provisions of this Treaty. Article XXV This Treaty does not affect the rights and obligations arising from bilateral or multilateral agreements, concluded by Russia or Spain with third Parties. Article XXVI The present Treaty will remain in force for 10 years and will automatically be extended for subsequent five-year terms, unless either party notifies the other in written form, at least one year before the expiry of the given term, of its decision to terminate its validity. Article XXVII The present Treaty is subject to ratification and will become valid 30 days after the exchange of ratification notes. Made in Madrid on 12 April 1994 in two copies, each in Russian and Spanish, with both text of equal validity. [Signed] For the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin For the Spanish Monarchy, Felipe Gonzalez
