FBIS3-59621 "jpest003___94025" JPRS-EST-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 26 January 1994 WEST EUROPE ENERGY, ENVIRONMENT Rhone Poulenc Extracts Rare Earths From Bastnaesite Paris AFP SCIENCES in French 9 Dec 93 p 31 Paris AFP SCIENCES Language: French Article Type:BFN [Unsigned article: "Rhone-Poulenc Is Considering Different Rare Earths Production Methods to Solve Waste Problems"] [Text] Paris--Rhone-Poulenc announced on 6 December that it is considering producing its rare earths from bastnaesite, an ore purchased and preprocessed in China and the United States, instead of the monazite presently imported from Australia and whose residues create storage problems. The fabrication of rare earths (15 chemical elements) from monazite generates residues with low radioactivity. This waste has been stored for the past twenty years at a specialized site in the Manche, but it reached saturation capacity in 1991 and Rhone-Poulenc had three years to find another solution. The chemical group had considered storing the waste at the site of a former uranium extracting plant at Ecarpiere (Vendee), which raised strong local opposition. Lacking authorization for this site, and with "no storage solution found at the national level," Rhone-Poulenc is thinking about simply switching to bastnaesite for its supply. This substitution implies shutting down the ore preprocessing plant at La Rochelle (Charente-Maritime) in September 1994, involving 65 jobs out of a plant total of 500. The decision however is not expected to cause any job losses as the employees will be reassigned at the site. Rhone-Poulenc is the world's main producer of extracted rare earths, with 20 percent of the world's volume (36 percent in terms of value), ahead of the American Molycorp, the Japanese Santoku, and Chinese manufacturers. The group notably holds 65 percent of the world market for rare earths used in catalytic converters for automobiles. Rare earths are also used in luminescent applications (notably television screens), electronics, and magnetic applications (audio recording heads, magnets, scanners), and optics.
