FBIS3-60069 "jptdd003__l94034" JPRS-TDD-94-003-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 19 January 1994 LATIN AMERICA MEXICO Over 6 Tons of Marijuana Concealed in Produce Shipments Seized 94WB0019B Mexico City EXCELSIOR in Spanish 10 Dec 93 pp 1-A-2, 4-A-2 94WB0019B Mexico City EXCELSIOR Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Article by Rafael Medina Cruz] [Excerpt] During antidrug operations conducted in 13 federative states, over 6 tons of dried and packed marijuana about to be smuggled into the United States for sale and consumption were discovered and confiscated by Federal Judicial Police agents. The drugs were concealed in shipments of frozen cucumbers, tomatoes, chayotes, avocados, and alfalfa, as well as in boxes of detergent and toothpaste. According to reports, 49 presumed public poisoners were arrested during the operations. In making this announcement, the Office of the Attorney General of the Republic [PGR] disclosed that 20 vehicles equipped with special compartments for concealing and carrying drugs were confiscated in the operations, and are now at the disposal of the agent of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. Also seized were two firearms, 32 useful cartridges of various calibers, and implements for "processing" narcotics. The PGR added that the operations were carried out in Michoacan, Sonora, Tamaulipas, Durango, Nuevo Leon, Guanajuato, Oaxaca, Coahuila, Baja California, Chihuahua, Jalisco, Guerrero, and Veracruz. No incidents or confrontations between representatives of the law and criminals were reported. It was specified that the most significant confiscation occurred in the municipality of Tiquicheo, Michoacan, where Felipe Araujo Arellano was arrested. He was carrying 3 tons and 194 kg of cannabis indica in the body of a tractor trailer truck, concealed under 700 bags containing frozen cucumbers. He had purchased his shipment in the town of Nuevo Leon, and was attempting to take it to Reynosa, Tamaulipas, from which it was to be sent to the state of Texas, in the U.S. [passage omitted]
