FBIS4-43629 "drweu118_n_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Denmark Opponents Vow To Continue Fight Against Bridge Opponents Vow To Continue Fight Against Bridge PM2006124694 Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 17 Jun 94 p 4 PM2006124694 Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Danish BFN [Report by Erik Bjorn Moller: "Radical Liberals and Christian People's Party To Fight On Against the Bridge"] [Text] Despite the defeat after Sweden's yes to the Oresund bridge the Christian People's Party and the Radical Liberals will not be abandoning their fight against the project. Now the responsibility for the "blunder" must be placed at the right door, Jens Bilgrav-Nielsen (Radical Liberal Party) has said. Despite sympathy with their Swedish sister party, the Center Party, the Danish Radical Liberals are not taking inspiration from Swedish Environment Minister Olof Johansson and leaving the government. Alongside the Christian People's Party, the Radical Liberals will, however, continue their fight against the Oresund bridge. Radical Liberal Folketing group chairman Jens Bilgrav-Nielsen stressed yet again that the Radical Liberals -- although the bridge cannot now be stopped -- will use it in the election campaign. He is also demanding that the responsibility for the "blunder" be clearly placed where it belongs -- such as, the Audit Department's study of the bridge's economic aspects. According to Bilgrav-Nielsen the parties that support the bridge have a giant problem because the Oresund bridge cannot be paid for by those people who will use it. Ole M. Nielsen, the Christian People's Party's finance and environment spokesman, stressed that the matter has not been removed from the political agenda here in Denmark. "We will continue to work for a sober and realistic reappraisal of the whole project. We will therefore, if necessary, bring the matter into the context of government formation negotiations after the elections," he said. From the environmental viewpoint it is "a tunnel we need" and "as far as finance is concerned, there is still no reason to think that the figures will hold," Ole M. Nielsen said. The Socialist People's Party is now demanding that when seeking tenders the Oresund Consortium should seek bids for a tunnel which, according to Greenpeace, could be built for 9.5 billion kroner. "I agree with Olof Johansson that the project is misconceived, environmentally incorrect, and expensive," party group chairman Steen Gade said. He praised the Swedish environment minister for leaving his post after Prime Minister Carl Bildt's "power play." "But the battle is not lost until the contracts with the entrepreneurs are signed," Steen Gade said.
