FBIS3-11394 "drlat054__a94023" FBIS-LAT-94-054-A Document Type:Daily Report 21 March 1994 ANNEX Cuba Further on Alarcon Remarks PA1803191894 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 1522 GMT 17 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA1803191894 Havana PRENSA LATINA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Raimundo Lopez] [Text] Havana, 17 Mar (PL) -- Ricardo Alarcon, president of the National Assembly of the People's Government, said today that thousands of proposals from workers are being implemented to clean up the internal finances of the country. In statements to PRENSA LATINA, Alarcon explained that this is one of the main results of the consultation with the labor union rank and file to seek alternatives for the recovery of the national economy. That process, initiated under the leadership of the Cuban Workers Federation at the end of last January, concluded this Wednesday after some 80,000 assemblies attended by more than 3 million persons were held at the work centers. The workers assemblies, Alarcon said, have served to discuss collectively the possible general measures. The assemblies have permitted each worker to express his opinions and discuss them along with the opinions of others, so as to form a collective consensus. I think they have been useful in creating consensus behind specific actions to be launched at the national level, Alarcon stressed. The legislative leader asserted that this aspect is as important as the identification in each work center of the problems and the decisions that are necessary "to immediately reduce costs and improve efficiency." From this point of view, Alarcon continued, thousands of proposals and specific measures have been positively identified and have materialized. Many of these measures are already being implemented; they are being executed. Since losing its former socialist bloc commercial partners, Cuba has faced an adverse economic situation, which in financial terms is expressed in an excess of currency amounting to over 10 billion pesos -- equal to the U.S. dollar at the official exchange rate -- a 4.2-billion-peso fiscal deficit, and high subsidies. This situation deteriorated further as a result of the tightening of the blockade the United States imposed on the island more than three decades ago, which authorities estimate has caused losses amounting to at least $40 billion.
