FBIS3-44435 "drchi002_k_94009" FBIS-CHI-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Leading Group Oversees 4th-Generation Leaders HK0401141394 Hong Kong CHING PAO in Chinese No 1, 5 Jan 94 pp 39-40 HK0401141394 Hong Kong CHING PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Article by Chen Chieh-hung (7115 3381 1738): "CPC Putting Together Fourth-Generation Leadership"] [Text] Last spring, the First Session of the Eighth National People's Congress [NPC] had hardly ended when the CPC Central Committee put the selection, training, and grooming the new (fourth) generation of successors into the daily work agenda of the State Council and its Secretariat, and set up a "leading task group for new central cadres" with Jiang Zemin as group leader and Hu Jintao as deputy group leader. An informed source revealed that at a briefing in early December 1993, former NPC Chairman Wan Li announced for the first time that members of a fourth generation of China's leadership were being raised and trained in parties, governments, and the military. Wan Li said that selecting, training, and grooming successors always has been a great concern for Comrade Xiaoping. In early 1980, Comrade Xiaoping pointed out at a central Political Bureau session that we must select, train, and groom successors in party building, and that the past frameworks would have to go. Today, 13 years later, the third-generation successors with Comrade Jiang Zemin as the core have shown themselves capable of party, government, and military leadership, and have been tested by turmoil within and beyond China. Training a new (fourth) generation of successors has been made a key agenda for the party. These potential successors also are playing roles in various party, government, and military leadership groups. Jiang Zemin Heads the Effort To Train the Fourth Generation The informed source also said in the spring of 1993, the First Session of the Eighth NPC had hardly ended when the CPC Central Committee put the selection, training, and grooming of the new (fourth) generation of successors into the daily work agenda of the State Council and its Secretariat, and set up a "leading group for new central cadres" with Jiang Zemin as group leader and Hu Jintao as deputy group leader. Other members include: Ding Guangen, Wen Jiabao, Zhang Wannian, Ding Henggao, Lu Feng, Song Defu, Zeng Qinghong, and Luo Gan. CPC high level resolutions specify: "Even at the provincial level, a leading group for new provincial-level cadres -- to be headed by provincial party secretaries -- must be set up before October 1993." This task should be part of parties' daily agenda and should reported to the CPC Central Committee Secretariat. Last year, after convening the Third Plenary Session of the 14th CPC Central Committee, Jiang Zemin made a point of talking with provincial party persons-in-charge about the problem of new cadres, saying: This is a very important strategic arrangement for the party and state, and it must be pursued vigorously. He also said that they must banish the thought of "waiting a while and slowing down a little." Successors Must Pass Five Requirements The informed source continued: The CPC lists five requirements for the new cadres: 1) Loyalty to the party cause and socialism; 2) great enthusiasm and a great sense of responsibility for socialism with Chinese characteristics; 3) a certain level of intellectual professionalism; 4) a good character; and 5) he must enjoy certain authority within the party and with the masses. It also specified that the following three kinds of people are excluded from consideration: 1) The "three kinds of people" in the Cultural Revolution; 2) backbone elements in the 1989 spring-summer political turmoil (namely, 4 June) and those found to have made serious mistakes in turmoil; and 3) those who have made serious economic or moral mistakes. Those recruited and trained do not have to be party members. The leading group demands that every year central ministries, commissions, officers, provinces, cities, and autonomous regions pick 20-25 distinguished talents to study at the Central Party School. These people will be put into provincial leadership groups, and from there sent down to the local level for study and training. Ministries, commissions, offices, and provincial-level leaders are required to seek out, promote, and train talented young cadres when inspecting localities and grass roots areas. In selecting, training, and grooming successors, they must ensure a certain proportion of non-party members working in governments at various levels, including the provincial vice governor level. Those found qualified can be promoted to the central ministerial level. More Than 1,000 Successors Are Being Trained The informed source also said: At present there are more than 1,000 people studying at advanced central party schools and military academies to become future cadres at the ministerial and commission level or with army rank. Their average age is 47, and all are university-educated. A good many of them were spotted or picked by Central Committee Political Bureau members and State Council leaders over the last two years during inspection tours. The majority of these 1,000 or so people have certain work experience at localities, enterprises, and units, or some merits in troop units. Many are at the deputy prefectural or deputy bureau level, or have divisional, deputy district commander, or deputy political commissar rank in the Army. Some are departmental cadres at central ministries, committees, offices, or are general managers or party secretaries at major enterprises,
