FBIS3-28042 "dreas023_c_94018" FBIS-EAS-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 North Korea Cuban Lawyer Praises Kim Il-song, Country SK0302114994 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1011 GMT 3 Feb 94 SK0302114994 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["`Comrade Kim Il-song, Great Man With Warm Humanity'" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, February 3 (KCNA) -- Cuban lawyer Candelaria Rodriguez, who had visited Korea, said in a press interview in Havana on January 28 that Comrade Kim Il-song is a great man with humble, simple and warm humanity; She was sent to Korea as a Cuban delegate of the fact-finding team of the Women's International Democratic Federation to investigate into the atrocities and crimes committed by the U.S. imperialists against the innocent Korean people during the period of the Korean War (June, 1950 - July, 1953). She, who visited Korea in 1963 and 1993, expressed her impressions: What astonished me greatly during my visit was that wonderful and great monumental edifices and modern streets such as Kwangbok Street, Tongil Street and Changgwang Street had been built like a forest in a matter of a few years. Pyongyang has been turned into a city of world level with 30-40-storeyed buildings. The food, clothing and housing questions have been completely solved in Korea. It is a beautiful trait that everybody lives evenly and equally in harmony, helping and leading each other forward. The Korean art has combined what is traditional with what is modern. The great leader Comrade Kim Il-song praised me as a comrade-in-arms of the Korean people and a revolutionary fighter when he received me. This cannot but be a great honor to me, an ordinary woman of Cuba. Referring to the question of Korea's reunification, she said: The great leader Comrade Kim Il-song put forward the "10-point programme of the great unity of the whole nation for the reunification of the country" that is acceptable to all Koreans in the North and the South and overseas. I am not a politician but I believe that Korea will certainly be reunified in the 90s. The reunification of Korea is a long-cherished desire of the entire Korean people. Comrade Kim Il-song and Comrade Fidel Castro are the outstanding leaders of the world and socialism is sure to win as long as it is led by the two leaders. Comrade Kim Chong-il is the successor to the revolutionary cause of Comrade Kim Il-song.
