FBIS3-43949 "drafr014_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola UN Mediator Interviewed on Arrival in Luanda LD2001234094 Lisbon Radio Renascenca in Portuguese to Europe 2200 GMT 20 Jan 94 LD2001234094 Lisbon Radio Renascenca Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] The UN mediator in the Angolan conflict today arrived in Luanda from Lusaka feeling optimistic about the peace talks between the government and UNITA [National Union for the Total Independence of Angola]. The national police dossier is nearly ready. Alioune Beye will be meeting in Luanda tomorrow with the directors of the World Food Program, before returning to Zambia. More details from Luanda from Paulo Juliao: [Juliao] Early this evening Alioune Blondin Beye, the UN secretary general's special envoy to Angola and mediator at the peace talks between the Angolan government and UNITA, arrived in Luanda. Blondin Beye came to Luanda to meet the World Food Program's executive director who will be arriving here tomorrow. As usual, the UN diplomat showed optimism and reported that there has been considerable progress in Lusaka: [Blondin Beye, in French] Since the resumption -- in fact we resumed on 6 January -- we have had a total of six working days. I reject allegations that we are dragging things out. This is not true. We are not progressing at the pace people expected. However, we are progressing. Had this not been true, the international community would not have allowed us to mark time in Lusaka. [Juliao] Mr. Beye, can you tell us whether the issue relating to the police has been overcome? [Blondin Beye, in French] We have almost overcome this because we have already approved a fair share of the general principles. As regards the other details, prior to my departure from Lusaka today, I conveyed to the government and UNITA delegations very concrete proposals which, in my view, should enable us to overcome this issue. [Juliao] Blondin Beye is due to return to Lusaka tomorrow afternoon.
