FBIS4-63403 "drsov099_b_94018" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 20 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Commission To Coordinate Accord Follow-Up Commission To Coordinate Accord Follow-Up PM2005092594 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI in Russian 20 May 94 p 1 PM2005092594 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI Russian BFN [Georgiy Satarov commentary: "The Commission's Purpose Is to Ensure a Process of Constant Conciliation"] [Text] The Russian president's message to the Federal Assembly is effectively the first document of its kind to contain a separate section dedicated to the civil society. Back in March a group of independent experts was formed to prepare a concept for the president's legislative initiative in this sphere. A parallel movement to achieve accord in our society has begun. The Treaty on Social Accord includes proposals on the coordinated discussion of the major problems. Hence the idea has arisen -- both in development of the message and of the Treaty on Social Accord -- to discuss jointly a range of problems connected with support for the establishment of a civil society in Russia and, in fulfillment of that Treaty, to try to advance that area of legislative work organizationally, professionally, and in a skillful way. However, bearing in mind that there are quite a few sources of legislative initiative and that to date, unfortunately, they are operating in a completely isolated and uncoordinated way, there must be some kind of blueprint which makes it possible to link the legislative process and sets of laws. Work is now being completed on the creation of a mechanism for the activity of a conciliation commission, whose main task is to ensure a process of constant conciliation in accordance with the Treaty. The commission will have to support the work of the permanent "roundtables" which correspond to the various sections of the Treaty -- "Political Stability in Society," "Socioeconomic Policy," and "The Security of the Citizen and Society." It is on the activeness of all the parties signatory to the Treaty that the speed of the formation of the conciliation commission and the "roundtables" will depend. The president's structures are working on this problem, and working pretty strenuously.
