FBIS3-25360 "drafr032_e_94009" FBIS-AFR-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 WEST AFRICA Togo Opposition CAR Party Suspends Participation in Campaign AB1602104094 Libreville Africa No. 1 in French 0730 GMT 16 Feb 94 AB1602104094 Libreville Africa No. 1 Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] In Togo, the opposition is in the frontline. Mr. Agboyibor's Action Committee for Renewal [CAR] has decided to suspend its participation in the electoral campaign in protest against the assassination of three of its members, including a deputy who was elected in the first round of the elections. The CAR will not rescind its decision unless the security of its members is totally guaranteed. Olabire da Cruz, who is in Lome, explains the issue to Africa No. 1. [Begin Cruz recording] Confirming the decision made by his party's steering committee following a long meeting, CAR Chairman Yaovi Agboyibor stated that this suspension will remain in force until security is guaranteed for all candidates. According to him, this is not possible for two of them at present. Already, by early yesterday evening, the CAR's decision was rather foreseeable, especially as this party and its ally, Edem Kojo's party, had withdrawn from the state media program arranged by the Ad Hoc Audiovisual Communications Commission for 14 February. The Rally of the Togolese People, the former single ruling party, therefore participated in the program alone. All the same, it will not be surprising to see CAR rescind its decision very rapidly. Meanwhile, after vehemently condemning last weekend's assassinations, the International Committee for Monitoring the Ouagadougou Agreement did not hide its concern and fear for the consequences that this act may have on the democratic process. It therefore appealed for the restoration of confidence among the various parties and hoped that security measures will be taken as soon as possible. Similarly, the Togolese Armed Forces [FAT] categorically denied any implication in last weekend's assassinations. In a statement, the FAT headquarters said that immediately a group of people in military uniform does anything wrong, some ill-intentioned and unscrupulous voices are raised and attribute this to the security forces. A strong warning was sounded to all those who use military uniforms to commit reproachful acts in a bid to stain the honor of the Army. [end recording]
