FBIS3-13059 "drnes046_r_94001" FBIS-NES-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 India Minister: U.S. Statements Encourage `Terrorism' BK0903094994 Delhi All India Radio Network in English 0830 GMT 9 Mar 94 BK0903094994 Delhi All India Radio Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] New Delhi has told Washington that its recent statements on the situation in Kashmir tend to encourage Pakistan in abetting terrorism across the border. The minister of state for external affairs, Mr. R.L. Bhatia, said in the Rajya Sabha today that the references to Kashmir by responsible U.S. officials lack balance and proper perspective. Answering a spate of supplementaries on the reported shift in the U.S. policy, he said the government has taken due note of the fact and is dealing with it accordingly. We are protesting where it is necessary, he said. And Mr. Bhatia added that in diplomacy, there are many ways to explain one's point and convey resentment where it is called for. Mr. Bhatia said (?the government) has told the Clinton administration that Kashmir is an integral part of India, and we will not brook any interference in our internal affairs. Observing that there seems to be no finality in the U.S. position, the minister said New Delhi is having a continuous dialogue with Washington to make it understand our position. Mr. Bhatia pointed out that Indo-U.S. relations are multifaceted in nature, and despite differences on certain issues, there are numerous constructive and mutually beneficial aspects. Human rights, nuclear nonproliferation, and Kashmir are some of the issues on which there are differences of opinion. Asked about the forthcoming visit of the U.S. assistant secretary of state to New Delhi, Ms. Robin Raphel, he said whomsoever she meets she would be told categorically that her comments have damaged the Indo-Pak relations and encourage Pakistani militancy. Reiterating that there is no question of third country mediation on Kashmir, the minister said it is not a disputed territory. He agreed to table the documents exchanged between India and Pakistan at the recent foreign secretary-level talks. Replying to the main question, the minister said Islamabad's clandestine nuclear weapons program has been confirmed time and again. Mr. Bhatia made it clear that New Delhi neither has nor intends to acquire weapons of mass destruction. He said the real danger, therefore, is of nuclear adventurism on the part of Pakistan. The minister regretted that Washington has not done much to prevent Pakistan from acquiring and retaining weapons of mass destruction.
