FBIS3-9753 "dreeu060__a94039" FBIS-EEU-94-060-A Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Kovac: Democratic Parties Likely To Merge AU2703132194 Prague CTK in English 1407 GMT 26 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2703132194 Prague CTK Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Zvolen, central Slovakia, March 26 (CTK) -- Slovak Deputy Premier Roman Kovac confirmed to CTK today that ex-Foreign Minister Milan Knazko's Alliance of Slovak Democrats and Premier Jozef Moravcik's Democratic Union were likely to merge in the middle of April into a liberal-oriented entity. At a constituent congress of Ludovit Cernak's National Democratic Party-New Alternative (NDS-NA) in Zvolen, Kovac said this unification process was natural as both groupings were of a liberal orientation and emerged from the same movement -- now the opposition Movement for a Democratic Slovakia (HZDS) of ex-Premier Vladimir Meciar. Kovac said that latest talks confirmed the creation of a joint election bloc comprising the future liberal party and Cernak's conservative NDS-NA. Kovac did not even rule out the possibility of creating a joint party with the NDS-NA, but added that the current legislation did not make it possible to establish a two-wing party, like for instance the French UDF (French Democracy Union). This model is backed by Cernak, former chairman of the Slovak National Party (SNS) which was a junior partner of the former HZDS-SNS government coalition. Kovac said he was convinced the centrist bloc would get the necessary seven per cent of the vote in the autumn elections to get to the parliament. Chairman of the NDS-NA preparatory committee Cernak said in his address to the congress a clear economic policy which will lead Slovakia out of the economic crisis, family development, non- confrontation ethnic minorities policy and regional programme were the NDS-NA's priorities. He said that the new entity, which emerged from the SNS, would be based on conservative values. The NDS-NA's programme is based on national democratic patriotism, a free market, a law-abiding state and the principles of Western democratic civilisation. He said that "the new alternative for Slovakia was no longer Czech-Slovak resentment... nor the extreme nationalism of the HZDS ... nor boundless liberalism with its slogan "dog eat dog." In the afternoon the congress will elect new party bodies.
