FBIS3-17245 "drsov057_d_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 Regional Affairs New Governor on Situation 944F0478D Vladivostok KRASNOYE ZNAMYA in Russian 22 March 94 p 1 944F0478D Vladivostok KRASNOYE ZNAMYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Yuriy Grachev: "`People Sighed With Relief,' Maintains New Vladivostok Administration Head Konstantin Tolstoshein"] [Text] He reported that during the first planning meeting he told mayoralty staff: "Those who do not agree to work with us may quit." "So far, not too many people have expressed such a desire," remarked Tolstoshein. He and his aides began at their desks early Saturday morning. "We are restoring contacts with the kray administration, the rift with which has brought nothing but harm to the city," the head of the new administration told us about his first actions. "First and foremost, we intend to take care of low-income city residents, open stores for war veterans and disabled Afghan war veterans, and take care of the elderly and children." "For over nine months the former head of the administration, Viktor Cherepkov, and his team seriously ran down the city facilities, including the building from which they managed the city," remarked Konstantin Tolstoshein. "Not to mention the documentation, which the procuracy will sort out--that is how much everything is messed up there. There were no books kept on revenue and expenditures; no proper record keeping. As a result, finances were expended irrationally." Tolstoshein contends the newspaper BOLSHOY VLADIVOSTOK "expressed Cherepkov's interests and received at his personal directive several hundred million rubles. And this at a time of catastrophic shortage of money for social needs, and the city's municipal services are run down. Looking at their wasteful masters, lower-rank officials also did not treat taxpayers' money with respect." "When I was asked to assume the job of head of city administration, I thought hard about it," Konstantin Tolstoshein said. "I knew it would be difficult: City residents have been deceived by Cherepkov's populist slogans and his promises. I am a native Maritime Kray resident. I began as a construction site foreman, became head of rayon administration, and then headed the kray administration's defense industry committee. I am used to tackling difficult tasks."
