FBIS4-36510 "drnes111_o_94004" FBIS-NES-94-111 Daily Report 6 Jun 1994 SYRIA Official Urges U.S. To End Israeli `Aggression' Official Urges U.S. To End Israeli `Aggression' PM0606114094 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 6 Jun 94 p 4 PM0606114094 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Arabic BFN [Report by Salwa al-Ustuwani: "Velayati Concludes Talks in Damascus Which He Describes as `Very Positive'"] [Excerpts] Damascus -- [Iranian Foreign Minister] Dr. 'Ali Akbar Velayati left Damascus yesterday for his country after a two-day visit to Syria during which he delivered a message to President Hafiz al-Asad from Iranian President Hashemi-Rafsanjani. He also held meetings with Hizballah leaders at the Iranian Embassy in Damascus. [passage omitted] Before departing from Damascus International Airport Velayati told reporters that his visit and talks in Damascus had been "very positive" and "extremely friendly." [passage omitted] At another level, a Syrian official has told AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT that Israel believes that by its aggression against Lebanon "it can bring about changes that would achieve what it wants and complement what it achieved in the Gaza-Jericho agreement." The official added that "the Israelis have forgotten -- or, rather, they deliberately pretend to have forgotten -- that the attacks will not get them the peace they are seeking. Because the foundations of peace are clear and the principles and terms of peace are more than clear. And anyone searching for peace must be fully committed to implementing UN resolutions. Aggression and threats of more extensive aggression will bring about nothing but further tension and will destroy the last opportunity to salvage the peace process, which has reached an impasse as a result of the Israeli positions opposed to any real peace. The Syrian official pointed out that Tel Aviv -- as all the facts indicate -- is seeking not only to cause strain in the situation in the region, but also to push the region toward an atmosphere of war. The Syrian official said that the United States and the international community are urged to put an end to the Israeli aggression aimed not only against Lebanon, but the U.S. initiative and the peace process as well.
