FBIS4-40834 "drsov119_a_94036" FBIS-SOV-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Rybkin Condemns Human Rights Violations in Baltics Rybkin Condemns Human Rights Violations in Baltics LD2006145394 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1339 GMT 20 Jun 94 LD2006145394 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature by correspondents S. Kolosova, Igor Porshnev, and others] [Text] The Duma's Speaker Ivan Rybkin has denounced as vicious the Baltic governments policy of violating the rights of ethnic minorities. The formation of states for just one privileged ethnic group has always involved violence, he said to a group of Russian journalists who accompanied a Russian parliamentary delegation on its official tour of Germany June 15-19. He reported that the issue on human rights in the Baltic states had been repeatedly raised during the visit. "Russian lawmakers believe it's inadmissible to connive with the flagrant violation of the civil rights of ethnic minorities in the Baltic republics, and the influence of Germany on this matter could be significant," he remarked. In his words, although ethnic Russians, in fact, make up the majority of the populace in such Estonian towns as Kohtla-Jarva, Narva, and Sillamae, they have no representatives in parliament. Nor do they have any say in local decision making. He reported that the German side had voiced some anxiety at the Russian peace-keepers deployment in Abkhazia and Karabakh. In his view, there is no reason for trouble since Moscow's decision was prompted by direct requests from the Georgian, Armenian, and Armenian legislatures "to disengage the warring factions. "We cannot stay aside", he stressed. At the same time, he noted that Russia could control these states by slashing credits for them. He recalled that at a bill had been passed to limit credits abroad (the bulk of them to CIS countries) by 400 million dollars this year. "The figure means decimated credits. We do not want to finance war even indirectly," he said.
