FBIS3-32645 "drlat030aa_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Portuguese-Speaking Countries Agree To Create Union PY1102001494 Brasilia Voz do Brasil Network in Portuguese 2100 GMT 10 Feb 94 PY1102001494 Brasilia Voz do Brasil Network Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Report by Arlete Milhomen] [Text] The Portuguese-speaking countries community probably will be created before July. The foreign ministers of the seven Portuguese-speaking countries -- Brazil, Portugal, Angola, Guinea Bissau, Mozambique, Sao Tome and Principe, and Cape Verde -- today signed a joint communique as the basis for the establishment of the community of Portuguese-speaking countries. The document has 13 points that are fundamental for the group's implementation. The main items are: social, cultural, and economic cooperation among the countries' inhabitants; the implementation in the short term of the Portuguese Language International Institute; and support for an immediate cease-fire in Angola, where a civil war is under way. Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Amorim said the community will be a great opportunity to intensify relations among the member countries. He added that it will not prevent them from participating in other groups: [Begin recording] Brazil, for example, which is currently a UN Security Council member, has been acting in coordination with other countries. It is necessary, however, to make this coordination and common agreement more permanent then it is in other forums. In Latin America, for example, we participate in the Rio Group. Portugal is a EC member. The African Portuguese-speaking countries are OAU members. Therefore, this association will allow us to make better use of our common efforts. [end recording] The community of Portuguese-speaking countries will be comprised of more than 200 million people spread over three continents. In addition to the language, these peoples share historic and ethnic traits. The community will become official during a meeting of the member countries' chiefs of state, which probably will be held in Lisbon before July.
