FBIS3-12494 "drnes041_r_94004" FBIS-NES-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 SOUTH ASIA India Various Officials Comment BK2802161994 Delhi All India Radio Network in English 1530 GMT 28 Feb 94 BK2802161994 Delhi All India Radio Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The prime minister has described the budget as development oriented with emphasis on poverty alleviation. Talking to our correspondent, Mr. Narasimha Rao said the budget will mark another step toward achieving social justice. He said the fourth successive budget of Dr. Manmohan Singh is a soft one with no additional burden on the common man. The former finance minister, Mr. Madhu Dandavate, said that the budget will provide uninhibited access to multinationals leading to greater unemployment. He said it will also harden the decentralized sector. Mr. George Fernandes, Janata Dal, said the budget is for the 3 percent rich and there is nothing for the poor. Mr. K.P. Unnikrishnan, Congress-S, said that the budget is an excellent exercise to keep the reforms on the track. Mr. Indrajit Gupta, CPI [Communist Party of India], said it is oriented to provide the growth of the private sector only. The CPI-M [Communist Party of India-Marxist] leader, Mr. Somnath Chatterjee, has said that the poor will suffer more by the proposals and the finance minister has given self-reliance a go-back. The Janata Party president, Dr. Subramaniam Swamy, felt that the budget will lead to a setback to the reform process because of fiscal indiscipline. The Janata Dal has termed the budget as a sugar-coated one and said it will further squeeze the pocket of the common man. Talking to our correspondent, the finance minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh, said the main goal of the budget is removal of poverty and strengthening of the agricultural sector. It is toward this end the outlay on antipoverty programs have been stepped up by 40 percent and an additional 2,000 crore rupees has been provided. Dr. Singh asserted that the budget will not have any negative impact in inflation.
