FBIS3-3112 "drchi052_b_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 United States & Canada U.S. Investment To Be Sought at Bilateral Trade Conference HK1503073794 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 15 Mar 94 p 2 HK1503073794 Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:BFN [By staff reporter Wang Yong: "China Wants U.S. Project Aid"] [Text] China will seek American investment in about 800 industrial and agricultural projects next month at a Washington conference on bilateral trade, coming less than two months before a U.S. decision on Chinese trade status. This will be the largest promotion campaign staged by China in the United States in the past 15 years, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Co-operation (Moftec) announced yesterday. About 60 of the proposed projects will be hydraulic and thermal power stations that are expected to relieve China's electricity bottleneck, a Moftec spokesman said. Another 100 projects are related to the construction of roads, railways, airports and wharfs. The remaining 500 fall into machinery, electronics, petrochemical, metallurgical, husbandry and forestry. About 200 people from the State Council (China's cabinet), China Petrochemical Corporation, China North Industries Group, China National Petroleum Corporation and 25 provinces and cities will tour the U.S. for investment promotion. The U.S. has become one of the top three foreign investors in China with promised capital input in more than 1,000 projects valued at more than $6 billion. Chinese analysts predict U.S. investors will continue to land here as the two countries are apparently improving their economic relations. And many international trade observers have predicted that the U.S. will extend its most-favoured-nation (MFN) status to China this year, which provides Chinese goods with the lowest tariffs. China has insisted that the cancellation of MFN will definitely cast a pall over bilateral relations and business communities of both sides will be hurt. President Jiang Zemin reaffirmed on Sunday in his talks with U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher that differences in social systems and ideologies should not obstruct mutual co-operation. "And the impending trade forum in the U.S. will provide a better chance for U.S. businesses to locate investment opportunities in China," the Moftec spokesman said. The forum is to accompany a high-level conference in Washington with Chinese Foreign Trade Minister Wu Yi and U.S. Secretary of Commerce Ron Brown. The conference and the trade forum are timed before the U.S. decision on MFN status in June. China has managed to get the status as mutual means for the development of Sino-U.S. bilateral trade.
