FBIS4-13660 "drnes078_c_94005" FBIS-NES-94-078 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 Egypt Saudi Trade Minister Visits Cairo Saudi Trade Minister Visits Cairo LD2104135294 Riyadh SPA in English 1302 GMT 21 Apr 94 LD2104135294 Riyadh SPA English BFN [Text] Cairo, April 21, SPA -- Saudi Trade Minister Dr. Sulayman al-Salim arrived here Wednesday for an official visit to Egypt. He was greeted at the airport by First Economy and External Trade Undersecretary Dr. Midhat al-Juwayni and the minister plenipotentiary at the Saudi Embassy in Cairo Abu-Bakr Rafi'. Upon arrival, Dr. al-Salim said he would discuss with Egyptian Economy and External Trade Minister Dr. Mahmud Muhammad Bayumi overcoming hurdles to develop bilateral trade relations in the light of exempting many commodities of custom duties to increase their exchange between the two countries. He said he would also discuss with Dr. Bayumi removing obstacles hampering trade exchange. Pointing to the Saudi participation in the Cairo International Fair, he said the kingdom is keen on participating in this annual fair on both the official and businessmen levels adding that there are many opportunities for trade exchange between the two countries. Dr. al-Salim said the purpose of participating in the Cairo International Fair is to become acquainted with Egypt's accomplishments in various industries which are beginning to meet the domestic needs and appear in Saudi markets as well. He said another purpose is to display Saudi industrial products for Egyptian visitors of the fair, which provides an opportunity for Egyptian and Saudi businessmen to meet. He toured the Saudi pavilion at the fairand was briefed on the national products on display. He also visited the Egyptian General Investment Authority pavilion and was briefed on its contents by pavilion supervisors. Speaking to reporters later in the day, Dr. al-Salim said the volume of trade between the kingdom and Egypt has tripled over the past three years from 400 million to 1,200 million Egyptian pounds. He pointed to the huge Saudi investments in Egypt and stressed that the Egyptian-Saudi joint commission which convenes annually is assigned to remove obstacles hindering the economic cooperation between the two sisterly Arab countries. He applauded Egyptian economic policies and econimc reform measures and gave a brief account of the Saudi economic plans since the early seventies, which depend on the diversification of sources of revenue. He also pointed in this connection to the state's support for the private sector and businessmen and confirmed the importance of removing obstacles hindering the movement of capital and goods among Arab countries, instead of committing themselves to a common market.
