FBIS3-15175 "drsov042_a_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-042 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Shumeyko, Karadzic Comment on Meeting LD0203161994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1520 GMT 2 Mar 94 LD0203161994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Valeriy Sevryukov and Sergey Terekhov] [Text] Moscow, 2 Mar -- "Today Russia is on the side of the Bosnian Serbs," Vladimir Shumeyko, chairman of the Federation Council, declared at the end of the talks with Radovan Karadzic, leader of the Bosnian Serbs. He went on to specify that it was a question of peacekeeping efforts within the framework of the international process of a Bosnian settlement. "Russian President Boris Yeltsin took the initiative, and Radovan Karadzic accepted the initiative and met it half way. The peace process is continuing despite everything." This is not only a great achievement by Russian diplomacy, but a demonstration to the whole world of Russia's independent policy, Vladimir Shumeyko emphasized. It is now hard to separate military events from political ones, he continued. The decision we made yesterday -- we prepared Tuzla Airport for plane landings and humanitarian deliveries -- knocks the ground from under the feet of those forces that would like the confrontation to continue. Vladimir Shumeyko also stated that he "had a very high regard for the meeting and the current visit by Karadzic and his colleagues," which, according to him, "is of tremendous importance to the destiny of peoples." Radovan Karadzic, leader of the Bosnian Serbs, on his part, said: "Today we spoke about peace and about the possibility of establishing peace and Russian soldiers are a hope for us." He noted that U.S. interference in the Bosnian crisis was justified only if the Americans did not side with anyone in the conflict. No single country "can take the place of the United Nations," he noted. In order to achieve a settlement of the problem it is important that all of those who participate in this settlement should display an unbiased towards the various sides. We expect Russia to be on our side, Karadzic stressed, only on the question of achieving peace". We do not expect Russia to defend exclusively our interests." Radovan Karadzic also said that he does not differentiate between the peacekeeping forces on grounds of their nationality. Up to now, the Serbs have had "warm feelings" for all representatives of the peacekeeping forces regardless of their nationality. However, the Russian contingent enjoys the "special trust" of the Serbian population.
