FBIS3-16979 "drsov055_c_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 Federal Assembly Duma Committee Debates Quarterly Budget Breakdown MK2203101094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 22 Mar 94 p 2 MK2203101094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Rodion Ivanov report under the "Parliament" rubric: "How Much Money To Give to the Government? Duma Committee for Budget, Finance, Banks, and Credits Debated Wisdom of Presenting Quarterly Budgets"] [Text] An incomplete draft 1994 budget message came to the State Duma on the evening of 19 March with its classified part coming to the chamber yesterday morning. Yesterday, the Duma budget committee looked at the government's request to provide it with 10.6 million rubles [R] toward financing state outlays in April and May 1994. The cabinet had sent in a draft law where the government authorized the release of the given sum proceeding from the draft budget for this year, taking account of the current situation in the financial sphere and the receipt of money by the state treasury and the Central Bank cash department. The committee at first ruled that financing should be kept open throughout the first quarter, while the sum to be released should be further discussed with the Finance Ministry. Besides, out of the basis, only proportions of the 1994 budget remained. The committee then passed an amendment proposed by its deputy chairman Aleksandr Pochinok to the effect that the law should regulate the allocation of money throughout the first half- year. In this manner members of the committee decided to eliminate inconsistencies in the proportions of financing: most of the money spent in the first quarter had been earmarked by the government for defense and the law enforcement organs rather than on social spending. Incidentally, R7.5 trillion known to have been earmarked under the president's edict for the first three months of 1994 was spent approximately early in March. Inconsistencies in financing proportions compelled members of the budget committee to make a decision on whether the government should submit to the Duma, in addition to the annual budget, its quarter- by-quarter breakdown. This was sharply opposed by committee deputy chairman Gennadiy Kulik, who stated that this would cause a quarrel between the Duma and the government. Aleksandr Pochinok supported his colleague, saying that the Duma would in fact return the annual budget without discussing it if it sets the given condition: a mandatory quarter-by-quarter presentation.
