FBIS3-4834 "dreas041_n_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 Vietnam NHAN DAN Hails Visit by Goh Chok Tong BK0203080894 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network in Vietnamese 2300 GMT 1 Mar 94 BK0203080894 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network Language: Vietnamese Article Type:BFN [NHAN DAN 2 March Editorial: "Strengthen the Vietnam-Singapore Relations of Friendship and Cooperation"] [Text] At the invitation of Vietnamese Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet, Singaporean Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong is paying an official friendship visit to Vietnam today. Following the official friendship visit to Singapore by party General Secretary Do Muoi and Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet, the official visit to Vietnam by the Singaporean Prime Minister is a new, important event asserting the common aspiration of the two countries' leaders in strengthening the bilateral relations of friendship and cooperation, thereby contributing to restoring peace and stability and promoting cooperation and development in the Southeast Asian region. We share Singapore's pleasure with its great achievements in national construction. During the past 30 years, through various creative development programs, the Singaporean Government and people have led the small country, with a sparse population and minimal natural resources, to advance to a developmental peak and become a world renowned economic, trade, and financial center. In 1993, Singapore attained 9.8 percent economic growth compared with 5.6 percent in 1992. The electronic industries increased by 25 percent and the vessel building industry by 18.8 percent; about 6.4 million tourists visited the country last year, increasing national income by 6.9 percent. Singapore's per capita income now reaches $18,000 [as heard]. Vietnam and Singapore are close friends who have maintained diplomatic relations since 1973. Since Singapore lifted its trade embargo on Vietnam in 1991, Vietnam-Singapore economic and trade cooperation has developed vigorously. Today, Singapore is one of Vietnam's biggest trade partners. The two-way trade value in 1993 reached $1.4 billion compared with $110 million in 1980. Up to January this year, Singapore has 54 projects in Vietnam with an investment capital of $431 million. In this, it leads the ASEAN countries and is ranked sixth among foreign investors in Vietnam. Various bilateral agreements on civil aviation, shipping, sea transportation, trade, investment insurance, and protection of the environment are being satisfactorily implemented. We sincerely thank the Singaporean Government for attaching importance to promoting relations with Vietnam, especially in the trade and economic domains. We appreciate Singapore's efforts in sharing with Vietnam its rich experiences in economic management and national development. During his official visit to Singapore in October last year, General Secretary Do Muoi asserted that Vietnam and Singapore have many firm bases for strengthening bilateral relations. The Vietnamese and Singaporean peoples share the same spirit of maintaining national independence, promoting self-reliance, and upholding the national characteristics. They also share a common wish to develop the general trend of peace, stability, and development in the region and the world. We are confident that the official friendship visit to Vietnam by Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong will significantly contribute to promoting mutual understanding and trust and expanding the multifaceted cooperation between Vietnam and Singapore.
