FBIS4-25100 "drchi108_v_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-108 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 TAIWAN Generals, Others Impeached Over Submarine Deals Generals, Others Impeached Over Submarine Deals OW0506074994 Taipei China Broadcasting Corporation News Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 2 Jun 94 OW0506074994 Taipei China Broadcasting Corporation News Network Mandarin BFN [From the "Hookup" program] [Text] The Control Yuan passed an impeachment motion yesterday morning regarding S-2T antisubmarine helicopter purchases. Eight high-ranking Air Force officers -- including Generals Kuo Ju-lin and Chen Shing-ling, former Air Force commanders-in-chief; three lieutenant generals who handled the case; and three major generals -- will be impeached and [words indistinct] for negligence of duty in violation of the law because their poor planning has delayed an upgrading of combat effectiveness and affected combat readiness. The motion, which was filed by Control Yuan members (Li Sheng-i) and (Chao Jung-yao), involves the highest military officers in the history of Control Yuan impeachment proceedings against the military. It also represents the first time that the Control Yuan has impeached top-ranking generals who were formerly chiefs of the general staff. The people being impeached include Gen. Kuo Ju-lin and Gen. Chen Shing-ling, who were former Air Force commanders-in- chief; Lt. Gen. (Hsia Tian), former deputy chief of the Defense Ministry's planning section; Lt. Gen. (Kuo Yun), former chief of the Defense Ministry's purchasing mission in the United States; Lt. Gen. (Lin Ke-cheng), former deputy chief of the Defense Ministry's logistics section; Maj. Gen. (Yin Tao-chiang) and Maj. Gen. (Lin Shifen), former chiefs of the Air Force General Headquarters logistics office; and Maj. Gen. [name indistinct], deputy chief of the Air Force General Headquarters logistics office. The eight military officers being impeached were in charge of purchasing S-2T antisubmarine helicopters while in office. They have since left their posts.
