FBIS4-54682 "dreeu086_i_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-086 Daily Report 3 May 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Hogg: External Borders `Must Not Be Touched' Hogg: External Borders `Must Not Be Touched' AU0305185794 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 1700 GMT 3 May 94 AU0305185794 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by Mladen Bosnjak on a news conference by Douglas Hogg, Minister of State at the British Foreign Office, in Sarajevo on 3 May -- recorded; Hogg speaks in English with superimposed Serbo-Croatian translation] [Text] [Bosnjak] My visit has focused on the implementation of the Washington Agreement and the work of the contact group, Douglas Hogg said. I am encouraged by the pragmatic views expressed by Mr. Silajdzic. From what I heard in Zagreb yesterday and in Sarajevo today, I can see that there is commitment to the implementation of the agreement. My impression is that the most important thing is to have a clear geographic delineation between the cantons. There is no doubt that the Serb side is to be blamed for the current situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina but, despite that, it cannot be excluded from the negotiations. From my talks with Prime Minister Silajdzic I gathered that there are limits beyond which one cannot go, and the most important one concerns the external borders of Bosnia-Herzegovina. Those must not be touched, but there is still room for a much looser agreement on the relations between the Serbs on the one hand and the Muslim-Croat federation on the other. It is important to stress that the contact group consists of those countries that have so far played the most significant role, and will continue to play it in the future. It is also important that Russia is also included, Hogg said, and added: [Hogg] The contact group is engaged in two main tasks. The first is to achieve a cease-fire for a limited period, and the second is to try to find an agreement between the Bosniaks, the Croats, and the Serbs. I think that the engagement of the contact group is a big step ahead.
