FBIS4-57530 "drlat098_k_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-098 Daily Report 18 May 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina Labor Union Discuss Strategy for ILO Assembly Labor Union Discuss Strategy for ILO Assembly PY1905160594 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1952 GMT 18 May 94 PY1905160594 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS Spanish BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, 18 May (NA) -- Union sources have reported that the CGT [General Confederation of Labor] has decided to criticize, before the International Labor Organization (ILO), adjustment policies that cause a "strong deterioration in the living condition of workers," but without making specific reference to the situation in Argentina. The decision was made today, during a meeting at which the CGT analyzed the strategy the labor central will adopt at the ILO annual assembly, due to be held in Geneva, Switzerland, in June. Analysis of the matter will continue tomorrow at 1000 during a meeting of the CGT national secretariat at the labor central's headquarters. The agenda will also include a review of the latest contacts with entrepreneurs and legislators in search for a consensus on labor laws, in-service accidents, and migration of foreign workers. It was leaked that CGT Secretary General Antonio Cascia's speech to the ILO Assembly will seek to strengthen ILO policy, and will reiterate the objections the bloc of Latin American countries has raised before ILO authorities. Cascia's speech, which has not yet been written, will focus on objections to neoliberal adjustment policies and their negative consequences for workers. In this regard, the sources said Cascia's speech "will maintain a low profile" in dealing with the Argentine workers' situation. Latin American countries recently held a seminar in Buenos Aires on the "role of workers within the ILO," during which the international organization was asked to promote "the strengthening of workers' rights and the improvement of their working conditions." The CGT will also demand the promotion of tripartite negotiations "to promote fair, equitable development," in line with the conclusions of the seminar, which Cascia will reiterate in his speech to the ILO Assembly. Cascia will ask the ILO to begin an international campaign to approve a World Charter of Workers' Rights, including the rules referring to human rights." [no opening quotation marks as received] The CGT meeting today was also attended by leader Alfredo Atanasof (municipal workers), Juan Jose Zanola (bank workers), Ramon Valle (insurance workers), Ramon Baldassini (FOECYT) [Federation of Postal and Telecommunication Workers], and Carlos Gdansky (UOM) [Metalworkers Union].
