FBIS3-28866 "dreas030_c_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 North Korea U.S. Conservatives' Call for Sanctions Decried SK1202052794 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0516 GMT 12 Feb 94 SK1202052794 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["The U.S. Must Act With Discretion" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, February 12 (KCNA) -- The U.S. hardline conservatives are urging the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to accept a comprehensive inspection and trying to bring its "nuclear problem" to the United Nations Security Council, while egging some countries on to join in "sanctions" against the DPRK. Commenting on this, NODONG SINMUN and MINJU CHOSON today say this is a scheme to bring the situation to a hopeless phase. A NODONG SINMUN analyst says: Their call for a comprehensive inspection can never be justified both in view of the special position of the DPRK, which has temporarily suspended the effectuation of the withdrawal from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the agreement reached between the DPRK and the United States. Nevertheless, the U.S. hardline conservatives are urging the DPRK to accept a comprehensive inspection and openly scheming to take "sanctions" against the DPRK unless their demand was met. This cannot be construed otherwise than an act to obstruct a peaceful solution to the nuclear issue and intentionally bring the situation to a hopeless phase. France, which possesses nuclear weapons and has been bitterly denounced by the world peaceloving people for its many nuclear tests, has the hardihood to join the United States in its nuclear clamor. This invites hatred from the people. We have already declared in an explicit term that we would consider any kind of "sanctions" to be something like a declaration of war against us. It is well known a fact that we never utter empty words. The U.S. hardline conservatives and their lackeys must ponder over what dangerous consequences their moves may entail. The United States must know well whom it is dealing with and act with discretion. A MINJU CHOSON analyst says that if the United States try to overpower the DPRK with "strength," it would be a big mistake and it would meet defeat more serious than that it suffered in the Korean war in the '50s.
