FBIS3-17759 "drsov060_a_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Failure To Join NATO Partnership May Lead to Isolation LD2803185594 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1637 GMT 28 Mar 94 LD2803185594 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] In the present political and military-strategic situation in the world Russia could refrain from joining the NATO program Partnership for Peace. However, Moscow would then sacrifice its partnership with NATO countries, lose initiative in military cooperation and remain an outsider to European processes. A high ranking official from the Russian Defence Ministry expressed this opinion to Interfax Monday. He said the Russian leadership views the program as an intermediate stage in forming a new collective security system in Europe. He stressed that at the moment NATO is changing its policy of deterrence through intimidation towards Russia to deterrence through cooperation. The official said that if Moscow joins the program it is going to press for a status in line with its significance in the world. The fact that Russia is a Eurasian nation should also be taken into account, making the CIS collective security treaty the most important matter. He also named the main purposes of Russian participation in the program: 1. Active involvement in the formation of the new European collective security system based on equal rights and responsibilities of members. 2. The formation of an effective mechanism for preventing wars and conflicts that could serve as a prototype for the military structure of future European security. 3. The official recognition by NATO partners of the special responsibility of Russia for maintaining peace in the CIS. 4. The spreading of confidence-building measures to the military-technical sphere with the purpose of halting any new spirals of the arms race, a well-considered strategy of conversion. The official told Interfax that none of the political or military leaders are thinking of Russian integration in NATO military structures. "We believe in the need for cooperation and interaction with the alliance in the interests of peace and the security of Europe and Russia", he said.
