FBIS3-35896 "drsov021_p_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 CAUCASUS Armenia Russian Initiative To End Fighting in Karabakh Viewed LD3101141694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1303 GMT 31 Jan 94 LD3101141694 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Georgiy Shmelyov] [Text] Moscow January 31 TASS -- Russia has put forward a new initiative suggesting to completely cease fire in Nagorno-Karabakh, beginning from February 1, 1994, for a minimum period of two-three weeks. The Russian proposal to this effect was conveyed several days ago by a special representative of the Russian president, Vladimir Kazimirov, to the Azeri President Geydar Aliyev, Armenian President Levon Ter-Petrosyan and Nagorno-Karabakh leader, Robert Kocharyan. Depending on the reaction to this proposal by the sides concerned further steps are envisaged to cease combat operations in Nagorno-Karabakh. It is not ruled out that a meeting between the warring sides will take place in Moscow during this week. Heavy fighting with alternative success have been going on around Nagorno-Karabakh since the second half of December, 1993. As a result of the bloodshed, several thousands people were reported dead and thousands others were injured, predominantly on the side launching an offensive. New escalation of military operations is even more pointless because leaders of all warring sides admit that the conflict cannot be resolved by military means and come out in favour of its political settlement, a source from the Russian Foreign Ministry said. The repetition of the bloodshed seriously hampers peace-keeping efforts made both by Russia and international organisations, the same source said. Russia, as a mediator, seeks to bridge the gap between the warring sides and convince them that they should immediately sign an agreement on the cessation of armed confrontation and prevent further destabilisation of the situation in the region. Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev met with the head of Azeri foreign policy department, Gasan Gasanov, his Armenian counterpart, Vagan Papazyan, and a representative of the Nagorno- Karabakh leadership, Arkady Gukasyan, in Moscow in the second half of December, 1993.
