FBIS3-34565 "drnes027_a_94001" FBIS-NES-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria Dembri Predicts Amnesty `Soon,' Elections in 3 Years PM0902112694 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 9 Feb 94 pp 1, 4 PM0902112694 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by 'Abd-al-Hamid al-Yahyawi: "Algerian Foreign Minister: Zeroual To Issue General Amnesty"] [Text] Brussels--Algerian Foreign Minister Mohamed Salah Dembri announced yesterday that Algeria has abandoned the security option in favor of dialogue. He stressed that the dialogue is being conducted with all political groups without exception. He urged the renunciation of violence. He said: Elections will be held in three years. In a statement to AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT, Dembri said that a general amnesty will be issued soon for all political prisoners. The Algerian foreign minister was speaking to AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Brussels, where he attended the meetings of the European-Algerian joint cooperation council. He asked for European aid to help to extricate Algeria from its economic crisis. It was announced yesterday that President Liamine Zeroual had received the national dialogue committee, which arranged the national conference held on 25 January. On the situation in Algeria, Dembri said: The dialogue plan is continuing among all Algerian political groups without exception. It is essential, because the political and economic crisis requires united efforts from all Algerian people. We also urge those taking part in national accord to renounce violence as a means to reach or remain in power. I believe that in three years we will return to the electoral march and build a new legitimacy to establish an authority in Algeria. Pointing out that he is the foreign minister and a member of the committee that appointed the head of state, he said: I believe that President Zeroual has from the outset -- as mentioned in his swearing-in speech and the speech delivered the day before yesterday -- clarified the new framework for dialogue in Algeria, clearly excluding the security option as a solution in Algeria and giving precedence to dialogue. Because security and stability are the responsibility of every Algerian man and woman. Dembri added: There are very reassuring prospects in Algeria, which causes us to ask Arab public opinion to support the transition phase the country is experiencing and not to choose between Algeria's sons. Regarding his current mission in Brussels, the Algerian foreign minister said: We are hoping to reach during our meetings with European officials a formula leading to the signing of a new partnership agreement between Algeria and the EC as soon as possible and laying common ground for a free exchange between the two parties. The agreement we are seeking will also expand within the framework of cooperation with the Maghreb community, especially Tunisia and Morocco. It is necessary that we as the Maghreb Union act as a bloc to negotiate with the EC in order to guarantee for ourselves a flourishing future.
