FBIS3-38553 "drweu024__a94029" FBIS-WEU-94-024-A Document Type:Daily Report 4 February 1994 ANNEX Germany Arab League Secretary Thanks FRG for Support for Peace AU0302150794 Hamburg DPA in German 1152 GMT 3 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0302150794 Hamburg DPA Language: German Article Type:BFN [Text] Bonn (DPA) -- On Thursday [3 February] 'Ismat 'Abd-al-Majid, secretary general of the Arab League, thanked the Federal Government in Bonn for its work for the benefit of the Middle East peace process and its support for the Palestinian side. On the occasion of the first hoisting of the flag in front of the former unofficial PLO mission and current Palestinian delegation general, 'Abd-al-Majid said: "This event demonstrates the further development and depth of German-Arab relations. We are satisfied with and happy about this development." The Egyptian politician, who has been in Bonn since Wednesday for a three-day visit, particularly stressed the dedication of Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel. 'Abd-al-Majid and Kinkel want to discuss the progress of the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations and the expansion of German-Arab relations on Friday. In an interview with DPA, 'Abd-al-Majid said that there are still "some difficulties" to be overcome in the peace process. "However, the Arab countries have decided to strive for peace and for a solution that will bring peace and stability to the region." The Arab League will provide help if this can contribute to a successful conclusion of the negotiations. Previously, 'Abd-al-Majid, together with Palestinian Delegate General 'Abdallah Franji, had hoisted the black-white-green flag with the red triangle. The ceremony was attended by Arab ambassadors, representatives of the Foreign Ministry, and about 100 Palestinians who live in Germany. 'Abdallah Franji, who has lived in Bonn for many years as the unofficial PLO representative, said this was one of the "best experiences of my life." After the visit by PLO chief Yasir 'Arafat in December, Bonn had revalued his office to a delegation general.
