FBIS3-46493 "dreas001_m_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 Thailand `Major Shakeup' in Police Department Approved BK3112030793 Bangkok BANGKOK POST in English 31 Dec 93 p 3 BK3112030793 Bangkok BANGKOK POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The Police Service Commission yesterday approved a major shakeup involving 130 top policemen to complement a new police structure to come into effect as of January 23. Under the reshuffle list approved at yesterday's meeting of the commission chaired by acting police chief Prathin Santipraphop, six police commissioners will be promoted to become assistant police directors-general. They are Narcotics Suppression Bureau chief Kowit Phakdiphum, Personnel Bureau chief Michai Nukunkit, Central Investigation Bureau [CIB] chief Thanu Homhuan, Logistics Bureau chief Wirun Funsaen, Metropolitan Police chief Chamlong Iamchaengphan and Border Patrol Police [BPP] chief Chatchai Chai-arun. Pol Lt-Gen [Police Lieutentant-General] Chamlong is expected to be replaced at the city police headquarters by Pol Lt-Gen Chaiyasit Kanchanakit, currently an inspector-general. Second, Third and Fourth Region Provincial Police Commissioners Prachit Saengsubin, Nopphakao Tunyasiri and Kraisuk Sinsuk will become commissioners serving as deputy chiefs of the regional police headquarters. First Region Provincial Police Commissioner Suriya Moranon will be made commissioner attached to the Police Department and responsible for coordinating with the National Security Council. Deputy BPP Commissioner Kowit Watthana will be promoted the BPP chief. Third Region Provincial Police chief Charuk Mekwichai will be commissioner of the Immigration Bureau. Deputy Metropolitan Police Commissioner Thirachai Riancharoen, Fourth Region Provincial Police Deputy Commissioners Sarot Chintawirot and Sunthon Saikhuan, CIB deputy chief Chamnan Suwankit, and First Region Provincial Police Deputy Commissioner Khet Nimsombun will become commissioners serving as deputy chief of the regional police headquarters. Crime Suppression division [CSD] chief Luan Panrotsathip will become assistant CIB chief and will be succeeded at the CSD by Pol Maj-Gen [Police Major General] Wannarat Khotcharat, commander of the Southern Bangkok Metropolitan Police headquarters.
