FBIS3-9083 "dreeu054_i_94010" FBIS-EEU-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Karadzic Conditions Talks on Lifting Sanctions AU2003204394 Pristina TVP Television Network in Serbo-Croatian 1830 GMT 20 Mar 94 AU2003204394 Pristina TVP Television Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Interview with Radovan Karadzic, president of the Srpska republic, by unidentified correspondent; place and date not given -- recorded] [Text] [Correspondent] Mr. President, the Croat and Muslim sides in the former Bosnia-Herzegovina have reached an agreement on federation. The Serbian side was generously offered the opportunity to join the agreement and express its stand on this federation agreement between Croats and Muslims. What is understood so far is that the Serbian side is not going to join the agreements bilaterally. [Karadzic] First of all, the agreement was made without us and without any participation by us, so I do not see how somebody can expect us to join and accept something that others have adjusted to their own needs. As regards their own right to live as they want to, we have no comment. This is derived from their sovereign right to determine the way in which they are going to live, as well as their mutual relations. We are retaining this same right for ourselves. However, within the European Conference on Bosnia-Herzegovina we accepted certain obligations toward the European Community and have fulfilled these obligations. The European Community, as a representative of the international community, has accepted some obligations toward us and should fulfill these obligations. We are not going to enter any new conference until these obligations are fulfilled, and they mostly regard the lifting or suspension of sanctions against the Serbian people. Any further talks imply a relation on an equal footing between the negotiating sides and in this respect the Serbian side cannot negotiate if it is not freed from sanctions, that is to say, if it is not treated in an equal fashion. In any case, we are not going to refuse to negotiate all possible alternatives. What we see as priorities are, first, that the war should stop. Second, a just delimitation [delimitacija] should be carried out and borders established. Third, only then should we decide what relations should be established between these new entities. Here I do not think only about the Serbian Republic, but also about the Republic of Serbian Krajina and Croatia and the Croatian-Muslim Federation and Yugoslavia. In any case, relations between the new entities will present much less problem than the delimitation, and delimitation is much less of a problem than putting a stop to war. Therefore, one should first stop the war. The Serbs are ready to stop the war without setting any conditions, so we should not fight anywhere. However, as regards all other things, that would nevertheless rather like starting a new conference and to enter a new conference, we demand that the international community fulfill its obligations towards us.
