FBIS4-31335 "dreeu110__a94016" FBIS-EEU-94-110-A Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 ANNEX Romania Minister: Mass Privatization To Begin 1 Sep Minister: Mass Privatization To Begin 1 Sep AU0306190894 Bucharest ROMPRES in English 1117 GMT 3 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0306190894 Bucharest ROMPRES English BFN [Text] Bucharest ROMPRES, 3/6/1994 -- "Mass privatization will begin by 1 September 1994," said Mircea Cosea, head of the Governmental Council for Economic Coordination, Strategy, and Reform. "We have reached a phase when some successes in the macro-economic stabilization have been obtained through monetary instruments," said Reform Minister Mircea Cosea, cited by the daily ADEVARUL. The reform minister said that these "fragile" successes must be consolidated through "substantial measures in the real economy" with privatization as the most important one. Privatization will lead "not only to the change of the ownership structure, but also of the economic structure, of the industrial structure in the first place," said Minister Cosea. Beginning 1 September, the ownership certificates previously granted to the people may be exchanged for shares in commercial companies. According to the privatization law, the aggregate value of the ownership certificates represent 30 percent of the aggregate nominal capital of all Romanian commercial companies, so far owned by the state. The public will have the alternative of keeping these certificates with the Private Property Fund (FPP) that are going to act as fund manager, caring for dividend payments. The public can also chose to sell these certificates on the market. The mechanisms of this economic-financial process will be actuated as soon as the summer with an advertising campaign meant to introduce to the public the 3,000 companies whose shares will be offered to the public in exchange for ownership certificates. "The most delicate problem is the setting of a value to these certificates," said Minister Cosea. At the time being, the "value" of the certificates is understated on the black market as well as by the Private Property Fund, opined the minister. A value closer to reality can be obtained through an accurate evaluation of the nominal capital of the companies as done by the end of 1993.
