FBIS4-34350 "drlat118_b_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 Haiti Provisional Health Minister Presents Priorities Provisional Health Minister Presents Priorities FL1706225994 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole in French 1600 GMT 17 Jun 94 FL1706225994 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole French BFN [Text] The sessions of the ministers of the Jonassaint government have resumed in the Senate of the Republic, Sansaricq branch. The minister of Health was received on 16 June by the contested 18 January elected senators and some senators from the Alliance for Parliamentary Cohesion. In his presentation, Dr. Jean Boirond insisted, at length, on the necessity for the Haitian state to take control of public health throughout the country. Moreover, he denounced the attitude of the nongovernmental organizations [NGO's] and of the World Health Organization [WHO] which attempt, according to the minister, to replace the Haitian state in the health fields. [Begin Boirond recording] The NGO's have taken advantage of the political situation, with the complicity of the international organizations in general, and the representation of the health organizations, especially WHO, by attempting to replace, and in some specific fields, in fact usurp, the prerogatives granted to the Health Ministry by the Constitution and the laws in effect. The objectives that we are aiming at, since our appointment, are first: to reestablish the authority and credibility of the Ministry of Public Health and Population; second, to put in operation some central and outlying structures of the Ministry of Public Health and Population; third, to guarantee an acceptable level of care as much in quality as quantity for the overall population and, especially for the populations in difficulty; and fourth, to prepare the transition. We have been giving ourselves priorities that I am going to present for your judgment. First, we think it is necessary to make primary medical care available, for which some assistance is already available in the country at the level of primary health care. Our second priority is still the hospital of Haitian State University, the national point of reference. Our third objective is the creation of ambulatory medical assistance with the creation of a mobile surgery unit. [end recording]
