FBIS4-3088 "drchi074_n_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-074 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 Economic & Agricultural Some Export Quotas To Be Allocated By Bid Some Export Quotas To Be Allocated By Bid HK1704073194 Hong Kong ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE in English 0433 GMT 16 Apr 94 HK1704073194 Hong Kong ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE English BFN [Text] Beijing, April 16 (CNS) -- A trial practice with public bidding for the allocation of quotas for certain export products will be included in some relevant regulations soon to be promulgated, according to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation. Import and export companies having rights to foreign trade with the approval of the ministry and which are also members of commercial associations for import and export, production oriented enterprises and foreign-funded enterprises will be allowed to enter the bidding. Enterprises making successful bids cannot make use of the quota to transfer the quota with payment to other enterprises within a stated period of time without prior consent from the authorities. A particular enterprise which makes such a transfer has to pay the charges for the transfer which must be carried out in a specific place designated by the authorities. Overcounter [as received] transfers will be strictly prohibited and the transferee enterprise has to meet the conditions required for the bidding of a particular commodity. No further transfer of the quota will be allowed. Enterprises which find it difficult to meet the obligations required in foreign trade nor able to transfer the quota they won, have to submit the quota to the bidding office within a stated period of time. [sentence as received] The quota received will be included in the next bidding. Part of the expense of the bidding will be refunded to the enterprise returning the quota. Enterprises will not be qualified for the next bidding if they fail to make use of the quota they won, did not make a proper transfer or submitted the unused quota to the bidding office within a specific period of time. They will also lose their qualification for bidding in the following two years if they make a transfer of quota which they won by bidding without prior consent from the bidding office.
