FBIS4-23901 "drafr118_c_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Steyn Report Said To Show Collusion Steyn Report Said To Show Collusion MB1806120094 Johannesburg NEW NATION in English 17 Jun 94 p 3 MB1806120094 Johannesburg NEW NATION English BFN [By Jimmy Steepe] [Text] The first glimpse into the report compiled by former South African Defence Force [SADF] General Pierre Steyn into the activities of the Military Intelligence's Directorate of Covert Collection [DCC] points to high level collusion between the police and the defence force. And the common link between the two is former Vlakplaas commander, Eugene De Kock, who is named in reports of the Steyn investigation as well as the Goldstone Commission. The Attorney General of the Transvaal, Dr Jan D'Oliveira, told NEW NATION that De Kock's name appears in Gen Steyn's report as well as the Goldstone Commission reports dealing with Third Force violence. Gen Steyn was appointed by former President F.W. de Klerk to investigate the DCC following a Goldstone Commission raid on the directorate's offices in Pretoria in 1992. D'Oliveira also said that activities to which De Kock had allegedly been linked included train and hostel violence. De Kock gained notoriety when he was charged with training of Askaris [former ANC members working for the South African Police] at the Vlakplaas base of the South African Police in the 1980's. "We are investigating various incidents of violence in the train and hostels that could be tied-up together with De Kock's activities," D'Oliveira said. "There are certain similarities appearing in the Steyn and Goldstone Commission reports which we are investigating". "We have a large number of things which we are looking at which De Kock might have been involved in," he said. "Incidents of train and hostel violence feature high up in the investigation". Meanwhile, mystery surrounds the whereabouts of the complete report compiled by Steyn into the DCC. Lawyers say that in terms of procedure the report should have been handed to the then State President F.W. de Klerk. But De Klerk's spokesperson, Richard Carter, told NEW NATION that no such report existed in the Deputy President's office. Carter said the former president was briefed "verbally" about the findings of the commission but because it was an "internal matter" it did not warrant a written report. Questions about Steyn's report first came to light when President Nelson Mandela asked De Klerk to hand him the report during a television debate shortly before the elections. De Klerk, who appeared embarrassed, told Mandela that he could not hand him the report because he felt it did not contain any sensitive information that warranted his attention. However, almost 18 months after the report was handed to De Klerk, there has been no subsequent finding from either the police or the Attorney-General's office on the relevance of Steyn's findings. Asked about the report, Steyn said he did not think it appropriate to comment. What is known, however, is that a number of senior officers were suspended from duty following the report. Lawyers for Human Rights spokesperson, Jody Kollapen, told NEW NATION that he found it difficult to believe that De Klerk, who had asked for the investigation, did not get a copy of the report. Kollapen said he thought it was "standard government procedure that after every commission a report should be handed to the state president for consideration. "If General Steyn was commissioned by the state president to conduct the investigation, De Klerk should have been the first person to have received his report." "I find it strange that someone who had commissioned a report would feel it was not necessary to study the finding even when further investigation was necessary," said Kollapen. "I do not believe that De Klerk was not given a copy of the report." The DCC members were sacked by De Klerk following the Goldstone Commission raid on their offices and the subsequent investigation by General Steyn.
