FBIS4-31190 "dreeu109_r_94009" FBIS-EEU-94-109 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 ROMANIA Leotard Holds News Conference Leotard Holds News Conference AU0306145394 Bucharest Radio Romania Network in Romanian 1000 GMT 3 Jun 94 AU0306145394 Bucharest Radio Romania Network Romanian BFN [Text] Francois Leotard, French minister of state for defense, expressed his satisfaction with the political and military dialogue he had in Bucharest and termed those talks as very positive, report our correspondents Doina Saiciuc and Nicu Popescu, who attended the news conference organized this morning at the residence of France's ambassador to Bucharest. During the talks, the French defense minister said, they examined the problems of Europe's security architecture, regional security, and military cooperation. Leotard termed as very close the two parties' assessments of the Partnership for Peace initiative and the stability pact, which was initiated by French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur. Leotard announced that he had proposed to the Romanian party that the French and Romanian navies should hold joint drills and that he had invited the Romanian minister of national defense to visit Paris. Gheorghe Tinca, who also attended the news conference, said that he had accepted Leotard's invitation with pleasure and that his visit is to take place in the month of September, after which he emphasized that the Bucharest talks were the logical continuation of the talks held by the presidents of Romania and France, Ion Iliescu and Francois Mitterrand. Tinca also noted the similar evaluations made by the two parties in the domains of regional and European security, as well as the readiness of the French party to cooperate with our country. This morning Romanian Foreign Minister Teodor Melescanu also held talks with Francois Leotard. According to our reporter, their talks focused on the principal geopolitical trends, with a special emphasis on the military angle. Besides recent evolutions in former Yugoslavia, Russia, and Ukraine, they also touched on the subject of the Partnership for Peace and the Balladur pact for stability in Europe. The French minister was also received at Cotroceni Palace.
