FBIS3-6574 "dreas054_d_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 South Korea North-South Contact Held on 19 Mar in Panmunjom Ends Abruptly; No New Date Set SK1903024594 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network in Korean 0200 GMT 19 Mar 94 SK1903024594 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [Text] The inter-Korean working contact held in Panmunjom today ruptured in about 50 minutes from the start of the talks. The inter-Korean working contact for the exchange of special envoys ruptured at 1055 [0155 GMT], less than one hour after the contact began. The two sides did not even set the date for the next contact. The eighth working contact for the inter-Korean exchange of special envoys began with acute conflict of positions between the two sides. Our side, in a keynote statement, urged the North side to come to the working contact for envoy exchange and to agree on the written agreement for envoy exchange at an early date, and warned that the South side cannot be held responsible for the development of the situation henceforth due to the North side's rejection of nuclear inspections. Our side also strongly demanded that the North side immediately stop the slander and vilification against the person in our highest authority and cease antigovernment agitations. At this, the North side attributed the failure to realize the envoy exchange to the South side's attitude and claimed that the four demands the North side has put forward are completely justified in view of the prevailing situation. The North side said that it cannot but gravely regard the South side's leading the inter-Korean relations to a phase of confrontation, and threatened that conflict arising therefrom will lead to war. The North side said that it will respond to dialogue with dialogue and to war with war and that it is prepared to take all necessary steps, and declared that if the South side wishes to part from the North, the South side should clearly say so. [kyolbyrul haryomyon kyolbyorul hadunji].
