FBIS4-44636 "jpest011__l94021" JPRS-EST-94-011-L JPRS Science & Technology Europe 4 February 1994 WEST EUROPE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY Germany: Mannesmann Kienzle Sets Up Micromechanics Center Germany: Mannesmann Kienzle Sets Up Micromechanics Center for Automobile Sensors MI0303110094 Munich MARKT & TECHNIK in German 4 Feb 94 pp 1,8--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY MI0303110094 Munich MARKT & TECHNIK German BFN [Text] Mannesmann Kienzle has recently opened a micromechanics center at its factory in Villingen-Schwenningen. The company uses the cleanroom to manufacture the silicon-based acceleration sensors that it has developed itself, and which are designed primarily for use in motor vehicle applications. Mannesmann Kienzle has invested all of 4.5 million German marks [DM] to build the new manufacturing center, where acceleration sensors are produced using processes similar to those involved in the production of electronic devices: photolithography, diffusion, and etching. However, the main focus here is not on obtaining electrical functions, but on setting up mechanical functions on the minutest area. As in the manufacture of ICs [integrated circuits], the sensor "chips" are fabricated on a wafer, which is processed under cleanroom conditions (class 100). One wafer accommodates 99 sensors. The micromechanical production plant is designed for a capacity of up to 1 million sensors a year. The sensors work as follows: The silicon chip is etched in such a way as to create a freely oscillating inert mass positioned between, but not touching, two aluminum electrodes. The electrodes are mounted on two glass platelets, which are fixed together and also constitute the sensor housing. The two electrodes and the inert mass between them form a differential capacitor. The capacitances of the two capacitors vary according to the excursion of the silicon mass. If the sensor is now subjected to acceleration, the amount of acceleration can be measured from the fluctuations in capacitance. Mannesmann Kienzle's main target market is the automobile industry. Production Manager Wolfgang Tauser anticipates an annual growth rate of about 90 percent for the sensors over the next few years.
