FBIS3-13417 "drnes049_l_94012" FBIS-NES-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 ISRAEL Russian Foreign Minister Holds Talks With Rabin Kozyrev Delivers Message From Yeltsin TA1103144594 Tel Aviv IDF Radio in Hebrew 1400 GMT 11 Mar 94 TA1103144594 Tel Aviv IDF Radio Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Report by political correspondent Udi Segal from the Defense Ministry in Tel Aviv ] [Text] Four hours ago, Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev arrived on a lightning visit designed to help Israel and the PLO resume negotiations. At this very minute, he is meeting with Yitzhaq Rabin, prime minister and defense minister, at the Defense Ministry in Tel Aviv. Kozyrev has brought a personal message from Russian President Boris Yeltsin. The Russian minister has brought no new proposals, contrary to anticipation in Israel prompted by his observations in Moscow about proposals unacceptable to Israel, such as a second Madrid conference and an armed international force in the territories. Emerging from his meeting with Peres a short while ago, he rejected these proposals. Asked about the second Madrid conference concept, Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev answered as follows: [Begin Kozyrev recording, in English] What we have to do right now is to save the process as it is and finish the first stage, that is, Gaza and Jericho negotiations and implementation of [word indistinct]. And after that probably we might wish, or the parties might wish to consider (?having) not revision, but review conference, that is resumption of Madrid, not something different from [what] Madrid was. [end recording] [Segal translates above and continues] As soon as his meeting with Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin is over, Kozyrev will leave for Tunis where he will meet with PLO chief Yasir 'Arafat. [Reporting on the Kozyrev-Peres meeting, Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew at 1300 GMT on 11 March adds: "Officials who participated in the meeting received the impression that Russia and the United States are coordinated with regard to Moscow's wish for greater involvement in the political process." [A related report on Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew at 1400 GMT on 11 March states: "Speaking after his meeting with Peres, the Russian foreign minister said Moscow is in favor of an international presence in the territories, but it does not insist on an armed presence. ["Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres said Israel appreciates Russia's part in the attempt to promote negotiations. He noted that the ties between the two countries have recently become closer."]
