FBIS4-55677 "dreeu097_i_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-097 Daily Report 18 May 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Serbian `Racket' Described Serbian `Racket' Described AU1805163594 Paris AFP in English 1606 GMT 18 May 94 AU1805163594 Paris AFP English BFN [Excerpts] Sarajevo, May 18 (AFP) -- Eleven French aid workers detained for over a month by Bosnian Serbs for alleged arms trafficking were freed and flown out of Sarajevo on Wednesday [18 May] after payment of $44,000. In Paris, a spokeswoman for the charity group Premiere Urgence (Emergency Aid), which sent them into Bosnia-Hercegovina, denied that the 4,000 dollars a head paid by the organisation for their release was a ransom. The sum was "too small to be considered as a ransom," said spokeswoman Pascale de Lomas. She said rather that the money was "bail" which allowed the Bosnian Serbs to "save face." The Serbs' demand for payment, which "resembles a racket," had caused much heart-searching at the charity, she added. [passage omitted] A communique issued by the French Foreign Ministry said the release came after "direct pressure from Paris and (Bosnia) on the main parties concerned." French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe had several contacts with the authorities of rump Yugoslavia and sent the foreign ministry's general secretary, Bertrand Dufourq, to Belgrade to negotiate a release. Ambassador Jacolin had daily contacts with the group, the statement added. The Foreign Ministry said contacts had also been made with France's main western partners as well as Russia, European Union president Greece, and the cochairman of the peace conference on the former Yugoslavia, Lord Owen, and UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali to help end the aid workers' 40-day ordeal. France "thanks those who helped," the statement added. [passage omitted] On Tuesday, a day before the release, Patricia Ettouati, the only woman in the group, wrote to the bishop of the Normandy town of Evreux, Jacques Gaillot, that the Serbs were "champions in psychological destruction."
