FBIS3-2226 "drchi044_k_94013" FBIS-CHI-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social XINHUA Reports Wei Jingsheng `Summoned' Wei Leaves Beijing `Voluntarily' HK0703042394 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 7 Mar 94 pp 1, 10 HK0703042394 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Geoffrey Crothall in Beijing and Daniel Kwan] [Excerpt] China's best-known dissident, Wei Jingsheng, "voluntarily" left Beijing yesterday for an undisclosed destination because of his "poor health", his secretary said last night. Mr Wei, who had been detained by police for 24 hours two days ago, told his secretary Tong Yi that he would be leaving Beijing for a few days and could not say when he would be back. Mr Wei had earlier in the day arranged to meet members of the foreign media to discuss his recent detention but at about 5 pm told Ms Tong that he would be leaving the city with a few friends for an undisclosed destination. Asked if she believed Mr Wei's assertion he was leaving Beijing of his own free will, Ms Tong said: "He is my boss. Of course, I believe him," adding that Mr Wei did appear to be "rather weary". Most observers believe, however, that Mr Wei was persuaded to take an "all expenses paid vacation" by the police during his detention last week, so that he would not be around during United States Secretary of State Warren Christopher's visit to Beijing on Friday. Mr Wei's office in the northeast of Beijing was yesterday surrounded by plainclothes police, who turned back journalists hoping to interview the Democracy Wall veteran. Ms Tong, who met Mr Wei after his release on Saturday, said that he did not discuss with her what had happened during his detention but stressed that he had not been formally arrested and had been well treated. As Mr Wei was leaving Beijing, the authorities' clampdown on dissidents continued with the detention of another former student leaders Zhai Weimin. Zhai was reportedly picked up in Beijing's university district by four plainclothes police officers and taken away for questioning. The former Beijing Economics Institute student, who ranked sixth on the Government's 1989 most wanted list, was released from jail last September after serving a 3 1/2-year prison term for "counter-revolutionary incitement and propaganda". Meanwhile, one of the four dissidents rounded up in the early hours of Thursday morning was released apparently without being charged yesterday morning. Qian Yumin, a member of Han Dongfang's Autonomous Workers' Federation, was freed after being warned to stay out of trouble during Mr Christopher's visit. The other three dissidents arrested on Thursday -- Zhou Guoqiang, Yuan Hongbing and Wang Jiaqi are understood to be still in detention and face criminal charges. [passage omitted]
