FBIS3-38667 "drweu025_h_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 GERMANY Kinkel Views Somalia Mission, UN Role AU0402144794 Hamburg BILD in German 4 Feb 94 p 2 AU0402144794 Hamburg BILD Language: German Article Type:BFN [Interview with Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel by Dirk Hoeren; place and date not given: "Minister Kinkel: Somalia Mission Was a Big Success"] [Text] [Hoeren] Mr. Kinkel, the Bundeswehr Somalia mission is coming to an end. Are you satisfied? [Kinkel] A big compliment to our Bundeswehr: It did a great job in the Beledweyne region, particularly in supplying the population and providing other humanitarian aid. Unfortunately, several things went wrong in the entire UN mission in and around Mogadishu. In addition, the 4,900 Indian troops for which we were to provide logistic support did not turn up. But, in spite of this, our mission went ahead without problems and was useful. The United Nations had some problems enforcing the biggest humanitarian action so far, with 32 nations participating, in the way that was originally planned. But, one-sided criticism of the United Nations does not help; what we need is constructive assistance. [Hoeren] How dangerous will the withdrawal of the Bundeswehr be? [Kinkel] Our troops have to march back through Mogadishu. This does, of course, involve certain dangers. For our part, we will do all we can to get our troops home safe and sound. I expect the United Nations to guarantee a safe withdrawal. [Hoeren] After Somalia, is there another mission waiting for the Bundeswehr somewhere abroad? [Kinkel] We quickly need the required change of the constitution for Bundeswehr missions outside NATO territory. Unfortunately, the SPD [Social Democratic Party of Germany] is still preventing this. I hope the constitutional court will make a decision soon. After all, we may be faced with another decision on Bundeswehr missions outside NATO territory. [Hoeren] Some people say that Minister Kinkel is in favor of blue helmet missions only because he wants Germany to get a vote and a seat in the UN Security Council as quickly as possible.... [Kinkel] This is nonsense. There is no direct connection. But, we must become fully capable of acting in foreign policy matters. We want to get into the Security Council because it makes decisions that particularly concern us, as one of the most populous and economically sound countries in Europe. So far, we have had no opportunity to cooperate there, although we are the third largest contributor to UN funds.
