FBIS3-54184 "drnes015_v_94007" FBIS-NES-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Pakistan Daily Urges Arab Mojahedin To Leave BK2301123794 Rawalpindi NAWA-I-WAQT in Urdu 22 Jan 94 p 10 BK2301123794 Rawalpindi NAWA-I-WAQT Language: Urdu Article Type:BFN [Editorials: "Arab Nationals Living in Pakistan"] [Text] Mustafa Hanafi, the Egyptian ambassador to Pakistan, has said in an interview that his government has formally asked Pakistan to arrest and extradite 10 persons who have been involved in subversive and terrorist activities in Egypt. These persons include an Egyptian named (Muhammad Mustari) who was involved in an attack on the Egyptian prime minister. During the Afghan holy war, youths of several Arab countries had fought, along with the Afghan mojahedin, against the Soviet Union and the Communist Afghan forces and the United States had been providing them arms. However, after the end of the Afghan holy war, there was no justification for those Arab nationals to overstay in Pakistan and the Pakistan Government was duty-bound to send them back to their homelands under an appropriate action plan. The Pakistani nation recognizes the services of these Arab mojahedin, but the Pakistan Government cannot provide any support and assistance for the struggle they wish to launch in their respective countries, nor would the people of Pakistan like to see Pakistani soil being used for their respective political battles. They create problems for us and defame Pakistan in the international community. Therefore, these Arab nationals can be requested not to create problems and difficulties for us and leave for their respective homelands immediately. If these people have any differences with the governments of their respective countries, Pakistan is not at all interested in them nor is it our problem. The Pakistan government ought to say the same thing to the Arab governments that we had neither invited their nationals nor are we providing them shelter. In view of the situation that has developed along our northwestern border, it would be only hypothetical to say that these Arab nationals are still staying in Peshawar. They may be living under the umbrella of any Afghan organization, but Pakistan is being held accountable for them. We should, therefore, deal with this entire problem very cautiously.
