FBIS3-32467 "drlat026__a94005" FBIS-LAT-94-026-A Document Type:Daily Report 8 February 1994 ANNEX Brazil Alvaro Dias Nominated as PP Presidential Candidate PY0102151294 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 31 Jan 94 p 3--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY0102151294 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] Brasilia -- The Popular Party [PP] yesterday held its national convention, and put forward the presidential candidacy of former Parana Governor Alvaro Dias. At the convention, which was held at the Senate plenary hall, the PP leadership sought to overcome the internal disagreements provoked within the party by the inclusion of three PP deputies and of Brasilia Governor Joaquim Roriz in the report filed by the Budget CPI [Congressional Investigating Committee]. Dias, who is the PP president, said: "We are not going to prejudge anyone." He noted that although the PP would not condone corruption, it could not take any action before those involved in the scandal are tried. Deputy Roberto Magalhaes, the Budget CPI rapporteur, has recommended that the mandates of Deputies Flavio Derzi (PP-Mato Grosso do Sul), Paulo Portugal (PP-Rio de Janeiro), and Anibal Teixeira (PP-Minas Gerais) be canceled. Dias announced that these deputies will be expelled from the PP only if the Chamber of Deputies cancels their mandates. After having been given a joyous welcome, Roriz delivered an emotionally charged speech. He defended the party's unity, claimed to be a victim of political harassment, and vowed not "to embarrass" his colleagues. "After enduring 90 hours of torture at that CPI, I will now seek a not guilty verdict in court by proving with sound evidence that the charges pressed against me are false," Roriz said. Commenting on Dias' nomination, Roriz said that, as "a party man," he would accept the nomination. Dias' candidacy was proposed by the presidents of regional branches in a communique approved by the convention. Dias stated that his nomination would not prevent the PP from entering into alliances. "We are open to talks with other parties," Dias added.
