FBIS4-26110 "drchi118_a_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-118 Daily Report 19 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Nuclear Crisis in DPRK `Over' Nuclear Crisis in DPRK `Over' OW1906225494 Beijing XINHUA in English 2222 GMT 19 Jun 94 OW1906225494 Beijing XINHUA English BFN ["Carter: Nuclear Crisis in DPRK Is Over"] [Text] Washington, June 19 (XINHUA) -- Former president of the United States Jimmy Carter said here today he thought that the crisis with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) is over. Carter told reporters after meeting with U.S. Administration officials at the White House that as far as he was concerned, "there are no unanswered questions" following his talks with DPRK leaders on how to resolve the unclear crisis. Carter, who returned from the DPRK on Saturday [18 June], had about two-hour meetings at the White House with National Security Adviser Tony Lake, Assistant Secretary of State Robert Gallucci, Assistant Secretary of State for Asia Winston Lord and other officials. Before speaking to reporters, Carter talked by telephone for about half an hour with U.S. President Bill Clinton, who is spending the weekend at Camp David. "I personally believe that the crisis is over," Carter said, "and I personally believe that Kim Il-song wants to be sure that the crisis is over." "I personally don't see any need to proceed with the sanctions unless there is some violation of the agreement I have received," Carter stressed. Carter said he expected the third round of talks between the U.S. and the DPRK could be arranged within the next few weeks and that confirmation of the latest agreements through diplomatic channels could get under way as soon as this week. "It may well be that President Carter has brought back something upon which we can build and defuse the situation," Gallucci told reporters after Carter left the White House. He said the Clinton administration would move as quickly as possible to meet with DPRK officials and discuss the proposals brought back by Carter. However, Lake said that the United States's efforts to obtain sanctions against the DPRK would only be suspended after formal talks between the two countries begin. "In the meantime," Lake said, "we are continuing to consult on the sanctions" at the United Nations.
