FBIS3-54804 "drsov002_b_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Media Issues Television Reports Opinion Poll on Zhirinovskiy OW0401043694 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel and Orbita Networks in Russian 1945 GMT 3 Jan 94 OW0401043694 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel and Orbita Networks Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Utro" program presented by Sergey Lomakin] [Text] The Public Opinion Fund is continuing to work with us and continued its efforts over the New Year period, as strange as that may seem. It questioned citizens in the streets and at home, and as usual asked them the most extraordinary questions. This time the Fund was concerned with the Zhirinovskiy phenomenon, as most of us are, too. The following question was asked: Which of the following characteristics, listed below, would you say most suits Vladimir Zhirinovskiy? Defender of ordinary people--10 percent Supporter of B. Yeltsin--1 percent Cunning and adroit fraud, striving for power by any means--28 percent A democrat--2 percent Opponent of B. Yeltsin--9 percent Honest and sincere person, evoking absolute trust--6 percent A fascist--13 percent Adversary of democracy--4 percent Could not respond--27 percent So, drawing on its conclusions, the Public Opinion Fund is convinced that Zhirinovskiy was undoubtedly the man of the month this past December, a new type of politician who became familiar to Russians directly from the television screen. He beat a path into the hearts of voters by sneaking into the intimate circle of a family dinner, entering every house directly, and offering simple solutions to those who had lost their former bearings in life. And so, at least one-sixth of those asked have absolute trust in Zhirinovskiy and look to him as a defender of the people. Only more than 40 percent do not perceive him as an amoral and socially dangerous politician. [sentence as heard]. Apparently up to one- third of our questionnaire participants have not fully taken a stand on the Zhirinovskiy phenomenon. The two-week serving of television-concentrated demagoguery was all Zhirinovskiy needed to satisfy more than 10 million hopelessly confused and despairing Russians. It is as if the naive and trusting Petrukha -- whom you may remember from the film "White Sun of the Desert" -- looks up at the figure looming over us and says in a questioning and idiotically direct way: Vladimir Volfovich, reveal your little face. This was the opinion of the Public Opinion Fund, which, by the way, fully respects the choice of the Russian people, as does our "Utro" program, who voted for Zhirinovskiy and other representatives of electoral blocs. This is something sacred.
