FBIS4-27957 "dreas109_d_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-109 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 South Korea Han Optimistic on PRC Taking Part in Sanctions Han Optimistic on PRC Taking Part in Sanctions SK0706021294 Seoul YONHAP in English 0153 GMT 7 Jun 94 SK0706021294 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] New York, June 6 (YONHAP) -- South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu said Monday that China has shown a willingness to cooperate in international efforts to settle the North Korean nuclear problem and was unlikely to present an obstacle. Han, visiting New York to clarify South Korea's position and cooperate with U.N. Security Council [UNSC] members on the nuclear problem, said there is no just cause for Chinese opposition to a U.N. resolution imposing sanctions on North Korea. "Nobody can tell what China has in mind, but I think China does not have any just cause to oppose a U.N. resolution imposing sanctions on Pyongyang since North Korea is being uncooperative and there is no other way but to impose sanctions," Han said. Han expected that a draft resolution would not be introduced at the Security Council in one or two days, saying, "a draft resolution has not been decided yet, and it should be decided through discussion among related nations." The permanent UNSC members are in frequent contact on an unofficial basis because the North Korean nuclear problem is urgent, Han said. "After having separate contacts with the ambassadors of the five permanent UNSC members and Japan, I have become aware that there is a consensus in the positions of South Korea, the United States and Japan and that the permanent UNSC members generally sympathize with the South Korean position," he said. After holding talks with the ambassadors, Han met with Robert Gallucci, U.S. assistant secretary of State for political and military affairs, to reaffirm bilateral cooperation on the North Korean problem. Han also met with Security Council President Salim Bin Mohammed Al Khussaiby and talked to U.N. Secretary-General Butrus Butrus-Ghali, who is visiting Europe. Han is scheduled to hold a press conference on Tuesday before returning home.
