FBIS4-34995 "drlat123_k_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina Lawmakers View First Official Visit to UK Lawmakers View First Official Visit to UK PY2506003894 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1731 GMT 24 Jun 94 PY2506003894 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS Spanish BFN [Text] London, 24 Jun (AFP-NA) -- Having met with U.K. Government officials and politicians, a high-powered delegation of five Argentine deputies today concluded a five-day official visit to London at the invitation of the U.K. Government. During a news conference, Jorge Matzkin, Justicialist (neo-Peronist) bloc leader in the Chamber of Deputies said: "This is the first time that an (Argentine) delegation has been officially invited" to London by the Foreign Office of the U.K. Government since the Malvinas War in 1982. "The main objective of this visit was to improve relations with our counterparts, especially in the House of Commons. We talked about everything. We openly broached controversial issues like the Malvinas Islands and subjects of common interest," he pointed out. The five deputies met with David Heathcoat-Amory, the secretary of state for Latin American affairs, on 20 June. During the meeting, Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd suddenly appeared to greet the visitors. According to Florencio Acenolaza, chairman of the Foreign Relations and Worship Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, Hurd recalled his government's stance, saying that it wants "to respect the will of the inhabitants" of the Malvinas Islands. The Argentine deputies mentioned that Argentina believes the conflict is not between the islanders and Argentina but rather between Argentina and the U.K. Acenolaza said the delegation "aired all its grievances over the Malvinas Islands without restraint." They even voiced concern about issues including "the preservation of the environment and oil." "There were no differences or gray areas," he said, insisting that the current trend is "very positive." He added that it constitutes "a new landmark" within a framework of "human rather than political relationships." When inviting Kelpers to visit Argentina to establish "human, not political relations," Matzkin told them: You will like Argentina! The lawmakers reported that they did not discuss the thorny issue of war crimes committed -- according to Buenos Aires -- by British soldiers or the possible request for the extradition of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher on war crimes charges. The other members of the Argentine delegation were Francisco Duranona, (UCeDe [Democratic Center Union] Lower House bloc leader); Javier Menenghini (Radical Civic Union Lower House bloc deputy leader); and Marco Micheli (Conservative Party Lower House bloc leader).
