FBIS3-22261 "jpten006___94001" JPRS-TEN-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 8 MARCH 1994 AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA ANC Says Government Importing Mercury Waste MB1702092894 Johannesburg SAPA in English 2230 GMT 16 Feb 94 MB1702092894 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Cape Town Feb 16 SAPA -- The African National Congress [ANC] and environment watchdog Earthlife Africa have accused the government of ignoring its own ban on the importation of toxic waste by sanctioning further shipments of mercury waste to the Thor Chemicals company in Cato Ridge, Natal. ANC environment spokesman Prof. Stan Sangweni also called on the Department of Environment to turn back a container-load of 160 barrels of mercury waste due in Durban on Monday. The waste is being transported by the Safmarine vessel Agulhas from Borden Chemicals and Plastics in the United States. Former Environment Minister Gert Kotze announced in 1990 that the government had banned the importation of hazardous wastes into South Africa. However, the government subsequently sanctioned importation of ``spent chemicals'' by Thor for recycling on condition the wastes originated from Thor companies. According to Earthlife Africa spokesman Chris Albertyn, the Department of National Health also sanctioned further imports of mercury waste from the U.S. which did not originate from Thor. Prof. Sangweni said on Wednesday the government should explain its ``double standards'' in allowing the importation of hazardous waste. A Department of Environment said she could not comment at short notice. Natal Attorney-General Tim McNally confirmed on Wednesday he had requested the Department of National Health to investigate several complaints against Thor Chemicals involving hazardous waste. This followed a letter to Mr. McNally by Earthlife detailing alleged infringements of health and safety regulations by Thor Chemicals. Three senior executives of the chemical company face charges of culpable homicide following the death of employee Peter Cele through suspected mercury poisoning. Thor said on Wednesday the Borden shipment was a ``routine and unexceptional consignment.'' A spokesman challenged statements that the consignment should be classified as ``toxic'' waste. The company extracted mercury from spent catalysts which would otherwise end up in landfill sites, he said.
