FBIS3-1459 "drafr060_d_94002" FBIS-AFR-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Beye Proposes Move to Next Point of Lusaka Agenda MB2903074594 Luanda Radio Nacional Network in Portuguese 0600 GMT 29 Mar 94 MB2903074594 Luanda Radio Nacional Network Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] In Lusaka, UN Special Representative Alioune Blondin Beye, has decided to leave behind the controversial point of the division of ministerial portfolios between the government and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] and to move on to the last point on the agenda, concerning the conclusion of the electoral process. However, this alternative proposed by the representative of the UN secretary general in Angola does not seem likely to save the talks from collapse, even though a plenary meeting might occur today. Pedro Manuel, our correspondent in the Zambian capital, reports: [Begin Manuel recording] Good morning, dear listeners. The negotiating sides may meet again today to discuss the document drawn up by the mediators and observers concerning the conclusion of the electoral process. Yesterday, the mediators decided to move on to the issue of the conclusion of the electoral process. Given that no understanding has been reached on it so far, the issue of the country's governance will be taken up again at a later stage. The mediators delivered their document on the conclusion of the electoral process to the two sides yesterday. The negotiators proceeded to analyze that document and may present their responses today. However, there is talk that UNITA disagrees with UN Special Representative Blondin Beye's idea to drop the matter of governance for the time being and move on to the conclusion of the electoral process. It is said that UNITA is not ready to discuss that issue at this stage. In the interim, let us wait and see what the likely official response will be. Within the context of discussions on the conclusion of the electoral process, the negotiators are supposed to put down on paper all the steps they would like taken concerning the second round of the presidential elections. [end recording]
