FBIS3-56139 "drsov009_b_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Writer Anticipates Fallout of Yeltsin's Government Edict MK1201105094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 12 Jan 94 p 2 MK1201105094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Aleksandr Bekker article under the "Power" rubric: "Yeltsin and Chernomyrdin Reform the Government. Fate of Council of Ministers' Bigwigs Will Be Decided Any Day Now"] [Text] Having moved into a new building, the Russian Government also received a new inner structure on 10 January: Boris Yeltsin signed an edict "On the Structure of Federal Organs of Executive Power." Under it, the number of ministers has been cut to 23, and there will remain 44 state committees and committees that are now given an equal status. The reorganization boils down to scrapping a range of organs of federal power, transforming (complete with name change) individual ministries and agencies, and having the "outgoing" turn over their functions to those remaining. One may note an enhanced status, to that of a ministry, of the State Committee on Economic Cooperation With Commonwealth Member States and of the State Committee on Civil Defense, Emergency Situations, and Recovery from Natural Disasters. Notably, the Agriculture Ministry now incorporates the Committee on the Food and Food Processing Industry, while the Committee on Price Policy run by Lilya Rozenova, which represented a "fifth column" inside the Economy Ministry, now becomes completely subsumed in the ministry. Federal organs will now delegate some functions to the provinces. An important development is that the president takes over the control of three ministries (Defense, Internal Affairs, and Foreign Affairs) and of seven federal services. The edict directs Victor Chernomyrdin to propose within one week his candidates for two first and two "plain" deputies. Whereas there has been no doubt in the press as to the future status of Oleg Soskovets and Yegor Gaydar, there are varied guesses as to who will be vice premiers. Invariably present in all the combinations was Aleksandr Zaveryukha, who is personally close to the premier and hails from the same part of the country. Who will be the second? Under the president's edict the functions of the agency for international cooperation and development created by Aleksandr Shokhin have been transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, and this seems to signal Shokhin's imminent discharge. Yuriy Yarov, who is supposedly leaving to take an elevated position in the State Duma, stands virtually no chance. Very significantly, the State Committee for the Management of State Property in the new structure does not amount to a ministry with Anatoliy Chubays still remaining a "vice," having not received even the consolation status of minister. As for Boris Fedorov, he is very unlikely to agree to become finance minister in a government whose vice premier will be Mr. Zaveryukha: too divergent views on the economic policy could not make their relations warm. But while Boris Fedorov is going to react adequately to the lowering of his status, Anatoliy Chubays will surely not slam the door. First, he has taken a strong liking to what he is doing (and there is plenty to do); second, while Gaydar remains in the government, Chubays will see possibilities for a gamble against his opponents. Who will be vice premiers? This is of no idle interest in the present Russian situation. This is a fundamental question of the direction of reforms. If he errs, Viktor Chernomyrdin would not only emasculate the reforms, but would also weaken the government's intellectual potential in the face of the parliamentary opposition.
