FBIS4-62784 "drsov095_b_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-095 Daily Report 17 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Issues Shakhray Predicts New Bloodshed in August Shakhray Predicts New Bloodshed in August LD1705115594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1144 GMT 17 May 94 LD1705115594 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Lyudmila Aleksandrova] [Text] Moscow May 17 TASS -- Russian Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Shakhray predicted on Tuesday that a new major stand off between authorities, worse that the one which took place last October, is in store for Russia in August if urgent measures are not taken to improve the economic situation. Last October at least 140 people were killed in Moscow during the armed opposition revolt. "If the problem of mutual indebtedness of enterprises is not urgently solved the government will not survive. It is possible that in August head of the government Viktor Chernomyrdin will have to offer resignation on his own initiative to save the situation", Shakhray told a press conference. The resignation, according to Shakhray, will be preceeded in July by mass protests among workers of defence enterprises. Attempts to appoint a new prime minister will trigger a stand off between the lower chamber and the president and "scenarios of dissolving the State Duma" will appear. As a result the other chamber, the Federation Council, will move to opposition to Boris Yeltsin, he said. "And finally the last October situation may repeat, but in a worse variant", Shakhray said and added that "this is the worst scenario, but it is quite possible if the mentioned measures are not taken". Besides the problem of mutual indebtedness, the measures include the necessity to make all those parties which signed the civic accord treaty to work for reforms. The president and the government should act as an arbiter in pursuing the economic and political interests of Russia. They have to initiate a dialogue with representatives of the fuel and energy industry, the military- industrial complex, with agrarians and bankers in order to solve the problem of indebtedness and to change the taxation and banking system, Shakhray said. Among possible successors to Chernomyrdin he sees Moscow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov, First Deputy Premier Oleg Soskovets, and former Security Council Chairman Yuriy Skokov.
