FBIS3-4921 "dreas041_c_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 North Korea Russian Communist Party Supports Statement SK0103222894 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1505 GMT 1 Mar 94 SK0103222894 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Pyongyang, March 1 (KCNA) -- The political and public circles of the world express positive support to the statement of a spokesman of the DPRK Foreign Ministry on the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. The Council of the Union of Communist Parties-the Communist Party of the Soviet Union adopted a statement at its plenary meeting held on February 12 and 13. The statement expressed support and solidarity for the principled stand made clear by a spokesman of the DPRK Foreign Ministry in a statement and the sincere efforts of the DPRK Government for the solution of the nuclear issue of the Korean peninsula. The statement vehemently condemned the U.S. Administration and reactionaries for creating tensions in the Korean peninsula and the world. Chairman of the National Liberation War Veterans Committee of Zimbabwe Charles Hongwe said in a statement on February 12 that the United States must take a sincere stance for a solution to the nuclear issue of the Korean peninsula through negotiation and immediately stop scheming to isolate and stifle the DPRK. The Political Department of the Palestine Liberation Organisation in a statement on February 14 said that the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is not a matter to be solved by force. "If the United States is really willing to resolve the nuclear issue, it should show a right position toward dialogue first of all," it said. Chairman of the Butwal Peace Action Committee Soorya Laleit in a statement demand that the United States immediately drop its provocative scheme to deploy Patriot missiles and withdraw its troops and nuclear weapons from South Korea without delay. Members of the Russian Communist Workers' Party and the "Labouring Russia" Movement and Moscow citizens held a demonstration in front of the U.S. Embassy in Moscow on February 6. The protesters staged a sit-down against the U.S. interference and aggressive moves in Korea in front of the U.S. Embassy, holding slogan boards reading "United States, take hands off socialist Korea", "Glory to the heroic Korean people" and so on. They handed over to the U.S. Embassy a "letter of protest against the U.S. moves of aggression against the DPRK" in the name of the Russian Communist Workers' Party and the "Labouring Russia" Movement.
