FBIS4-34887 "drlat123_j_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 Panama Molirena Not To Join Opposition in Next Government Molirena Not To Join Opposition in Next Government PA2606165694 Panama City EL SIGLO in Spanish 24 Jun 94 p 2 PA2606165694 Panama City EL SIGLO Spanish BFN [Report by David Daniel Victoria] [Text] Sources within Molirena [Nationalist Liberal Republican Movement] have disclosed the decision by the party's Political Committee to maintain an independent criteria and not join a "constructive" alliance in opposition to the government that will be installed on 1 September, as proposed by Arnulfist Party [PA] President Mireya Moscoso de Gruber. According to the queried sources, the Political Committee has said during the next government it would support the positions by any other group as long as they are beneficial to Panamanians and the country in general. Molirena has believed that if an alliance is created, it should not be until the actions of the next government are known. Eduardo Linares, PA leader and planning and economic policy deputy minister, has said the people of Molirena do not feel the need to create an alliance to oppose the next government now. He added his party will continue to support a "constructive opposition alliance." He has said that the PA members hope the next government will choose the best course for the country and that the PA will take it to task if it does not. If things are done for the good of the country, "we will support it." Acting President Guillermo Ford met at the Palace of the Herons on 20 June with the PA president and top leaders, and Mrs. Gruber proposed to the Molirena members who were present they create a constructive alliance in opposition to President-elect Ernesto Perez Balladares' government. Mireya Moscoso de Gruber explained her party is actively working to maintain an attitude critical of the actions of the next government. The PA rejected an offer by the president-elect to participate in the structure of the government that will take office in September.
