FBIS4-58751 "drnes088_c_94009" FBIS-NES-94-088 Daily Report 2 May 1994 Egypt Talks Between Nasirists, `Extremists' Reported Talks Between Nasirists, `Extremists' Reported NC0605082894 Cairo ROSE AL-YUSUF in Arabic 2 May 94 p 12 NC0605082894 Cairo ROSE AL-YUSUF Arabic BFN [Report by Ibrahim Khalil] [Excerpts] The talks between the Nasirists and the extremist groups has resumed following a seminar held by writer Fahmi Huwaydi and organized by the Nasirite Party. During the seminar, Huwaydi said he carried a message from the religious groups and the Islamic movement. Following the seminar, the Nasirite-Islamic meetings increased. For some time [leading Nasarist] Farid 'Abd-al-Hakim has been promoting the idea of talks and coalition between the two sides. He has been in touch recently with jailed members of the extremist groups as one of their lawyers, along with Muntasir al-Zayyat. Lawyer Sayyid 'Abd-al-Fattah, who has been arrested in connection with the Salsabil case [computer company said to be connected with Muslim Brotherhood], attended these meetings. During the meetings, the extremists claimed that their opinion of the Nasirists had changed and that now they consider them the closest political force to the general Islamic principles. They noted that they and the Nasirists now see eye to eye on most issues, particularly their stance on Israel and the West. [passage omitted] Dr. 'Isam al-'Iryan, member of the Muslim Brotherhood, has stressed that the doors are open for dialogue with any faction. He added that he has met with Farid 'Abd-al-Hakim, whom he described as clear and well-motivated. He added that the important things in this dialogue are the bases, the subjects, and the goals. Dr. al-'Iryan pointed out that the Muslim Brotherhood has nothing to do with what happens in the meeting of the political bureaus of the Labor and Nasirite parties because the Labor Party has freedom of action. He noted that the alliance between the Labor Party and the Muslim Brotherhood still stands in specific areas, such as running for elections and coordination over general positions.
