FBIS3-43922 "drafr012_c_94007" FBIS-AFR-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA PAC Dismisses Reports on Calls to SAPA MB1801163394 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1426 GMT 18 Jan 94 MB1801163394 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Johannesburg Jan 18 SAPA -- The Pan Africanist Congress [PAC] has dismissed three telephone calls to SAPA in which alleged PAC armed wing members denounced the organisation's decision to end the armed struggle. PAC Deputy President Johnson Mlambo said in a statement the names used by the callers were unknown to the PAC. He suggested "security agencies" were responsible for the calls, aimed at undermining the PAC. PAC national organiser Maxwell Nemadzivhanani told SAPA the code name Karl Zimbiri used by one caller was out of use within the organisation and that the original Mr Zimbiri had died. The only three military commanders who were entitled to issue media statements on Azanian Peoples Liberation Army [APLA] operations were APLA Commander Sabelo Phama, APLA political commissar Romero Daniels and APLA information chief Johnny Majosi. Mr Nemadzivhanani also denied there was dissent within APLA's ranks over the PAC's announced moratorium on violence. "APLA has always been a disciplined organ of the PAC. It has been led by the political leadership of the PAC at all times and APLA soldiers follow orders from the command structure of APLA." He said the PAC and APLA commanders had not given any orders for APLA operations since the announcement of the moratorium. The leadership had no knowledge of involvement of APLA operatives in Sunday night's attack on a Durban satellite police station. He alleged claims to the contrary were the work of "enemy agents" intent on discrediting the PAC in the run-up to the elections. "We have given all our commanders orders to instruct the cadres to cease fire under the moratorium to give our political leaders the chance to negotiate a mutual cessation of hostilities (with the government)." While Mr Nemadzivhanani conceded the message might take some time to filter through to the rank-and-file membership, he insisted the proper command structures had been informed and the majority of members had been contacted. Mr Nemadzivhanani said the PAC suspected government agents had infiltrated APLA with the intention of framing the organisation and discrediting it as a party committed to democracy. He alleged this had long been a calculated programme of the "regime" and the "rightwing".
