FBIS4-5177 "dreas068_c_94026" FBIS-EAS-94-068 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 North Korea KCNA Praises Attributes of Koryo Ginseng KCNA Praises Attributes of Koryo Ginseng SK0804060594 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0525 GMT 8 Apr 94 SK0804060594 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN [Text] Pyongyang, April 8 (KCNA) -- Koryo insam (ginseng) of Kaesong, a speciality of Korea, enjoys a world-wide fame as a medicinal plant. For the distinctive qualities of the local soil and water, the meteorological features and unique cultivating and processing methods, Koryo insam of Kaesong has exceptional medical values. The root of insam, the main part of medical use, usually resembles the human shape. According to the method of processing, Koryo insam of Kaesong is classified into three kinds: hongsam (red ginseng) paeksam (white ginseng) and thangsam (sugared ginseng), which are of high medical effect. Insam contains some ten kinds of glucoside helpful for health and longevity. It also contains essential oil, amino acid and other organic acids, vitamins, a proper amount of radium and microelements. Insam protects the five viscera, has a good effect on the brain, the heart and blood vessels, stimulates the glands of internal secretion and promotes metabolism. It serves as a cure-all medicine and so is used as the main ingredient of traditional Koryo medicines. Insam has an invigorating and fatigue-relieving effect and increases mental and physical labor capacity and is especially effective in promoting health and longevity. Koryo insam of Kaesong has been proved of late to be effective against radiation and cancer for its inherent ingredients and pharmacological function. This has broadened the scope of its application. Insam contains 0.05 per cent of aromatic matter, which gives it special spice. The state makes several hundred kinds of tonics from Koryo insam of Kaesong such as insam sugar, insam extract, insam injection and insam nutritive to promote the health of the working people. Insam products are popular on foreign markets.
