FBIS4-35510 "drnes105dd_94001" FBIS-NES-94-105 Daily Report 26 May 1994 Palestinian Affairs Paris Paper Publishes `Extracts' of Draft Constitution Paris Paper Publishes `Extracts' of Draft Constitution Part One BR3105155294 Paris LE FIGARO in French 26 May 94 p 6 BR3105155294 Paris LE FIGARO French BFN [First of two-part unattributed report: "Jerusalem Is the Capital of Palestine"] [Text] PLO leader Yasir 'Arafat has handed over to Mr. Jean-Marc Vanaut, a French lawyer, the preliminary draft of the Constitution of Palestine for the transitional period. This is the draft he is going to submit to the Palestinian National Council. This text, which is currently being debated by the various Palestinian authorities, especially in the occupied territories, is still subject to modification. We are publishing broad extracts from it. General Provisions Article 1 Sovereignty is the prerogative of the Palestinian people. The people exercises sovereignty via the legislative assemblies and the executive and legal powers, as defined in this law, during the transitional period. Article 2 Palestine is governed by a system of parliamentary democracy based on a multiparty model, the respect of minority rights by the majority, and the respect of the decisions of the majority by minorities. Article 3 Arabic is the official language of Palestine. Article 4 Definition of the flag (...). Article 5 Jerusalem is the capital of Palestine. During the transitional period, the Palestinian authorities will be able to establish their seat anywhere else in Palestine. Article 6 Sovereignty over the natural resources of Palestine belongs to the Palestinian people, who will exploit these resources and have them at their disposal in accordance with their interests and in respect of the law. Article 7 Any amendment to the present law is to be made by a two-thirds majority of the members of the elected legislative council (...). Civil Liberties and Fundamental Rights Article 8 Palestine adheres to the rights and fundamental liberties enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Palestine also adheres to the international convention regarding the exercise of civil and political liberties, as well as to all conventions, declarations, and charters which guarantee these rights and liberties. Article 9 Every person has the right to life. Article 10 Men and women are equal before the law. Any discrimination on the basis of sex is prohibited. Article 11 All men are equal in human dignity. No person will be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading forms of punishment. No medical or scientific experimentation may be carried out on an individual without his consent. No statement obtained under torture or by cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment will be valid. Article 12 Every citizen participates in public life and may stand as a candidate for election to positions of public responsibility. Article 13 Every individual has the right to freedom and personal security. Nobody may be arbitrarily arrested and detained. Nobody may be deprived of his freedom, except for the reasons set out in the law and under the conditions stipulated by the law. Article 14 Every individual has the right to freedom of thought, conscience, and expression. This freedom will be exercised in the respect of the freedoms of others and of the laws protecting national security, public order, health, and public morals. Article 15 Freedom of political association is guaranteed, provided that the object and activities thereof do not violate the fundamental principles set out in the present law and that such activities are carried out in a peaceful manner. The provisions concerning the creation of political parties are defined in the law. Article 16 The freedom of the press, publishing, and the media is guaranteed. Censorship of the press is prohibited, as well as its seizure or banning by the administration, subject to the provisions of Article 14 of the present law. Article 17 Nobody will be subjected to arbitrary interference in his private life, family, household, or correspondence, nor to attacks on his honor and reputation. Article 18 The domicile is inviolable. Nobody may enter it unless by virtue of a justified legal decision and in accordance with the provisions of the law. Article 19 The right to private property is inviolable and open to all. This right may only be prejudiced in accordance with the law. Expropriation may only be decreed by virtue of public utility and in return for fair compensation. Article 20 The freedom to exercise an economic activity is guaranteed. The law will govern the inspection conditions thereof in accordance with the requirements of the public interest. Article 21 The families of martyrs, as well as invalids and the handicapped, are entitled to public assistance. Article 22 Society as a whole is responsible for protecting motherhood, children, the family, and young people, as well as for the creation of a suitable framework for their development and growth. The Palestinian authorities are responsible for ensuring the achievement thereof within the framework defined by the law. Article 23 The law defines the status of social security. Article 24 Work is a right, a duty, and an honor. The Palestinian authorities will endeavor to ensure equal opportunities for all citizens by allowing them to exercise this right in accordance with the laws governing social equality. Nobody will be forced to perform compulsory labor, except in the following cases: -- Military service or any national service imposed by the law on conscientious objectors; -- Any service required by an emergency situation or natural disaster which threatens the life or wellbeing of society; -- Any action or service which is part of customary civil obligations. Article 25 1. Everyone has the right to education. In public establishments, education up to and including secondary education is free of charge and compulsory. The Palestinian authorities will be responsible for providing education at all levels. 2. Religious or other minorities, by virtue of the conditions established by the law, have the right to create schools or private educational establishments in accordance with the general conditions set out in the law. 3. The authorities responsible for education will supervise the entire duration of schooling. Universities and scientific research centers will maintain their autonomy and independence in accordance with the provisions of the law. Article 26 The right to demonstrate peacefully is recognized. This right may only be jeopardized under the conditions set out in the law and in accordance with the measures which, in a democratic society, are essential for maintaining national security, public order, the protection of public health, accepted standards of conduct, and the respect of the freedoms of others. Article 27 1. Citizens have the right to create associations, including the right to found trade unions and to become affiliated with such unions in order to protect their interests. 2. This right may only be jeopardized under the conditions set out in the law and in accordance with the measures which, in a democratic society, are essential for maintaining national security, public order, the protection of public health, accepted standards of conduct, and the respect of the freedoms of others. Article 28 No Palestinian may be expelled from his homeland, prevented from returning to it or leaving it, stripped of his nationality, or handed over to a foreign country, except in accordance with conventions governing the extradition of criminals. Article 29 Individuals benefiting from political asylum granted by the Palestinian authorities in accordance with the provisions of international law may not be extradited. Article 30 Every individual has the right to apply to the public authorities as regards him personally or for public matters. Article 31 Jerusalem is the holy city of the three monotheist religions and, in accordance with the spiritual heritage of Palestine, it falls to the Palestinian authorities to encourage the conditions necessary for these religions to coexist, both in Jerusalem and throughout Palestine. Article 32 The freedom of religion and worship is guaranteed provided it does not constitute a constraint on public order and accepted standards of conduct. Article 33 The freedom of access to holy sites is guaranteed to citizens and foreigners, as well as the freedom to worship, while respecting the requirements of public security, order, and accepted standards of conduct. Protection of Rights and Fundamental Liberties Article 34 Every person whose rights and fundamental liberties, as set out in Sections 2 and 3, have not been respected, will have the right to take legal action to reestablish these rights and, if necessary, to receive pecuniary compensation. Article 35 An independent commission on human rights will be created by virtue of a law. This commission will assume responsibility for applying provisions regarding human rights in Palestine.
