FBIS4-51719 "dreas085_h_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-085 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Malaysia British Firm Signs Contract With Kelantan British Firm Signs Contract With Kelantan BK0205145894 Kuala Lumpur NEW STRAITS TIMES in English 30 Apr 94 p 6 BK0205145894 Kuala Lumpur NEW STRAITS TIMES English BFN [By Shamsul Akmar] [Excerpt] Kota Baru, Fri. -- The PAS [Pan Malaysia Islamic Party]-led Kelantan Government will award a contract for its water supply project to a British company despite the Federal Government's decision not to give new contracts to British firms. Menteri Besar [Chief Minister] Nik Abdul Aziz Nik Mat said today the State Exco [executive council] met last week and decided to hire Thames Water for the project. The ban on the award of government contracts for British firms was imposed on February 25 following unsubstantiated reports by the British media of alleged corruption on the part of Malaysian political leaders in deals involving British firms. The Cabinet had made it clear that the ban included all Federal and State Government contracts. All State Governments, except for the Pas-led Kelantan State Government and the then PBS [Sabah United Party] Sabah State Government, had supported the move. The decision also received overwhelming support from various quarters in Malaysia, including politicians, trade unions, non-governmental organisations and individuals. Kelantan is the only State to go against the Federal Government's decision. Nik Aziz said the project would be a joint venture between Thames Water and Yayasan Kelantan Darulnaim (Yakin). It would be carried out on a privatised basis and would be for the supply of water to the State's water treatment plants. "We hope the project will overcome the acute water shortage we anticipate in a few years. In fact, we are already facing the problem and we have to do something fast to rectify the situation," Nik Aziz said. He neither, however, elaborated on why the State Government had decided to engage a British firm nor disclosed the terms and conditions of the deal. [passage omitted]
