FBIS4-11199 "drlat079_f_94013" FBIS-LAT-94-079 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA El Salvador Cristiani: Peace Agreements Virtually Fulfilled Cristiani: Peace Agreements Virtually Fulfilled PA2504002894 Hamburg DPA in Spanish 2213 GMT 24 Apr 94 PA2504002894 Hamburg DPA Spanish BFN [Text] San Salvador, 24 Apr (DPA) -- Salvadoran President Alfredo Cristiani said today that the peace agreements will be virtually fulfilled in their entirety before 1 June -- the day the winner of today's run-off presidential elections will take office. Armando Calderon Sol, presidential candidate for the official Nationalist Republican Alliance [ARENA], or Ruben Zamora, candidate for the leftist coalition Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, Democratic Convergence, and National Revolutionary Movement [FMLN-CD-MNR], will assume the Presidency of the Republic in 37 days. President Cristiani noted that by the end of his term, only a portion of the total list of commitments regarding the National Police demobilization and land transfers for the demobilized military and former guerrillas will be pending. President Cristiani made this statement following a visit this afternoon to the El Salvador's International Fair Grounds, his assigned voting site. President Cristiani reiterated his government's willingness to comply fully with the peace agreements since the signing of the Chapultepec Agreements in Mexico on 16 January 1992. He also stated that despite the difficulties the main objective remains full compliance with the commitments that ended the 12-year war. The government is confident that the new president will continue to comply with those parts of the peace agreements that are pending as well as with the efforts to consolidate peace, reconciliation, and democratization in El Salvador. The low voter turnout became obvious today during the mid-afternoon. These run-off elections have been characterized by low turnout alone because, according to the Supreme Electoral Tribunal magistrates, 85 percent of the deficiencies observed during the 20 March general elections were overcome. A heavy rain exacerbated the low voter turnout because although most voting tables are sheltered, voters were dispersed even more than in the previous elections. There were reports of several clashes between ARENA and FMLN-CD-MNR coalition supporters at the polls but no mention of any serious incidents. Political analysts and the wives of the leftist coalition candidates emphasized that the issue is not who wins the elections but that "everyone accepts the results maturely." Magdalena Granadino de Lima, wife of Francisco Lima -- vice presidential candidate for the leftist coalition -- emphasized that unity and national consensus must prevail among the political forces to guarantee the consolidation of peace, national reconciliation, and democratization.
