FBIS3-6945 "dreas056_l_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 Philippines Australian Minister on Energy Cooperation BK2303015494 Manila PHILIPPINE DAILY INQUIRER in English 21 Mar 94 p 20 BK2303015494 Manila PHILIPPINE DAILY INQUIRER Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Australia and the Philippines have agreed to cooperate closely on energy to help boost trade and investments between the two countries, Australian Trade Minister Robert McMullan said. He said an Australian energy mission will visit Manila in May to coincide with the first meeting of the proposed joint working group on energy. "We expect it (mission) to find a lot of trade opportunities for Australia... and provide opportunities for the Philippines to take initiatives to resolve its energy situation," McMullan told reporters at the airport before leaving Manila on Saturday [19 March]. The trade official arrived on Thursday as part of a tour of member-countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and is to visit Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. Australia had been helping the Philippines in the oil exploration field. Only recently, the Australian Government financed the survey work on several prospective oil-bearing structures in the Philippines . The first report on the results of the survey was released last month and pointed to the areas where oil reserves could have accumulated over the years. The drilling season is set to start next month and several local and foreign oil exploration companies will be searching for oil in offshore Palawan, Mindoro, and the Sulu Sea. The Philippines depends on imported crude. Recent oil discoveries have helped cut these imports. One of the country's biggest oil strikes, the Linapacan oil field off Palawan, initially produced at least 15,000 barrels a day until water started to seep into the pipe. Two foreign firms -- Shell Exploration and Occidental Petroleum -- are working on the development of a much bigger oil structure called the Malampaya field. This structure contains a sizable amount of natural gas and crude oil.
