FBIS4-13451 "drnes076_l_94001" FBIS-NES-94-076 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 ISRAEL Rabin, Peres Reportedly Accept Full Golan Withdrawal Rabin, Peres Reportedly Accept Full Golan Withdrawal TA1904182594 Jerusalem New Channel 2 Television Network in Hebrew 1700 GMT 19 Apr 94 TA1904182594 Jerusalem New Channel 2 Television Network Hebrew BFN [Report by political correspondent 'Imanu'el Rosen] [Text] The prime minister's candor in today's session of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee was surprising, at least in view of the fact that merely two days ago, Rabin was furious at the disclosure of the very existence of the General Staff working papers on the Israeli-Syrian negotiations. Senior political and military elements told us today: Rabin has just confirmed what everybody has known for some time: He and Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres have accepted the concept of a full IDF [Israel Defense Forces] withdrawal from the Golan Heights, including the evacuation of all the settlements. The ideal line suggested in the IDF treatise on partial withdrawal lies 5 to 8 km away from the mountain ridge line -- the line from which the Lake of Tiberias and the Hula Valley can be observed. Today Rabin said: I am ready to move west of there -- namely, up to the ridge line itself in the first stage and probably completely off the Golan Heights in the second stage. Hence, the haggling with the Syrians will be over other issues: security arrangements, the manning of the Golan Heights early warning stations, and the gradual nature of withdrawal. As for acreage, the die has been cast. [Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew at 1700 GMT on 19 April, in a report by political correspondent Gadi Sukenik, adds: "There is doubt in Jerusalem that progress with Syria is feasible" at this time, because "at this stage, Peres and Rabin are not enthusiastic about either a U.S. visit or any meaningful progress with Syria. At this stage, they would prefer to postpone it until the IDF completes its withdrawal, or rather, to turn to the Syrian track only after the first stage of the Israel-PLO agreement is implemented." Sukenik adds: "Almost every element involved in this issue believes that when the process gets down to brass tacks, there will be talk of full peace and full, or almost full, withdrawal from the Golan."]
