FBIS4-22584 "jpusr041___94001" FBIS-USR-94-041 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 29 March 1994 RUSSIA POLITICAL AFFAIRS Lukyanov, Yakunin on Civil Accord Lukyanov, Yakunin on Civil Accord Lukyanov Sees Civil Accord Chances as Slim 944F0560A St. Petersburg NEVSKOYE VREMYA in Russian 29 Mar 94 p 1 944F0560A St. Petersburg NEVSKOYE VREMYA Russian CSO [Interview with State Duma Deputy Anatoliy Lukyanov, Russian Road group, by Viktoria Rabotnova; place and date not given: "Prepare for October in the Spring"] [Text] [Lukyanov] Civil peace is not all-forgiveness or universal fraternization. True patriots, our people, will never agree to make peace with those who have shell-blasted the parliament and the constitution. There will be no accord on this count. Overall, accord in a society that is splitting into the poor and the rich is difficult. It is impossible to reconcile these contradictions on the social plane, but it is possible and necessary to attempt to resolve them without armed conflicts and bloodshed. Most people, including the communists, support precisely this. Such accord assumes a whole series of actions aimed at resolving all issues by consensus. [Rabotnova] In other words, for you accord does not mean giving up the struggle? [Lukyanov] One may wish for anything. But try to reconcile the poor--and even according to government data 38 percent of the Russian population live below the poverty level--with a handful of new millionaires. But we have to act within the bounds of the constitution. [Rabotnova] Which constitution? [Lukyanov] Even this one, essentially not adopted because only one-third of the population voted for it in the referendum. The struggle must be conducted by legal means. There are ways: strikes; speaking up against the regime in the press. [Rabotnova] Your forecast: How will events develop from here on? [Lukyanov] It all depends on the correlation of forces; on how realistically the president and his entourage appraise the current situation. Unless shock therapy is rejected; unless the reforms become at least minimally socially oriented, October may shift to other months...
