FBIS4-16635 "drsov075_f_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-075 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 National Affairs Kravchuk, Chornovil, Kuchma on Election Results Kravchuk, Chornovil, Kuchma on Election Results LD1804173194 Moscow NTV in Russian 1500 GMT 18 Apr 94 LD1804173194 Moscow NTV Russian BFN [Text] The presidential election campaign has begun in Ukraine. The authorities are clearly inspired by the high turnout during the parliamentary elections and call this a good example. Western observers have a somewhat different opinion. For example, American representatives have stated that it was not possible to elect a genuinly legitimate parliament. The Americans have reported numerous complaints that candidates from the parties in power had freer access to the media. [Correspondent Aleksandr Tachenko] The forecasts of the early collapse of Ukraine have turned out to be somewhat exaggerated, which President Leonid Kravchuk thinks as well. [Begin Kravchuk recording, in Ukrainian with superimposed Russian translation] Analysis shows that neither the extreme left nor the extreme right received a large advantage. Everything depends on whether the deputies are able to create a strong center. If they create one -- and I hope they will -- then I hope that there will be no threat of collapse. [end recording] [Tkachenko] Other active participants in the political process in Ukraine commented on the results of the recent elections in their own way in an interview on the "Itogi" program. [Begin recording] [Vyacheslav Chornovil, leader of Rukh] The parliament was elected in accordance with what is probably the worst electoral law in Europe. Only the Belarusian law can compete, and these are the results. Then you must not forget that elections under conditions of an economic recession and the impoverishment of the population always give opportunities to extreme forces, both extreme left and right. [Leonid Kuchma, president of the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs] I hope that there will be a center in parliament capable of halting the tug-o-war competitions, capable of halting destruction and beginning to work on the genuine construction of the economy, which Ukraine needs today. [end recording] [Tkachenko] After the parliamentary elections, now most interest is concentrated on whether or not the presidential elections will take place on 26 June. Among the opponents of the new electoral campaign is Kravchuk himself, some nationalists, and even communists. Among its active supporters are Leonid Kuchma and some of the leaders of the eastern and southern regions, and left- centrists. Today, few people risk forecasting how events may develop. Everyone is waiting and preparing for the middle of May, when the new Ukrainian parliament will meet for its first session.
