FBIS4-61536 "drsov089_d_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-089 Daily Report 8 May 1994 REGIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev Arrives in Murmansk for Victory Day Kozyrev Arrives in Murmansk for Victory Day LD0805120694 Moscow Radio Rossii Network in Russian 1100 GMT 8 May 94 LD0805120694 Moscow Radio Rossii Network Russian BFN [Text] Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev arrived in Murmansk today. Our correspondent Yuriy Arkhipov reports by telephone: [Arkhipov] Andrey Kozyrev, Russian foreign minister and Murmansk Oblast's deputy to the State Duma, was met at Murmansk airport by the head of the oblast administration, the commander of the Northern Fleet, and by representatives from the Russian Foreign Ministry in Murmansk. On this occasion, the aim of the minister's visit is to take part in Victory Day celebrations. In an interview with journalists at the aircraft steps, he congratulated all the defenders of the Polar region on the holiday, and underlined that as our people managed to withstand the horrors of the 1941-45 war, there is no doubt it will be able to overcome today's difficulties. Andrey Kozyrev went straight from the airport to Severomorsk, where he had a meeting with the officers of the aircraft carrier Admiral Nakhimov. An agreement to establish patronage ties between the oblast administration and the command of the aircraft carrier was signed on board the vessel. Andrey Kozyrev took part in the signing ceremony of this agreement. Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev also had a conversation with Yevgeniy Komarov, head of the administration of Murmansk Oblast. The social and economic development of Murmansk Oblast based on the resources of the region was discussed during the meeting. On 9 May the Russian foreign minister will take part in a procession of the inhabitants and guests of the city to the monument commemorating the defenders of the Polar zone -- or as the northerners call the monument, Alesha -- and lay flowers at the monument. In the second half of the day, Andrey Kozyrev will fly back to Moscow.
