FBIS3-56013 "drsov009_a_94027" FBIS-SOV-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Commentary Reviews Outcome of Summit LD1201152394 Moscow Radio Moscow World Service in English 1210 GMT 12 Jan 94 LD1201152394 Moscow Radio Moscow World Service Language: English Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read commentary by Yuriy Solton] [Excerpts] In this commentary, Yuriy Solton examines the results of the NATO Council session at summit level, which concluded its work in Brussels this Tuesday [11 January]. The NATO countries' leaders have outlined the landmarks of the new strategy. Of course, not all their plans can be adopted, but the intention to continue the East-West dialogue and to develop further cooperation with the East European countries to strengthen European security, should be appraised as a positive initiative. It can be noted with satisfaction that the Brussels declaration supports economic and political reforms in Russia. The declaration emphasizes that the Russian leaders' firm intention to follow the course of democratic reforms, is extremely important in maintaining stability and security in Europe. [passage omitted] The NATO leaders' apprehension about the appearance in Europe of hotbeds of instability and armed conflicts is understandable. The most classic example is former Yugoslavia, especially the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina, that has now been raging for the past two years. The heads of state and government of NATO are right in concluding that the war in Yugoslavia can only be resolved through peaceful means. Their readiness to assist the peace process in Yugoslavia can only be welcomed. But it seems to me that it is hardly advisable nor perhaps appropriate to issue military threats. In Brussels, it was announced that NATO was ready to use air strikes in Bosnia, even though it's true that this would only be done with the corresponding decision and control by the Security Council of the United Nations. Here, I share the opinion of the leader of the Bosnian Serbs, Radovan Karadzic, who said that the NATO threats were unproductive and that they would only complicate the situation at a time when hope for signing a peace agreement on the Bosnian issue still existed. Other decisions concerning the rejuvenation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization were taken in Brussels. As a whole, the impression is created that the NATO leaders are waking up to the conviction that it is necessary to establish such a system of common European security that will prevent a return to a Europe of political blocs.
