FBIS3-23520 "jpufm002__l94009" JPRS-UFM-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Central Eurasia FOREIGN MILITARY REVIEW No 10, October 1994 29 March 1994 Geodetic Application of NAVSTAR Satellite Radionavigation System 94UM0236I Moscow ZARUBEZHNOYE VOYENNOYE OBOZRENIYE in Russian No 10, Oct 93 (signed to press 4 Oct 93) p 48--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94UM0236I Moscow ZARUBEZHNOYE VOYENNOYE OBOZRENIYE Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Colonel B. Alekseyev, candidate of technical sciences] [Text] The NAVSTAR satellite radionavigation system created in the United States is a global system of continuous, all-weather navigation support to military and civilian consumers. NAVSTAR consists of navigational satellites; a ground command, control and telemetry system; and users' navigational gear intended for determining their position based on measured pseudoranges to the satellite. Models of receiver gear, the design of which meets requirements of ground, airborne and naval users, were developed by the mid-1980's. Receivers (of the Collins firm) demonstrated the capability of determining coordinates with an accuracy to 9 m and height to 11 m. But the level of accuracy achieved does not satisfy a number of military and civilian users. Under an order of the U.S. Defense Department Mapping Agency, experimental, high-precision STI 5010 gear providing an accuracy of 10-15 m in determining coordinates in real time and 2 m over several hours of operation was created in the early 1970's. By 1980 a group of organizations evolved in the United States interested in creating high-precision receiver gear for geodesy, metrology and so on. It included the Mapping Agency, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and U.S. Geological Survey. These organizations drew up an "interdepartmental coordination plan for using the NAVSTAR system in geodetic work," which specified each department's level of involvement in developing methods of geodetic use of the system. And already in the early 1980's Texas Instruments created the TI 4100 series navigational-geodetic apparatus (Geostar 4100 modification), which permitted achieving an accuracy of 10-15 m in determining coordinates in real time and 1 m in 4-6 hours of operation. The accuracy of mutual position of two points at a distance up to 1,000 km was around 1 decimeter. The gear weighed 27.2 kg. By the mid-1980's various firms had developed a large number of different versions of users' geodetic apparatus. A special place among the versions is held by receivers operating according to the radio interferometer principle. These devices permit providing a level of accuracy of one centimeter in determining mutual position of two or more users separated by a distance up to 1,000 km without using high-precision navigational signals. Accumulated experience of using the users' geodetic apparatus as well as the achieved level of accuracy and promptness of determination will provide the opportunity to sharply expand the area of application of geodetic receivers and go beyond the bounds of traditional navigation. This apparatus is needed for installation of sophisticated engineering structures, for determining coordinates of aerial cameras during aerial mapping, and for obtaining other geodetic data (azimuths, differences of optometric elevations, components of the deviation of vertical lines, gravitational force values) necessary for supporting military and civilian users. Heightened requirements are placed on geodetic receivers being manufactured under the U.S. Defense Department order. One is the capability for converting the coordinates obtained into essentially any local coordinate system serving as the basis for creating national maps and other cartographic products.
