FBIS4-10701 "drlat074_b_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-074 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 Dominican Republic Haiti Dominican Commission Seen as Compromise Among Lobbies Dominican Commission Seen as Compromise Among Lobbies FL1504220794 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio in French 1030 GMT 15 Apr 94 FL1504220794 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio French BFN [Text] Dominican President Joaquin Balaguer has set up a commission to enforce the embargo against Haiti. This commission -- made up of the Armed Forces minister, the military chiefs of the general staff, and the Army -- will have to solicit from the United Nations, through the pertinent institutions, the logistic support it needs to do its job. This measure by President Balaguer comes after U.S. Democratic congressmen asked him to assume a more responsible attitude so as to put an end to the flood of goods that cross the border between the Dominican Republic and Haiti daily. According to the Dominican newspaper (LA PRENSA), this trafficking takes place with the conspicuous complicity of the Dominican border guards and other Dominican citizens. Information from Washington says the State Department hopes Balaguer will ask for UN monitors, so as to strengthen surveillance along the Haitian-Dominican border. Observers think this Dominican Government decision to form a commission with the mission of strengthening surveillance along the border is a compromise that has been reached among the divers lobbies in the Dominican Republic and the United States that criticize international sanctions against Haiti. Analysts say, furthermore, that Balaguer has exhibited a position hostile to President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who accuses him of encouraging the hiring of thousands of Haitians for the Dominican sugarcane plantations [batey]. President Aristide has stated that the Haitian workers are treated like slaves in the Dominican Republic, living under subhuman conditions -- without running water, electricity, or social assistance -- and working for pathetic wages. It should be recalled that Balaguer's response to this accusation was a massive deportation of Haitians.
