FBIS3-559 "drafr046_e_94013" FBIS-AFR-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 WEST AFRICA Niger Ousmane Rejects Rebel's Demand for Partition AB0703180894 Niamey Voix du Sahel Network in French 1900 GMT 6 Mar 94 AB0703180894 Niamey Voix du Sahel Network Language: French Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] Congolese President Pascal Lissouba made a technical stopover at the Niamey Airport. He is on his way to Paris to where will pay a working visit. He was met by President Mahamane Ousmane. Responding to questions put to him by the press, President Mahamane Ousmane spoke about the demands of the armed rebellion. According to him, Niger is one and indivisible and its partition is unacceptable. He, however, asserted his readiness to pursue the dialogue to find a solution to the armed rebellion. Here is the head of state's position. [Begin Ousmane recording] As the president, guarantor of national unity, guarantor of the integrity of the national territory, and guarantor of the Constitution, naturally, my position is that this is unacceptable. Niger is one and indivisible. Once and for all this must be made clear to all the sons of this country. The various demands made have now been transmitted to the various institutions of the state and to the various active forces of the nation to inform the public about their contents and also make their contributions in the form of proposals and suggestions for the holding of future negotiations. Naturally, the demands submitted by the Coordination of the Armed Resistance is a maximal position. It is just a negotiating position. This does not mean that they will stick to this. We know this very well, but it must be clearly understood that Niger is one and indivisible. It is one country. In fact, in the organization and management of the affairs of the state, there are forms and modalities which call on all the citizens of this country to be in charge of the administration of their own affairs at the various levels -- at the local, subregional, regional, and national levels. [passage omitted] [end recording]
