FBIS4-47422 "jpust012___94176" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 June 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH On Procedure for Restoring Concentration for Group of On Procedure for Restoring Concentration for Group of Aerosol Dispersivity Ranges Under Conditions of Industrial Technology Air Pollution 947C0233D Moscow GIGIYENA I SANITARIYA in Russian No. 5, May 93 pp 60-61 947C0233D Moscow GIGIYENA I SANITARIYA Russian CSO [Article by V.M. Malykhin and S.A. Toropov (Sea Transport Hygiene SRI, St.Petersburg); received 5-20-92; UDC 613.632.4-074] [Abstract] Air environment in electronic industry production premises andhermetically sealed production equipment zones (PSPEs), which form a closed ecosystem,affects ergonomic production conditions, personnel efficiency and product quality. It is therefore necessary to continue to improve methodological support of systems for measurement and control of air environment. It is also important to control air pollution levels (APLs) to prevent ecotoxicants (ETs) from entering the personnel's organisms through inhalation. A procedure for forming information on size distribution of aerosol particles that can enter human body was developed. The methodological principles are used for deriving matrices of forming measurement information (MFMIs) are presented; estimates of the input of two fractions to the distribution of aerodispersed ET carrierphase are obtained as an example. Then the procedure is generalized to the case of three to four fractions, by introducing additional equations for constructing MFMIs. The procedure described in the article is aimed at measuring air pollution in PSPEs using impactors (devices that perform separation of aerosols by dispersion fractions). It makes it possible to construct MFMIs and estimate the input of individual consolidated dispersivity ranges and total concentration, in order to control labor conditions in an enterprise or to study new production processes aimed at developing recommendations on improving the processes in terms of their technological and hygiene criteria. References 8: 5 Russian, 3 Western.
