FBIS3-45279 "drchi010_w_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Continued Reports on Hong Kong Airport Project Government To Make Decision on Funding HK1401071894 Hong Kong THE STANDARD in English 14 Jan 94 pp 1, 4 HK1401071894 Hong Kong THE STANDARD Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Michael Smith and M. Y. Sung] [Text] The government has turned up the heat on Hong Kong's lawmakers to keep the new airport project afloat despite renewed threats from China that unilateral action would threaten future negotiations on the project. Legislators reserved a final decision on the airport funding crisis yesterday, prompting the government to push ahead with its own decision this weekend. The government also refused to reveal its long-term contingency plan for airport financing despite growing fears that more taxpayers' money would be injected into the project if China called off future talks. The government will make a final decision this weekend on funding options, but has indicated it favours the injection of an additional $1.6 billion to pay for urgent construction projects. Legislators and the Airport Consultative Committee (ACC) were presented with two options yesterday to keep the airport on schedule pending an agreement with China on the financing arrangements. Although Hong Kong's main political parties reserved their final decision, the government will narrow down the choice this weekend. The options include an extra $377 million in funding to keep the Provisional Airport Authority (PAA) operating during 1994-95, or the injection of an additional $1.6 billion to pay for urgent design and construction work. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin warned that the injection of additional funding without China's approval would threaten future airport negotiations. "Unilateral action will do no good to the settlement of the financial arrangements," he said. Governor Chris Patten rejected China's suggestion that the British side simply put more equity into the associated railway project. He said this would only be "bite-size" relief, and that the only cost-effective option was to reach agreement on the overall financing strategy. Treasury Secretary Donald Tsang said many legislators appeared to favour going it alone on the $1.6 billion additional funding but admitted there were "mixed" reactions from ACC members. Tsang said the government would monitor the response from legislators and the public before making a decision at the weekend. "I hope that over the weekend we will come to a recommendation that will be put to the Finance Committee," Tsang said. "At present the proposal may not be the ideal scenario but we have to take the feeling of the Hong Kong people into account." Tsang said the government had not decided whether to brief China on the proposal before it was put to the Legislative Council. While many legislators appeared to favour the government's preferred alternative, only a handful indicated they would support either option. The major parties, the United Democrats, the Liberal Party and Meeting Point, said they would consult parts members before making a decision. Tsang refused to be drawn on government contingency plans should China call off further talks on the airport. Tsang stressed that the first priority was to reach agreement with China through the Airport Committee. Four independent legislators, Jimmy McGregor Emily Lau, Vincent Cheng and Eric Li supported the injection of $1.6 billion to keep major contracts on line. Liberal Party legislator Howard Young and pro-China legislator Tam Yiu-chung said they preferred the less extreme option of keeping the PAA operating.
