FBIS4-59527 "drnes094_j_94019" FBIS-NES-94-094 Daily Report 13 May 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Yemeni Socialist Party Offers Cease-Firea Plan Yemeni Socialist Party Offers Cease-Firea Plan Details of Proposal EA1305203794 Aden Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1900 GMT 13 May 94 EA1305203794 Aden Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Text] The Yemeni Socialist Party [YSP] politburo has announced a political initiative aimed at ending the fighting in Yemen. The initiative includes eight [as heard] points: The question of the immediate cessation of the war is the first point of the initiative. The second point provides for the formation of a national salvation government, which would attempt to eliminate the effects of the war. The third point stresses the maintenance of what is left of the Armed Forces, as well as their reorganization, in addition to the disengagement of forces currently confronting each other. The attacking forces must be withdrawn to their former pre-war positions. The fourth and fifth points of the initiative refer to the protection of the lives of the citizens and their possessions, and to fair compensation for those who have been harmed. The victims of the war, both civilian and military, should be regarded as martyrs. Political and military detainees should be released. The detention, pursuit, or torture of any political or military elements should be prevented. Likewise, the looting of citizens' property should not be allowed. Looted goods should be restored to the owners, or those owners should be compensated. Parties' rights to exercise political activitity, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, should be recognized. The seventh point [as heard, no mention of sixth point] stipulates that there should be no withdrawal from the implementation of the pledge and accord document. The eighth point of the political initiative put forward by the YSP proposes that the national salvation government investigate those who caused the war and its declaration.
