FBIS4-41586 "drsov123_r_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-123 Daily Report 25 Jun 1994 Azerbaijan Usubov Calls for Extradition Accord With Iran Usubov Calls for Extradition Accord With Iran LD2506114094 Tehran IRNA in English 0927 GMT 25 Jun 94 LD2506114094 Tehran IRNA English BFN [Text] Baku, June 25, IRNA -- Interior Minister of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ramil Usubov Friday called for an agreement with Iran on extradition of offenders and cooperation in campaign against drug traffickers. He made the call in a meeting with Iranian Ambassador to Baku 'Ali Akbar Nehavandian. The ambassador touched on the escalation of perpetration of crimes against Iranians in the republic and called on the relevant officials to pursue the case. Nahavandian did not dismiss possibility of links between the crimes and the forthcoming visit to Iran of President Geydar Aliyev and stressed that no doubt such criminal acts were carried out by certain power sources to prevent boosting of mutual ties. President Aliyev is to leave for Iran next week. Pointing to the unrestricted entry of people to both the countries, Usubov warned against infiltration of certain elements affiliated to sabotage groups. He regretted deplorable happenings for Iranians in Azerbaijan and said that necessary instructions had been issued in order to decisively confront those involved in such incidents. The minister underlined the importance his country attaches to Iran and said Baku would not allow such crimes to be repeated in future. He said that Azerbaijan has recently signed an agreement with Turkey on extradition of offenders and in case a similar contract would be signed with Iran, runaway culprits would be arrested and extradited. Some ten days ago the body of an Iranian national identified as Mohammad Seyyed was found at his residence here who had been murdered heinously. Due to the follow up of the Iranian Embassy, the Azeri president ordered formation of an ad hoc committee by the interior minister to probe into crimes against Iranians in that republic. However the Azeri media did not give coverage to the murder of the Iranian national.
