FBIS3-1232 "drafr056_c_94024" FBIS-AFR-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC Announces Mass Action Campaign in Natal MB2303142894 Johannesburg Channel Africa Radio in English 1100 GMT 23 Mar 94 MB2303142894 Johannesburg Channel Africa Radio Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Channel Africa Report" program] [Text] The African National Congress [ANC] has announced that it will begin a mass action campaign on Friday [25 March] to demand free political activity in South Africa's Natal-kwaZulu region. ANC spokesman (Sbhu Ndebele): [Ndeble] The mass action is intended to mobilize all the people who want to resolve their issues, political issues, in Natal through elections. It will mobilize and demonstrate to the people of Natal (?that) it's only a small minority in Natal that is against elections, and indeed in the whole country we have seen that out of the 26 parties that were at the World Trade Center, only two parties today remain that are opposed to the election -- namely, the Conservative Party [CP] with its AWB [Afrikaner Resistance Movement] counterpart, with the CP in Natal having pulled out of the nonelectioneering CP, and the IFP. Those are the only two parties that are left today. What is worrying us about the IFP is that it is doing what even the Conservative Party is not doing. The Conservative Party is not going on to hold election venues preventing other parties, but the IFP has prevented us twice now in Umlazi and kwaMashu from using stadiums that we were entitled to use. So it is that development that is actually very, very worrying in South Africa -- in Natal. Whoever wants peace will have to support this form of action. [Correspondent Gary Govindsamy] What if there's resistance to the march on Friday? [Ndebele] Well, there has been resistance to the struggle led by the ANC since the 50's. The ANC has got the capacity to overcome that. [Govindsamy] Will this be another situation like that in Bophuthatswana in Ulundi? [Ndebele] Not exactly. Two situations are not the same. Bophuthatswana, though it was not recognized by the whole world, was as a matter of law recognized by the South African Government and it was recognized in South African law as independent. That is why we saw extraordinary measures being taken there. KwaZulu is part of the South African law. It is not regarded as independent. But on April the 27th the constitution of 1993 will come into operation at midnight, and that constitution does not recognize any of the self- governing states, including kwaZulu or any of the so-called independent bantustans -- Transkei, Bophuthatswana, Venda, and so forth. So there's no need for the ANC in Natal to be mobilizing their energies to go and overthrow the Legislative Assembly of Ulundi when that assembly won't be there on April 27.
