FBIS3-4408 "drchi061_s_94014" FBIS-CHI-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 Northeast Region Liaoning Secretary Addresses Standing Committee Meeting SK2603084094 Shenyang Liaoning People's Radio Network in Mandarin 1000 GMT 25 Mar 94 SK2603084094 Shenyang Liaoning People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Text] Today the provincial party committee held an enlarged standing committee meeting. Gu Jinchi and other provincial leaders who had attended the Second Session of the Eighth National People's Congress [NPC] and the Second Session of the Eighth National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference [CPPCC] relayed the guidelines of these two sessions. At the meeting, Chen Suzhi, vice chairman of the provincial people's congress standing committee, relayed the speeches given by Comrade Jiang Zemin at the meeting of party leaders and at a meeting with the Liaoning delegation during the second session of the eighth NPC. Lin Sheng, vice chairman of the provincial people's congress standing committee, relayed the guidelines of the Second Session of the Eighth National CPPCC Committee. Zhang Guoguang, deputy secretary of the provincial party committee, relayed the speeches given by Comrades Jiang Zemin, Li Peng, and Zhu Rongji at the national rural work conference. Gu Jinchi, secretary of the provincial party committee, worked out plans for several major tasks to be carried out in the province this year. He pointed out: It is necessary to act in line with the central spirit of seizing the opportunity, deepening reform, expanding opening up, promoting development, and maintaining stability, properly handle the relations of reform, development, and stability, and under the situation of maintaining social stability, guarantee the smooth implementation of the reform plans. At present, we should attend to agricultural production, seize the opportune moment for spring plowing, and guarantee the farming acreage, particularly the farming acreage of wheat. He stressed: We should realistically organize and guide industrial production and end the downward situation in industry. At the end of his speech, Gu Jinchi called on leaders at all levels to improve work style, go deeply to the grass roots, strengthen grass-roots organizational construction, and do some practical things for the grass roots.
