FBIS4-48848 "drafr103_c_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-103 Daily Report 26 May 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Mandela Holds Talks With PAC Leader Makwetu Mandela Holds Talks With PAC Leader Makwetu PAC Troops To Join Defense Force MB2605122194 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1005 GMT 26 May 94 MB2605122194 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Cape Town May 26 SAPA -- Six thousand members of the Pan Africanist Congress' [PAC] armed wing, the Azanian People's Liberation Army [APLA], would be included in the South African National Defence Force [SANDF], PAC President Clarence Makwetu said after meeting President Nelson Mandela on Thursday. The number could rise to 10,000, he said. Speaking on the steps of Tuynhuys after their meeting, Mr Mandela said he had asked the PAC leader for a list of PAC members who could be included in the new government's civil service and diplomatic corps. Mr Mandela said APLA members had fought and suffered. They should be included even though they applied for membership after the cutoff date for inclusion of non-statutory forces in the SANDF. Mr Mandela said his discussions with Mr Makwetu were part of an ongoing attempt to forge unity. "As long as I am president, I think this dialogue should continue," Mr Mandela said. "We are busy on an initiative intended to bring about a unified approach in dealing with questions which are of concern to the people of South Africa." He was encouraged by the co-operation he was receiving from other political parties. On Wednesday, Mr Mandela met Conservative Party leader Ferdi Hartzenberg and next week he will meet Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging [Afrikaner Resistance Movement] leader Eugene Terreblanche. Before meeting Mr Makwetu, Mr Mandela held an hour-long meeting with acting democratic party leader Tony Leon. Mr Mandela said he welcomed a loyal parliamentary opposition. "The fact that people differ with us is no reason why we should not give attention to their ideas. The role of the opposition is to draw attention to those things we may not be alive to."
