FBIS3-35685 "drsov020_b_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Popov Argues Against Pro-Western Reform Model MK2801122094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 28 Jan 94 p 2 MK2801122094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Gleb Cherkasov report under the "Politician" rubric: "Gavriil Popov Content With Government Reshuffle and Ready To Cooperate With Everyone"] [Text] Gavriil Popov, leader of the Russian Democratic Reform Movement, held a news conference devoted to the movement's upcoming congress. Speaking to journalists, Mr. Popov analyzed the reasons for the RDRM's failure in the elections to the Federal Assembly and gave an assessment of the current political situation. Mr. Popov believes that the next two years should be devoted to restoring social stability and drawing up a new economic reform program. To this end, it is essential to "lend weight to the parliament" and to let the government work in peace, Popov said. He expressed his astonishment at the "uproar" raised by the press over the latest government reshuffles. In the RDRM leader's opinion, the departure of Gaydar and Fedorov and the change in economic policy are rather positive developments, because "it is necessary to clear the country of the extremes of pro-Western reform," Popov noted. Analyzing the RDRM's electoral platform, Mr. Popov pointed to a number of tactical mistakes made by chiefs of the RDRM electoral association that caused the movement's fiasco. They include lengthy, albeit inconclusive talks about setting up a bloc; an inadequate fund-raising campaign; and a lack of party structures that could be tasked with performing organizational work, collecting signatures, and campaigning. This is why the RDRM, which initially drew support from 6-7 percent of the voters, did not enter the State Duma. The RDRM leader expressed his intention to cooperate with all politicians and parties that support the stabilization of the political situation with words and deeds. For the RDRM to be able to cooperate with "Russia's Choice," however, Yegor Gaydar and his followers should back away from the "pro-Western reform model," Popov said.
