FBIS3-11810 "drlat059_c_94029" FBIS-LAT-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 MEXICO OECD Extends Invitation; Further on PECE Agreement PA2503143694 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 25 Mar 94 PA2503143694 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 25 Mar 94 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Jaime Guerrero from the "Early Morning" newscast] [Text] On 24 March the 24 countries that make up the OECD unanimously agreed to invite Mexico to join the organization. The formal induction will take place on 14 April. President Carlos Salinas de Gortari said that within that organization Mexico will enhance its presence in the industrialized countries, particularly in Europe's markets. The president made these remarks at the ceremony during which the Stability, Competitiveness and Employment Pact [PECE] was signed. This was a very timely moment for the private sector, laborers, peasants, and government to confirm their economic alliance through PECE. At Los Pinos [presidential palace], the country's productive sectors totally rejected violence and repudiated the assassination of PRI [Institutional Revolutionary Party] candidate Luis Donaldo Colosio. They totally rejected violence and President Carlos Salinas categorically stated that Mexico will not stray from its course. [Begin Salinas recording] We unanimously reject every attempt to make us lose our course, to distract our efforts, to believe that a violent offense can discourage Mexico. [end recording] The president called for unity, saying that the peace agreements will be fulfilled and adding that only concerted efforts and full observance of the law will ensure a better future for the Mexican people. [Begin Salinas recording] Today we have confirmed that we will defend the efforts made and the opportunities that have been created. We will work arm in arm to defend the law; we will not allow impunity to deprive us of the serenity that will allow us to move forward. [end recording] Participants in the meeting dismissed the possibility that the tragic event in Tijuana has destabilized the Mexican currency. [Begin unidentified speaker recording] Yesterday's tragic event has not translated today into a crisis in the Mexican financial market. [end recording] The labor sector proposed less tolerance of violence.
