FBIS3-53211 "drnes008_r_94008" FBIS-NES-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 India Bilateral Agricultural Pact Signed With Israel 94P50077B Bombay NAVBHARAT TIMES in Hindi 25 Dec 93 p 6 94P50077B Bombay NAVBHARAT TIMES Language: Hindi Article Type:CSO [Article: "Pact Signed With Israel To Cooperate In Agriculture"] [Text] Israel and India signed an agreement today for cooperation in agricultural science and technology, including research, education, developmental projects, and joint ventures. The Union Minister for agriculture, Mr. Balram Jakhar, and his Israeli counterpart, Mr. Yaakov Tsur, signed the areement, which will result in cooperation between companies or institutions of the two countries through collaborative activities and exchanges. At a joint press conference following the signing, Mr. Jakhar and Mr. Tsur felt there was vast scope for increasing bilateral cooperation since the restoration of diplomatic relations between the two countries two years ago. Mr. Tsur stressed on intense cooperation in the field of water and soil management, stating that his country has been recently facing a shortage of water, and Israel would welcome the help of Indian scientists in this field. Israel has been supplying water to the entire country through a 400 km pipeline connecting to a reservoir lake, and India could provide valuable know-how in this field. Israel will make optimal use of water through the drip/sprinkler system developed by Pune's Finnolamb Company, with whom an agreement has been signed. Mr. Jakhar said that Israel will get the system at the same price that the Indian farmers get. He said that there were other areas where Israel has agreed to help India in her developmental projects. It was remarkable how Israel had come up as a forerunner inspite of many serious impediments. Commenting on the excellent work done by Indian scientists in agricultural research and development, Mr. Tsur said the two countries could cooperate intensively in the fields of plant and animal sciences, farm mechanization, and technology. Mr. Jakhar called for jointly working for greater agricultural production, through development of hybrid seeds, fertilizers, greenhouse and energy-saving technologies and by developing a marketing infrastructure while making use of Israeli expertise in these areas.
