FBIS3-57727 "drsov019_b_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Lobov Tipped To Head Presidential Body MK2801100094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 28 Jan 94 p 1 MK2801100094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Maksim Isayev report under the "Perspective" rubric: "President Has Not Forgotten About `Power' Ministries and December Elections. Serious Reshuffles in Defense Ministry May Follow Two or Three Months From Now"] [Text] According to confidential information received from presidential structures, the question about the first deputy prime minister in charge of the "power" ministries has been put on ice for the next two or three months. At the same time, there still remains the question about what practical conclusions should be drawn in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Defense Ministry, Foreign Intelligence Service, and the Federal Counterintelligence Service on the results of the December voting, and who and in what way is going to guarantee the loyalty of these structures to the present authority in the future. Work is proceeding apace in this connection on the creation of a special presidential organ for "oversight" of the "power" ministries, an organ that would inspect all types of their activities as well as take care of "ideological" work and personnel policy. The most probable candidates to take over the position of head of this organ are Yevgeniy Shaposhnikov and Oleg Lobov. Incidentally, it has transpired that Mr. Lobov has become the head of a special commission that has begun compiling efficiency rating reports on Federal Counterintelligence Service staffers. This and Lobov's special relationship with the president increase his chances, while he is also sure going to keep his post of Security Council secretary. In this situation, Yevgeniy Shaposhnikov would quit the army to become Russia's first civilian defense minister. The president is not likely to push Pavel Grachev completely aside, although many things will come into focus following the investigation in the State Duma defense committee into unseemly facts some experts think have a direct bearing on the current defense minister.
