FBIS3-14525 "drnes060_j_94002" FBIS-NES-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Oman Pakistan's Bhutto Arrives for 3-Day Visit Comments Upon Arrival BK2703065594 Islamabad PTV Television Network in English 1400 GMT 26 Mar 94 BK2703065594 Islamabad PTV Television Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The prime minister, Ms. Benazir Bhutto, was given a warm welcome when she flew into Muscat on a three-day official visit to Oman. Special representative of Sultan Qabus, (Sa'id Ghoyn Bin-Shahab al-Sa'id) greeted the prime minister and members of the entourage at Muscat airport. National anthems of the two countries were played. The prime minister inspected a guard of honor. A large number of dignitaries present to welcome her were introduced to the prime minister. Later, the leaders of the two countries had informal chat at the VVIP [Very Very Important Person] room of the airport. In a statement, the prime minister said Pakistan regards Oman as an important neighbor with whom it has traditionally enjoyed close and cordial relations based on history, common religion, cultural heritage, convergence of perception on major regional and international issues, and mutually beneficial cooperation in all fields. Ms. Benazir Bhutto said she will brief Sultan Qabus Bin Sa'id on recent developments in our region and drew his attention to the latest situation in Kashmir. Ms. Benazir Bhutto said bilateral relations between Pakistan and Oman are progressing steadily for the mutual benefit of our two countries. She hoped that her visit will be instrumental in giving impetus to our relations and shall lay a base for accelerated cooperation in many spheres. Pakistan Television's correspondent Abdul Khaleq Sargarna said during the talks between Sultan Qabus and Prime Minister Ms. Benazir Bhutto, relations with the Gulf countries, the Central Asian Republics and the possibility of cooperation between the Economic Cooperation Organization -- ECO -- and the Gulf countries are also expected to come up for discussion.
