FBIS3-30090 "dreas038_d_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 South Korea Further on U.S.-DPRK Talks on Nuclear Issue Interview With DPRK Delegate Cited SK2502061494 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network in Korean 0515 GMT 25 Feb 94 SK2502061494 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [Text] The working-level contacts, which were held one after another in New York between the United States and North Korea surrounding the issue of the entry of the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA] inspection team, faced difficulties [nangwane pongchakhada], including the abrupt return of the U.S. delegation to Washington amid attempts of the two sides to shift the responsibility onto each other. Correspondent Nam Son-yong reports from New York. [Begin Nam recording] Thomas Hubbard, U.S. deputy assistant secretary for East Asian-Pacific affairs who is a working delegate from the U.S. side, said that he was disappointed by the fact that North Korea did not agree on the date of inspection, and suddenly returned to Washington this morning Korean time. Noting that he was returning to Washington because there was no reply from North Korean authorities to the proposal by the U.S. side, delegate Hubbard said that he has no plan at present to meet the North Korean delegation. In particular, Deputy Assistant Secretary Hubbard warned that if nuclear inspection is not conducted at an early date, the IAEA Board of Governors will review the next steps against North Korea within next week. He stressed that all responsibility rests on the North Korean side. In a telephone conversation with KBS a reporter, Han Sung-yol, councilor and delegate of the North Korean side, said that because the U.S. side put forward the resumption of North-South dialogue as a precondition even after North Korea decided to accept the IAEA inspection, the step to issue visas has not been taken. He then claimed that all responsibility rests on the U.S. side, thus suggesting that the issue of resuming North-South dialogue has emerged as the core issue in the working-level contact. However, a reliable source said that the North Korean side has not received the instruction from Pyongyang on adjusting the date after the meeting took a recess, and is now waiting for the instruction. As soon as the North Korean side receives the instruction, it will hold a working contact tomorrow. Thus, there is a possibility that the two sides may reach a basic agreement on issuing visas, on the third round of U.S.-North Korea high-level talks, and on North-South working contact for the exchange of special envoys. [end recording]
