FBIS3-42939 "jpusr017___94065" FBIS-USR-94-017 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 24 February 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Davydov Briefing on Foreign Economic Activity 944Q0183B Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 5 Feb 94 p 3 944Q0183B Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Svetlana Sukhova: "Briefing at the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations: Russia Does Not Want To Give Up a Positive Trade Balance with the West"] [Text] Oleg Davydov, minister of foreign economic relations of Russia, talked at yesterday's briefing about the negotiations that were held in Switzerland with OPEC leaders and also about certain prospects for the decentralization of foreign economic activity. Concerning Negotiations with OPEC leaders The main theme of the negotiations was the sharp drop in oil prices (to $12-$12.5 per barrel). However, as Mr. Davydov noted, the Russian delegation was also disturbed by the situation concerning gas prices. The world consumption of oil at present amounts to 63-64 million barrels per day, of which OPEC covers 24 million, or a maximum of 28 million, barrels. The remainder is supplied by so-called "independent exporters." In Mr. Davydov's words, the OPEC proposal on Russia's joining the "independents" was discussed at the negotiations, but Moscow is not yet ready to adopt it, just as it is not ready to join OPEC. At the same time, the minister thinks that "coordination in the actions of Russia and the cartel should be activated," at least at the level of consultations. Concerning the Import Tariff The MVES [Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations], in the words of the minister, is against increasing the import tariff, although there are different opinions in the government. In Mr. Davydov's opinion, given the absence of competition in the domestic market, an increase in import duties will provoke a price increase. Mr. Davydov noted that "political figures of the Zaveryukha type" forget that in today's economic situation it is not "customs duties that are to blame but the absence of consumer demand on the Russian market." The minister urged everyone not to forget about responsibility for adopting such protectionist measures, because similar retaliatory measures against Russia can be employed on the part of the West. Mr. Davydov named acting Minister of Finance Sergey Dubinin and Deputy Prime Minister Anatoliy Chubays among his allies. Concerning Exports of Cartels The head of Russia's MVES directed attention to the question of control over exports. In his opinion, exporters should control the market themselves and come to an agreement among themselves about export volumes and prices. For this, Mr. Davydov proposed to create a special organization of exporters--cartels. But "the initiative must come from them themselves." The state, in the form of the MVES, "should get out of export-import deliveries altogether and implement them only along the line of critical imports (for example, medicines)." Concerning Decentralization of Foreign Economic Activity The state, in the words of Mr. Davydov, is generally "striving to get out of centralized imports." Today, there is a positive balance of several millions of dollars in trade with a number of Western countries. But Russia refuses to satisfy the requirement of Western partners to equalize the trade balance, and to use the "difference" for the purchase of their products. Moscow proposes to use acquired currency resources to stabilize the economy.
