FBIS4-24136 "drafr122_a_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda RPF Chairman Comments on Talks With French Envoy RPF Chairman Comments on Talks With French Envoy EA2306161594 (Clandestine) Radio Muhabura in French to Rwanda 1030 GMT 23 Jun 94 EA2306161594 (Clandestine) Radio Muhabura French BFN [Interview with RPF Chairman Alexis Kanyarengwe by corrspondent Emmanuel Mugunga "today"; place not given--recorded] [Excerpt] After meeting Jean-Michel Marlaud, the French envoy to Rwanda, the Rwandan Patriotic Front [RPF] chairman, Alexis Kanyarengwe, today gave an interview to our colleague, Emmanuel Mugunga. Let us listen to the RPF chairman who starts by giving us his reasons for holding talks with the French envoy. [Kanyarengwe] Indeed, I said last time that it was not necessary to receive the French delegation, given that the problems at hand were well known and that the RPF position on the current situation concerning France's intervention was very clear. However, this morning, I met the French envoy in Kigali, Mr. Marlaud to know exactly why he insisted on meeting me. [Mugunga] What was the explanation? [Kanyarwengwe] Well, during the meeting, he briefed us on his government's position concerning the French intervention in Rwanda: That it would be a purely humanitarian intervention and nothing to do with exerting power. He also sought to inform us about the decision of the UN Security Council authorizing the French intervention in Rwanda. In reply, I explained that even with the UN authorization for the French intervention, the French presence was not at all appreciated by the RPF, and we considered the presence of these troops a dangerous element for the security and the success of operations in our country. [Mugunga] Did envoy Marlaud talk to you about the state of progress of the so-called humanitarian mission? [Kanyarwengwe] In fact, a resolution was adopted at the Security Council in New York. And you know that even before the UN decision, France had already taken the initiative of preparing everything, placing all its equipment and troops in a country neighboring Rwanda. This means that the French operation was already ready at the border, despite our apprehensions which indeed persist. [passage omitted]
