FBIS3-35270 "drnes036_c_94004" FBIS-NES-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 Egypt Minister Denies Restrictions on Foreign Reporters PM2302095594 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 21 Feb 94 p 1 PM2302095594 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Cairo, AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT -- Egyptian Information Minister Safwat al-Sharif has denied that his ministry or other Egyptian authorities intend to take measures to restrict foreign correspondents or representatives of Arab and international newspapers and news agencies operating in Cairo. Asked about the reports that correspondents may be harassed or restricted, al-Sharif told AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT: "There is no control, interference, or anything that limits their freedom of movement, or confiscation of their messages or reports...; they are completely free." However, the Egyptian information minister stressed that the state or any authoritative quarter is entitled to draw it to any correspondent's attention if it becomes clear that he insists on reporting untrue news. "A correspondent's freedom does not mean fabricating imaginary stories and falling into the claws of erroneous reports." The minister warns correspondents not to fall into what he termed the "fax trap." He said: "For two years press and news agency bureaus have been accustomed to receiving statements from illegal or extremist groups by fax. Some correspondents think these statements are a scoop or a reality, but over the past two years nothing of what they threatened to do has happened." Al-Sharif added: "We request nothing of correspondents except the truth, only the truth. They know better than anyone else that they live in security and safety which may be greater than in their own countries." He said that sources of information are available to them. And with regard to security issues, the Egyptian Interior Ministry has an official spokesman and has allocated telephone numbers for those who want to ascertain information, without any kind of control of interference. He pointed out that freedom of movement is available to correspondents and that there is the permanent press center, which operates around the clock to serve foreign correspondents and provide them with all the statements and statistics they request.
