FBIS3-13791 "drnes054_s_94003" FBIS-NES-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 Iran Commentaries on U.S. Pressure on UN Hebron Resolution English-Language Cast Comments LD1903202894 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran in English 1930 GMT 19 Mar 94 LD1903202894 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed commentary] [Text] Eventually, after a lapse of three weeks since the massacre of Palestinians in al-Khalil, the UN Security Council yesterday passed Resolution 904 condemning the genocide. In the wake of the Palestinian worshippers' massacre by a radical Zionist and his collaborators, last 27 February, and the martyrdom of more than 60 Palestinians and wounding of many others, the world public opinion once again observed the criminal and inhuman character of the Zionist regime. The dimensions of the Zionist crime in al-Khalil went to the extent that the Security Council, in its capacity as an international institution, was expected to quickly and properly react to it. But, similar to earlier predictions, U.S. pressures, and the excuse that the Security Council's posturing should not jeopardize the peace process, diverted the Council from its main course, which was required to be taken in the wake of the al-Khalil crime. Political circles have described the delay in the issuance of the Security Council resolution as the result of harmony between the U.S. and Israel over encouraging and also compelling the Palestinians and the Arabs to attend the peace talks. Under such conditions, Security Council Resolution 904, which was unanimously approved paragraph-wise and without any voting, yesterday, gave America the opportunity to cast a vote of abstention. Thus the vote of abstention came in case of paragraphs two and six of the instruction to the resolution, that expressed concern over the consequences of the Palestinians' deaths in the occupied lands and the need for maintaining security of the Palestinian nation, and also stressed the necessity for enforcing the fourth Geneva Convention in the territories under Israeli occupation. Political experts, despite the stress that has been laid in resolution 904 on the need for Israel to provide the Palestinian safety and security in the occupied lands, and also Tel Aviv's ban on the Zionist settlers' illegal and violent acts, and a request to America and Russia to extend necessary support to implementation of the resolution, have expressed pessimism over any change in the current situation of the occupied lands. They believe that the record of the Zionist regime, in its capacity as a regime fully backed by America, will bring forth nothing but aggression, breach of human rights, and suppression in the occupied territories.
