FBIS4-26671 "drchi122_e_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 Southeast Asia & Pacific Singapore Firm Sets Up 1st Foreign-Funded Trailer Firm Singapore Firm Sets Up 1st Foreign-Funded Trailer Firm OW2306111894 Beijing XINHUA in English 1105 GMT 23 Jun 94 OW2306111894 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Singapore, June 23 (XINHUA) -- A leading Singapore-based manufacturer of trailer axles announced here today that it has established its first production facility in China to produce and distribute trailer axles and trailer components. The manufacturer of trailer axles, York Pacific Holding Pte Ltd (York), which is also a distributor of integrated components for heavy transport equipment, said the new joint-venture company, named Qingdao York Transport Equipment Co Ltd (York Qingdao), will produce components under the "York" brand name. York Qingdao is 60 percent owned by York and 40 percent owned by Qingdao/CAIEC Special Vehicle Co Ltd. it is also the first foreign funded joint venture to manufacture trailer axles in China, York said in a statement. Qingdao/CAIEC Special Vehicles Co Ltd, the joint venture partner, is itself a joint venture between Qingdao Motor Fittings Factory and China National Automotive Industry Import and Export Corporation (CAIEC). The CAIEC is the trading division owned by China National Automotive Industry Corporation, a central government authority overseeing the automotive industry. York said the Qingdao factory, which has automated operation, will have a capacity to produce up to 12,000 axles a year from 1995. "York Qingdao will enable us to establish a firm foothold in the China market for trailer axles and components. The strategic location will mean that we can have wide access into other provincial areas in China," Bob Cossins, York Group managing director said. "The additional capacity provided by York Qingdao will also enable the group to meet anticipated increase in demand," he said. The York Group manufactures trailer axles, assembles trailer suspension kits and distributes truck and trailer components. In addition to its headquarters in Singapore, the group has other operating subsidiaries located in Australia and Hong Kong.
