FBIS4-58840 "drnes089_j_94020" FBIS-NES-94-089 Daily Report 6 May 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Al-'Attas Discusses Crisis With Foreign Leaders Al-'Attas Discusses Crisis With Foreign Leaders Talks With Jordanian Counterpart EA0605205394 Aden Yemeni Republic Radio Network in English 1600 GMT 6 May 94 EA0605205394 Aden Yemeni Republic Radio Network English BFN [Text] The Prime Minister Haydar Abu-Bakr al-'Attas, had a telephone call with Dr. 'Abd-al-Salam al-Majali, the Jordanian prime minister. He informed al-Majali about the latest developments in the Yemen arena and the all-out war launched by the al-Ahmar dynasty against our Yemeni people. For his part, al-Majali affirmed that Jordan is keen about stopping the bloodshed and indicated that Jordan will act with other Arab countries in this direction. It was learned by SABA'' news agency that Mr. Haydar Abu-Bakr al- 'Attas had a telephone call with the U.S. State Department, and this was followed by a meeting between our ambassador in Washington with the officials in the U.S. Department. It was also learned by SABA'' news agency that the prime minister is continuing his contacts with other Arab and friendly countries. SABA' news agency said that the prime minister has drawn the attention of the directions [as heard] with which he made the calls to the dangers of the war launched by the al-Ahmar dynasty, which had concentrated their strikes against the civil and vital installations which affect the Yemeni people's lives and confirmed its envy and insistence to undermine all achievements. The prime minister praised the steadfastness of the soldiers and officers of our Armed Forces and all our Yemeni masses which are repelling the conspiracy of the al-Ahmar house. He also praised the stand of the officers and soldiers who refused the orders and instructions which were issued by the al-Ahmar house and returned to the tribes which oppose the war and al-Ahmar house's instructions. The prime minister, Haydar Abu-Bakr al-'Attas, praised the stand of the government and the Defense Ministry to secure the rights of this [word indistinct] and expressed his pride of the heroic stands of the Yemeni tribes which reject the war and support the convention document.
