FBIS3-30057 "dreas038__a94016" FBIS-EAS-94-038-A Document Type:Daily Report 25 February 1994 ANNEX Mongolia MONTSAME Press Reviews Reported Press Review for 23 Feb OW2302184394 Ulaanbaatar MONTSAME in English 1643 GMT 23 Feb 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2302184394 Ulaanbaatar MONTSAME Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Ulaanbaatar, February 23 (OANA-MONTSAME) -- Central Mongolian newspapers widely cover the official visit of the President of Mongolia P. Ochirbat to India. As the newspaper ARDIYN ERH informs, the President of India S. D. Sharma has accepted the invitation of the President P. Ochirbat to visit Mongolia. The newspaper particularly points out to the meeting of the President P. Ochirbat with the well-known Indian scientist-Mongolist K. Singh. As the newspaper informs, a group of experts of the Asian Development Bank has been to the country on a working visit. This bank grants a credit to Mongolia worth 48.6 mln US dollars for development of telegraph communication. The newspaper notes that the credit is granted on the terms of development of competition in work of Mongolian communication organizations. The newspaper publishes the answers of some members of the State Great Hural (SGH) the questions of the newspaper correspondent. They point out to the importance of propaganda of the new laws and provisions. The newspaper publishes an article by lawyer S. Tsagaan about the constitutional court. The author stresses that foundation of the Constitutional Court is of great importance in activity of the state mechanism. The government newspaper DZASGIYN GADZRYN MEUEE publishes an information about the meeting of the Prime Minister P. Jasray with the representatives of Bayanhongor Aymag. The newspaper notes that the prime minister has announced about his intention to stop economic deterioration and achieve stabilization of development of Mongolian economy. He noted that in the country deficiency of goods is not felt, despite high prices. The newspaper publishes the government resolution about establishment of staffs and salaries of the state governing establishments, about measures on realization of the law on copyright.
