FBIS3-13372 "drnes049_c_94010" FBIS-NES-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Egypt Newspapers View Failure To Pass Hebron Resolution AL-JUMHURIYAH Blames U.S. NC1303070794 Cairo MENA in Arabic 2112 GMT 12 Mar 94 NC1303070794 Cairo MENA Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Cairo, 12 Mar (MENA)--The newspaper AL-JUMHURIYAH has said that the United States, which alone is hampering the issuance of an international resolution condemning the Hebron massacre, recently proposed a deal to the PLO. This deal includes the fact that the United States will agree to a resolution stipulating an unarmed international presence in the occupied territories in return for a Palestinian commitment to resume the peace negotiations. In its editorial for tomorrow, Sunday, the newspaper expresses its derision for such an American proposal. It wonders whether this was all the U.S. mountain [reference to the saying "The mountain hath labored and brought forth a mouse"] could produce. It describes the resolution as inadequate, and says its contents have been gutted. The international force would also be disarmed. In addition, the paper says that Washington has not taken into account all the facts that have been revealed about the role of the Israeli Army in the massacre, insofar as they have to do with their Israeli ally. AL-JUMHURIYAH clarifies that all the Zionist massacres confirm that if the issue of settlements in the occupied territories is not presented and pressure is not put on Israel to remove them, or to at least disarm the settlers, then the peace that would be established would be one of oppression and submission. The paper calls for an Arab stand supporting the Palestinians when they resume negotiations. At least the Arab cordon states should meet to make a united decision regarding the peace process. It affirms that as a result of the Gaza-Jericho agreement, Israel is every day reaping new gains. It notes that the latest of these gains is the restoration of military cooperation between Israel and France after 27 years of estrangement in the wake of the June 1967 aggression. The newspaper wonders why Israel gets all this sympathy and protection from the West despite the fact that it has never stopped its aggression and oppression. The paper says: It must be the alliances between politicians and the language of self-interest.
