FBIS3-46276 "drchi018_n_94013" FBIS-CHI-94-018 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Jan 1994 Economic & Agricultural Bidding Contracts for Three Gorges Project Signed OW2601135094 Beijing XINHUA in English 1341 GMT 26 Jan 94 OW2601135094 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 26 (XINHUA) -- The first lot of construction equipment contracts introduced for China's Three Gorges Project were signed here today. The equipment, bought through international public bidding, includes bulldozers, graders, loading machines, hydraulic rigs, cranes and excavators. These machines will be provided by U.S. Caterpillar China Limited, Ingersoll Rand Limited, Mannesman Demag, Fried Krupp AG, and Sweden Atlas Copco China Limited. The five companies are all well-known machinery manufacturers. The time limit for the general Three Gorges Project is 17 years. According to an official from the China Three Gorges Project Development Corporation Three Gorges Equipment Company, the construction equipment necessary for the whole project will be worth billions of U.S. dollars. He said that the contacts signed today will introduce the first batch of construction machinery. Other machines for the project will be imported later. Construction on the Three Gorges Project will start this year. Plans are for 20 million cubic meters of earth and stone to be excavated. The first set of construction equipment will be delivered before the end of June, he said. The international public bidding activity was conducted by China National Machinery Import and Export Cooperation and China National Technical Import and Export Cooperation, entrusted by the China Three Gorges Project Development Corporation Three Gorges Equipment Company. According to the organizers, the international public bidding was the first one for the Three Gorges Project. During the first five days of bidding beginning on December 23 last year, 13 domestic and foreign companies bought bidding documents. Contracts with the five companies who won the bidding were settled after nearly one month of assessment and negotiations.
