FBIS3-32642 "drlat030cc_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 NAFTA Foreign Secretary on NAFTA, Aladi Membership PA1202033994 Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 1854 GMT 11 Feb 94 PA1202033994 Mexico City NOTIMEX Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Montevideo, 11 Feb (NOTIMEX) -- In Montevideo, Mexican Foreign Secretary Manuel Tello Macias has said that Mexico is willing to meet the obligations imposed by NAFTA, but it also wants to remain a member of the Latin American Integration Association [Aladi]. "Mexico is, and desires to remain, an Aladi member country. Nevertheless, the commercial agreement with the United States and Canada is a new reality. We want to find a political solution to this situation," Tello told NOTIMEX. Interviewed during the 8th Aladi Ministers Summit held in the Paraguayan capital, Tello Macias said Mexico's request to postpone its commercial obligations with its Latin American partners "will open new possibilities for other countries in the region." This afternoon, the ministers to the 8th Aladi Summit will vote on Mexico's request to waive Article 44 of the Montevideo Treaty establishing commercially privileged obligations toward treaty country members. According to Article 44, countries that give special treatment to another country's products "shall extend such treatment, immediately and unconditionally, to the rest of Aladi member countries." According to the agreement reached during the 10 February technical meeting, Mexico, in bilateral negotiations, must compensate its partners for the eventual damage NAFTA might cause as the result of either commercial misrepresentations or investment losses. "When we speak of seeking a solution to this apparent problem, we are not thinking about Mexico alone, but other countries' eventual merger with NAFTA. We are seeking the best possible mechanism to facilitate this merger, which should not be hampered," Tello said. Tello said he trusts the summit will result in a decision "that will permit Mexico to participate in NAFTA and remain an Aladi member country, and make it possible for other countries to join NAFTA. We are demonstrating Mexico's interest in contributing to the integration of regional countries' economies to a greater extent. We did it with Chile, with whom we have an complementary economic agreement. We are about to conclude one such treaty with the Group of Three (Colombia, Venezuela, and Mexico), and negotiations with Bolivia and Central America are well under way. We are showing that we want to expand the field so the economies of other countries in the continent can join. This is reasonable if those instruments' final objective is to increase the volume of trade." Tello said. He ruled out the possibility that the conflict, which broke out in the southeastern state of Chiapas on 1 January, will have any effect on the country's commercial or political relations. "The situation in four Chiapas towns is on its way to a political solution. President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has taken measures to make sure the conflict will be resolved peacefully through dialogue and negotiation," he said. The foreign secretary finally said, "We are about to initiate a dialogue to restore social peace in Chiapas and meet the Indian communities' just demands, which were harmed by the self-styled Zapatist National Liberation Army."
