FBIS3-4030 "drchi058_v_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 TAIWAN Restrictions on Importing Thai Labor Under Study OW1603140094 Taipei CNA in English 1300 GMT 16 Mar 94 OW1603140094 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Sofia Wu] [Text] Taipei, March 16 (CNA) -- The Council of Labor Affairs will reconsider its decision to suspend imports of Thai laborers now that Bangkok has given its assurances that it will try to prevent irregularities involved in their hiring, a labor administrator said Wednesday [16 March]. The council, after consulting with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, decided earlier this month to suspend the hiring of Thai workers unless Bangkok took steps to prevent Thai placement agencies from exacting unreasonably high brokers' fees or illegally sending workers to Taiwan before the start of their contracts. The Thailand Trade and Economics Office in Taipei, which represents Thai interests here in the absence of diplomatic relations between the two countries, sent a letter to the council Tuesday expressing the Thai Government's determination to resolve all related issues. The Thai representative office said in the letter that the Thai Government has revoked business licenses for 40-plus manpower brokerage houses that have been charging unreasonably high fees for their services. The Thai Government has also agreed to sponsor various orientation programs to help its nationals intending to work in Taiwan understand Taiwan's labor laws and other regulations. A spokesman for the Thai office said Taiwan's manpower brokers are also to blame for high brokering fees in the importation of Thai workers. "We hope our two countries can cooperate to eliminate all irregularities," the official said. Thailand also wants labor administrators from the two countries to meet in the near future to discuss the signing of a bilateral labor agreement, the official said. More than 60,000 Thai laborers are working in Taiwan, making Thailand Taiwan's largest source on alien workers. Thai workers are welcome here because they are perceived as being diligent, highly skilled, and obedient. If the government suspends entry of Thai laborers, labor market sources said, some local labor-intensive industries may be affected.
