FBIS3-43447 "drafr005_c_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Police Deny Ending Meeting MB0701093694 Johannesburg SAPA in English 0902 GMT 7 Jun 94 MB0701093694 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Cape Town Jan 7 SAPA -- Allegations that police went to a Pan Africanist Congress [PAC] meeting in Gugulethu on Thursday night with the sole purpose of breaking it up was devoid of all truth, western Cape police liaison chief Col Raymond Dowd said on Friday. A 13-year-old boy was reportedly shot dead when violence erupted after police rounded up nine men aged between 17 and 23 and put them in a police vehicle. Col Dowd said after the men were loaded in the police van certain sections of the community outside the Luyolo community centre, where the PAC meeting took place, began stoning the police and police were forced to fire rubber bullets. The men were taken to the Bellville South police station where they were questioned about the Heidelberg Tavern attack and other incidents. They were released soon afterwards. "We wish to emphasise that the suspects (the nine men) who were removed from the centre were removed with the cooperation of the organisers of the meeting after Col Leonard Knipe, who headed the operation, spoke to them," Col Dowd said. "We find it strange that the organisers did not calm the crowd that attacked the police." He said incidents of this nature would not occur if the police were able to use normal policing methods. "Unfortunately we have to enter these areas armed and accompanied by members of the Internal Stability Unit solely because police are always attacked by stonethrowers carried out [as published] by a small section of the community," Col Dowd said. Col Dowd, who felt the community at large should protect the police, confirmed that five people were being detained in connection with the Heidelberg Tavern attack. The regional organiser of the PAC in the western Cape, Mr Michael Siyolo, and the movement's regional chairman, Mr Theo Mabusela, were detained on Monday. Earlier this week two "confirmed" members of APLA [Azanian People's Liberation Army] were detained in Elliott, near the Transkei border, Law and Order Minister Hernus Kriel announced on Thursday. Col Dowd said a fifth man, believed to be Mr Richard Dala, a former executive member of the PAC, was detained in Khayelitsha on Thursday. he five men were all being held in terms of Section 29 of the Internal Security Act, Col Dowd said.
