FBIS3-32566 "drlat028_i_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 Nicaragua 3-80 Northern Front Decrees Unilateral Cease-Fire PA1002032394 Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 9 Feb 94 pp 1, 12 PA1002032394 Managua BARRICADA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Jorge Katin] [Text] Last night the 3-80 Northern Front decreed a unilateral cease-fire in an attempt to stop the EPS [Sandinist People's Army] military offensive and seek what could be the last chance for a negotiated solution to the conflict. The notification arrived at the CIAV-OAS [OAS International Commission of Support and Verification], while Esteli Bishop Abelardo Mata and writer Pablo Antonio Cuadra finalized the details of the meeting to be held this morning with General Ortega and Government Minister Alfredo Mendieta. The handwritten communique, signed by "Esteban, Piloto, Martin Negro, and Chacalin," is addressed to CIAV coordinator Sergio Caramagna and Bishop Mata. "We hereby officially report that as of 10 February 94 the 3-80 Northern Front halts or suspends its military operations and (decrees) a cease-fire as a goodwill gesture for attaining peace and seeking a negotiated solution to the conflict," says the main part of the communique. Bishop Mata said that this goodwill gesture from "the boys" of the 3-80 should be answered with a similar gesture by government authorities, who will meet this morning with the bishop and Pablo Antonio Cuadra. EPS Reacts Favorably EPS spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Ricardo Wheelock reacted positively to the announcement of the cease-fire by the irregulars. "We applaud any initiative that implies an immediate disarming without political conditions," said the military spokesman. Wheelock agreed in that mechanisms must be implemented to protect those who surrender their weapons. "This is the result of the EPS activity; two weeks ago the members of the 3-80 spoke differently and their demands were purely political. Now we see a radical change in their positions," added Wheelock. One of the most urgent demands from the members of the Northern Front is the evacuation of an undetermined number of wounded who, according to the bishop of Esteli, "could die or be left disabled." Important Meeting Today The military spokesman said the Army could collaborate in the evacuation, as he has been informed that there are many irregulars wounded. Today at 1100, the Commission of the Cardinal and the CIAV-OAS will meet with Gen. Humberto Ortega and Government Minister Alfredo Mendieta. A high-ranking government source told BARRICADA that "at that meeting, important decisions will be made to attain peace in that region." On the other hand, the National Assembly ordered the Human Rights Commission to implement the necessary initiatives in order to make possible a conclusion of the conflict in the short term. Carlos Gallo, president of the Human Rights Commission, and Deputy Anibal Martinez held a quick meeting with Bishop Mata and the coordinator of the CIAV-OAS to learn of the positions of the rearmed irregulars. Gallo said it is possible that during the meeting with Minister Mendieta the parliamentary commission may ask the government to cease the Armed Forces' military operations. "It would be a cease-fire that would become a lasting disarmament, not an unending exchange of opinions as has happened in previous months," added Gallo. In the morning hours of 8 February, Bishop Mata had leveled serious charges against the EPS, which he accused of human rights violations against the peasant population during its operations in persecution of the "recontras."
