FBIS4-42387 "drweu107__a94023" FBIS-WEU-94-107-A Daily Report 3 June 1994 ANNEX Germany Bonn, Moscow Expand Research Cooperation Bonn, Moscow Expand Research Cooperation AU2705115594 Hamburg DPA in German 1039 GMT 27 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2705115594 Hamburg DPA German BFN [Text] Bonn (DPA) -- The government wants to expand joint research with Russia under the slogan "Help for Self-Help." Bernd Neumann (Christian Democratic Union), parliamentary secretary of state in the Research Ministry, told the press in Bonn on Friday [27 May] that agreements on joint research in three specialized fields -- biological science, water and environmental research, and information technology -- should be reached during his government talks due to begin in Moscow on Monday. This should be followed by a further agreement on increased cooperation on maritime and polar research. During his four-day stay, which includes a visit to St. Petersburg, Neumann intends to acquaint himself with the current situation in Russian research, which is suffering from, among other things, a shortage of money and personnel. Nevertheless, Russian scientists continue to be desirable partners, especially in the fields of space travel, maritime and polar research, and laser technology, he said. A major project in space cooperation is the development of the "Express" space capsule, being undertaken jointly with Japan. In the sphere of nuclear reactor safety, Neumann mentioned the expediency of using German technology and experience in examining deficiencies in reactors. Russian experts should be given an opportunity to improve the safety of their nuclear power stations, which does not meet Western standards. Bonn is spending some 37.5 million German marks [DM] until the end of 1994 on a scientific support program that started in 1992. In addition, Russian scientists are involved in over 100 specialized projects on which the Research Ministry is spending DM240 million. The Western-sponsored projects include the International Science and Technology Center in Moscow, which can largely be attributed to an idea of former Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher.
