FBIS3-7443 "dreas060_c_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 North Korea Foreign Personalities, Groups Express Support North Nuclear Stand Applauded SK2903045394 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1045 GMT 28 Mar 94 SK2903045394 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Korea's Stand for Fair Solution of Nuclear Issue Supported" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 28 (KCNA) -- Party and state leaders of different countries expressed support to the DPRK's stand towards the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula when they met with Korean ambassadors. Salmin Amour, second vice-president of the United Republic of Tanzania and Zanzibari president, confirmed support to the stand of the DPRK in their efforts for a fair and smooth solution to the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. Klaus Riis, chairman of the C.C. [Central Committee], the Communist Party of Denmark (Marxist-Leninist), said that just is the stand taken by the DPRK to cope with the grave situation in which the situation of the Korean peninsula is growing acute due to the perfidy of the United States. "We express our full support for and solidarity with this stand," he pointed out. He stressed that there is no more important work at present than to launch the solidarity movement for supporting Korea on a worldwide scale. Indrajit Gupta, general secretary of the National Council of the Communist Party of India, said his party condemned the U.S. imperialists for scheming to isolate and stifle the DPRK, taking issue with the "nuclear inspection". He confirmed full support and solidarity to the Workers' Party, the government and the people of Korea in the valiant struggle against the challenges of the enemy. Siale Bileka Silvestre, prime minister of Equatorial Guinea, said that the U.S. action evidently proved it had no willingness to resolve the nuclear problem and was resorting to the premeditated moves to isolate and stifle the DPRK, taking advantage of a lever of the DPRK-U.S. talks. The step taken by the DPRK Government this time is just, he said. Ali Alatas, foreign minister of Indonesia, told reporters that dialogue is important in solving the nuclear problem in the Korean peninsula and the present crisis should not be aggravated. The National Assembly of Zambia, in a note to the DPRK Embassy, expressed its support to all efforts of the DPRK to realize the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
