FBIS4-38859 "drsov107_b_94015" FBIS-SOV-94-107 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military & Nuclear Issues Admiral: Experts Assessing Black Sea Navy Admiral: Experts Assessing Black Sea Navy LD0206153094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1341 GMT 2 Jun 94 LD0206153094 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS special correspondent Vladimir Gondusov] [Text] Sevastopol June 2 TASS -- "A team of naval experts is now gauging the strength of the Black Sea navy, especially its warships. They are trying to determine the necessary parameters for the division of the fleet, including the classes of vessels and their technical conditions," Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Navy Admiral Felix Gromov told ITAR-TASS. He noted that this was not a meeting of two delegations, but the work of experts. It is not running very smoothly, because it is necessary to study every vessel. Touching on his meeting with Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Navy Admiral Vladimir Beskorovaynyy, Gromov said that the sides had some uncoinciding points of view and that everything should be done to achieve mutual understanding. Dwelling on the anxiety of servicemen, members of their families, workers and employees of the naval garrisons concerning their future in connection with the fleet's division, Gromov noted that all the necessary documents were now being discussed and studied. "If a decision is made today on this or that question, this will not mean that everything will be carried out tomorrow," he stated. The admiral believes that the process will continue for quite a time and its main task will be to avoid harming people and the navy as a whole. Asked by ITAR-TASS to comment on the situation in the Pacific Fleet after the dismissal of its commander Georgiy Gurinov, Gromov replied: "A very grave accident had occurred on the Pacific Fleet and nobody could expect it to be left unnoticed or without corresponding serious decisions. A commander bears full responsibility for the situation in his fleet."
