FBIS4-45874 "jptep010___94043" JPRS-TEP-94-010 JPRS Epidemiology 19 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA ECUADOR Dengue, Diphtheria, Malaria Figures Reviewed Dengue, Diphtheria, Malaria Figures Reviewed Diphtheria Increasing 94WE0236B Quito HOY in Spanish 19 Mar 94 p 6 94WE0236B Quito HOY Spanish CSO [Text] Six persons are under medical observation in Quito, with symptoms which indicate diphtheria, Nicolas Jara, acting minister of health, reported. If it is confirmed that they are cases of diphtheria, up to this point there reportedly are 27 persons suffering from the disease. Last week 21 cases had already been confirmed. The Ministry of Health has confirmed the death of two persons from diphtheria. Those deaths were due to carelessness by the persons concerned, who did not seek medical attention in a timely way. Minister of Health Jara said that he does not have enough vaccine on hand to make it possible to begin a mass inoculation campaign for all residents of Quito. Nevertheless, he stated that the Izquieta Perez Institute has provided 50,000 doses of vaccine and that another 50,000 doses will be made available in the next few days. Furthermore, next week the Pan American Health Organization will provide 500,000 doses of the vaccine. Jara said that the Ministry of Health is making sure that people living near a person suffering from diphtheria receive the necessary inoculations to prevent an epidemic from developing. He warned people who choose to be inoculated by private medical personnel to go to well-known medical centers because, if they do not do so, they may be swindled. It is known that in some cases inoculations for infants are being given to adults, a situation which may be dangerous. Case Reported in Guayaquil Guayaquil--A case of diphtheria in this city is being studied carefully. This was announced on 18 March by Ricardo Canizares, the regional chief of epidemiology. At present the case is being studied at the Leopoldo Izquieta Perez Institute to ensure that a correct diagnosis is made.
