FBIS3-28387 "dreas025_n_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 Vietnam VNA on Foreign Minister's Visit to Uzbekistan BK0602074994 Hanoi VNA in English 1511 GMT 5 Feb 94 BK0602074994 Hanoi VNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Hanoi VNA Feb. 5 -- Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam paid an official visit to Uzbekistan from Feb. 2-4 as guest of the Uzbek Government. While there, Minister Nguyen Manh Cam was received by President of Uzbekistan Mr I. Karimov and was informed of the process of reform in Uzbekistan. He held talks with his Uzbek counterpart, Mr. S. Saidqasymov, exchanged views with Ministry of External Economic Relations, and inquired into experiences of a number of economic establishments in Uzbekistan. At those talks and meetings, the two sides informed each other of the situation in each country, exchanged views on the relations between Vietnam and Uzbekistan and on international issues of common concerns. The two sides unanimously agreed that Vietnam and Uzbekistan have much potential and demands to promote multi-sided cooperation, meeting the aspiration and interests of the two peoples. Minister Nguyen Manh Cam affirmed that the Vietnamese Government and people always attach importance to the maintenance and development of friendship and cooperation with the Uzbek Government and people. On this occasion, Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam and his Uzbek counterpart, S. Saidqasymov, signed an agreement on economic and commercial cooperation between the two countries. This event marked the opening of a new phase of development in Vietnam-Uzbekistan economic and commercial relations. The two sides stressed the necessity to quickly create legal basis for a long-time cooperation between the two countries. They agreed that in the time to come they will sign an agreement on investment promotion and protection, an agreement on avoidance of double taxation, documents on cooperation between banks of the two countries and other documents.
