FBIS4-29681 "dreas119__a94008" FBIS-EAS-94-119-A Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 ANNEX Japan Reports on U.S. Air Base Issues in Okinawa Reports on U.S. Air Base Issues in Okinawa Task Force Welcomed OW1706120794 Naha RYUKYU SHIMPO in Japanese 17 Jun 94 Morning Edition p 27 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1706120794 Naha RYUKYU SHIMPO Japanese BFN [Text] Yomitan -- The Japan-U.S. Joint Committee has established a task force to deal with the issue concerning the return of Yomitan Auxiliary Airfield. Yomitan village is welcoming this move. Deputy Mayor Keizo Yasuda said: "The official establishment of the task force will help promote the study of specific measures (for the airfield's return). This is a big step forward." Meanwhile, the village is surprised that besides "the issue of looking for a substitute for the parachute training area in the airfield," "the possibility of removing Onna communications site" is also included in the items the task force is to discuss. The village has long thought that there was little possibility that the Onna communications site (also called the elephant's cage) would be removed. Thus, it has demanded the return of a part (0.6 hectare) of the airfield, not the whole of it, which covers 53 hectares. Taking into account the assertion that a radio wave buffer zone is indispensable for the communications site, the village has drawn up a returned land development plan that does not hinder the functions of the communications site. Thus, the village is perplexed at the fact that the task force will study the communications site's removal. Yasuda said: "We never expected the removal of the communications site would surface." Nevertheless, the village is welcoming the establishment of the task force. Yasuda said: "It can be said that this is the result of our campaign calling for the airfield's return. We have conducted the campaign since Okinawa's reversion to Japan 20 years ago. We expect and believe that a concrete result (a decision to return the airfield to the village) will be achieved in time for the 50th anniversary of the end of the Pacific war."
