FBIS4-33089 "drlat106_b_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-106 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 Antigua Dominican Republic Belaguer Accepts UN Embargo Mission Belaguer Accepts UN Embargo Mission PA0106210994 Paris AFP in Spanish 1905 GMT 1 Jun 94 PA0106210994 Paris AFP Spanish BFN [Text] Santo Domingo, 1 Jun (AFP) -- It was officially announced today that Dante Caputo, the Argentine who is serving as UN-OAS special envoy on the Haitian crisis, reached an agreement with Dominican President Joaquin Balaguer to send a mission that will monitor the observation of the embargo against Haiti. Today, Caputo met with President Balaguer in Santo Domingo. Following the one-hour meeting, Caputo announced that the Dominican Republic will accept a mission "of no more than 60 people." Caputo and Balaguer also agreed on "a maritime cooperation plan to combat contraband going into Haiti." This plan will be sponsored by the United Nations. The UN-OAS special envoy said a group of experts will arrive in the Dominican Republic next week. They will offer technical advice on overseeing the embargo. Caputo also said the UN "will encourage its member-states to offer their assistance" to the Dominican Republic in monitoring the embargo. In terms of humanitarian aid -- the only type of aid permitted under the total UN embargo -- Caputo said that tomorrow, Dominican authorities will receive, via the Foreign Ministry, "an exact list of what can and cannot be sent across the border." The meeting between Caputo and Balaguer also was attended by the Dominican Armed Forces chiefs of staff; Leon Fuerth, special assistant to U.S. Vice President Al Gore; and Robert Pastorino, U.S. ambassador to the Dominican Republic. Caputo, who visited the Dominican Republic last week with William Gray, U.S. President Bill Clinton's special envoy, must return to New York today to meet with UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali. The Dominican Republic and Haiti share a 300-km border and, according to foreign sources, fuel has been crossing into Haiti across this border.
