FBIS3-31344 "dreeu033_k_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 CROATIA RSK President Protests to Mitterrand LD1602150794 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1356 GMT 16 Feb 94 LD1602150794 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Belgrade, Feb 16 (TANJUG) -- President of the Republic of Serb Krajina (RSK) Milan Martic, in his letter of protest to French President Francois Mitterrand, warns him that his government is to be blamed for the possible fresh genocide of Serbs because of a partial policy of Paris towards the Serbian people and their states which emerged from the collapse of ex-Yugoslavia. France has waged a strong campaign for the NATO forces to air raid positions of the Serbs in the ex-Yugoslav republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina. On February 9, NATO 'succumbed' to France's pressure but, to the disappointment of Paris, it threatened with air strikes equally against the Bosnian Muslims as well as the Bosnian Serbs unless they withdraw by February 20 their heavy weapons in and around Sarajevo, or regroup them and place them under UNPROFOR (U.N. Protection Force) control. In his letter to Mitterrand, monitored by the RSK news agency ISKRA, Martic is confident that the current French policy will lose the battle because it contradicts the spirit of France's freedom, not because it is unjust towards the Serbs. Martic said that back in 1876 the celebrated French poet Victor Hugo accused Europe of helping to annihilate Serbs in Bosnia-Herzegovina and that he sought protection for Serbs while European civilization would save its face. Martic also recalled the notable French politicians and generals in the past who were enthusiastic about the way the Serbs were fighting on their side in World War One. "May I remind you that the Serbian people have built a monument to the French state, perhaps the only such monument in the world. It represents France as the state of victory and democracy, with which the Serbian people were allied in the two world wars," Martic writes. Last January, Martic was elected president of the RSK, the state proclaimed in predominantly Serb-populated parts of the former Croatia in response to its violent secession and its attempt to reduce their civil and national rights.
