FBIS3-50860 "drlat006_o_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 Colombia Further Details on Downed Venezuelan National Guard Helicopter PA0801200694 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 1800 GMT 8 Jan 94 PA0801200694 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report from the "NTC News" newscast] [Text] Reports on the crash of a Venezuelan National Guard helicopter in Colombian territory continue to become more confusing. We have arrived in the zone and have established various issues there: First, the Venezuelan helicopter had landed in Colombian territory hours before the crash; second, it was not attacked by Colombian guerrilla groups, but it suffered an accident because it was carrying too much weight--and its crew members arbitrarily arrested various Colombian fishermen. Third, the shots fired from the aircraft were actually fired by the Venezuelan military to justify their actions. The Army Commander has this document on his desk, the official report sent by the Colombian Armed Forces concerning the incident. The document's contents reveal: The confidential report sent in recently by the 2d Operation Command to the General Command in Santa Fe de Bogota registers, step by step, the operation executed yesterday by the Venezuelan military. Colonel Arcesio Barrero narrates to Army Commander General Hernan Jose Guzman the actions executed by the Venezuelan National Guard members. For example, he says the military suddenly entered Colombian territory, beat up civilians, insulted them, stole their money, and threatened them with death. The document becomes the strongest evidence of a violation of sovereignty that the government has in its power. It is the report from an appalled high-ranking Colombian Army officer who tells his superior about the Venezuelan Army's capacity for aggression. The document clearly establishes there was never an intervention by the Colombian guerrilla forces, and the bullet holes in the helicopter were caused by the Venezuelan military members' own weapons to claim the aircraft had fallen due to a subversive action.
