FBIS4-583 "drafr071_d_94009" FBIS-AFR-94-071 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Lesotho Mugabe-Masire Report on Army Mutiny Released Mugabe-Masire Report on Army Mutiny Released MB0804145294 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1304 GMT 8 Apr 94 MB0804145294 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Maseru April 8 SAPA -- There is no guarantee a crisis will not erupt again in the Lesotho Army unless the causes are addressed, according to a report by the presidents of Zimbabwe and Botswana on their peacekeeping mission to Lesotho in February. Mr Robert Mugabe and Sir Ketumile Masire visited Lesotho at the request of Commonwealth Secretary-General Chief Emeka Anyaoku after a Lesotho Army mutiny in January. Their report said that after the government's initial unsuccessful efforts in 1993 at reconciling its differences with the army, the main opposition Basotho National Party [BNP] and other political parties, it appeared to have taken no further action. At the end of 1993 there had been little or no dialogue between the government and other political groups, said the report. The Basotholand Congress Party, which won elections in April last year, found itself in contradiction with a civil service and an army that had been recruited and trained to serve a BNP government. Personnel of the two institutions were partisan and ill prepared to serve a BCP government. The army mutiny arose from a demand for a 100 per cent salary increase, which the government felt was a "smoke-screen hiding the real intention of overthrowing the government of Prime Minister Ntsu Mokhehle". The report said the government should have taken counter-measures against the mutiny earlier. It said there had been signs in November of an impending mutiny, when young officers began disobeying their commanders and senior officers. The Mugabe-Masire report said the monarchy in Lesotho should reign rather than rule. There was much uncertainty and a marked degree of unhappiness and suspicion on the part of the Basotho people with regard to the monarchy, the report said. It suggested amendments to the constitution.
