FBIS4-15422 "drsov068_d_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-068 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 Regional Affairs St Petersburg Assembly Short of Requisite Quorum St Petersburg Assembly Short of Requisite Quorum PM0704151994 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI in Russian 6 Apr 94 p 2 PM0704151994 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI Russian BFN [Report by Yuriy Kukanov under the "Regional Elections" rubric: "Half an Assembly Is Still Not an Organ"] [Text] St. Petersburg -- Forty-eight hours before the second round of voting was held 3 April, the city court rejected an action brought by St. Petersburg Prosecutor's Office appealing against the mayor's decision to extend the 20 March election of a new organ of representative power by 24 hours. But this does not at all mean that the elections to the city assembly are being regarded as valid, because the Prosecutor's Office intends to appeal to the Russian Federation Supreme Court against the ruling. Without waiting for the preliminary results of the 3 April voting, one thing can be said with certainty: The candidates elected to the city assembly do not include a single representative of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation, the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia, or the "Homeland" or "Great Russia" electoral blocs, which gathered under their banners orthodox Bolsheviks, Anpilov's communist workers, and nationalist-oriented organizations. Back on 20 March the politically-aware citizens of the city on the Neva confounded sociologists, who had predicted that the main struggle would be between Communist, Liberal Democrat, and "Democratic Unity of Petersburg" bloc candidates. The last-named got the largest number of candidates for deputies' seats -- 18 -- through to the second round. Most likely only one-half of the city assembly's 50 seats will be occupied as a result of the repeat voting. But half an assembly is still not an organ of representative power because, according to current legislation, it can be legally constituted only if two-thirds, in other words 34, deputies are present. It is proposed to elect the missing deputies in fall.
