FBIS4-65155 "drweu093__a94003" FBIS-WEU-94-093-A Daily Report 13 May 1994 ANNEX Netherlands Pronk To Visit Uganda, Rwanda, Kenya, Review Situation Pronk To Visit Uganda, Rwanda, Kenya, Review Situation BR1105135194 The Hague ANP NIEUWSBERICHTEN Database in Dutch 1402 GMT 10 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1105135194 The Hague ANP NIEUWSBERICHTEN Database Dutch BFN [Text] The Hague, 10 May (ANP) -- Netherlands Development Aid Minister Pronk is leaving on Wednesday [11 May] for a visit to Rwanda, where fighting over recent weeks has left thousands dead. During his six-day trip, the minister also will visit refugee camps in the border area with Uganda and Tanzania, and hold talks with aid organizations in Kenya. Pronk wants to see for himself how the process of providing aid for the victims of the violence is proceeding and what further assistance the Netherlands could provide. The Netherlands has already granted 8.4 million guilders (approximately 1.5 billion Belgian francs) in emergency aid for Rwanda and Burundi this year. From 14 May, the Netherlands aid organizations will be running a special campaign to raise funds for Rwanda. The minister will first visit Uganda, from where he will visit refugee camps in the border area with northern Rwanda and talk with representatives from the aid organizations and possibly also with RPF [Rwandan Patriotic Front] members. He will also meet with Ugandan President Museveni and his deputy minister for refugee affairs. On Saturday and Sunday, the minister will be in the Kenyan capital Nairobi for talks with international and private aid organizations, before flying on to Ngara in northwest Tanzania where hundreds of thousands of Rwandan refugees have gathered. Their number is rapidly increasing and the situation in northwest Tanzania is deteriorating daily. The aid organization Caritas warned on Monday [9 May] that famine on an unknown scale threatened in Rwanda and neighboring Burundi. An estimated 2 million people have left their homes due to last month's outbreak of ethnic violence in Rwanda which followed the assassination of the country's president.
