FBIS3-30097 "dreas038_a_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 February 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Kubota Cites Ways To Shift Trade Balance OW2502040294 Tokyo KYODO in English 0333 GMT 25 Feb 94 OW2502040294 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Feb. 25 KYODO -- Japan's economic planning chief called for effective use of both macroeconomic and microeconomic measures Friday [25 February] as a way to reduce the nation's huge current account surplus. The large Japanese surplus is not "satisfactory" for the global economy, Manae Kubota, director general of the Economic Planning Agency [EPA], told a regular press conference. As one of the macroeconomic measures, the EPA will hammer out ways to shift huge individual savings in Japan to housing investment and social infrastructure, Kubota said. The booming housing sector has a great potential for further demand, she said. Quicker improvement regarding the current account balance could come with deregulation and other microeconomic policies that have "sharper" effects on a short-term basis, she said. Kubota cited import promotion and government procurement as possible microeconomic areas in which the government could take more action. She said the EPA will include these macro and microeconomic measures in a market-opening package to be unveiled by the government by the end of March. Kubota reiterated that the 2.8 percent forecast by the government as the ratio of the current account surplus against gross domestic product (GDP) in fiscal 1994, starting April 1, is not a target but is only a reference figure. Such an area is not within government control, she said, noting that a country's trade balance is affected by external factors such as the international situation and economic activities of foreign countries. She said Japan's current account balance figures have failed to meet original government projections in most years since fiscal 1955. Kubota called for effective use of her agency's trade ombudsman system in monitoring Japan's trade balance changes. The office of trade and investment ombudsman was inaugurated Friday as a way to gauge the openness of Japan's markets.
