FBIS4-24175 "drafr123_a_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-123 Daily Report 26 Jun 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda RPF Gives Conditional Acceptance to French Mission RPF Gives Conditional Acceptance to French Mission Terms of Acceptance Defined AB2606160094 Libreville Africa No. 1 in French 1215 GMT 26 Jun 94 AB2606160094 Libreville Africa No. 1 French BFN [Excerpts] The French operation in Rwanda, Operation Turquoise, continues. This morning, 15 French military vehicles entered Rwanda through Cyangugu, in the southwest of the country. [passage omitted] The Rwandan Patriotic Front [RPF], one of the sides involved in the Rwandan civil war, has reconsidered its position on the French intervention, which was initially seen as a declaration of war. The RPF has made it known that it will henceforth renounce its intention of fighting against French troops if they limit their operation to a humanitarian one. The RPF can, therefore, be assured of the French military authorities' good faith. The military authorities have already met RPF leaders. (Jean-Baptiste Ndaumba), the RPF spokesman whom we interviewed this morning, explains the situation. [Begin recording] [(Ndaumba)] Following several contacts with French diplomats, France has reassured us that its presence in Rwanda is purely for humanitarian reasons. We would like to accept that view, but we would like to countercheck matters on the ground. In order to accept France's show of good faith, we are demanding that it admits to its mistakes. Second, we are demanding that the criminals who are in France be prevented from carrying out their activities. Third, we would like France to arrest the assassins in the areas that it is controlling. On the international level, we would like France to call for the establishment of an ad hoc tribunal to judge the perpetrators of the genocide. [Unidentified correspondent] When France says that it is intervening to save Rwandans whose lives are endangered by the war, it is alluding to Tutsis who seem to be the target of government forces. Does this not imply that France is siding with the RPF? [(Ndaumba)] The French policy in Rwanda to date has been a disaster. It is about time France realized this without contesting we will be pleased about that. Our point is that it is not a matter of going to Rwanda to assist the Tutsis as has been said: Our movement is made up of Both Tutsis and Hutus. There are moderate Hutus, as well as Hutus in the opposition who were massacred just like the Tutsis. This dual view is, therefore, [words indistinct]. [Correspondent] You are holding government forces responsible for the massacres in the country, but it seems the RPF is not beyond reproach either. [(Ndaumba]) Mistakes may have been made, and there may have been blunders. However, we have admitted to them and we have pledged to penalize those responsible. [end recording]
