FBIS3-6720 "dreas054_n_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 Vietnam Commentary Welcomes Do Muoi Visit BK2103130894 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam in English 1000 GMT 21 Mar 94 BK2103130894 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Language: English Article Type:BFN [Station commentary] [Text] The Commission for External Relations of the Vietnamese Communist Party Central Committee has announced that party leader Do Muoi will soon visit Malaysia. This is the first visit to Malaysia by the Vietnamese highest leader. Following is our radio opinion on the visit and relations between Vietnam and Malaysia. Last year, Party Leader Do Muoi visited Singapore and Thailand. This year, he is preparing to visit Malaysia. Vietnamese State President Le Duc Anh will visit Indonesia early next month. In the last two years, Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet visited most countries in the region. Vietnam does respect its relations with other regional countries, especially with the ASEAN member countries. Furthermore, all countries in Southeast Asia have acknowledged the cooperation for mutual benefit with Vietnam. The British Broadcasting Corporation radio on March 17 quoted Mr. Chew Tai Soo, the Singaporean ambassador to the United Nations, as saying that Vietnam was on the threshold of ASEAN. Vietnam should join ASEAN and the visit to Malaysia by party leader Do Muoi will contribute to promoting this process. The visit will also strengthen relations between Vietnam and Malaysia, which have achieved progress after the visit to Malaysia by Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet in 1992. Two-way trade turnover has reached $100 million. Malaysia has invested in 16 projects in Vietnam worth $95 million. Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamed himself has a deep sentiment towards Vietnam and respects bilateral relations between Vietnam and Malaysia. The visit to Malaysia by our party leader will contribute to implementing the desire of leaders and peoples of the two countries to consolidate and develop friendship and cooperation.
