FBIS4-34946 "drlat124__a94004" FBIS-LAT-94-124-A Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 ANNEX Argentina Professional Army `Practically Impossible' Economically Professional Army `Practically Impossible' Economically PY2306013894 Buenos Aires LA NACION in Spanish 21 Jun 94 p 13 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY2306013894 Buenos Aires LA NACION Spanish BFN [Text] Retired Army Chief General Hector Rios Erenu said he was skeptical about the elimination of compulsory military service for "economic reasons." He said: "If we do not have the money, we cannot implement it. I think it is practically impossible," the former military chief added. Rios Erenu was the Army commander during the first "painted faces" revolt in April 1987. General Carlos Quevedo, 3d Army Corps commander, did not want to commit himself to either one or the other system. Asked to compare the compulsory and voluntary services, he said: The two systems "have comparative advantages." Coincidences Quevedo said that some requirements must be met for the implementation of the voluntary system. "It all depends on certain conditions," he added. Rios Erenu and Quevedo agreed on some of those conditions. "We are going through a very difficult economic moment in Argentina. National defense is not a priority," said Erenu, who was military commander during the Raul Alfonsin administration. He warned about an Army budget, "loss of potential, and insufficiency," adding that the 240 million pesos approved by the Economy Ministry "will not be enough" to eliminate the compulsory military service. Creation of Reserves The retired military officer said the alternative system proposed by the government "is viable" only if "a series of changes" are introduced into the 1901 Recheri law, such as the creation of an Army reserve. Rios Erenu said "it is not appropriate" to incorporate "a mass of voluntary workers" unless we can equip them. He said that the salaries of Army troops, as well those of the rest of the Armed Forces and Border Police personnel, "are terribly outdated," adding that this specifically influences the forces' performance.
