FBIS4-16597 "drsov075_v_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-075 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 Lithuania Nationalists, Landowners Deem Land Laws `Unjust' Nationalists, Landowners Deem Land Laws `Unjust' WS1904102094 Vilnius TIESA in Lithuanian 12 Apr 94 No. 70 p 4 WS1904102094 Vilnius TIESA Lithuanian BFN [Report by Sigute Armonaite: "There May Be No Moratorium"] [Excerpts] Yesterday, the Nationalists' Union held a press conference in the Seimas [parliament] building. Journalists were addressed by Seimas deputy Leonas Milcius and Landowners' Union Chairman Aloyzas Liaugaudas. [passage omitted] L. Milcius reminded everyone that the Nationalists' faction in the Seimas supported the Social Democrats' proposal to express no-confidence in the government headed by A. Slezevicius. In his opinion, the government will probably not be removed, because this initiative might lack votes in the legislature. However, the discussion on economic issues in the country might be useful both to the government and the Seimas. A. Liaugaudas commented on land laws adopted by the Seimas and claimed that most of them were unjust, because the suspension of land restoration to real owners was becoming the second act of land nationalization. He commented on the statement by the Nationalists, farmers, and landowners on the moratorium on private land plots [reference to two to three hectare plots that are being privatized], which was read in the Seimas last Thursday [7 April]. According to L. Milcius, he was surprised by the reaction of the Lithuanian Democratic Labor Party faction to this statement. Some members of the majority faction said that such a text was insulting to them. The essence of the moratorium is a protest against the government's decision to allow the sale of the land of "green areas" to its current users. This land should primarily be returned to its true owners. Both speakers expressed their delight in President A. Brazauskas' decision to return the land law to the Seimas for upgrading and correcting its most controversial clause -- Article 21. If the legislature reviews this law and makes some amendments, the moratorium declared by the three unions may lose its importance.
