FBIS3-19039 "drweu048_h_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 GERMANY Visiting Human Rights Activist Notes Oppression in Kosovo AU1103115294 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU in German 11 Mar 94 p 2 AU1103115294 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU Language: German Article Type:BFN [Daniel Riegger report: "`Every Bit of Independence Is Wiped Out'"] [Text] The fact that the Serb authorities have now put deaf-mutes in the Kosovo Academy of Arts and Sciences that they had forced to close down is not regarded as a coincidence by Adem Demaci. Belgrade is systematically "Serbianizing" the Albanian province of Kosovo. Writer Adem Demaci considers the fact that deaf-mutes are now living in the building where the freedom of the Albanian word used to be fought for as "cynicism, a way of humiliating the Albanians." For his conviction, Demaci spent 28 years in prisons and work camps. He is a symbol of the Kosovo Albanians' resistance to Serb oppression, and he is a winner of the Sakharov Prize for Human Rights awarded by the European Parliament. Demaci, who came to Frankfurt at the invitation of the International Society for Human Rights, talked to FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU about the situation of the oppressed province of Kosovo, whose population includes 2 million Albanians and 200,000 Serbs. "Anything that looks a bit like independence, individual spirit, and initiative, is wiped out." As the latest link in a long chain, the Institute for Albanology in the province's capital Pristina was closed this week and the scientists beaten up. The oppression is getting increasingly comprehensive, arrests and interrogations with torture are the order of the day. Demaci complains that Europe does not care enough for the situation of the Kosovo Albanians. "The Serbs can tell the Albanians, look, we can do with you whatever we want, the world does not react, does not protect you." For Demaci, the fact that the German Government and the laender want to send Kosovo Albanians back to their country in the planned mass deportations is "as if you throw somebody out of a train speeding through the country at 100 kilometers per hour." All those deported are likely to be interrogated by Serbian police in Kosovo, who quite often beat and torture them to get supposed confessions out of them. The human rights activist: "If they flee Kosovo because they were politically persecuted, prison is waiting for them; if they flee recruitment into the army, the court-martial awaits them; and if they flee because they had nothing to eat, death from starvation awaits them." Kosovo very much suffers from the embargo on the FRY; there is no fuel, no food, and medical supplies are very poor. If the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina ends with Serbia being allowed to keep its occupied territories, oppression in Kosovo will become even more brutal, "then Serbia can play the master of the entire Balkans," Demaci fears.
