FBIS4-44874 "jpjst028__l94010" JPRS-JST-94-028L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 23 June 1994 Energy Human Interface Technology Human Interface Technology Human Interface for Recognition of Drawings 94FE0430B Tokyo TOSHIBA REVIEW in Japanese Jan 94 pp 12-15 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0430B Tokyo TOSHIBA REVIEW Japanese CSO [Article by Miyuki Sasaki] [Text] 1. Foreword In recent years, the dissemination of CAD systems in design sites is remarkable. However, many hand-drawn sketches still remain in design sites. Therefore there is a need for input and editing of hand-drawn sketches. The image vector integrated image editing system VECTIMATM is a system developed to satisfy this type of need and it is characterized by performing image editing and CAD data editing at the same time without changing the screen. Here, the operating method is introduced with an emphasis on the user and machine interface of the VECTIMATM. 2. Outline of the VECTIMATM System VECTIMATM operates on the engineering workstation AS4000 series of this company and is a system which can edit and display image data and vector data at the same time. This system is composed of drawing input, drawing editing, drawing output, and external interface sections, as broadly classified. Each of those functions is executed from a window. Figure 1 shows the functional structure of the VECTIMATM. Figure 1. Functional configuration of VECTIMATM. It is composed of drawing input, drawing editing, drawing output, and external interface. <annot> Key: 1. Scanner, 2. TOSFileTM drawing reference, 3. Raster vector conversion, 4. Vector raster conversion, 5. Image editing, 6. Vector editing, 7. Drawing control, 8. Image data, 9. Other CAD, 10. Plotter, 11. Printer, 12. TOSFileTM drawing registration, 13. Note 1: DXF is the trademark of the US Autodisk Company.</graphic> The raster vector conversion (RVC) function developed as HI to rapidly effect the tracing operation performed by the human system and the operation of the on-screen tablet designed for unification of the keyboard operation are introduced here. 3. RVC operation The RVC function in the VECTIMATM uses the dialogue type from past experience. This function automatically vectorizes the designated zones and can perform vectorization without waste by performing restorative processing of incorrect spots due to paper quality at human discretion. Figure 2 shows the flow of the RVC processing function. Figure 2. Flow of RVC function. This is in the order of parameter setting, zone designation, batch processing-confirmatory registration, or dialogue processing, zone designation completion, and vector restoration successively. <annot> Key: 1. Parameter setting, 2. Zone designation, 3. Batch processing, 4. Dialogue processing, 5. Confirmatory registration, 6. Zone designation completion, 7. Vector restoration.</graphic> RVC processing consists of parameter setting, initial processing, batch conversion processing, dialogue designation processing, registration processing, RVC zone release processing, and vector restorative processing. An outline of each of those functions is shown below. 3.1 Parameter setting This is the function to determine parameter values in zone designation-conversion processing inside the designated zone before performing zone designation and conversion processing. The two types of parameters are preprocessing and detection processing and both influence each process. Also, by filing the parameters, it is possible to retain the parameters of each drawing. The default values are executed when preprocessing is executed without setting parameters. Figure 3 shows the setting of parameters within the system. Figure 3. Parameters set by RVC function. The parameter values are set for preprocessing and detection processing and are useful for preparing the parameter files. <annot> Key: 1. RVC processing, 2. Parameter setting, 3. Preprocessing, 4. Detection processing, 5. Change, 6. Load/save, 7. Parameter values, 8. Parameter files, 9. Data flow, 10. Operation 3.2 Zone designation processing This function performs preprocessing for the designated short form zone. The preprocessing for vectorization executes the run image conversion function, connected diagram detection function, line-thinning processing function, contour dashed line approximation function, and fine line dashed line approximation function, however, these are batched and executed inside the computer where the user cannot see. The user designates the short form zone by locating two points (designation of arbitrary points in the diagram) and the red frame indicates the designated area. The processing area can have several designations, a maximum of four places and layering is also possible. Also, the entire drawing can be made the designated zone. Figure 4 shows the zone designation drawing. Figure 4. Setting range. The processing area can have up to four points designated, layering is also possible. <annot> Key: 1. Drawing, 2. Zone</graphic> 3.3 Batch conversion processing This function performs the detection of circles, line segments, broken lines, and lines of text in a batch and prepares the diagram data for the zone designated with preprocessing. 3.3.1 Detection processing. The user locates which zone designed with the initial processing is the subject and designates the detection of any or all circles, line segments and broken lines, or lines of text inside the located zone. 3.3.2 Registration processing. The data extracted by detection processing is displayed in order on the screen; the data detected unnecessarily is eliminated and finally it is batched and registration is performed. Figure 5 shows the registration screen. Figure 5. Window for vector data registration. Vector data registration is performed with the ``next site,'' ``delete,'' ``previous site,'' ``batch registration,'' and ``complete'' buttons. <annot> Key: 1. Vector registration, 2. Next site, 3. Delete, 4. Previous site, 5. Batch registration, 6. Complete, 7. Element: circle, 8. Current position.</graphic> 3.4 Dialogue designation processing This is the function which performs the detection of circles, arcs, line segments, and lines of text by locating the images and their periphery which the user wants to detect inside the zone designated in preprocessing. During the detection of circles, arcs, and line segments, each of the images is designated. During the detection of lines of text, the periphery of the text image is designated. 3.5 Zone Completion The designated zone is released. 3.6 Vector restoration Since the vector data prepared as the result of RVC processing is faithfully converted in the image, distortion appears in many cases. Therefore, various vector restoration functions are provided in VECTIMATM. Figure 6 shows an example of restoration. Figure 6. Plastic vector data. This shows the results of the restoration operation for the incorrect vectors detected with RVC processing. <annot> Key: (a) Element arrangement, (b) Line segment conversion, (c) Circle conversion, (d) Line segment horizontal/vertical</graphic> A number of these are introduced here. (1) Element arrangement: The designated diagram is arranged in a standard diagram. (2) Line segment conversion: Several line segments and broken lines are made a single line segment. (3) Circle conversion: Several arcs are made one circle. (4) Line segment horizontal/vertical: Line segments are corrected to the horizontal or vertical. 4. On-screen tablet operation Prior CAD systems usually had the system where a menu sheet was affixed to the tablet board and commands were selected. However, this system resulted in wasteful human motions. Therefore, VECTIMATM has a command menu which the user can arbitrarily prepare called the on-screen tablet displayed on the screen and selection by the mouse is possible. Frequently used commands and macros may be collected on a single menu and put in an easily used form. Figure 7 shows an example of the on-screen tablet. Figure 7. Example of on-screen tablet. An easily used MMI is provided with the on-screen tablet which the user can arbitrarily establish. <annot> Key: 1. File, 2. Cover, 3. Point-line, 4. Circle, 5. Rounding, 6. Text, 7. Dimensions, 8. Move, 9. Standard line, 10. Trim, 11. Spot removal, 12. Copy, 13. Dimensional line, 14. Text, 15. Balloon, 16. Image, 17. Trace.</graphic> 5. Conclusion The MMI introduced here was developed using the SunOS window system (SunOS is a trademark of the US Sun Microsystems Company). In the future, Open Look and Motif (Open Look is the GUI advocated by UNIX International and Motif is the GUI advocated by the Open Software Federation (OSF)) will be examined for a graphical user interface and then the human interface with the user will be strengthened. Footnotes 1. T. Kasano, et al: Image-vector integrated sketch editing system VECTIMATM, Toshiba Review, 47, 12, pp 939-941 (1992).
