FBIS3-13117 "drnes046_j_94001" FBIS-NES-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Saudi Arabia King Husayn Performs Pilgrimage, Meets With Fahd PM0903111094 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 9 Mar 94 p 1 PM0903111094 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Sulayman Nimr: "King Husayn Performs Minor Pilgrimage, Holds Talks With King Fahd"] [Text] Jeddah -- King Husayn yesterday evening performed minor pilgrimage rituals in holy Mecca. He had arrived in Jeddah at midday in his first visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia since the Gulf crisis erupted in the summer of 1990. King Husayn used to visit holy Mecca to perform minor pilgrimage on al-Qadr night, 27 Ramadan, every year, and to visit the tomb of the great prophet. But he could not do that for over three and a half years because of the Gulf crisis. King Fahd Bin-'Abd-al-'Aziz received the Jordanian monarch late last night in holy Mecca, where the custodian of the two holy mosques is spending the last 10 days of Ramadan close to the Kaaba. The meeting between the Saudi and Jordanian monarchs is the first between the two leaders, who were separated by their positions during the crisis of the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. Riyadh considered Jordan's position substantially supportive of Iraqi President Saddam Husayn. What further aggravated the crisis in relations between the countries -- which is happening for the first time -- was the position of the Jordanian media and press toward Saudi Arabia during and after the crisis. Arab diplomatic circles hope that the expected meeting [al-liqa' al-mutawaqqa'] between the custodian of the two holy mosques and the Jordanian monarch will lead to opening a new page in inter-Arab relations based on sound and clear foundations. The circles said that there is a positive atmosphere with the king vis-a-vis the gradual restoration to health [of relations] with the Arab states which adopted positions that disappointed the Saudis during the Gulf crisis. In this connection the circles cited the custodian of the two holy mosques' meeting over a month ago with Palestinian President Yasir 'Arafat, who visited Saudi Arabia to perform minor pilgrimage. He was received by King Fahd in Riyadh. The sources also cited the continued normalization of Saudi-Yemeni relations, which culminated last month in the Saudi monarch's reception of 'Ali Salim al-Bid, deputy chairman of the Yemeni Presidential Council. It was noted that King Husayn and the delegation accompanying him -- which included al-Sharif Zayd Bin-Shakir, head of the Royal Court, and some members of the ruling Jordanian family -- were accorded a reception usually accorded to Arab and Islamic leaders who arrive in the Kingdom to perform minor pilgrimage. The king and the delegation were received at King 'Abd-al-'Aziz Airport in Jeddah by Prince Majid Bin-'Abd-al-'Aziz, the amir of the holy Mecca region. And King Husayn stayed at al-Hamra' Palace.
