FBIS3-48357 "dreas016_c_94021" FBIS-EAS-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 North Korea Paper Denounces Japan's `Belligerent Moves' SK2201104094 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1017 GMT 22 Jan 94 SK2201104094 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Japanese Reactionaries' Scheme of Overseas Aggression Must Be Checked: NODONG SINMUN"--KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, January 22 (KCNA) -- The Japanese reactionaries are engaged in aggressive and belligerent moves in order to impose another immeasurable disaster upon mankind. They must not forget the lessons of history. NODONG SINMUN today says this in an article titled "Militarist Monster Bringing Disaster." Pointing out that the Japanese militarists are making desperate efforts to make up for the defeat that they suffered in the past, the author of the article says: Japan has potentials of the munitions industry that defy comparison with what it had when invading the continent. A robber gets a deadly weapon for murder. Likewise, the Japanese reactionaries, carried away by revengeful thought and wild ambition for overseas expansion, are whetting the sword for aggression and war. The "U.N. peacekeeping operation bill" railroaded through the Diet gave the first green light to Japan's troops dispatch overseas, after the war. In other words, the "Self-Defence Forces [SDF]", which has turned from a tadpole to a frog, has become able to jump out of the boundary of the country and freely strut about in the outside world. The Japanese reactionaries argue that the "SDF's" operation within the "U.N. commanding sphere" conforms to the constitution and so the involvement in the U.N. peacekeeping operation must be a basic task of the "SDF". This betrays their intention to embark upon full-scale overseas aggression under the name of the United Nations. Japan committed aggression and war under the pretext of "peace of the East" and "protection of Japanese residents overseas" in the past and now it seeks to repeat it under the pretext of "international contribution" and "rescue of Japanese overseas". These days the Japanese reactionaries let loose outpourings about "the dispatch of the Self-Defence Forces to the Korean peninsula" and about Japan's "entry into a Korean war". This is illustrative of the realistic danger and gravity of their overseas aggression. What draws attention in Japan's scheme of overseas aggression is that Japan is now covetous of the whole world, though its ambition was confined to Asia in the past. This is why Japan is scheming to send its Armed Forces to different parts of the world including Asia and Africa for military actions. For this very purpose Japan is trying its hardest to get a permanent seat of the United Nations Security Council. Today Japan's nuclear armament has reached the practical stage. If Japan which imposed immeasurable damages on mankind arms itself even with nuclear weapons, the consequences will be unpredictable. Misfortunes must be checked in advance.
