FBIS4-7466 "dreeu062_s_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-062 Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 SLOVENIA Kucan Returns From U.S. Visit, Defends Trip Kucan Returns From U.S. Visit, Defends Trip AU3003152594 Ljubljana Radio Slovenia Network in Slovene 1430 GMT 30 Mar 94 AU3003152594 Ljubljana Radio Slovenia Network Slovene BFN [Excerpts] President Milan Kucan returned at noon from an unofficial visit to the United States, where he met with U.S. Vice President Al Gore. Here is a report by Vojko Plevelj: [Begin recording] [Plevelj] [Passage omitted] In Washington Kucan's discussions with U.S. Vice President Al Gore were mainly about bilateral contacts. They both favored the most rapid harmonization possible of the legal bases for mutual economic cooperation. Vice President Gore also paid tribute to Slovenia for all the achievements in the period of independence and expressed a readiness to assist in the development of small businesses. He congratulated Slovenia on today's signing of the Partnership for Peace plan. Continuing his statement, President Kucan first rejected the criticism that he had deliberately travelled abroad at the time of crucial events at home by saying that he had received the invitation for this visit last August. He explained his outlook on these events as follows: [Kucan] I do not believe that in a democratic parliamentary democracy the replacement of a minister at the proposal of the prime minister is something that should oblige me to postpone or interrupt a trip abroad. I have spoken on several occasions about the events that led to this replacement, especially about what I believe are unacceptable methods of political work that divide rather than unite Slovenes. If the State Chamber so decides, then I believe that it is my duty to explain my views in the State Chamber, also. I consider the prime minister's proposal legitimate, very sober, and well-grounded. I respect the decision of the State Chamber as I would have respected it had it been different. [end recording]
