FBIS4-67260 "jptdd022__l94024" JPRS-TDD-94-022-L JPRS Narcotics 24 April 1994 LATIN AMERICA MEXICO Estimated One Million Children Reportedly Inhaling Solvents Estimated One Million Children Reportedly Inhaling Solvents 94WB0037C Mexico City EXCELSIOR in Spanish 24 Apr 94 p 55-A 94WB0037C Mexico City EXCELSIOR Spanish CSO [Text] The Mexican Center for Children's Rights has reported that approximately a million children in the country between ages eight and 17 are inhaling solvents, and that there is no control over the sale of these products. The foregoing is inferred from the study made by that center, titled "Inhalable Solvents and Child Drug Addiction," in which it also specifies that these substances are used primarily by street children. They are easily purchased in paint shops, or from shopping centers and street vending stands located in areas where those youngsters gather. Thinner, resistol, glue, paints, and dyes, among other items, cost relatively little; hence, they have been called "cheap drugs." The price of any of these products ready for inhaling, and contained in bottles or plastic bags, is from five to 10 new pesos. Based on reports from previous years, this center claimed that there is no effective control over the sale of these products. It indicated that even some members of police forces in Mexico City, and those in other countries, are profiting from this criminal business. It comments: "In legal terms, inhalable solvents are not classified as drugs in Mexico, because they are industrial products manufactured, transported, and sold lawfully." Hence, the Penal Code does not categorize their sale for purposes other than those for which they were manufactured as a crime. As for the damage caused by the inhalable substances, the report notes that it is known that recent studies with rats at the Mexican Institute of Pediatrics determined that toluene, a substance contained in all the products inhaled by children, damages the brain chemistry, reducing the response time in dangerous situations.
