FBIS3-6524 "dreas053_a_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Life Insurer on Retaliatory U.S. Finance Bill OW1803085194 Tokyo KYODO in English 0831 GMT 18 Mar 94 OW1803085194 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 18 KYODO -- A Japanese life insurance leader said Friday [18 March] he cannot understand a fresh U.S. move that could target his industry for trade retaliation. Responding to Senate passage of a bill that would allow U.S. retaliation against financial services, Toshiomi Uragami, chairman of the Life Insurance Association of Japan, told a news conference that he has heard no complaints from foreign life insurers about barriers to the Japanese market. Uragami noted the 10 foreign companies in the association and said he was certain that Japan is running a trade deficit with the United States in the insurance sector. The fair trade in financial services, passed Thursday by the U.S. upper house and expected to pass the House of Representatives to become law, was amended before passage to include insurance firms among those subject to retaliation. Insurance is also a candidate for possible sanctions under the recently revived Super 301 provision in U.S. Trade Law and is one of three priority sectors in bilateral trade framework talks. Asked about the effect on U.S. markets if Japanese life insurers pull out, Uragami said the impact of Japanese money fleeing currency and other risks would be limited because Japanese investors have been squeezing their dollar-based assets for the past two years. They have also hedged their holdings against exchange and other risks, he said. Uragami, who is also president of Sumitomo Life Insurance Co., said two years ago that one-fourth of his company's assets were in dollars but now the portion is down to 9 percent, of which 4 percent is hedged. Japanese institutional investors used to cover fund shortages in U.S. treasury and other capital markets, but Uragami said that influence has faded somewhat. He indicated that he thinks U.S. officials do not consider the possibility of fleeing Japanese investment to be a big danger for the market.
