FBIS3-48148 "dreas015_l_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Philippines MILF Members Killed in Battle With MNLF BK2401015094 Quezon City MALAYA in English 20 Jan 94 pp 1, 3 BK2401015094 Quezon City MALAYA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Edwin Fernandez] [Text] Pikit, North Cotabato -- Eight men of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) and a two-year-old boy were killed Friday in a battle with elements of the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) in Barangay [village] Balatikan here, the 6th Infantry Division spokesman said Wednesday [19 January]. Army Major Julasiri Kastiri, of the Army's 35th Infantry Battalion, said only two of the MILF fatalities were identified. They were Commander Camid Abalos and Commander Tatuan Mantukan, both of Barangay Kudal, Bagalungan, Maguindanao. The identity of the child, who was hit by stray bullet, was also not immediately known. Kastiri said some 100 MILF guerrillas on Friday came to Barangay Balatikan, burned two houses and carted away personal belongings of the farmers including an undetermined number of cattle. MNLF rebels also operating in Barangay Balatikan defended the village and engaged the MILF guerrillas in a two-hour firefight. The MILF rebels were led by Commanders Pakil Ayunan, Jack, Pendatun, Taez and Sumakon. Leaders on the MNLF side were Commanders Abdul Karim, Bacri and Kainudin Batoon. Commander Pakil Ayunan is reputedly North Cotabato's most wanted criminal, tagged by police as the culprit in the massacre of 18 Christian farmers in Carmen town last 25 December. He was also said to be responsible for a series of cattle rustling and harassment in the province. The encounter site was five kilometers away from a government irrigation project in Barangay Maridagao where the MILF rebels were engaged as security men of a Korean construction firm, Shinsung Corporation. A platoon of army troopers was dispatched to Balatikan to normalize the situation there after hundreds of residents fled to nearby villages.
