FBIS4-15464 "drsov068_a_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-068 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Estonian Talks Held in `Unfavorable' Atmosphere Estonian Talks Held in `Unfavorable' Atmosphere LD0704205894 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1715 GMT 7 Apr 94 LD0704205894 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Estonian Foreign Ministry's Vice-Chancellor Raul Malk described the atmosphere at the 18th round of Estonian-Russian talks completed in Moscow on Thursday as unfavorable. Speaking a a press conference in Tallinn, he noted that Estonia did not expect special results from the talks, because the difference over the main issue, the withdrawal of Russian troops, was very serious. According to Malk, from the very beginning the Russian delegation took an ultimatum position, linking the withdrawal of troops to giving residence permits to retired military pensioners and putting forward unjustified demands. "In essence, there have been no talks on military pensioners at all," he said. At the same time, Malk characterized the talks on humanitarian issues as "the most fruitful." "This is especially evident compared to the previous rounds," he pointed out. Addressing the border issues, Malk said that the prepared but not ratified agreement on support for border regions "had been assigned to history." Malk dismissed allegations of the Russian side that two criminals who killed a Russian border guard on 1 April and wounded another two had come from Estonian territory and had returned there. "All these allegations were not confirmed," he said. The delegation's secretary, Ago Tiima, who attended the press conference also denies press reports about alleged serious environmental pollution on the territory of the Russian military unit in Viimsi near Tallinn on April 1. He said that eight tonnes of mazut leaked into a ditch and the press described it as an ecological disaster. Tiiman noted that on Monday the site of the accident was visited by officials of the Estonian Environmental Protection and Foreign Ministries. "What they saw of course is unpleasant, but it is not an ecological disaster," Tiiman said. "It would not be such a serious event in the republic if the Russian side had informed us at once and in detail about the accident," the diplomat said.
