FBIS4-62636 "drsov096_a_94024" FBIS-SOV-94-096 Daily Report 17 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Mideast Envoy Holds Briefing on Current Issues Mideast Envoy Holds Briefing on Current Issues LD1705164394 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1343 GMT 17 May 94 LD1705164394 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: Reports by Diplomatic Correspondents Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy and others] [Text] Moscow takes a positive view of Baghdad's cooperation with the UN in the field of disarmament and hopes that this trend will consolidate, Viktor Posuvalyuk, Russian president's special Middle East envoy said at a briefing in Moscow Tuesday. He said that this kind of cooperation would make the lifting of international sanctions against Iraq a real possibility. He said that it was essential that Iraq made up its mind about disarmament, allowed international observers in and recognized Kuwait's independence and borders. Posuvalyuk said that the Syrian-Israeli settlement was at the moment the decisive element of an overall Middle East solution. He took note of the fact that the Syrian demand that Israel leave the Syrian territory captured in 1967 was difficult to reconcile with the Israeli demand that the border situation be normalized and security provided first. He said that this issue was under discussion both in direct negotiations and through mediators and that hopeful signs were visible. Posuvalyuk also said that he would go to Damascus shortly for consultations with officials of Syria and other Middle East nations involved in the peace process. He said that 696 Russian nationals had been evacuated from Yemen before May 15, notably 453 from the north and 249 from the south. A total of about 400 Russian remained there, notably those who stayed on business and Russian women who had taken permanent residence there. Posuvalyuk said that some of them did not bother to register with Russian offices in the country. He called on the leaders of the two parts of Yemen to stop the fratricidal war. He went on to say that the calls had had no effect but Russia continued a dialog with Yemeni officials. He added that Russian diplomats were in continuous contact with the Yemeni leaders.
