FBIS3-42109 "jptnd005___94042" JPRS-TND-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 25 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Krasnoyarsk-26 Plutonium Now Used for Fuel, Not Weapons PM0902121794 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1800 GMT 4 Feb 94 PM0902121794 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Novosti" newscast: Video report by A. Parfenenkov and Yu. Sysoyev, identified by caption] [Text] [Parfenenkov over video of city street, bus] The people of Krasnoyarsk-26, a city which until now was closed to everybody except for taiga inhabitants and those sent there to work, have finally undertaken to share events close to their hearts with the outside world. The world's first nuclear heat and power station is 30 years old. To this day, it faithfully supplies heat to the homes of this beautiful city with its 100,000-strong population on the right bank of the Yenisey River. The power plant is located deep down under the rocks. The tunnels forged there are adorned in marble in many places, and they rival the St. Petersburg subway in terms of length. But let's be honest about this -- it is not for the sake of a fairly modest nuclear power generator that people dug their way into the rockface.... [P.G. Gusakov, nuclear heat and electric power station chief, identified by caption] In this city most people work at the Mining and Chemical Combine, which belonged to the defense sector and the nuclear complex, and its task was to produce weapons-grade plutonium. [Parfenenkov] Krasnoyarsk-26 still has the capacity to make a lot more of this stuff that goes into nuclear weapons, but the demand is no longer there. So what will the people of the city do? Work to alter the quality of the weapons-grade plutonium is under way. Henceforth it will be used as fuel -- that same fuel which has provided heat for the last 30 years, and which will continue to keep the city in the Krasnoyarsk taiga warm into the future. [Video shows view of city, interior of power station, interviewee, control room, train exiting tunnel]
