FBIS4-6082 "dreas074__a94022" FBIS-EAS-94-074-A Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 ANNEX Japan MITI Supports Technological Aid in ASEAN MITI Supports Technological Aid in ASEAN OW1504115594 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 8 Apr 94 Morning Edition p 1--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1504115594 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Text] The Ministry of International Trade and Industry [MITI] will assist the six ASEAN nations in developing industrial technology. First, a plan for cooperation will be worked out to introduce the TQC [total quality control] system, which is a typical method of production management adopted by Japanese companies. Then, the system will be put into practice in April 1995 according to the plan. Moreover, joint studies on industrial technology will be promoted with Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand, respectively. By assisting the development of manufacturing industries in the ASEAN nations, the MITI will establish a complementary system for Japanese companies and companies of these nations. A standardization and quality control committee composed of representatives from MITI and quality control agencies in the ASEAN nations will sign an agreement on this cooperative plan as early as this month. According to the agreement, the Japanese Government and the committee will work out a program to introduce Japan's TQC system to the ASEAN nations; the program will be implemented for five years from April 1995; seminars will be held by inviting company executives and production managers from those nations to Japan; and Japanese technical experts will be sent to those nations to give instruction on quality control. As for bilateral cooperation in developing industrial technology, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand have been initially selected as partners. MITI and these nations will exchange information on policies of technological development. Furthermore, joint studies will be promoted on selected subjects by Japan's national research institutes and institutes in these nations.
