FBIS3-40767 "jpnea007___94017" JPRS-NEA-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 7 February 1994 SOUTH ASIA INDIA Restrictions Persist in Trade With Pakistan 94AS0169A Madras THE HINDU in English 21 Dec 93 p 9 94AS0169A Madras THE HINDU Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by K.K. Katyal: "Restrictions Persist in Trade With Pakistan"] [Text] New Delhi, Dec. 20--Whatever else the latest Geneva accord within the framework of GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) may or may not mean for India, it does not automatically open the normal trade channels between this country and Pakistan. The economic dealings between them will continue to be constrained by extraneous considerations unless the two governments take bold decisions to remedy the present artificial situation. The onus for this lies with Pakistan which has not responded favourably to repeated Indian pleas for a normal trade flow. There is nothing to suggest that Islamabad is in a mood to remove the restrictions imposed by it. New Delhi has been prepared to accord the most-favoured-nation treatment to Pakistan but so far it has not received a favourable response for reciprocal status for Indian exporters--a point that was confirmed in reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha today. Pakistan has restricted its imports from India to 570 items (not all of which have a potential for cross-border dealings). However, two months ago, Islamabad allowed the import of cement and pulses, which are not among the 570, as a one-time exception. India has no objection to a small negative list which may be considered necessary for safeguarding of indigenous industries, but has made no secret of its disapproval of the present practice, based on the positive list. Even in regard to these items, Pakistani importers cannot deal directly with their Indian counterparts. The cumbersome licensing regulations bring the official machinery into the picture--and contributes to restrictiveness. The recent annual figures of trade turnover speak for themselves--Indian exports: Rs.[rupees] 151 crores, Pakistan's exports; Rs. 373 crores. Limited initiative: In the framework of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) both India and Pakistan accepted, at the Dhaka summit earlier this year, a limited initiative to promote trade in the region. This took the form of SAPTA (South Asia Preferential Trade Arrangement). The negotiations that preceded the Dhaka decision were marked by hesitations on the part of Pakistan which would have liked either to dilute the arrangement or to give it a longer time-frame. By contrast, other SAARC members--Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal--were ardent votaries of freer trade in the region. However, preliminary steps even in this limited context have yet to be taken. For a brief while, after the Shimla Agreement, India and Pakistan did open bilateral trade as part of the measures to restore normality. But soon after, a strong lobby of industrialists in Pakistan prevailed upon their government to change its policy. The swamping of Pakistan's markets by Indian products, they contended, would destroy its nascent industries. In the climate of bilateral suspicion and distrust, this argument instantaneously appealed to the government and it clamped heavy curbs, which continue till today. India and Pakistan have been buying each other's articles--but through third countries. This arrangement only deprives them of the gains which should accrue to them because of physical proximity and the complementarity of their economies. Responsible persons in Pakistan's ruling establishment, of late, have spoken in favour of doing away with restrictions but have not been able to translate these sentiments into policy decisions. There is a strong case for the Foreign Secretaries to take up trade at some stage of their forthcoming dialogue. But any such suggestion from the Indian side is bound to arouse suspicion--and be viewed as a trick to divert attention from Kashmir.
