FBIS4-11262 "drlat079_a_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-079 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Nation, Emigre Community Conference Begins Nation, Emigre Community Conference Begins Robaina Opening Address FL2204181794 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 1700 GMT 22 Apr 94 FL2204181794 Havana Radio Rebelde Network Spanish BFN [Passages within quotation marks are recorded] [Excerpt] The conference on the Nation and the Emigre Community began this morning at the Convention Center with an opening address by Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina. There are 200 emigre community representatives in attendance from approximately 40 countries. In addition to Robaina, the conference is also being chaired by Carlos Lage, secretary of the Council of Ministers; Ricardo Alarcon, president of the National Assembly of the People's Government; Abel Prieto, president of the National Union of Cuban Writers and Artists; and Sergio Corrieri, president of the Cuban Institute of Friendship with Peoples. Conference spokesman Miguel Alfonso and secretary Jose Cabanas are present. For those familiar with three decades of pressures, threats, and aggressions, it is easy to understand the personal effort of many and the merit of your decision to not sell out to those who exerted pressures and threats to prevent this meeting: These were the exact words of Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina during a welcoming address to the conference participants on behalf of the Cuban Government. In his address, Robaina stated that the presence in Havana of Cubans who live abroad is an indication of support and identification with the Cuban nation as well as a recognition of our government's valor in convening this conference in the midst of the pressing and urgent tasks Cuba faces today. [Robaina] "You have arrived in Cuba in the midst of an exceptional period, when our people are making extraordinary efforts to heroically preserve the fatherland's independence and sovereignty, and the gigantic accomplishments of the Revolution. If we commit to this conference, it is because the subject deserves to see the beginning of a joint discussion aimed at making progress along the road to normalize ties between the nation and its emigre community." The conference is taking place under the same conditions of abnormality, of a U.S. policy of hostility toward Cuba, which since the triumph of the Revolution have shaped the ties with the emigre community. [Robaina] "The fact that we are here today in this room is not even remotely the result of a miracle or accident. It is above all the result of our maturity, strength, and independence, and also the result of a growing attitude of respect and understanding of a significant portion of the emigre community who identifies more each day with the vital interests of Cuba." [passage omitted]
