FBIS4-29455 "dreas118__a94004" FBIS-EAS-94-118-A Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 ANNEX Japan More Reports on Reaction to DPRK Related Issues More Reports on Reaction to DPRK Related Issues U.S. Proposal for Talks With DPRK OW1806141994 Tokyo MAINICHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 18 Jun 94 Morning Edition p 3 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1806141994 Tokyo MAINICHI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Text] Following talks between former U.S. President Carter and North Korean President Kim Il-song, U.S. President Clinton said that the United States would resume talks with North Korea in connection the issue of North Korea's suspected development of nuclear arms. In response, the Japanese Government sees that "although it does not mean that the United States has decided to disregard North Korea's past development of nuclear weapons, the United States has lowered the hurdles of the conditions for settling the issue" (according to a Foreign Ministry source), thus analyzing that the U.S. Government has taken a stalwart and hard-bred position -- showing a flexible attitude while continuing to discuss sanctions. In this way the Japanese Government welcomes such a move toward resuming talks between the United States and North Korea. At the same time, however, the government is still wondering what Pyongyang is really thinking and believes talks would be tough, even if resumed. An announcement by Assistant Undersecretary of State (for political and military affairs) Gallucci has drawn the attention of the Japanese Government. He stated "the United States pays attention to North Korea's readiness to return to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT) and to fully meet the requirements of the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA] safeguards agreement, including special inspections." Judging from his statement, the government views that by using such a delicate expression as "pay attention," the United States, while easing conditions for resuming its talks with North Korea, has sent North Korea the message that "Clinton's statement does not mean disregarding the issue of North Korea's suspected development of nuclear weapons in the past." Meanwhile, President Clinton's statement that "the United States would resume high-level talks with North Korea if Pyongyang is ready to freeze its nuclear program" has created a stir in Japan, causing the view that "the United States might ignore North Korea's development of nuclear weapons in the past." In this connection, speaking at a press conference, Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshi Kumagai said: "We do not think the United States only places emphasis on North Korea's future nuclear development." Meanwhile, a top Foreign Ministry leader said that "the U.S. Government statement does not mean it has changed its position," thus ruling out the U.S. Government's possible ignoring of North Korea's past nuclear development. Underlying these officials' remarks is the fact that "ignoring past nuclear development means that North Korea's nuclear threat to the safety of Japan could not be removed" (according to the Foreign Ministry source). It seems that the Japanese Government, in fact, has a slight concern about the U.S. statement because "there is a view within the U.S. Government that shelving the issue of North Korea's past nuclear development is inevitable" (according a Defense Agency source).
