FBIS4-54478 "dreeu084_i_94015" FBIS-EEU-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Muslim Army Chief Discusses Military Situation Muslim Army Chief Discusses Military Situation LD2904214294 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 2000 GMT 29 Apr 94 LD2904214294 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Text] Army General Rasim Delic, chief of the General Staff of the Bosnia-Herzegovina Army, assessed the present military situation in our country speaking on Bosnia-Herzegovina television this evening: [Begin Delic recording] Enemy forces are regrouping throughout the Bosnia-Herzegovina front. Some foreign agencies are reporting about regrouping in Posavina. This started before their reports. Namely, armored and mechanized forces from Krajina have started arriving. After Gorazde, and after the withdrawal from the Gorazde area, they are stepping up their reinforcement. The goal that the aggressor forces are trying to realize is well known: To widen the Brcko corridor. This regrouping is now taking place from Gradacac to Celic, i.e., along the entire Posavina section of the Bosnia-Herzegovina front. Given that we have been monitoring such events and taking appropriate measures I do not expect that they will surprise us in this respect. But one should say that the situation such as the one in Gorazde and earlier in Sarajevo, when the UNPROFOR [UN Protection Forces] was only taking over the protection of certain territories, creates conditions for the aggressors to concentrate large armored and mechanized units and even personnel in the specific areas that they chose as the target of their aggression. Our demand has always been for the heavy artillery, as well as the armored and mechanized units of the two sides to be placed under effective control. Unfortunately, in both Sarajevo and Gorazde this did not happen and consequently there is a danger of additional enemy involvement in some of our other areas, taking into account the amount of heavy technology at the disposal of the Serbian aggressors. [end recording]
