FBIS3-7953 "dreeu041_c_94008" FBIS-EEU-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Klaus on Cooperation With German Industrialists AU0103172494 Prague DENNI TELEGRAF in Czech 25 Feb 94 p 1 AU0103172494 Prague DENNI TELEGRAF Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "V. Klaus Promoted the Czech Republic Among the German Industrialists"] [Text] Munich--Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus described his two-day visit to Munich, which he began on Wednesday [23 February] at the invitation of the German insurance company Allianz and the BMW automobile concern, as a traditional trip for the purpose of promoting and explaining development in the Czech Republic. On Wednesday night, the Czech prime minister met with representatives of the foremost German firms, banks, and companies: Commerzbank, Bayer, BASF, Siemens, Hoechst, Bertelsmann, GRUNDIG, Thyssen, Krupp, and others. Also present were Hans Peter Stihl, chairman of the German Chambers of Industry and Commerce (DIHT); Otto Wolf von Amerongen, chairman of the Eastern Committee for the German Economy; and former Federal President Walter Scheel. During the discussion with the industrialists, Vaclav Klaus explained in his own words at what stage of the reform the Czech economy is and how it differs from the other postcommunist states and the West European countries. The prime minister said that his meeting with some 50 representatives of the foremost German firms also indicates the increased involvement of the Czech Republic in the European economy. The activity of the German BMW automobile concern as well as more general economic and political relations between the Czech Republic and Germany were the topics of yesterday's debate between Vaclav Klaus and BMW boss Bernd Pischetsrieder. "We have various subcontractors in the Czech Republic and are very satisfied with them," Pischetsrieder said after the meeting with Vaclav Klaus. He added that BMW intends to develop this cooperation further. The Czech prime minister described the talks with the concern management as very useful. To the question of Czech-German relations, Vaclav Klaus said that "the relations must not remain at the level of talks between prime ministers but must also be developed by expanding economic contacts."
