FBIS3-33974 "drnes022_m_94006" FBIS-NES-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 JORDAN Compensation Urged for Losses Caused by Sanctions JN2901104794 Amman AL-DUSTUR in Arabic 29 Jan 94 pp 1, 24 JN2901104794 Amman AL-DUSTUR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "A Fair Demand"] [Text] Jordan has the right to receive compensation, as stipulated by the UN Charter, for the economic difficulties and losses it has suffered, and for the adverse effects caused by its commitment to, and implementation of, Security Council Resolution 661 of 1990, regarding the imposition of economic sanctions on Iraq. Jordan, which emphasized its commitment to the international legitimacy and Security Council resolutions, and which implemented them as part of international law, should not pay a heavy price for such a commitment and for its respect for the international resolutions and UN Charter. Jordan has suffered a lot. It has endured the results of major developments in the Middle East more than any other party. This has substantially harmed its economy, and its limited capabilities have been overburdened. This situation has obstructed its economic, development, and social plans. Since Jordan is geographically in a central location, and since it depends on transport, transit, a free market, and the Gulf of Aqaba, and because several projects depend mainly on the Iraqi market, the imposition of an embargo on Iraq, together with Jordan's commitment to implementing Resolution 661, has caused Jordan losses of $300 million annually. This does not include the losses caused by the siege imposed on al-'Aqabah port; that is to say the inspection and diversion of ships. This situation has adverse effects on Jordanian citizens and Jordanian trade in general. Jordan's firm commitment to peace in the Middle East, and its efforts to reach a just and comprehensive peace in the region at the same time it is eagerly trying to establish democracy and human rights should urge the international community, represented by the Security Council and the international organization, to support this effort and entrench the concept of justice in applying the resolutions of the international legitimacy and the UN Charter. The prime minister presented the Security Council's sanctions committee with documents containing facts and figures on Jordan's losses resulting from the implementation of Resolution 661 and its commitment to this resolution. The sanctions committee and the influential states in the international organization should respond to these fair Jordanian demands because we should not be rewarded for our commitment and implementation of the international legitimacy and its resolutions with more losses, pressures, and frustration.
