FBIS3-6069 "dreas049__a94001" FBIS-EAS-94-049-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 March 1994 ANNEX Japan Official To Visit U.S. on Talks Resumption OW1203055594 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 12 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1203055594 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [From NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 12 March Morning Edition] [Text] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs [MOFA] on 11 March revealed that Sadayuki Hayashi, who was named deputy vice-minister of foreign affairs the same day, would visit the United States next week and meet with Bowman Cutter, deputy assistant to the President (for economic policy) who is the U.S. official in charge of the Japan-U.S. economic framework talks. The purpose is to look for clues on reopening the framework talks. The United States says it will "decide on reopening the talks after studying the substance of the market liberalization measures to be finalized by the Japanese Government by the end of March," (according to Secretary of State Christopher), but there are unclear points, such as which area of measures the United States is most interested in. The MOFA is hoping to find out the accurate intentions of the U.S. Government and use this information in helping restore the relations between the countries. In meetings with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa and Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata, Secretary Christopher urged Japan to come up with import promotion measures which will be effective, saying, "Ambiguous steps are not good." Regarding market liberalization plans, the Japanese Government has offered to finalize them in two steps -- doing part of them by the end of March, and the rest of them by the end of June. Christopher's remark is believed to have been a warning to Japan against using this "two-step formula" as an excuse for delays, and for not coming up with any effective measures in March. Resuming and making progress in the framework talks can be a justification for stopping the imposition of the Super 301 provision (definition of unfair trade practices and nations engaged in such practices, and sanctions against them). Thus, MOFA wants to put emphasis on the work of finding out the true intentions of the United States with respect to resumption of the talks.
