FBIS4-20598 "jpjst012__l94031" JPRS-JST-94-012-L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 14 April 1994 Aerospace Improved Performance for Subsonic Diffuser at Supersonic Improved Performance for Subsonic Diffuser at Supersonic Intake 94FE0357A Tokyo KOGIKEN NYUSU in Japanese Oct 93 pp 2-3 94FE0357A Tokyo KOGIKEN NYUSU Japanese CSO [Article by Kimio Sakata and Shigemi Shindo, Engine Department, National Aerospace Laboratory] [Text] As part of joint academic-private sector element research on a turbo propulsion system for the space plane and supersonic/ultra-supersonic plane, research is being conducted at the National Aerospace Laboratory on supersonic intake in two-dimensional mixed compression form. The goal of this research is two-dimensional variable form intake up to mach 5 (focusing mainly on mach 3). Up to now, overall tests have been conducted, such as supersonic wind tunnel tests, partial element model tests, basic aerodynamic tests and CFD. In this article we will introduce the results of tests concerning improvements to the subsonic diffuser aimed at improving the intake's pressure recovery performance. The following are some of the reasons for the loss that arises between the subsonic diffuser and the area near the throat where vertical shock waves occur: (1) Interference between vertical shock waves and wall surface boundary layer; (2) flow separation inside the subsonic diffuser; (3) growth of corner eddies inside the subsonic diffuser. This loss accounts for a relatively large part of intake losses, and it became clear that the subsonic diffuser flow path, including the air bleed in the throat section, had to be improved. Thus model tests using a small-scale continuous type mach 2 supersonic wind tunnel (supersonic heat transfer wind tunnel) were carried out to improve subsonic diffusers with vertical shock waves. Tests were conducted on five models to clarify the effect of entry mach differences (M[.sub]1[/]=1.9, 1.35) and pressure gradient. Figure 1 shows a representative part of test sections and models and Photo 1 is an external view of an entry mach 1.35 wind tunnel test section. Figure 1: Subsonic Diffuser Models Photo 1: External View of Diffuser Model (Low Mach Model) Connected to Small-Scale Supersonic Wind Tunnel In the model there are boundary layer air bleed holes in the vertical shock wave upper flow, and in the low mach test section, slits were made in the throat section to simulate actual intake. Here, we will discuss three models: SB-11 (dA/dx=c), with uniform sectional area change and straight wall composition; and SB-12 and SB-21, in which mach gradient is set with flow direction (dM/dx= -0.0018 and -0.0031, respectively). Figure 2 shows experimental results in terms of flow direction pressure distribution. With model SB-21, which has a low entry mach, overall pressure recovery is high because vertical shock wave loss is small, and it was found that a lower loss than the straight wall model could be achieved by setting the mach gradient. It is thought that the main factors are: (1) High pressure gradient near the vertical shock waves encourages separation; and (2) boundary layer behavior greatly depends on pressure gradient. Figure 2: Static Pressure Recovery of Each Subsonic Diffuser Model Figure 3 shows the outcome of applying the above results to the mach 3 intake model. Performance was improved about 12% by changing pressure gradient (shown graphically in Figure 3 by squares to triangles), and a target pressure recovery rate of 0.81 (circles in Figure 3) was achieved by eliminating corner eddies. Figure 3: Mach 3 Intake Model Pressure Recovery Model testing also is underway on the effect of mach gradient, shortened diffuser length and three-dimensionality.
