FBIS3-46759 "dreas003_j_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 Jan 1994 Indonesia Finance Minister on Impact of GATT Accord BK0401110394 Jakarta THE JAKARTA POST in English 22 Dec 93 p 1 BK0401110394 Jakarta THE JAKARTA POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Jakarta (JP) -- Minister of Finance Mar'ie Muhammad says last week's GATT agreements require Indonesia to make structural and perhaps, even institutional adjustments to remain competitive in an increasingly free, open multilateral trading system. "We are required to phase out non-tariff barriers and to reduce our import tariffs further," Mar'ie told attendants of the last session of a two day seminar yesterday. The gathering was discussing the opportunities and challenges of Indonesian development within the next 2 years. The minister said Indonesia has no other option but to make concerted efforts to strengthen the competitive edge of its products in terms of both prices and quality. Mar'ie cited the stronger tendency towards a free open multilateral trading system as one of three major trends the country will face in the second stage of its long term, 25-year development program beginning in April. "Economic and political issues will also be more intensively inter-linked," he added, citing another outstanding trend expected during the next 25 years. The problem, according to Mar'ie, is how to reconcile the domestic and international parameters or yardsticks for assessing the results of development. He acknowledged that the international yardsticks of development strongly influenced by the industrialized countries. But he conceded that in a world that is becoming smaller due to information technology, international yardsticks are unavoidably often used to assess the development of all countries irrespective of the stages of development they are in. Mar'ie singled out the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum as another development that Indonesia should closely monitor. "I think APEC will gradually turn from a loose consultation forum into a more solid setting and this will naturally have an impact on our economy," he said. The two-day seminar, organized by the Yayasan Bina Pembangunan [Development] foundation discussed the political, social, cultural and economic aspects of Indonesian development during the next 25 years. The speakers included three cabinet ministers. [passage omitted] Referring briefly to the monetary sector, Mar'ie reaffirmed that the depreciation of the rupiah against the dollar will be kept in the range of three percent to five percent a year and the monetary expansion will be checked at 20 percent a year. "I am aware that bank lending during the first semester (April-September) of the current fiscal year (1993/1994) has expanded by 14.2 percent. But I think a 20 percent monetary expansion is the most manageable level to fuel economic activities without causing excessive inflationary pressures," Mar'ie said.
