FBIS3-33217 "drlat035_f_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 El Salvador Joint Group Formed To Investigate Illegal Armed Groups PA1902180594 Hamburg DPA in Spanish 1501 GMT 19 Feb 94 PA1902180594 Hamburg DPA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] San Salvador, 19 Feb (DPA) -- The so-called "Joint Group for the Investigation of Illegal Armed Groups with Political Motivations" announced today the start of its operations at the national level as part of the process for the consolidation of peace in El Salvador. The group, which will be responsible for investigating criminal activities committed by illegal armed groups with political motivations, better known as "death squads," announced in paid ads published in today's San Salvador newspapers that since 1 February its offices have been established and it has the necessary personnel to carry out its duties. The previously mentioned organization was created by the Salvadoran Government with the consent of UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali given the increase in the number of "death squad-style" murders late last year, which even cost the lives of various commanders of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN). The joint group "invites all people and entities that may have any information or are willing to help discover illegal armed groups with political motivations to come forward so these groups can be eradicated from our country and prosecuted according to the law." It also points out that the "confidentiality of information provided to the Joint Group for the Investigation of Illegal Armed Groups with Political Motivations is absolutely guaranteed." The group will investigate all criminal actions attributed to illegal armed groups committed between 16 January 1992, the date on which the peace agreements were signed by the government of President Alfredo Cristiani and the FMLN, and March of the present year. Among the members of the Joint Group are: Human Rights Ombudsman Carlos Molina; Diego Garcia Sayan, chief of the human rights division of the UN Observer Mission for El Salvador; and two Salvadoran Government representatives. Last Thursday, while visiting El Salvador, Brian Atwood, special envoy of the U.S. State Department, said the U.S. Government has decided to provide technical and economic support to the Joint Group for the eradication of illegal armed groups with political motivations from El Salvador.
