FBIS4-37153 "drnes117dd_94005" FBIS-NES-94-117 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 Palestinian Affairs Security Official Details Release Security Official Details Release TA1606163294 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew 1505 GMT 16 Jun 94 TA1606163294 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Hebrew BFN [Italicized passages recorded] [Text] [Correspondent Moti Amir] The IDF [Israel Defense Forces] and the Prisons Service today released the last Palestinian prisoner according to the Gaza and Jericho agreement. Today, 170 Palestinian prisoners were released and sent to their homes in the territories; another 160 criminals are being transferred from Israeli prisons to the central prison in Gaza; while 650 prisoners belonging to Hamas [Islamic Resistance Movement] and the Islamic Jihad were not released because they refused to sign a statement declaring that they will not resort to violence against the Gaza and Jericho agreement and will remain within the boundaries of the autonomy in Gaza and Jericho. Brigadier General Yom-Tov Sami', head of the joint security committee, said today: We have thus fulfilled our commitment under the Cairo agreement, as all those who refused to sign the declaration today are on the list of those who were to be released. [Sami'] Therefore, in general, if we add up all the figures I mentioned, we arrive at more than 4,900 prisoners who were released or listed as slated for release. Hence, the security committee declares unequivocally, with the agreement of the two parties, that Israel has thus fulfilled the Cairo agreement, which stipulated the release of some 5,000 prisoners. [Amir] Incidentally, the fate of more than 900 prisoners who were not released because of their refusal to sign the declaration will be discussed in the next round of negotiations on the release of prisoners. Gen. Sami' made it clear today that several categories of released prisoners have been agreed on with the Palestinians. Only a small group of prisoners who had been given short terms were allowed to return to their homes. [Sami'] Prisoners belonging to one of the categories on which the two parties agreed, based on the signed agreement, will be returned to the area of the autonomy; that is, Gaza residents will be sent to the Gaza Strip, and residents of Judaea and Samaria will be sent to Jericho. This agreement remains valid. We renewed the validity of this agreement last Monday and once again today, just to be sure. None of the parties questions this agreement. [Amir] Samir al-Siqsiq, alias Abu-Hamis, the Palestinian representative at the joint security committee, says that Israel did everything it could to implement the agreement on the prisoner release: [Al-Siqsiq, in English] Had these 650 people from the Islamic groups signed, they would have been released today. We had all the arrangements ready for them. I think, in all fairness, the Israeli side has tried to see that the agreement be fulfilled. [Amir] No released prisoners will be brought to Jericho today because none of the candidates to go there signed the declaration, which is a prerequisite for their release.
