FBIS3-8904 "dreeu052_y_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal Churkin Meets With Milosevic LD1603163294 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1618 GMT 16 Mar 94 LD1603163294 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Belgrade, March 16 (TANJUG) -- President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia and Russian President's special envoy and Deputy Foreign Minister Vitaliy Churkin discussed in Belgrade on Wednesday the peace process for the former Yugoslavia, the Russian initiatives and conditions for a political settlement of the crisis. Russia's efforts for disputes to be resolved peacefully, through talks and impartial mediation by the international community, were assessed as positive. Milosevic and Churkin said they expected commitment to peace to be the essential feature of the further negotiations on the former Yugoslav republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, and set out that commitment to peace was a basis for the reaching of a political agreement and the fulfillment of the national and state interests of the three warring sides. Before meeting with Milosevic, Churkin conferred with presidents Radovan Karadzic of the Bosnian Serb Republic (R.S.) and Milan Martic of the Republic of Serb Krajina (RSK). The talk with Martic was part of a new Russian initiative for peace on the RSK territory, which is a U.N. protected area (UNPA). Churkin said after meeting with Martic that representatives of Croatia and the (republic of) Serb Krajina would meet at the Russian Embassy in Zagreb on March 22 to discuss the cessation of hostilities. Churkin said he felt it was impossible to resolve the Bosnia-Herzegovina conflict without resolving the Croatia-Krajina problem. The RSK was created in 1991 out of the predominantly Serb-populated areas within the administrative borders of the former Yugoslav republic of Croatia in response to Croatia's secession and the attempt of its authorities to reduce the Serb people to a national minority. The RSK was proclaimed a U.N. protected area (UNPA) in March last year.
