FBIS3-56332 "drsov010_a_94078" FBIS-SOV-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Cossacks Receive Mission From Serbian Krajina MK1301142094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 13 Jan 94 p 2 MK1301142094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Leonid Kostrov report under the "Visit?" rubric: "A Delegation of the Unrecognized Republic of Serbian Krajina Visited Moscow. Volunteers From Among Russian Cossacks Do the Fighting in the Former Yugoslavia"] [Text] A delegation of the Republic of Serbian Krajina under foreign minister Slobodan Jarcevic visited Moscow at the invitation of the joint staff of Russia's Cossack troops. The republic and the Cossacks Union of Russia signed an agreement on cooperation in providing humanitarian aid to Serbian Krajina, and exchanging cultural and sports delegations. They also plan to engage in joint publishing activity. In the near future, wounded Serb soldiers will be rehabilitated in guest houses and sanatoriums on Cossack lands in Russia. "What remains in the current situation is for the Serbs to rely on support from their Russian brothers," Mr. Jarcevic said. "The Islamic world stands behind the Bosnian Muslims, the Croats rely on support from the Catholics, and the Orthodox are historically destined to be friends with Russia." The minister said he highly appreciated the assistance provided by Russian volunteers to Serbian Krajina's army, although, in his view, it was primarily moral in nature. The number of volunteers from Russia, Bulgaria, and Romania remains very small. According to Ivan Chernikov, commander of Cossack troops and minister of economic and cultural ties in the Cossacks Union of Russia, as of today there are a few Cossack units of no more than 10 men each fighting in the former Yugoslavia. "If a Cossack goes to war, the commander cannot ban him from doing so," he said. The Russian Federation Foreign Ministry learned about the foreign guests' visit from the mass media. Staffers from the European Department, to whom your SEGODNYA correspondent turned for comment, said only that the Republic of Serbian Krajina does not have an official status and that the same applies to any agreements signed with it. The Russian Foreign Ministry has not received any requests in that regard from either side, nor did they have any consultations on the subject.
