FBIS3-50973 "drlat007_i_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 Nicaragua Central Bank President on `Totally Honest' Gold Sale, Need for Foreign Aid PA1001173094 Managua Sistema Nacional de Television Network in Spanish 0100 GMT 6 Jan 94 PA1001173094 Managua Sistema Nacional de Television Network in Spanish 0100 GMT 6 Jan 94 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Vilma Estrada for the "National News" newscast] [Text] Central Bank President Jose Evenor Taboada was categorical when he stated that transactions carried out by the government for the sale of gold are totally honest. [Begin Taboada recording] That is a resource which belongs to the country and should be managed trusting... [pauses] guided by the best conditions in the market, where it should be sold when the market price indicates the gold should be sold -- and it should be withheld when the market price is so low that the advisable thing is to withhold the gold. The rest is lack of information on the part of those who have been critical. [end recording] He emphasized how important it is for the country to sign the [word indistinct] agreement with the World Bank and the IMF. [Begin Taboada recording] With regard to the IMF, we are talking about $84 million distributed over three years; in the World Bank's case, we are talking about approximately $140 million over a shorter term -- but the amount must also be disbursed within a period that does not end in 1994. The signing of those agreements is very important because it means Nicaragua presents a certificate to the international community to prove that we are doing what is necessary to end our dependence on funds from abroad; that we are adopting the measures needed by the economy to eventually end dependence on international cooperation; that we are adopting the necessary measures to effectively activate the country's economic development; and, in sum, that the handling of public finances and various policies is adequate and will allow the country to achieve its full reactivation in the medium term. [end recording] A delegation is scheduled to arrive in the country in late January, possibly to sign the agreement. [Begin Taboada recording] It is important to clearly understand that Nicaragua needs this agreement. I believe that anyone who thinks it possible to continue a stable economic policy without those agreements is being unrealistic. Therefore, all Nicaraguan groups should join forces to achieve the best settlement possible within the normal parameters of these negotiations, in which the two parties concede certain things for the sake of achieving the best settlement possible. [end recording] He announced that $30 million will arrive in the country from Taiwan not later than early February. There will also be aid from the United States -- approximately $40 million.
