FBIS3-51125 "drlat010__a94011" FBIS-LAT-94-010-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 January 1994 ANNEX Cuba New Consul to Chile Meets With Foreign Minister Silva PA1401022394 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 2233 GMT 12 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA1401022394 Havana PRENSA LATINA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Santiago, Chile, 12 Jan (PL) -- Chilean Foreign Minister Enrique Silva Cimma today had a private meeting with Humberto Hernandez, Cuba's recently appointed general consul to Santiago, with whom he discussed the current situation and bilateral ties. At the end of the meeting Hernandez said that the two governments have assessed as positive the evolution of relations since their reestablishment at consular and economic trade levels. Of course, he noted, in such a short time it is not possible to make an in-depth analysis of the issues, however, we agreed that we have made progress in the economic and trade fields as well as in political understanding on overall issues such as Latin America's mandatory integration. When questioned by reporters on comments published in the press with regard to possible reestablishment of diplomatic relations, Hernandez said that his government's position is to have total patience, noting that Chile must take this step when it considers it convenient. Hernandez added that it is not up to Cuba to take these specific steps, as it is not our policy to impose preset conditions for the establishment of diplomatic or consular relations with other nations. Hernandez noted that in effect there is interest on the part of Cuba to resume ties, while remarking that Chile and Cuba are two brotherly nations whose relations have advanced in many fields. Diplomatic relations, therefore, "would be a step that we would regard as normal and logical," he noted. With regard to the delay by Patricio Aylwin's government in taking that foreseen step, the Cuban consul recalled that there is still one month to go before the change of government and that Cuba will continue waiting without anxiety. Nevertheless, he noted that this is an issue of utmost importance for the island as it would imply higher level relations that in turn would favor increased economic and trade relations. Changing the subject, Hernandez talked about the difficult conditions that Cuba is currently experiencing. However, he expressed his belief that with effort, intelligence, and international solidarity, the island will get ahead without changing the spirit of its socialist regime.
