FBIS4-16343 "drsov073_f_94024" FBIS-SOV-94-073 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 National Affairs Election Runoff Results Published Election Runoff Results Published Transcarpathia 944K1082P Lvov POST-INFORM in Ukrainian 11 Apr 94 p 19 944K1082P Lvov POST-INFORM Ukrainian CSO ["Election Results in Zakarpattya Oblast"] [Text] On 10 April, in the second round of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in Mukacheve e.d. No. 168, Vasyl Ulynets, first deputy chairman of the oblast state administration, defeated Vasyl Iltyo, deputy chairman of the Mukacheve city council; in Berehove e.d. No. 169, Mykhaylo Tovt, chairman of the rayon state administration, defeated Shandor Fodov, head of the oblast's Society of Hungarian Culture; in Vynohradiv e.d. No. 170, Serhiy Cheypesh (Christian Democratic Party of Ukraine [KhDPU], a teacher, defeated Elemer Kovach, a pensioner of pro-Hungarian and pro-Ruthenian orientation; in Irshava e.d. No. 171, Serhiy Ustych, first deputy chairman of the oblast state administration and one of the authors of the proposal for the free economic zone [VEZ] in Zakarpattya), defeated Lyubov Karavanska, candidate of the Green Party of Ukraine (L. Karavanska's defeat may have been prompted by the active support she received from the unregistered "Pryvatna sprava" [Private Business] fund, whose illegal status was reported in the local mass media on the eve of the election); in Tyacheve e.d. No. 174, Ivan Korshynskyy, docent at Uzhhorod University (father of the well-known singer), defeated Volodymyr Bohachyk, deputy chief physician of the rayon hospital; in Uzhhorod rural e.d. No. 175, Mykhaylo Dancha, chairman of the rayon state administration, defeated Mykola Kovach, chairman of the rayon Society of Hungarian Culture. In Uzhhorod e.d. No. 167 (candidates -- Vasyl Prokopets, branch manager of Lisbank, and Viktor Hornyak, president of the VIN Joint Venture), Khust e.d. No. 176 (candidates -- Mykhaylo Dzhanda of Rukh and Volodymyr Kuliy, director of the Petrol Joint Venture), and Svalyava e.d. No. 173 (where both candidates were representatives of commercial structures), none of the candidates received the qualifying number of votes.
