FBIS4-33857 "drlat113_j_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-113 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 Panama SAN Director Discusses FARC Raids, Drugs SAN Director Discusses FARC Raids, Drugs PA0906221994 Panama City EL SIGLO in Spanish 9 Jun 94 pp 1,12 PA0906221994 Panama City EL SIGLO Spanish BFN [Report by Yuriela Sagel] [Text] Major Santiago Fundora, National Air Service (SAN) director, pointed out yesterday that drug traffickers are looking for new routes to conduct their drug activity in the national territory. He also confirmed the existence of Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia [FARC] guerrillas in the border region with Darien. Fundora indicated that, given the pressures the National Police are exerting on international drug traffickers, the traffickers are looking for new areas to bring drugs into the nation, thereby continuing the trafficking process. Fundora said this is the reason authorities often refuse to disclose information on operations to eradicate and to prevent drug trafficking activities. According to the SAN director, the traffickers work around the clock and they relocate very easily to other sites to continue their trafficking. Fundora made these statements during a meeting with directors of various state security organizations. The objective of the meeting was to discuss new strategies to fight drug trafficking, money laundering, and crime. Fundora confirmed the presence of FARC guerrillas in the Darien territory, and he stressed that more vigilance in this zone is needed because of the FARC presence. Fundora added that the National Government must increase the number of Border Police units and it must supply them with better equipment to conduct their work. The government must make efforts to combat piracy on the seas, drug trafficking activities, and crime in the capital, Fundora noted. He added that the ghost of militarism should disappear and that members of the National Police should be properly equipped to perform their duties more effectively. Fundora also suggested more drastic measures to combat crime and international drug trafficking, such as 30-year sentences. He also suggested that guards whose participation is proven in the escape of drug traffickers should be forced to pay for the pending sentence. If this were implemented, the system would change, he noted. Citizens must cooperate by informing the police when they know about the location of drug sales, otherwise, youths will continue to be caught in the drug net, Fundora reiterated.
