FBIS3-59040 "drweu017__a94034" FBIS-WEU-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 January 1994 ANNEX Switzerland Officials Meet PRC's Qiao Shi 24 Jan BR2501162994 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1733 GMT 24 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2501162994 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed NI, SH: "The President of the Chinese Parliament Received in Bern; Human Rights on the Menu"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Excerpts] Bern, 24 Jan (ATSA) -- Human rights dominated the conversations Qiao Shi, chairman of the Chinese National People's Congress, held in Bern on Monday [24 January]. Federal Councillor Flavio Cotti and National Council President Gret Haller expressed their concern about the human rights situation in China, particularly in Tibet. Confederation President Otto Stich promised China his country's support in case it seeks reintegration into GATT. Mr. Cotti underlined that the human rights question particularly preoccupies Swiss public opinion. According to Franz Egle, his spokesman, the chief of the Foreign Affairs Department deplored the fact that China has not yet ratified the two 1966 conventions on human rights, which amend the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For his part, Mr. Qiao said the human rights situation had to be considered in light of China's development. Reintegration in GATT The Chinese official's conversation with Otto Stich focused on Beijing's wish to rejoin the GATT, Federal Department of Finances spokesman Mario Carrera said. The Confederation president assured Qiao of Swiss support whenever China officially requests reintegration, once its commercial system has been modernized. Mr. Stich and Qiao also agreed that China's growth should keep pace with the development of social well-being. Aside from the human rights question, Gret Haller, president of the National Council, raised the environmental problem, which often is neglected when a country such as China undergoes important economic and industrial changes. Qiao mentioned several laws that have been adopted in this field, but admitted that there sometimes is large distance between theory and practice. Dalai Lama "Welcome" During his conversations, Qiao Shi called attention to Tibet and to the fact that the Dalai Lama would be welcome there for talks with the Chinese Government. The only thing "out of the question" would be independence. He also pointed out that the rights of minorities are written in the Chinese Constitution, and that freedom of worship also is guaranteed. However, up to a certain limit: The third most important Chinese explained that his country would accept no religious extremism whatsoever. [passage omitted] Challenged Visit The Chinese official's visit to Switzerland already has caused protests. Some 30 Tibetans loudly protested his presence outside the Federal Palace, which was under the protection of grenadeers and dogs. [passage omitted]
