FBIS4-33763 "drlat113__a94024" FBIS-LAT-94-113-A Daily Report 5 Jun 1994 ANNEX Mexico Salinas Asserts Japanese Firms Intend To Invest Salinas Asserts Japanese Firms Intend To Invest OW0806092994 Tokyo MAINICHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 5 Jun 94 Morning Edition p 7 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0806092994 Tokyo MAINICHI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [By Yoshinori Nakai] [Text] Mexico City, 3 Jun -- During an interview on 2 June with six foreign press groups, including MAINICHI SHIMBUN, Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari said: "The delegation of the Japanese private sector has confirmed to me that it has the intention of investing in and starting business operations in Mexico. The Honda Motor Company, Ltd., will also launch its production of passenger cars. Investment by Japan has been materializing." The president thus refuted the view that "Japan's investment in Mexico is sluggish." Mexican mass media reported that the Japanese delegation expressed a cautious view on the investment environment in Mexico during recent meetings with the president and other government officials concerned. With regard to the country-of-origin certification system of NAFTA, Salinas said, "Efforts should be made to ensure the transparency of the system so that non-NAFTA member nations can easily understand it." He then stressed the advantage of investing in Mexico, saying, "Mexico's population is 85 million people, and its market is the 10th largest in the world." As for the fact that Mexico succeeded in joining the OECD, Salinas said: "Mexico needs strategies to approach the markets, financial resources, and technologies (of developed countries). The establishment of NAFTA and Mexico's participation in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum have enabled Mexico to expand the markets in North America and Asia for its products. It can also have access to the European market through the OECD. Mexico's financial system and technologies have been gradually catching up with those of developed countries." He thus expressed confidence in Mexico's economic growth. Touching on the investigation into the assassination of Mr. Colosio, who was the presidential candidate of the ruling party, Salinas denied the possibility of this case remaining unsolved, saying, "Investigations will be conducted until the truth is learned."
