FBIS3-60624 "jptnd001___94086" JPRS-TND-93-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 6 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL Kim Yong-sam, Clinton Give Mixed Response to DPRK Offer SK0812012093 Seoul YONHAP in English 0106 GMT 8 Dec 93 SK0812012093 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, Dec. 8 (YONHAP) -- Presidents Kim Yong-sam and Bill Clinton agreed in a telephone conversation Tuesday that North Korea's nuclear inspection offer contains some elements that deserve a positive reaction from South Korea and the United States, but that it is insufficient and unsatisfactory as a whole. The two presidents felt that the offer made by North Korea on Friday requires basic consideration regarding the future of the Korean peninsula, and agreed to take advantage of the opportunity within reason, Presidential Spokesman Yi Kyong-chae said Wednesday. Yi said that making use of the opportunity within reason meant that the presidents had agreed to consider elements of the offer and not reject it entirely. In their 30-minute conversation, Clinton conveyed the firm and resolute U.S. stance on the North Korean nuclear issue and Kim stressed the need for close cooperation between their countries in dealing with the issue, Yi said. They agreed to continue discussing details of a joint South Korea-U.S. approach to the North Korean nuclear issue at a working level. Chong Chong-uk, senior presidential secretary for foreign affairs and national security, will fly to Washington to meet with National Security Adviser Anthony Lake for talks on the approach. Yi said the presidents discussed tariffication of rice and rice market opening, but he refused to reveal the content of their discussion because negotiations between the two governments are under way in Geneva. The negotiations are expected to make progress on the basis of the presidential conversation, officials said. On Dec. 3, Kim reportedly met a high-ranking U.S. Government official at his office to ask for U.S. understanding of Korea's unique situation in Uruguay Round negotiations on rice market opening. The telephone conversation was the first between the two presidents using a hot line that was opened in July.
