FBIS4-39872 "drsov113_s_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 Georgia Reportage on Russian Defense Minister's Visit Reportage on Russian Defense Minister's Visit Talks With Shevardnadze LD1006172794 Tbilisi Radio Tbilisi Network in Georgian 1500 GMT 10 Jun 94 LD1006172794 Tbilisi Radio Tbilisi Network Georgian BFN [Excerpts] Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev, who is paying a working visit to the Transcaucasus republics, arrived from Yerevan in Tbilisi today. [passage omitted] Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev and Eduard Shevardnadze, the chairman of the Georgian Supreme Council and head of state, held a one-to-one meeting at the Georgian Cabinet of Ministers, and were later joined by representatives of the Russian and Georgian sides. The meeting discussed issues relating to the settlement of the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict, in particular, the timing and mechanism for the deployment of CIS peacekeeping forces in the conflict zone. The sides also discussed terms and conditions for the operation of the Russian military bases on Georgian territory. Eduard Shevardnadze said that the meeting could be regarded as a new stage in relations between Russia and Georgia. It will help implement the plan that envisaged the introduction to the conflict area of CIS peacekeeping forces under UN aegis [as heard] and the repatriation of refugees and displaced persons. In the second part of the day, the Russian defense minister flew to Gudauta to agree the introduction of peacekeeping forces to the conflict zone with the Abkhaz side. Before leaving for Gudauta, Pavel Grachev said that the military aspect of the deployment of Russian peacekeeping forces in Abkhazia had in effect been completely solved. As regards the timing of their deployment, that could only be decided at political level. The minister said that three motor rifle battalions from the Leningrad, Volga, and Urals Military Districts were ready to carry out the peace operation as part of a CIS force. Three days were needed to transfer them to the conflict zone. Pavel Grachev also said that the Gudauta-based 345th Parachute Regiment of the Russian Armed Forces might take part in the disengagement of forces. In addition to that, said the minister, it should not be ruled out that three battalions from the Group of Russian Troops in the Transcaucasus might also participate in the peace mission in the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict zone. The group commander has already been issued with relevant instructions. It is expected that the Russian defense minister will return to Tbilisi later today to continue the discussion of the details of the deployment of CIS peacekeeping forces in Abkhazia.
