FBIS4-23436 "drafr108_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-108 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Government, UNITA Reach Agreement on Vorgan Radio Government, UNITA Reach Agreement on Vorgan Radio MB0306134194 Luanda Radio Nacional Network in Portuguese 1200 GMT 3 Jun 94 MB0306134194 Luanda Radio Nacional Network Portuguese BFN [Report by correspondent Alves Antonio in Lusaka] [Text] Good afternoon. The government and National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] negotiators this morning concluded talks on the Vorgan [Voice of Resistance of the Black Cockerel] issue, which had lasted about 15 days. It is presumed that Vorgan may soon become a commercial station, even though its modes of operation have not been made public. Fortunately this obstacle has been overcome. As a result, the government and UNITA will this afternoon return to the Mulungushi Conference Center to discuss the issue of swearing in UNITA deputies. This morning's meeting was attended by the mediators and the troika of observers. Considerable progress may be achieved if the two sides continue showing the willingness to negotiate, placing national interests above all else. The government team has already been showing this willingness, and for this it has been praised by political analysts in Lusaka and elsewhere. Meanwhile, regarding the new proposals presented over the past few days by the government, UNITA spokesman Jorge Valentim told the TIMES OF ZAMBIA newspaper in today's edition that his organization is studying the document, adding that they agree with a number of issues, while other points need a careful assessment. This morning's meeting was unexpected, since in the past few hours UNITA had requested more time to reflect on the Vorgan issue, which was at last approved, following agreement by the two negotiating teams. Meanwhile, Dr. Fernando Faustino Muteka, head of the government delegation team, this morning visited the diplomatic mission of the Republic of Angola, having held brief talks with embassy personnel. Luis Perdilhao, first secretary of the Angolan Embassy in Lusaka, briefed him on some projects that are currently underway, difficulties faced by the embassy, and future prospects.
