FBIS4-110 "drafr063_d_94009" FBIS-AFR-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Namibia Iranian Foreign Minister Meets With Nujoma Iranian Foreign Minister Meets With Nujoma LD3103203994 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 1630 GMT 31 Mar 94 LD3103203994 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Excerpts] Continuing his tour of African countries, Foreign Minister Velayati arrived in Windhoek, the capital of Namibia, today. He met and held talks with President Sam Nujoma. At that meeting, Nujoma expressed his pleasure at the presence of the Iranian delegation in Namibia and described his country as the second home of Iranians. He expressed his interest in expanding cooperation in all fields with the Islamic Republic of Iran. Velayati, for his part, congratulated Nujoma on the return of Walvis Bay to that country and delivered a message from the president of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the fourth anniversary of Namibia's independence. At that meeting, the two sides discussed international political issues and expressed their concern at the continuing violence by South African racists against the opposition. The two sides also underlined the need to expand economic and commercial relations based on the agreement reached between the presidents of Namibia and the Islamic Republic of Iran within the framework of South-South cooperation. Other topics discussed between Velayati and Nujoma were the formation of a joint commission between the two countries and cooperation in the fields of fishing, oil, and mines. [passage omitted] Continuing his visit to Namibia, Velayati met and held negotiations with the foreign minister of that country. At that meeting, the Namibian foreign minister described stopping the sale of oil by the Islamic Republic of Iran to South Africa and occupied Palestine as a major factor in damaging the interests of those two countries and said: Iran has struck the biggest blow to racism in the world. Velayati, for his part, underlined Iran's continuing support for the struggle of the people of Namibia against racism under the leadership of Nujoma.
