FBIS3-59714 "jpjst003__l94007" JPRS-JST-94-003L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 18 January 1994 Aerospace Heat Control Paint To Be Used for ADEOS 94P60066B Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO in Japanese 10 Dec 93 p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94P60066B Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] Heat ray control paint for space use developed by Nippon Paint Co., Ltd. to control the temperatures of the surface and interior of satellites has been certified for the first time by the National Aerospace Laboratory as the official paint for common parts used in space. Two types of products are available for antennas and sensors. They are scheduled to be used for the largest domestically produced satellite, the ``ADEOS,'' scheduled for launch in 1996. If production costs are reduced, many predict that it can be used for automobiles and the interior of buildings to control temperature increases. Nippon Paint has developed two types of heat ray control paint for antennas by using basic paint material containing silicon resin, the ``NOVA 500 ASTRO WHITE'' (registered name), and for equipment by using basic paint material containing urethane resin, the ``NOVA 500 ASTRO BLACK'' (registered name). The company states they have independently developed a special white pigment for antennas to control solar energy absorption. By adding this pigment to the paint they have achieved a solar energy absorption rate of about 0.26, and a solar energy vertical radiation rate of about 0.88 for the antenna which controlled the surface temperature to about 120°C; the unpainted antenna would have reached nearly 500°C. Also the new paint is high in elasticity, and therefore will not crack even when exposed to big differences in temperature. Addition of inorganic special ultraviolet absorbant also increases weatherability. On the other hand, paint for use on equipment such as sensors, receivers, and recorders mounted on satellites has the function of irradiating outward the heat rays emitted by equipment on board. Details of the technology have not been disclosed, but the key to their success lies in the new synthesis of a special elastic urethane resin which is excellent at heat radiation. Approximately 0.89 of the vertical radiation rate for solar energy was achieved. The company solved the problem of paint gasification by developing a technology to remove that portion of the resin with low molecular weight. If not so treated, elements of the paint film are gasified and given off during formation under a vacuum.
