FBIS4-33752 "drlat113__a94013" FBIS-LAT-94-113-A Daily Report 6 Jun 1994 ANNEX Cuba Cuban-American Bodies To Meet With U.S. Congressmen Cuban-American Bodies To Meet With U.S. Congressmen PA0906121694 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 1606 GMT 6 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA0906121694 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [Text] Washington, D.C., 6 Jun (PL) -- Cuban-American organizations, headed by the Cuban-American Peace Committee, will meet with U.S. congressmen on 9 June to decry the U.S. blockade against Cuba. Committee President Raymundo Del Toro has said this meeting will be the appropriate venue to support the Free Trade With Cuba Bill, sponsored by Democrat Charles Rangel, a New York representative. Del Toro has said the time has arrived for the Clinton administration to change U.S. policies toward Cuba now that the United States has renewed the most-favored-nation status to the PRC and lifted the trade embargo on Vietnam. According to the committee president, President Clinton is associating with the reactionary minority of the Cuban exiles, making, he believes, the economic blockade against Cuba a lucrative business. Del Toro has said the U.S. head of state lost the 1992 elections in Florida and will lose again in 1996 if he insists on associating with this minority group of the Cuban exile community. Delegates of the Cuban-American Committee in Miami, New Jersey, Ohio, North Carolina, Chicago, and Philadelphia will attend this meeting. These demonstrators will be joined by such groups as the Cuban Change, the Cuban-American Education Committee, the Antonio Maceo Brigade, and the Cuban-American Organization for the Dignity of Miami. The president of the Cuban-American Peace Committee said that religious and public health organizations, such as the American Public Health Association, the Free Trade With Cuba Association, the General Council of Churches in Society, the United Methodist Church, the Global Exchange, and the Pastors for Peace, among others, will be represented at the demonstrations to support the lifting of the blockade.
