FBIS4-18844 "drweu070aa_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-070 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Defines NATO Activities Defines NATO Activities AU1104193694 Mainz ZDF Television Network in German 1900 GMT 11 Apr 94 AU1104193694 Mainz ZDF Television Network German BFN [Report on interview with NATO Secretary Manfred Woerner by Udo van Kampen, in Brussels on 11 April -- recorded] [Excerpts] [Van Kampen] NATO headquarters in Brussels this afternoon after the air raids [on Serbian positions near Gorazde] is visibly calm. Even though NATO headquarters does not want to reveal any details about the exact route of information, the command structure is clear. The endangered UN soldiers in Gorazde had asked for air support. The UN special envoy gave the go-ahead; a few minutes later the warplanes took off from Italy. The legal situation is clear: Last June the UN Security Council passed a resolution that precisely set down the procedure. At that time, Russia, too, agreed. [Woerner] First of all, if you ask for air support to protect troops under attack, you have to act quickly. If you start protracted consultations, you will be too late. This is quite certain. Second, we are acting on the basis of UN resolutions to which the Russians agreed. Third, the representative of the UN Secretary General is on site and he agreed. Thus, the demands made by the Russians have been fulfilled. [passage omitted] [Van Kampen] Is there the risk now that NATO will be dragged into a protracted conflict? [Woerner] We are trying to prevent that. So far, our actions have been limited. There are three different actions: first, close air support; second, the enforcement of the no-fly zone; third, some kind of ultimatum as in Sarajevo. All these are strictly limited actions. So far, we do not have any ground forces there, and there is no inclination to send ground forces there, unless a peace agreement can be enforced. This means, we will probably stick to the kind of force that we have chosen, namely providing air support for UNPROFOR. [passage omitted]
