FBIS3-20819 "jpeer010__s94035" JPRS-EER-94-010-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 28 February 1994 SLOVENIA Defense Ministry Accuses VREME, Journalists 94BA0204C Belgrade VREME in Serbo-Croatian 28 Feb 94 p 31 94BA0204C Belgrade VREME Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:CSO [Article by R.V.: "Jansa Waging War Again"] [Text] Janez Jansa and Slovenia's Defense Ministry have announced that they will lodge a complaint or have already lodged a complaint with the competent court against several journalists because of a series of articles in MLADINA of Ljubljana. The accused include Svetlana Vasovic-Mekina, VREME correspondent and MLADINA staff member. The reference is to articles which on the basis of secret documents obtained and testimony of participants exposed violation of the embargo, arms smuggling, misappropriation of military housing and unlawful treatment of former officers of the JNA [Yugoslav People's Army]. The journalists are charged with "insulting accusations" (under Article 108 of the Slovene Punitive Code, which is a variation of the once notorious Article 133). Meanwhile, things are not really going as well as they might for the Defense Ministry in similar current trials. Following a series of articles in MLADINA about the illegality of certain moves made by the Defense Ministry (entry and confiscation of the apartment of Gen. Hocevar, former commander of the Slovene TO [Territorial Defense]), Gen. Hocevar's son filed suit before the competent court in Ljubljana and just the other day obtained a final verdict ordering the Defense Ministry to return the apartment and restore it to its original condition and pay the court costs. Thus it will probably be hard for the Defense Ministry to prove before those same courts that the newspaper articles about these and similar unlawful acts are "insulting accusations." The announcement of the Defense Ministry that it will file a complaint against the journalists Igor Mekina and Svetlana Vasovic-Mekina for an interview with Sefket Suljevic, more precisely, for words uttered by Suljevic in that published interview, is an interesting precedent, one that was unknown even in the "leaden times of the communist SFRY [Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia]." Jansa is reproaching his former colleagues because of the shocking account of Sefket Suljevic, former captain in the KOS [counterintelligence service] in the Ribnica garrison, who in the course of a 10-day battle in June 1991, following an appeal from the Slovene Presidency, went over to the side of the TO, but immediately thereafter, according to his own account, was arrested, imprisoned, beaten, deceived and deported from the newborn state. The stateless Suljevic also revealed in the MLADINA interview that gentlemen "from some new military intelligence service" visited him at his temporary address in Vienna, where he has been given asylum, and promised that they would take care of his citizenship and passport for him without problems (so that he could return to Slovenia, where his wife and two children live), but all of this was on condition that he use his former acquaintances in KOS, who are now working in the present military intelligence service, "to obtain documents that in any way compromise Milan Kucan or Janez Drnovsek." Suljevic's story in the last issue of MLADINA, which indicates that he saved Ribnica near Kocevje from heavy shelling, and also the very act of surrender in order to go over to the TO, have also been confirmed by certain quite distinguished people from Ribnica. Now it is up to "Slovenia as a law-governed state." Both in the case of Suljevic and also in the case of the accused journalists.
