FBIS4-41584 "drsov123_r_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-123 Daily Report 26 Jun 1994 Azerbaijan Aliyev Meeting With Kazimirov Reported Aliyev Meeting With Kazimirov Reported NC2606190394 Baku Radio Baku Network in Azeri 1700 GMT 26 Jun 94 NC2606190394 Baku Radio Baku Network Azeri BFN [Text] President Geydar Aliyev received Vladimir Kazimirov, President Yeltsin's competent envoy on the Daghlyk Karabakh problem, today. Aliyev and Kazimirov agreed that the cease-fire is not being heeded in the western areas and that the existing situation requires that the principles must be consolidated so that a peaceful solution can be found to end the war. Vladimir Kazimirov briefed Geydar Aliyev on CSCE Minsk Group Chairman Jan Eliasson's visit to Moscow and his talks with Vladimir [name indistinct], chairman of the Russian Federation [word indistinct] and chairman of the CIS Interparliamentary Assembly, and Deputy Foreign Minister Adamyshin. He said that the main issue that was discussed was the question of finding a peaceful solution to resolve the dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. He noted that the outcome of the talks indicated that Russia and the CSCE maintained a similar approach. In view of that, the sides must benefit from the political experience and positions of Russia and the CSCE. President Aliyev said that he highly assesses the talks Jan Eliasson has held with the political circles in Russia. He described the general agreement reached between the representatives of the CSCE and Russia as a concrete step in the effort to find a peaceful solution to the war. Later, the sides discussed the possibility of benefiting from the experience of the Middle East countries and Turkey, which are neighbors with Armenia and Azerbaijan. Geydar Aliyev noted that the participation of the representatives of Iran and Turkey in the effort to find a political solution to the problem is essential. He also said that holding political consultations with them is equally important. State Adviser Vefa Gulizade and Foreign Minister Gasan Gasanov attended the meeting.
