FBIS3-25561 "drafr036_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola UNITA Reports `Significant Progress' at Talks MB2202195794 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro in Portuguese 1900 GMT 22 Feb 94 MB2202195794 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] The peace talks are evolving in leaps and bounds in the Zambian capital. Significant progress has been made at talks on national reconciliation. Despite this, the Luanda regime and the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola-Labor Party, MPLA-PT, oppose the much desired peace for Angola. The communists, led by Eduardo dos Santos, use the talks to resort to Machiavellian practices to make the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] disappear from the Angolan political scene, beginning with the assassination of UNITA President Dr. Jonas Malheiro Savimbi and other UNITA officials. This was, at least, what MPLA-PT ideologue Lucio Lara said in Strasbourg, France, four days ago, and UNITA will be protesting to the United Nations about such underhanded and barbarous views. UNITA Information Secretary Dr. Jorge Alicerces Valentim has had this to say about it: [Begin Valentim recording] The UNITA team to the Lusaka peace talks has rejected with repulsion the remarks made against UNITA President Dr. Jonas Malheiro Savimbi and other UNITA officials by MPLA baron Mr. Lucio Lara, who is a deputy to the National Assembly on behalf of the party currently in power in Angola. Coming as they do at a time when national reconciliation is being discussed, Mr. Lara's remarks put the Lusaka peace talks at great risk. The UNITA team to the Lusaka talks cannot believe that the talks will go well if the government fails to clarify its real intentions. It would be naive for UNITA to believe in national reconciliation while gallows intended for UNITA officials are being put in Luanda. The UNITA team to the Lusaka peace talks intends to protest energetically to the mediation and the observers on this matter. [end recording]
