FBIS3-14889 "drsov040_f_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 National Affairs Nuclear Plant Managers Brief Kravchuk WS0103115694 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network in Ukrainian 0600 GMT 1 Mar 94 WS0103115694 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN [Text] At his own initiative, President Kravchuk met with directors of nuclear power plants [AES]. How do the plants work at this difficult time of deficits and meager funding? Will they manage to keep afloat? These were the question that worried the president. At the beginning of the meeting, Kravchuk said that nuclear power plants are Ukraine's salvation today. This phrase became the leading idea of the hour-long meeting. The meeting was attended by Directors Volodymyr Bronnykov, from the Zaporizhzhya AES; Volodymyr Korovkin, the Rivne AES; and Viktor Sapronov, the Khmelnytska AES. After outlining the situation at the stations, they centered on two issues -- the drain of qualified experts and nuclear fuel supplies. The experts are fleeing to Russia, where salaries are much higher. As a temporary solution to this problem, the station managers asked the president to help reduce by 10 percent the income tax for AES key professionals -- something that was done for coal miners. With the moratorium on the development of nuclear engineering being lifted, the industry got its second wind. Substantial credits are about to come from abroad. But how are we supposed to repay them? Should we pay with ecologically clean electric energy, a deficient commodity for Ukraine itself, or by transferring ownership of our atomic facilities to international companies? The solution of those complex questions requires profound analysis, the president said. Also discussed was the issue of whether Ukraine should have its own so-called nuclear fuel cycle that would consist of extracting, processing, enrichment of uranium, manufacturing of fuel rods, and burial of nuclear waste. After all, Ukraine has its own uranium. But is the country in a position to manage this today? Volodymyr Bronnykov presented a report on a project to build U.S.-licensed dry fuel waste warehouses. Viktor Safronov briefed those present on experience gained from cooperation with foreign partners in providing the stations with modern equipment. Volodymyr Korovkin talked about the successful handling of the problem caused by the karst layer under the Rivne AES. As a UKRINFORM correspondent reported, the meeting was quite useful and fruitful. Its final result was the president's edict on urgent measures related to nuclear power engineering.
