FBIS4-30014 "dreas121__a94015" FBIS-EAS-94-121-A Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 ANNEX Japan NEC To Export Communications System to PRC NEC To Export Communications System to PRC OW2206223094 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 18 Jun 94 Morning Edition p 10 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2206223094 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [By correspondent Hiroji Akita] [Text] Beijing, 17 Jun -- Japan will export the latest communications system, the SDH [expansion unknown], to China. In the past, Japan's export of the SDH to China was banned by the export controls of the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (Cocom). Japan will export the SDH to China in response to Cocom's decision to lift export controls on the SDH. The NEC Corporation has won a contract from the Chinese Ministry of Railways to supply an SDH optical communications system to be installed for a 430-km stretch of railroad between Hengsui city, Hebei Province, and Shangqiu city, Henan Province, which is part of a 2,500-km railroad between Beijing and Kowloon (in Hong Kong), the construction of which is scheduled for completion in 1997. NEC has contracted to supply the system by September 1995. The Chinese Government, which places importance on upgrading its existing communications network, is eager to introduce the SDH. The NEC Corporation's export of the SDH to China will spur other Japanese communications companies to look for business opportunities in China. The NEC Corporation is the first Japanese communications company to supply the communications system for a long-distance railroad in China. NEC anticipates that China's adoption of its communications system for the railroad will give it an upper hand in vying with other competitors in the future bidding to supply another communications system to be installed for the remaining 2,000 km of the railroad between Beijing and Kowloon. The SDH is state-of-the-art technology. The SDH can more speedily handle information than can conventional communications systems, and it can store four times as much information as do conventional communications systems. In China, the volume of ground transportation has sharply increased as the economy has grown. In China, the supply of ground transportation has failed to catch up with the demand. The Ministry of Railways plans to use the SDH optical communications system to build a modern railroad control system in China. With the end of the Cold War, Cocom was disbanded in March. It has been decided that a new international organization will be created instead with the mandate to curb international terrorist activities. Former members of Cocom are still obliged to continue to control their exports on their own until the new international organization is created. The export of the SDH was banned under the export controls of Cocom. In April, AT&T, a U.S. communications company, decided to supply an SDH optical communications system to China, and moves are afoot among industrialized nations to lift the ban on exports to it.
