FBIS3-19999 "drweu058_q_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 TURKEY Supreme Military Council Meets 18 Mar NC2503133194 Istanbul OZGUR GUNDEM in Turkish 20 Mar 94 pp 1, 11 NC2503133194 Istanbul OZGUR GUNDEM Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Text] The Supreme Military Council, which met in Ankara the day before yesterday, said it had insufficient mandates and asked for more. The Council decided to issue new instructions to the government and press. An agreement was reached at the meeting "to meet the hardware and economic needs of the Turkish Armed Forces [TAF], prevent the destructive campaign against the Armed Forces, and ensure the publication of positive reports in the press." Ciller "blamed the SHP [Social Democrat Populist Party] in connection with the subjects discussed, and promised to do everything she could." According to information obtained from sources close to TAF, during its extraordinary session in Ankara the day before yesterday, the Supreme Military Council discussed numerous problems, primarily the war and Kurds. The meeting demanded an end to the destructive propaganda against the TAF and an assurance on "the broadcasting and publication of appropriate programs and items on TAF in the media." Complete consensus was said to be reached on the following: "The urgent procurement of hardware needed by TAF, the introduction of the necessary amendments to the military personnel laws as specified by relevant military commanders and in line with requirements and demands, the determination of premium payments during states of emergency and similar situations in accordance with the importance of the situation, the adoption of necessary measures by the government to prevent destructive speculation and campaigns against TAF and Army commanders, and the need not to inform the public about tasks given to TAF, leaving TAF officials to make statements if needed." "Continue Pressure on DEP" The meeting also called for sending reinforcements to the region [southeast] to increase the deterrent power of the troops. In a clear reference to the DEP [Democracy Party], the meeting demanded that "activities by separatist parties should not be allowed and sanctions against them should continue inside and outside the Turkish Grand National Assembly." New Demands From Syria and Iraq The Supreme Military Council, which called "for presenting new demands to Syria and Iraq and formulating a new policy toward them," also discussed issues relating to Greece and Armenia. The meeting decided "to conduct a deterrent campaign on international forums and prepare to impose every type of sanction on these states and to increase every assistance to Azerbaijan to deter Armenia." Ciller "Promised" It was learned that Prime Minister Ciller, who participated in the meeting even though she was not initially listed as a participant, "promised to do all she could" to fulfill the demands. Ciller left the meeting after hearing the main outline of the subjects to be discussed. It was learned that before leaving the meeting, Ciller again accused her partner, the SHP, and said: "We will give the necessary support to your demands." "The Meeting Was Postponed Due to the DEP" It was learned that the Supreme Military Council, which was scheduled to meet in February, met instead on 18 March "because of developments relating to the DEP." It is being said that in view of public debate over the recent frequent joint meetings between the General Staff and National Security Council, this meeting was held to coincide with the celebrations of the Canakkale victory so as to deflect public attention.
