FBIS3-2470 "drchi046_k_94047" FBIS-CHI-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Government To Boost Tree Planting, Fight Forest Fires HK0503082094 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 5 Mar 94 p 1 HK0503082094 Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by staff reporter Gao Jun: "Contest Plan to Make China Green"] [Text] The government is launching an annual contest to reward the nation's greenest cities, counties, townships and villages. The move is a new initiative to boost the country's tree-planning drive. Cities will be in the running to become one of the country's "top ten" if at least 85 percent of the local residents have voluntarily planted trees, said a circular issued by the Forestry Ministry and the National Afforestation Committee. At least 30 percent of each city must be covered with trees, grass and flowers. Each resident should have at least 5 square metres of green space. In addition, every construction project must include green areas. The judges will also consider no candidate in whose area there has been a serious natural or man-made forestry accident in the past five years, said the circular. As well as the green cities, the judges will select 100 counties and 100 townships and 1,000 villages each year, the circular said. The winners will receive medals and certificates, but their titles will be revoked if their standards fall, the circular added. The green contest aims to boost the drive to control soil erosion and to relieve the damage caused by storms and sand. It is also designed to encourage local farmers to make more profits by planting trees and developing forests. Forestry officials said the prize winners should also perform a leading role in improving the farmers' living standards and helping them escape poverty. Meanwhile, China's top forestry official vowed yesterday to work full time to improve procedures to prevent forest fires. The news came during a national telephone work conference, chaired in Beijing, during which it emerged that forest fires decreased remarkably last year, thanks to the persistent efforts of local governments and forestry staff. Forestry Minister Xu Youfang told the conference that the area of forest hit by fires nationwide last year tumbled 54.3 percent from 1992. The number of individual fires fell by 34.7 percent, he said. And the figures are respectively 41 and 42.3 percent lower than the average level of the previous five years, he added. However, he went on to call for better equipment and training for the country's forest firefighters to enable them to cope with all emergencies. Xu also stressed that regulations or fire prevention should be improved and more strictly enforced. A professional network to prevent forest fires should be established to analyze and research the causes an spread of fires, he said. State Councillor Chen Junsheng called on local governments to remain vigilant saying they must do all they could to avoid anything that might cause similar damage as suffered by other countries in recent forest fires.
