FBIS3-46373 "drchi019_s_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Jan 1994 Northeast Region Jilin Secretary Addresses Forum of Experts SK2801000194 Changchun Jilin People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 26 Jan 94 SK2801000194 Changchun Jilin People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] On the afternoon of 25 January, the provincial party committee and government held a forum attended by responsible persons of some units as well as experts and scholars from the theoretical, literary, and art circles of the province. He Zhukang, secretary of the provincial party committee, chaired the forum. Provincial leaders Wang Jinshan, Liu Xilin, and Su Rong attended and gave speeches. He Zhukang said: Arrangements have already been made for the work of the province at the beginning of the new year. The purpose for us to hold this forum is to listen to the views and suggestions of experts and learn about the situation in order to make our work successful. [passage omitted] Participants at the forum aired their views freely, conscientiously analyzed the forms of theories, literature, and art, and offered very good opinions and suggestions. The provincial leaders fully affirmed their speeches. At the end of the forum, He Zhukang said that Jilin had won honor by achieving very good results in theoretical study and cultural and art work. On behalf of the provincial party committee and government, Secretary He extended greetings to the participating experts and scholars and, through them, to literary and art workers and theoretical workers throughout the province. He Zhukang added: Trained personnel are important. We should create a good environment and good conditions for the development of trained personnel. Training and educating people is a very important task with a far-reaching significance. We should not neglect the influence of negative factors on young people, nor should we underestimate the influence of Western culture. We should exert concerted efforts and give correct guidance to enable theories, literature, and art to make contributions to our endeavor of building a developed border province near the sea.
