FBIS3-49729 "dreeu010_y_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Serbia Milosevic: Bombing Threats `Incomprehensible' LD1301195594 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service in Serbo-Croatian 1651 GMT 13 Jan 94 LD1301195594 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Text] Belgrade, 13 Jan (TANJUG) -- Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic today received Yasushi Akashi, the UN secretary general's special envoy for the former Yugoslavia. They discussed the main issues of the Yugoslav crisis and the situation in former Bosnia-Herzegovina. President Milosevic stressed that the Serbian side has complied with the European Union's [EU] demands to provide 33 percent of the territory [of Bosnia-Herzegovina] for the Muslim republic. He also stressed that the signing of the peace agreement between the warring sides in the region depends only on the Muslim leadership in Sarajevo. The Serb side in the territory of former Bosnia-Herzegovina has not waged war for more than seven months now, and the responsibility for the current armed provocations undoubtedly lies with the Muslim leadership in Sarajevo. Therefore, President Milosevic stressed, the threats of bombing the Serb side are incomprehensible. They encourage the Muslim leadership to prolong the war and avoid once more the signing of the peace agreement, which undermines the efforts invested in the peace process so far. According to the assessment of the Republic of Serbia, it would be much more useful for international factors to exert pressure on the Muslim leadership to accept the peace plan for former Bosnia-Herzegovina, whereby peace would be given preference over war. President Milosevic told Akashi that the Republic of Serbia will continue helping to establish a just and lasting peace in former Bosnia-Herzegovina, at the same time working on the removal of one-sided assessments by international factors which help the war-mongers among the Muslim leaders hold on to their illusions that they will achieve their goals through war. Yugoslav Foreign Minister Vladislav Jovanovic also took part in the talks.
