FBIS3-33120 "drlat034_i_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 Nicaragua FSLN Directorate Member Presents Program Proposal PA1802005894 Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 16 Feb 94 pp 1, 5 PA1802005894 Managua BARRICADA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Jorge Katin] [Text] Bayardo Arce, a member of the Sandinist National Liberation Front [FSLN] National Directorate, has presented to the public the FSLN Program Commission's official proposal, which will be discussed in May during the extraordinary meeting of the FSLN Congress. According to Arce, the commission has worked on the basis of what was agreed upon during the FSLN's first congress, held in 1991. Then, the delegates demanded the redrafting of four aspects of the FSLN program. The aspects that were changed in the FSLN's program platform are those related to the FSLN's position on relations with the United States, the Nicaraguan Government, the land issue, and its social role as a party. The presentation of the document was preceded by a strong debate on these and other topics that clearly established that there are, at least, three clearly defined different tendencies within FSLN ranks. According to Arce, this document is only a proposal, but it is the official proposal and will be discussed as such by the party members. "The other documents presented will complement the discussion," Arce added. Relations With the United States Regarding the FSLN's relations with the U.S. Government, the document suggests "establishing a new relation between the United States and Nicaragua in which mutual interests will prevail." According to the document, the relations with the United States consist of two essential components: Nicaragua's unrestricted respect for the principles of self-determination and noninterference in other states' internal affairs, and the United States' unequivocal respect for the Nicaraguan people's sovereign and democratic decisions. These aspects are related to the remarks made to the Sandinist government regarding its support for Central America's revolutionary movements and the history of U.S. military and political interventions in Nicaragua. The document also supports the incorporation of Nicaragua and Central America into NAFTA. The programs commission coordinator has denied this part of the document is influenced by the belief that it is necessary to be in good standing with the United States if one wants to be a true electoral alternative. The second aspect, related to the position with the government, concerns the outright rejection of a government similar to the Somozist. In addition, it deals with the fight against corruption and favors an honest public administration and obedience to the Constitution and bylaws. "Honest Opposition" To face the crisis and reactivate the country, the document proposes an honest strategy against the government policies that prostrate the country. Concerning the phrase "honest opposition," Arce has said these two elements will have to be discussed in depth and outlined by the congress. "The only way to overcome the vulnerability of the democratic process and ensure its stability is to base it on a nonexclusive economic and social project in the economic democratization," he has said, adding "the state's economic policies should be consistent with this objective." The Electoral Way Regarding taking political power, the document states clearly: "For the FSLN, elections are the only valid means to accede to the government. Consistent with our democratic commitment, we hereby declare there is no room or justification for the current armed struggle in Nicaragua." Regarding the controversial property issue, the document proposes truly novel points that will surely lead to very intense debates in the FSLN. "The FSLN respects and defends the stability of private property. Similarly, the FSLN encourages the development of all forms of cooperative, associative, and community property, regarding these forms as an expression of the socialization process." Consequently, the document proposes "a commitment with the country's economic and social agents to face the property issue problem being linked to political stability." The document also proposes an immediate legalization of workers and peasants' property by allocating the property to them and to compensate fairly "the sectors that have been suffering from the uneven distribution." Regarding the composition as a party, the program proposes assimilating organically the societal makeup, which is being defined as plural. [sentence as published] Finally, the document extends an invitation to define the policy regarding the various social sectors, not only to social classes. Arce has said this is the official proposal, which should be enriched in a debate that opened long before the official documents were presented. The proposal on the statutes is scheduled to be presented this week, Commander Arce has reported.
