FBIS4-58570 "drnes087dd_94016" FBIS-NES-94-087 Daily Report 4 May 1994 Palestinian Affairs Fatah Hawks Express Reservations on Peace Accord Fatah Hawks Express Reservations on Peace Accord LD0405143694 Paris France-2 Television Network in French 1100 GMT 4 May 94 LD0405143694 Paris France-2 Television Network French BFN [Excerpt] You can imagine that people in Israel followed this morning's events with a lot of attention, concern, and hope. The first Palestinian police officers have arrived in the occupied territories and in Gaza. As for our special correspondents, Isabelle Baechler and Patrick Voigt, they were in the company of Palestinians opposed to this autonomy treaty: [Baechler] It is 1130 in a house in the Beach Camp district of the town of Gaza. Most of the men watching the historic moment of the signing in Cairo are on the list of terrorists who are most wanted by the Israeli Army. They are Fatah Hawks, the military branch of Yasir 'Arafat's organization. They are a bit sullen, despite the process of autonomy which is under way: [Begin recording] [Unidentified Fatah Hawk, in Arabic, with superimposed French translation] We are happy. We have been waiting for this moment for a long time, but we fear that nothing may come of it. This is not the first time that agreements have been signed, but thus far we have not seen any change. [Second unidentified Fatah Hawk in Arabic, with superimposed French translation] We are happy, but we are still wanted. Normal people are rejoicing, but we are still in hiding. [Third unidentified Fatah Hawk in Arabic, with superimposed French translation] All right, they are signing today, but as recently as yesterday the Army erected roadblocks to capture us. [end recording] [Baechler] The Fatah Hawks will not lay down their weapons until the new Palestinian authorities ask them to do so. What is different for them today is the fact that they feel closer to the new power. The entire population of Gaza is hoping. These 800,000 Palestinians packed together on 375 square kilometers are waiting for signs of sovereignty from their future state. For the time being, nothing has changed. Israeli soldiers are still here, right in the center of Gaza. [passage omitted]
