FBIS4-8044 "dreeu069_y_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-069 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal `Stern Measures' Taken To Stabilize Dinar `Stern Measures' Taken To Stabilize Dinar LD0804130394 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1218 GMT 8 Apr 94 LD0804130394 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN [Text] Belgrade, April 8 (TANJUG) -- The Yugoslav Government is taking stern measures against illegal foreign currency transactions in an effort to maintain stability of the national currency -- dinar. By the end of next week, the federal parliament is under summary procedure to adopt amendments to the law on foreign exchange operations. The amendments stipulate that buying and selling foreign currency at the rate higher than the official one is a criminal offense. Under the government proposal, the law is to ensure a uniform rate of the dinar be applied in all financial transactions. The dinar is currently pegged to the German mark, one dinar to 1 German mark. The issuing of the dinar is under strict control as of January 24, when the Federal Government launched a programme aimed at restructuring the monetary system and effecting economic recovery. The new dinar, 100 percent covered with gold and foreign currency, was introduced at the time when the monthly inflation recording 313 million percent threatened to invite a total monetary collapse. The emergence of an unofficial, so-called 'Staeetzung' exchange rate, in inter-company financial dealings was assessed by experts as a phenomenon jeopardizing the programme, although it has not become rampant. Early in the week seven persons were arrested in Belgrade on grounded suspicion that they were involved in illegal trafficking of one million German marks at blackmarket exchange rate. The Serbian Government, too, has announced a number of new measures aimed at stabilizing the dinar and the economy. Thus, Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic said Thursday the 30-percent cut in public expenditure would be put on the Serbian parliament agenda. He also said there would be a sizeable cut in the planned budget deficit. Many taxes are also to be lowered. The biggest obstacle in the way of stabilization of economic and monetary flows is a total blockade imposed by the U.N. Security Council on May 30, 1992.
