FBIS3-56115 "drsov009_f_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 National Affairs Crimean Presidential Candidates See Bagrov as Kiev Agent MK1201151194 Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI in Russian No. 2, 9-16 Jan 94 (signed to press 11 Jan) p A2 MK1201151194 Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Aleksandr Zhilin report under the "Elections" rubric: "Bagrov Accused of Not Playing by the Rules"] [Text] A group of candidates running for the republic's presidency has issued a statement in Crimea accusing Nikolay Bagrov of breaking the rules of the election campaign. Among other things, Bagrov's rivals complain that Nikolay Vasilyevich's loyalists are constantly trying to discredit all other participants in the election campaign. They are also indignant at the fact that Ukrainian government newspapers, radio, and television have given their backing to Bagrov. This put the contenders at a disadvantage from the outset. A MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI correspondent has learned that the Kiev authorities support Nikolay Bagrov, seeing him as an instrument of Ukraine's national policy. He announced his bid for the presidency only after chiefs of a pro-Kravchuk foundation called "The New Generation" -- Shmelev, who is also Kravchuk's adviser, and Buryak -- conducted active work with him from 27 October to 1 November. It is noteworthy that Messrs. Shmelev and Buryak arrived in Crimea by car incognito. Mr. Shevyev, chairman of the Crimea's Economic Revival Party, who received the emissaries from Kiev, arranged confidential meetings for them with Bagrov in the "Yuzhnyy" sanatorium. After Shmelev and Buryak, who incidentally supervise the center for assistance to the presidential authority, spoke to Bagrov, the latter decided to try his luck in the presidential elections. As soon as Kiev's envoys left Crimea, terror swept the region. On 6 November, Yuriy Asmanov, leader of the Crimean Tatars National Movement, was assassinated. Black Sea Fleet officers perish one after another. Tensions begin to rise in the region along with a campaign aimed at discrediting all candidates for the presidency except Nikolay Bagrov.
