FBIS4-12639 "drnes070_c_94006" FBIS-NES-94-070 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 Egypt Journalists Association Holds Emergency Session Journalists Association Holds Emergency Session NC1204062094 Cairo MENA in Arabic 1800 GMT 11 Apr 94 NC1204062094 Cairo MENA Arabic BFN [Text] Cairo, 11 Apr (MENA)--The Journalists Association Council has held an emergency session chaired by the Association's deputy chairman Jalal 'Isa. At the request of seven members of the council, the Association discussed the repeated arrests of journalists and their interrogation by the state security prosecution and military prosecution branches in cases related to publication and opinion. The Association said that these arrests run counter to the criminal procedures law, the Journalists Association Law, and all other laws that safeguard the security of the journalist. The arrests threaten all the immunities enjoyed by journalists, the Association added. The Council's statement notes that some of these procedures are arbitrary and that journalists are being mistreated by the interrogation body, which is entrusted with defending journalists and obeying the law. The interrogation body has failed to notify the Journalists Association to attend the interrogation sessions dealing with publication crimes. This is a basic and important issue guaranteed by the law, the Council added. The Council said the Association refuses to permit journalists to be treated like criminals or ex-convicts [words indistinct]. The Council called on all the state's [words indistinct] to respect the immunities guaranteed the press and journalists by the laws and constitution. The Council reiterates the Association's great desire to maintain healthy and frank relations with all state bodies. The Association also stressed that it will not cede any of its rights to defend journalists with all legitimate methods against any infringement or attack. The Council said that the current circumstances through which the country is passing make it incumbent upon us all to combine our efforts and unify our ranks against the forces of treacherous terrorism. Those entrusted with respecting the law and legitimacy must not violate them, the Council said.
