FBIS4-65185 "drweu093__a94034" FBIS-WEU-94-093-A Daily Report 10 May 1994 ANNEX Spain Gonzalez Backs Almunia as PSOE Parliamentary Spokesman Gonzalez Backs Almunia as PSOE Parliamentary Spokesman PM1205153894 Madrid EL PAIS in Spanish 10 May 94 p 16--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PM1205153894 Madrid EL PAIS Spanish BFN [Luis R. Aizpeolea report: "PSOE Executive Committee Selects Almunia as New Parliamentary Group Spokesman"] [Excerpt] Madrid -- Joaquin Almunia, PSOE [Spanish Socialist Workers Party] Secretary for Studies and Programs, was selected yesterday as Socialist parliamentary group chairman and spokesman, replacing Carlos Solchaga. His candidacy, supported by Felipe Gonzalez, won the assent of the Socialist Federal Executive Committee, which met at 1700 at the party's central headquarters in Ferraz Street (Madrid). The Socialist group will vote on the Executive Committee's proposal in plenary session today. During yesterday's meeting, Extremadura Junta [autonomous government] Premier Juan Carlos Rodriguez Ibarra unsuccessfully championed Alfonso Guerra's alternative. Gonzalez' aim in proposing Joaquin Almunia as Socialist parliamentary group chairman was to have at his disposal a man with considerable political influence in order to tackle the difficult times experienced by the party. Solchaga's replacement will have to contend with a very difficult parliament for the Socialists, with a People's Party in the middle of a political offensive, which has made the house the center of its activity to oust the PSOE from power. Almunia's debut will be tomorrow, Wednesday [11 May], in the Congress plenary session at which Gonzalez will have to explain the escape of former Civil Guard Director General Luis Roldan. On that day, Almunia will already have the difficult task of weathering the storm, which will undoubtedly worsen with the speech by People's Party Chairman Jose Maria Aznar. The new Socialist group chairman will also have to bear the brunt of the parliamentary negotiations with the Catalan and Basque nationalists, very complex negotiations which will be even more so following the 6 June [date as published] European and Andalusian autonomous community elections. [passage omitted]
