FBIS3-60878 "jptot001__l94126" JPRS-TOT-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 7 January 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA GEORGIA Defense, Security Ministries' Battle Blamed for Explosion Security Ministry Accuses Defense Ministry LD2512133793 Tbilisi IBERIA in Georgian 1220 GMT 25 Dec 93 LD2512133793 Tbilisi IBERIA Language: Georgian Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] [no dateline as received] A statement from the Security Ministry of the Republic of Georgia: On 24 December the alarm was raised at the order of the Defense Ministry of the Republic of Georgia. Defense Ministry units were deployed in Tbilisi and carried out a number of single-minded measures immediately against the Security Ministry employees; in particular, they detained without any grounds two operational vehicles armed with special equipment and the employees sitting in the vehicles. They confiscated the employees' duty arms and uniforms. They physically assaulted the employees, one of them by the defense minister himself. One truck was also detained. Additional Defense Ministry forces were ordered to occupy two adjacent Security Ministry buildings and deployed at the military academy. A blast took place at 0437 [0137 GMT] 25 December on the Security Ministry gruonds. A large amount of explosives was detonated and two Security Ministry employees were wounded, one seriously. Extensive material damage was sustained: the Security Ministry buildings, the military academy, the hydrometeorological center, and some adjacent buildings, as well as some special operational equipment and private cars were also damaged. In connection with the blast, the Procurator's Office of the Republic of Georgia has launched a criminal investigation. The Security Ministry of the Republic of Georgia is appealing to the head of state, parliament, the government, and the general population to condemn such single-minded provocative actions aimed at the special service. Moreover, the ministry wants to give this instance a political qualification and charge the organizers of the illegal actions with criminal responsibility. The ministry says that this action was directly or indirectly intended to interfere with the Security Ministry's work in combatting crime at this critical stage of Georgia's statehood. [passage omitted calling for calm]
