FBIS4-19195 "drweu073__a94006" FBIS-WEU-94-073-A Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 ANNEX Canada Trade Minister on U.S. Revival of Super 301 Trade Minister on U.S. Revival of Super 301 OW1304071694 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 12 Apr 94 Morning Edition p 5--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1304071694 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Report on interview with Roy MacLaren, Canadian international trade minister, by NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN reporter: place and date not given] [Text] In an interview with a NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN reporter on the eve of the ministerial talks to be held soon [in Morocco] to sign an accord hammered out at the Uruguay Round, Roy MacLaren, Canadian international trade minister, made clear his view on the next international trade rule. Commenting on the establishment of a new labor standard that the United States and other nations have demanded, the Canadian minister in charge of international trade took the position that it is necessary to cautiously negotiate its establishment, saying: "Developing countries are concerned that the establishment of such a new labor standard could result in control of their exports to industrialized nations." The United States and France have insisted that a new standard for international trade be established to protect the rights of workers in developing countries where wages and labor conditions are problematic. Developing countries have guarded against their insistence as an attempt to deprive them of the upper-hand in trade shored up by low wages that are a source of their competitiveness. In the interview, Minister MacLaren went on to say: "There is not enough time left to reach an agreement on the establishment of the labor standard and conclude an accord on it at the Uruguay Round. Developing countries are concerned that the establishment of such a new labor standard and any social standard could result in regulations on their exports to industrialized nations. Canada is cautious about establishing such a standard." In this way, the Canadian minister indicated that all the industrialized nations are not in agreement on the labor standard's establishment. In the interview, Minister MacLaren criticized the United States for reviving the Super 301 Provision, saying: "We are concerned about all one-sided trade measures taken by the United States."
