FBIS3-8371 "dreeu046_k_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 CROATIA Granic, U.S. Envoy Redman Discuss Federation LD0803192894 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 1800 GMT 8 Mar 94 LD0803192894 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Report by correspondent Andjelko Perincic] [Text] Mate Granic, Croatian deputy prime minister and foreign minister, and Charles Redman, U.S. President Bill Clinton's special envoy, held talks in Zagreb this afternoon. The talks focused on the implementation of the principles governing the constitutional set-up of Bosnia-Herzegovina and a possible confederation with Croatia. After the talks the U.S. official declared: To my mind we made an enormous amount of progress compared to what had been achieved in Washington. Many things still remain to be done. This awaits both the U.S. Administration and the Croatian Government but I must point out that we are not alone in fulfilling this task -- we have the backing of the European Union or, more precisely, most of that region, and the other peoples in Bosnia. In view of all this we can optimistically believe that we are on the right track. However, we are facing hard work if we are to work to the benefit of Croatia and Bosnia, to the benefit of Europe and the United States. As for my talks in Belgrade, this was only a preliminary meeting because right now we are focusing on the issue of the Bosnian Croats and the Bosnian government. Nevertheless we are studying possibilities that would be acceptable to all three sides in Bosnia and to the entire region. It is certain that we will first have to resolve the existing territorial differences by political means, Redman concluded. Croatian Minister Mate Granic also made a brief assessment: [Begin Granic recording] The Vienna negotiations are proceeding well and I believe that we will round off the next stage on time. Likewise, we can see the first tangible results in the field. We are closely collaborating with the European Union and, as you know, I will be leaving for Moscow tomorrow, where I will have the opportunity to exchange views with my colleague, Russian Federation Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev. [end recording] [Perincic] Charles Redman will be received by the President of the Republic of Croatia, Franjo Tudjman, this evening.
