FBIS4-28893 "dreas114_c_94042" FBIS-EAS-94-114 Daily Report 25 May 1994 North Korea Operating Farms With Substitute Fuel Applauded Operating Farms With Substitute Fuel Applauded SK1306141594 Pyongyang NODONG SINMUN in Korean 25 May 94 p 3 SK1306141594 Pyongyang NODONG SINMUN Korean BFN [By reporter Kim Hui-yong] [Excerpts] When we visit the wide rice fields of the cooperative farms in Unchon county, which is seething with the work to carry out rice transplanting to achieve a bumper crop, by highly upholding the party's militant call, we can see scenes attracting the people's curiosity. All the farms in this county use substitute fuel, which they themselves produced, to operate tractors, rice seedling pullers, and rice seedling transplanters to harrow rice fields, pull rice seedlings, and carry out rice transplanting. When passing through Sinchang, Namsan, and Songbong cooperative farms to go to Yangdam cooperative farm, we were able to see farmers joyously pull rice seedlings and carry out rice transplanting using gas as fuel produced on the farms by themselves. While guaranteeing a full operation and full capacity of rice seedling pullers and rice seedling transplanters by using gas as fuel, about 7 to 8 percent of all the rice paddies are being transplanted every day in the county. Therefore, rice transplanting on the basic area of rice paddies has already been finished in the county. [passage omitted] The functionaries of the county maintained model bases producing substitute fuels in the plants in the county, and with the substitute fuel produced here, they showed that they are able to operate tractors, trucks, rice seedling transplanters, and rice seedling pullers as much as they want. Therefore, cooperative farms in the county maintained bases that produce substitute fuel in accordance with the actual circumstances. The functionaries of the county went into the cooperative farms and solved technological problems arising in maintaining the substitute fuel production bases and actively helped the cooperative farms to quickly build the production bases. Therefore, plants, enterprises, and cooperative farms in the county started to produce substitute fuel from late last year. [passage omitted] A functionary of the county whom we met at the rice transplanting battle field at the third work team of the Yangdam cooperative farm said that there were many good points in carrying out rice transplanting by using the substitute fuel. If rice seedling transplanting is carried out with machines using substitute fuel, much oil can be saved. Cooperative farms in this county harrow rice fields, remove the young rice plants from the seedbeds, and transplant rice by using the substitute fuel, thus a large amount of oil is being saved. Another good point is that if gas, the substitute fuel, is used in rice seedling transplanters and rice seedling pullers, the machines start easily, thus the expected rate of its operation can be enhanced greatly. Experiences by the cooperative farms in this county show that if the functionaries use their wit and make efforts to fulfill the party policy, and mobilize the plentiful source, substitute fuel can be produced ever so much and thus enhance the rate of operation of the agricultural machines. [passage omitted]
