FBIS4-24826 "drchi106_p_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-106 Daily Report 20 May 1994 REGIONAL AFFAIRS Central-South Region Guangdong Begins Appraisal of Intangible Assets Guangdong Begins Appraisal of Intangible Assets HK0206085594 Hong Kong ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE in Chinese 0948 GMT 20 May 94 HK0206085594 Hong Kong ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE Chinese BFN [Text] Guangzhou, 20 May (ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE) -- "Knowledge assets" and "goodwill assets" are what have helped Guangdong people repeatedly prevail in business battles. Quietly, an enthusiasm for "intangible assets appraisal" is growing across Guangdong. The strange power of this "magic weapon" employed by Guangdong people is being popularized and standardized. One year ago, China's first "intangible assets appraisal office" was established in Shenzhen, opening a new chapter in the history of scientific appraisal and fair pricing of patented technologies, copyrights, business franchises, service trademarks, and approval rights owned by Chinese firms and intellectuals. The Shenzhen City Intangible Assets Appraisal Office has made over 30 appraisal reports commissioned by more than 20 clients. Sources revealed that the office assessed the trademarks and goodwill of the "Sanjiu" Corporation to be worth roughly 700 million yuan, and the formula for Yunnan Baiyao [a medicine] at over 40 million yuan. When a university bought into a joint-stock enterprise with one of its scientific and technological achievements, the office gave it a monetary value of 32 million yuan. An engineer was awarded 460,000 yuan worth of technology-generated earnings over a three-year period by a company after it adopted his patented technology. Courts have ruled that "intangible assets appraisals" are admissible as evidence. Guangdong Province has been cautious about the appearance of offices for appraising intangible assets, and apart from Shenzhen, only Zhuhai has formed an intangible assets appraising group -- a provincial assets appraisal center is still being prepared. However, intellectual and business circles are very enthusiastic about this "intangible" industry. People hope very much for a quantified "statement" on the value of their knowledge and business goodwill.
