FBIS3-21563 "jptac002__l94003" JPRS-TAC-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Arms Control 2 March 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Ukraine Transfers Nuclear Warheads to Russia Amid Fuel Controversy Warheads Leave Ukraine Amid `Stable' Russo-U.S. Ties MK0203105094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 2 Mar 94 p 1 MK0203105094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Pavel Felgengauer report under the "Disarmament" rubric: "Evacuation of Warheads From Ukraine Begins. The First Tangible Result of Russian-American Partnership"] [Text] Ironically, the first, really serious result of the Russian-American strategic partnership was achieved precisely at a time when the authorities in Washington and Moscow are once again, as in the glorious years of the Cold War, expelling diplomats, accusing each other of spying, at a time when bilateral relations in general are at the freezing point. The counselors-cum-spies, Aleksandr Lysenko and James Morris, were packing their bags and packages as Ukrainian warheads were already heading for Russia. SEGODNYA has learned from more than reliable sources that Russia and Ukraine have finally gotten around to implementing in practice the Russian-American-Ukrainian trilateral agreement "On the Terms and Conditions of Eliminating Ukrainian Nuclear Weapons in Ukraine," which was signed in Moscow 14 January by Boris Yeltsin, Leonid Kravchuk, and Bill Clinton. Under the agreement, in the last days of February the first 60 warheads removed from strategic missiles in service with the 46th (Pervomayskaya) Missile Division of the 43d Missile Army were loaded on specially equipped flatcars of a special-purpose train and sent to Russia. Today, the train with the special cargo is to arrive in a closed city run by the Atomic Energy Ministry (former Medium Engineering Ministry) in the Urals, in the plant where the warheads had once been assembled. Now they will be dismantled. There are still, of course, around 2,000 nuclear warheads remaining in Ukraine, but now there is hope that this problem will finally be resolved. It will be resolved first of all by joint efforts of Russian and American politicians and diplomats who have managed to convince President Kravchuk that the nuclear warheads, which Ukraine can neither service, use, nor safely store on its own will not bring Ukraine security or profits. We can expect that the first real success may hold up further worsening in Russian-American relations. Apart from friendly rhetoric, the strategic partnership does have a stable foundation, albeit a nuclear-missile one. The nuclear threat once helped to avert a third world war. Let us hope now that it will prevent Russian-American relations from taking too drastic turns in their course.
