FBIS4-22204 "jpuma015___94023" JPRS-UMA-94-015 JPRS Central Eurasia Military Affairs 5 April 1994 STATE AND LOCAL MILITARY FORCES UKRAINE Ministry of Defense Officials Observe Air Force Training Ministry of Defense Officials Observe Air Force Training Radetskyy at Myrhorod Air Division Headquarters 94UM0345C Kiev NARODNA ARMIYA in Ukrainian 5 Apr 94 p 1 94UM0345C Kiev NARODNA ARMIYA Ukrainian CSO [Press Service of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine: "The Problems of Aviators Will Be Solved Expeditiously"] [Text] On 2 April of this year, General of the Army Defense Minister Vitaliy Radetskyy paid a planned working visit to Myrhorod, the headquarters of a Ukrainian Air Force division. In order to gain a real understanding of the situation among the military and the problems facing the people wearing shoulder boards, the chief of the War Office [kerivnyk viyskovoho vidomstva] invited Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Valeriy Shmarov to accompany him on this visit. Together they inspected the airfield and the aviators' military town, visited the barracks, the soldiers' mess, and the military trade store. Virtually everything was of interest to the minister and the deputy prime minister -- the conditions in which personnel live, whether the store carries fresh bread, what the soldiers and officers are fed, and whether they have all the necessities. The representatives of the government also visited the homes of some aviators and met with the residents of the military town. There is no shortage of problems here. The deputy prime minister and the defense minister promised to solve some of these problems expeditiously. Thus the officers and soldiers [o/s] would receive their pay in the next few days, and according to the defense minister's instruction, the pharmacy in the town will be opened in a week's time. In order to check the combat readiness and training of the aviators, General of the Army Vitaliy Radetskyy issued an order commanding the air units on duty to fly. The section commander, Maj. Mykhaylo Moroz, and Senior Airman Volodymyr Kovpakov performed their task efficiently. The handsome SU-27s they flew rose into the air exceeding the accepted standard, and the fighter pilots performed their training exercise successfully. The defense minister thanked them for doing a good job. Such visits to the units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine enable us to gain first-hand knowledge of the situation in the military and persuade us of the need to focus our attention on army problems.
