FBIS3-16420 "drsov051_c_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 Federal Assembly Duma Vows To Speed Passage of Important Laws MK1603113994 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 16 Mar 94 p 1 MK1603113994 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Ivan Rodin report under the "Authority" rubric: "Duma Assesses President's Message. It Promises To Pass Without Delay Laws of Top State Importance"] [Text] The State Duma will adopt a decree today on where it stands on the president's message "On Strengthening the Russian State." The draft of the Duma decree was prepared by a working group under Valentin Kovalev (Russian Federation Communist Party), the chamber's deputy chairman. The document has been signed by representatives of all factions except Yabloko, as well as separately by Mr. Zhirinovskiy and Mr. Gaydar. The draft of this decree is a marriage -- one upon which various Duma factions insisted -- of a declaratory reaction and of a rather negative reaction. The decree points out that the most important task facing the State Duma, which shares the main points of the president's message, is legislative support for "the Russian Federation's evolution toward the creation of an integral and stable democratic state where human and civil rights are honored, where an efficient economy functions, where the principles of federative relations are consistently realized, and the rights of big and small nations are upheld." The draft decree suggests that the government evolve a plan of measures to overcome the socioeconomic crisis. As for Duma activity in the realm of draft laws, it is supposed to give priority to draft laws dealing with stabilization of the economy, finances, and protection for the country's commodity producers. The State Duma thinks it necessary to set up conciliation working groups of representatives of the president's staff, the government, and the Federal Assembly in order to "minimize the time consumed in the procedure of agreeing on the top state priority draft laws, and promises to consider them without delay. The last point of the draft decree proposes that the president and the government should settle the nonpayment crisis and eliminate delays in the payment of wages.
