FBIS4-39029 "drsov108_a_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-108 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Radio Reviews Results of ROK President's Visit Radio Reviews Results of ROK President's Visit SK0406141494 Moscow Radio Moscow in Korean 1200 GMT 3 Jun 94 SK0406141494 Moscow Radio Moscow Korean BFN [Commentary by Aleksandr Kondratyev] [Text] Talks have taken place in Moscow between Russian President Boris Yeltsin and ROK President Kim Yong-sam. Station reporter Aleksandr Kondratyev assesses the results of the ROK- Russian high-level talks: The Russian-ROK joint communique is the most important among the documents signed as a result of these meetings. The communique contains the two leaders' principled view on the development of bilateral cooperation and global and regional problems. The Russian and ROK presidents declared that they would develop their bilateral relations into a constructive and reciprocal partnership based on the universal values of freedom, democracy, lawfulness, and human rights. I must point out, however, that all the potential to build relations between the countries was not utilized. However, as President Boris Yeltsin has stated, Russia has every reason to be optimistic about the prospects of relations between Russia and the ROK. President Yeltsin described the bilateral relations as constructive, good-neighborly relations. Kim yong-sam stated that his visit to Moscow and the talks during the visit will make relations between Russia and the ROK friendlier. The presidents of the two countries paid particular attention to the situation on the Korean peninsula and, in particular, the Korean nuclear crisis. This is very appropriate. This is because it has been said that nuclear weapons may appear on the Korean peninsula. The joint communique stresses that any attempt to produce nuclear weapons on the Korean peninsula would seriously threaten security in Northeast Asia and the world. Boris Yeltsin said that Russia is very much worried about the unresolved nuclear issue in this region and insists that the DPRK remain a complete signatory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and completely fulfill its commitment on the safeguards accord which it had signed with the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA]. The ROK president supported Moscow's initiative on convening a multinational conference on achieving security and establishing a nuclear-free region on the Korean peninsula. The Russian president thinks that unless a decision is made on convening this conference, it will be too early to talk about sanctions against North Korea. He pointed out the issue of imposing sanctions against Pyongyang may be raised only when the DPRK tries to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Generally speaking, the two presidents highly assessed the high- level talks in Moscow.
