FBIS4-11083 "drlat077_t_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-077 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 Venezuela Caldera Says Constituent Assembly Will Not Solve Problems Caldera Says Constituent Assembly Will Not Solve Problems PA2004163094 Caracas EL DIARIO DE CARACAS in Spanish 15 Apr 94 p 27 PA2004163094 Caracas EL DIARIO DE CARACAS Spanish BFN [Text] President Rafael Caldera said yesterday that summoning a constituent assembly is not the solution to the country's problems. He also urged the Congress to include the impeachment referendum in the constitutional amendments to create a "truly participative" democracy. The president noted Colombia's positive experience in this area, adding that it is possible to reform the system "without breaking the constitutional thread." Speaking during the presentation of the book Venezuela, Crisis and Constitutional Reform at the Avila Hotel, he said he was among those who think the congressional debate on the reform should begin where the past legislature left off. In any case, a bicameral commission should be named to promptly update the study and to include new proposals. Caldera indicated four kinds of referenda must be included in the reforms: a referendum to impeach, a referendum to consult, a referendum to approve, and a referendum to confirm. As an example, he said a matter as important as the delimitation of marine and underwater areas with Colombia must be submitted to a popular consultation, "because a mere ratification by Congress would not be sufficient." Regarding federalism, Caldera explained he views it as the adequate strengthening of administrative decentralization that avoids "the destructive abuses" of centralism but does not restore the vices of the old system of cronyism. "I have been asked, not without malice, if now as president I continue supporting the possibility of revoking the mandate of the head of state and any top official, and I have said I would feel bad if it were not approved," he warned. The president said he is confident that the congressional debates will have a favorable outcome and that the stumbling blocks to a favorable outcome will be removed.
