FBIS3-2220 "drchi044_k_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social XINHUA Reports Wei Jingsheng `Summoned' AFP Reports Release HK0503085694 Hong Kong AFP in English 0838 GMT 5 Mar 94 HK0503085694 Hong Kong AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 5 (AFP)--China's most prominent dissident -- Wei Jingsheng -- has been released after he was detained for more than 24 hours by public security officials, a friend of Wei's said Saturday. The friend told AFP that Wei had telephoned at 12:20 p.m (0800 GMT) [time as received] to say his interrogation had finished and he would be returning to Beijing later Saturday evening. Wei was picked up by police Friday morning and taken to a state guesthouse in the northern outskirts of the city, the friend said by telephone. Wei, who was released from prison on September 14, just six months short of a 15-year term, was taken into detention four days after meeting US Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights John Shattuck in Beijing. During the meeting, Wei had urged Washington "to be as tough as the Chinese" over the question of human rights in China. Wei had played a leading role in the 1978-79 Democracy Wall movement when he called for full democracy in China and denounced paramount leader Deng Xiaoping as a despot. His detention this week came amid a crackdown on political dissidents that saw at least seven activists picked up in a police sweep in Beijing and Shanghai. Veteran Shanghai dissident Bao Ge, who was taken into police custody in the eastern city on Thursday evening, said he had been detained for 22 hours in an apparent attempt to prevent him meeting with Shattuck. Bao, contacted by telephone, said that prior to his detention he had been approached through an intermediary about a possible meeting with Shattuck, who had a brief stopover in Shanghai Thursday after his Beijing visit. Although his interrogators had not mentioned Shattuck by name, the 30-year-old Bao said they had warned him against meeting foreign officials. He also received a strong warning to refrain from any protest activity during the visit to China of Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa from March 19-21. Bao was a leading spokesman for a grassroots pressure group that pushed the Chinese government to reopen the issue of Japanese war reparations. He had been detained by the authorities ahead of the state visit to China by Japanese Emperor Akihito in October 1992. Friends of another prominent dissident, labour activist Zhou Guoqiang, who was picked up Thursday in Beijing for questioning about alleged anti-government activities, said they had had no news of his whereabouts or if he was still being detained.
