FBIS4-23651 "drafr113_c_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-113 Daily Report 12 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Europeans Reportedly Involved in Right-Wing Army Europeans Reportedly Involved in Right-Wing Army MB1206162394 Johannesburg RAPPORT in Afrikaans 12 Jun 94 p 1 MB1206162394 Johannesburg RAPPORT Afrikaans BFN [Report by De Wet Potgieter] [Text] Police are investigating a case involving more than 15,000 European tourists who have entered the country over the past few months but have not yet left. They are apparently illegally in the country. This has led to rumors of secret plans to establish an underground "national army" of international freedom fighters, with close links to neo-Nazis, in South Africa. Concern has been expressed at the activities of Dutch citizens, Germans, and Croats, as well as the notorious far-right skinheads seen in the Transvaal rural areas. A European organization Voorpost [Outpost], with its South African branch Voorpos, allegedly plays a role in recruiting members, as does the far-right Afrikaner Nasionaal-Sosialiste [Afrikaner National-Socialists] (ANS), in which Mrs. Monica Huggett is involved. The police have confirmed that Mrs. Huggett, a former member of the Wit Kommando [White Commando] and self-confessed member of the American Ku Klux Klan, met three Germans at the Jan Smuts Airport in January after their arrival from Europe and even gave them lodging for a while. One of the Germans was later killed in a shoot-out with police and the other two were arrested. The former Vlakplaas commander, Lieutenant Colonel Eugene de Kock, currently in detention on charges relating to alleged Third Force activities, was present during the shoot-out outside Pretoria. He said in a statement to the police that his presence in the vicinity was a mere coincidence and thought at one stage that he was the one under attack. Two New Zealand mercenaries in AWB [Afrikaner Resistance Movement] uniforms were also arrested in Johannesburg this week, carrying illegal weapons.
