FBIS3-37074 "drsov030_g_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Kebich on Monetary Union With Russia, Disarmament LD1302144094 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1321 GMT 13 Feb 94 LD1302144094 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The unification of the Belarusian and Russian monetary systems does not mean that Belarus will advance towards market relations the Russian way, stated Belarusian Prime Minister Vyacheslav Kebich. He told Interfax in an exclusive interview that the forthcoming unification of the two monetary systems should not be viewed as a political-economic union. "Neither is it true that Belarus and Russia have betrayed the idea of creating a single economic system within the CIS," he said. "On the contrary, by uniting our monetary systems we are giving a real content to this idea, and strengthen and broaden the common economic system," he added. He said that the recent reshuffling in the government will not tell on the Belarusian policies. "As to the monetary union with Russia, it will allow Belarus to advance towards market relations more rapidly," said Kebich. He admitted that the resignation of Shushkevich had not made the prime minister's work any easier, but gave to understand that Shushkevich's resignation from the post of parliament speaker had opened the door on the ratification of the CIS agreement on collective security by the Belarusian parliament. Speaking about cuts in the Belarusian offensive weapons, Kebich said that if Belarus was not given financial assistance in disarmament, it would not be able to eliminate tanks and aircraft at the old rate according to international agreements. He said that Belarus bore all of the related expenses on its own. The economic problems complicate the financing of the disarmament program, said Kebich. He also pointed out that Belarus was honestly and consistently implementing its commitments to cut down armaments and would continue to do so in the future.
