FBIS4-58179 "drnes084_n_94001" FBIS-NES-94-084 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 LEBANON Hizballah Paper Criticizes U.S. Ambassador Hizballah Paper Criticizes U.S. Ambassador NC0105095994 Beirut AL-'AHD in Arabic 15 Apr 94 p 11 NC0105095994 Beirut AL-'AHD Arabic BFN [News Analysis: "The U.S. Move and Its Ramifications"] [Text] We Are Still Holding Contacts With Christian Parties, Including the Lebanese Forces. [Signed] U.S. Ambassador Mark Hambley U.S. Ambassador Mark Hambley is regarded as the most active U.S. ambassador who has served in Lebanon, in terms of official and political meetings. Ambassador Mark Hambley, who had previously served in Beirut as a second-category staff member of the embassy, came to Lebanon having served in two areas of particular importance. Before assuming the post of consul in Alexandria, Hambley was the U.S. charge d'affaires in Tunis. Both Alexandria and Tunis are vital areas for the Americans. Tunis is quite important and vital for the U.S. and Israeli intelligence due to the strong ties between the Tunisian regime and these intelligence services. This fact enabled both services to monitor the Palestinian activities continuously. Alexandria, an Egyptian town, is regarded as an extremely important area by the Americans and Israelis, because it is located near Libya and Palestine and overlooks the Mediterranean. Alexandria can play a great mediation role in the projected settlement process. According to available information, the designation of Hambley as U.S. ambassador in Beirut to succeed Ryan Crocker was based on his service in Alexandria and Tunis. He came to Beirut with a file containing ample information about the Lebanese situation. After his arrival, Hambley formed a working team at the embassy to conduct studies and political analyses to be dispatched to Washington. Knowledgeable sources view the U.S. move as indicating exploration of the stances of all forces and parties and of having first-hand information on the Lebanese situation. Furthermore, Hambley's action represents a strong move into the Lebanese domestic policy, particularly the Christians, to reassure them that the United States supports them. This explains Hambley's keenness on continuing contacts with the various Christian parties, particularly the Lebanese Forces, despite the latter's dissolution. This is interference in the Lebanese situation, because the existing contacts between Hambley and the Lebanese Forces one way or another represent a rejection of the Lebanese authorities' decision to dissolve the Lebanese Forces, and represent a U.S. attempt to buoy them up in service of the hostile designs. Other information indicates that Ambassador Hambley is holding continuous meetings with Christian opposition figures and he is sending several signals to Ja'ja'.
