FBIS3-58783 "drweu014_g_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 CANADA Government Suspends U.S. Cruise Missile Tests LD2001224694 Montreal Radio Canada International in English 2130 GMT 20 Jan 94 LD2001224694 Montreal Radio Canada International Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Canada has suspended U.S. Cruise missile testing over the Arctic. Defense Minister David Collenette says the U.S. will be denied permission to conduct tests until MPs hold a special debate in the issue next week. According to the minister Washington was informed late last year that the Liberals wanted to review the testing agreement, but the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation has learned that plans were under way for a Cruise missile test next week. Michael MacCaulif reports: [MacCaulif] The decision to hold a parliamentary debate on Cruise missile testing is in a sense a face saving exercise. In November the new Liberal government told the Americans to begin their planning for 1994 Cruise missile tests, but in opposition the Liberals had also said no further tests should take place until Cruise missile testing was reviewed. So after this morning's cabinet meeting Defense Minister David Collenette said the Liberals would be true to their word. [Begin Collenette recording] We had a discussion this morning and we hope to have a debate some time next week before any decision is taken on the, any tests in 1994. [end recording] [MacCaulif] Even though in November the Liberals had told the Americans to begin planning their 1994 tests Collenette insists they were also told there would have to be a review first. [Begin Collenette recording] The United States does, did know that any future tests would hinge on our government reviewing it. [end recording] [MacCaulif] But CBC news has been told in fact that isn't the case. Until this week many people even in the Canadian military were under the impression that this year's tests would go ahead on schedule and plans were fully under way for the first test to take place next Tuesday [25 January].
