FBIS4-62340 "drsov094_a_94032" FBIS-SOV-94-094 Daily Report 13 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Experts on Unregistered Japanese Plutonium Experts on Unregistered Japanese Plutonium LD1305160394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1540 GMT 13 May 94 LD1305160394 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Anatoliy Yurkin] [Text] Moscow May 13 TASS -- Japan imposes nuclear game rules on the world while accusing Russia of developing new weapon types, concluded Russian experts when 70 kilos of unregistered plutonium were founded in reactors of a Japanese splitting fuel plant at the Tokai-Mura Nuclear Center. Seventy kilos are enough to make eight nuclear warheads. Specialists put into question Japanese claims that the pure plutonium powder "stuck" to the equipment and pipes. While storing unregistered raw materials for nuclear bombs Japan continues to spread sensational rumors on Russian development of a new small-size neutron bomb on the basis of red mercury. It gives the new bomb's parameters -- a size of a coffee cup, and address and possibilities of its use -- Bosnia, a terror weapon. In the opinion of experts, this is done to conceal Japanese secret nuclear activities. According to IAEA norms, eight kilos of plutonium are enough to make a bomb and dangerous for non- proliferation of nuclear arms. The revealed materials make one doubt "full transparency of the plutonium peace use programs" against the background of Japanese claims it is a model state in the sphere of nuclear control, said the experts. This opinion is confirmed by a classified report of the U.S. Institute for Control over Nuclear Materials submitted to the U.S. secretary of state. Some paragraphs of the report have leaked and were used by the press. Deputy head of the Russian Ministry for Nuclear Power Engineering's Information and Public Relations Department Vitaliy Nasonov told ITAR-TASS the report on Japanese plutonium requires more studies, as it is hard to reveal the plutonium source.
