FBIS3-26183 "drchi024_a_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General More on Lifting Embargo OW0302235994 Beijing XINHUA in English 2342 GMT 3 Feb 94 OW0302235994 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, February 3 (XINHUA) -- U.S. President Bill Clinton announced today the lifting of the 19-year-old trade embargo against Vietnam. "I am absolutely convinced it offers the best way to resolve the fate of those who remain missing and about whom we are not sure," Clinton said at the White House. Clinton said Vietnam has made "significant tangible progress" in helping resolve the issue of POWs and MIAs in the Vietnam war. Clinton made the announcement after meeting with representatives of the families of soldiers still missing. Two U.S. veterans' groups had urged Clinton not to lift the embargo until all American servicemen missing since the war have been accounted for. The President vowed that he remains personally "committed to continuing the search for the answers and the peace of mind that the families of the missing deserve." "I have carefully considered the questions of how best to sustain that cooperation in securing the fullest possible accounting," Clinton said. "I have consulted with my national security and veterans' affairs advisers," he added, "it was their view that the key to continued progress lies in expanding our contacts with Vietnam." "I have made the judgment that the best way to ensure cooperation from Vietnam and to continue getting the information Americans want on POWs and MIAs is to end the trade embargo," Clinton said. The President also announced that he has decided to establish a liaison office in Vietnam to "provide services for Americans there and help us to pursue a human rights dialogue with the Vietnamese Government." But Clinton made clear that "these actions do not constitute a normalization of our relationships." "Before that happens," the president stressed, "we must have more progress, more cooperation, and more answers."
