FBIS4-12612 "drnes069dd_94001" FBIS-NES-94-069 Daily Report 10 Apr 1994 Palestinian Affairs 'Arafat Urges U.S. To Increase Efforts for Self-Rule 'Arafat Urges U.S. To Increase Efforts for Self-Rule NC1004171894 Paris AFP in English 1531 GMT 10 Apr 94 NC1004171894 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Tunis, April 10 (AFP)--PLO Chairman Yasir 'Arafat pressed the United States Sunday to step up efforts to ensure the successful launch of Palestinian self-rule as Israel and the PLO resumed talks in Cairo, the official Palestinian news agency WAFA reported. 'Arafat urged US Secretary of State Warren Christopher to make "the maximum effort" to ensure the success of the negotiations, during a telephone conversation. The PLO leader stressed the importance of meeting the April 13 deadline set for Israel to withdraw from the occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho. Under the Israeli-PLO Declaration of Principles signed in September Israel was due to complete its troop withdrawal by April 13, but implementation of the deal was delayed by disagreements over security arrangements and the February 25 Hebron massacre. 'Arafat said any Israeli failure to respect the timetable set out in the autonomy deal "will have negative repercussions on the whole peace process and threaten its credibility," WAFA reported. The PLO leader also called for the rapid deployment of an international presence in the occupied territories, in line with UN Security Council Resolution 904 of March 18, which condemned the Hebron massacre and allowed for international protection for the Palestinians. Israel and the PLO agreed last month that 160 lightly-armed observers from Norway, Denmark and Italy would be deployed in Hebron, where a Jewish settler shot dead 30 Arab worshipers in a mosque. The two sides began a new round of talks in Cairo on Sunday in a bid to resolve remaining differences, including a timetable for Israeli withdrawal and the deployment of a Palestinian police force. 'Arafat and Christopher also discussed the escalating violence in the occupied territories, and the harm it could inflict on "the entire Middle East peace process and the (Israeli-PLO) negotiations," WAFA reported. 'Arafat discussed the same issues by telephone with US civil rights leader Jesse Jackson, currently visiting Israel, the agency said. The PLO leader thanked Jackson for his "worthy efforts to support the just cause of the Palestinian people and the peace process." Jackson, who arrived in Israel Thursday, has held talks with Israeli Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres and Palestinian leaders in East Jerusalem.
