FBIS4-66336 "jpcst008___94042" JPRS-CST-94-008 JPRS Science & Technology China 1 April 1994 Science & Technology Telecommunications Major Campaign for Information Highways Under Way Major Campaign for Information Highways Under Way SSTC Chief Engineer Urges Developing Infrastructure 94P60236E Beijing KEJI RIBAO [SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY DAILY] in Chinese 1 Apr 94 p 1 94P60236E Beijing KEJI RIBAO [SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY DAILY] in Chinese 1 Apr 94 p 1 Chinese CSO [Article by Ji Fusheng [0370 1788 3932], Chief Engineer, State Science and Technology Commission (SSTC), Department for Basic Research and High Technology: ``Value the Building of an Information Infrastructure''] [Summary] [Editor's note] Chief Engineer Ji Fusheng was one of the distinguished participants in the ``Information Highway'' Symposium recently held by KEJI RIBAO. [End of editor's note.] I feel that planning for information highways has already grasped several key factors in current social development. Up to the year 2020, information technology will remain a hot topic and will remain in a decisive position amid international competition. Setting out from present national conditions, authorities and technologists must focus on building an infrastructure for information services. Building an information infrastructure is an indispensable condition for the people's economic modernization. This new infrastructure is not limited to telephone service, however; modern conditions require that a gradually increasing percentage of all telecommunications services be devoted to data and image transmission. Therefore, in planning for and constructing our national information infrastrucutre, we must start out by meeting the demands of integrated services [i.e., those provided in integrated services digital networks (ISDNs)]. Our domestic campaign is fully capable of incorporating the latest worldwide S&T achievements. In the area of technical progress, China is also fully capable of leaping over several historical stages of development experienced by advanced nations in their development course. At the same time, we must be practical and realistic, and must chart out our path according to scientific research into market demand. The State has already taken some steps in strategic development of an information infrastructure, such as 863 Program support for research on high-speed parallel computing and high-speed communications, but the strength of this R&D effort is still insufficient. The State should firm up its outline for constructing an information infrastructure, utilize existing resources, and make appropriate additions to its financial support for this infrastructure.
