FBIS3-27603 "drchi038_n_94024" FBIS-CHI-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Economic & Agricultural Chronic Drought Destroys Winter Crops in North HK2402054894 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 24 Feb 94 p 3 HK2402054894 Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Wang Ma: "Northern Crops Are Devastated by Drought"] [Text] A chronic drought has destroyed many winter crops in North and Northwest China and is threatening to wipe out spring harvests of grain and cotton. A Shaanxi drought control official said that combating the protracted water shortage is at the top of his province's agenda. Many crops have grown poorly and some seedlings have even died because of the drought, the official told China Daily. The city of Xianyang lost 2,700 hectares of winter wheat when seedlings died, he said. Meanwhile, many rivers and dams in the province are rapidly losing water. "The drought has seriously affected the preparation for spring farming, especially of cotton," he said. An additional 1.2 million hectares of winter wheat--or two-thirds of all farmland for summer harvest--are threatened by the drought. The problem has persisted since the start of winter, leaving more than 6.7 million hectares of farmland across the north and northwest which have not been irrigated difficult to sow, People's Daily [RENMIN RIBAO] reported yesterday. And the lack of moisture in some winter wheat areas also makes spring ploughing more difficult, the paper said. The drought-control official said irrigation departments have pumped water to 646,600 hectares of farm land. Yuncheng Prefecture, another hard hit area in North China's Shanxi Province has used every irrigation facility and power capacity to get water to its farms. But as provincial governments in the north are scrambling to find adequate water supplies, the rest of China is ready for a bumper crop. The government's price hikes on rice and cotton last year left farmers in higher spirits with more money for labour and investment. In Hubei and Hunan, two major grain and cotton producing provinces in Central China, fertilizers and grain and cotton seeds are in great demand. Statistics from Hunan Province said its farmers had bought a record 337,100 tons of fertilizer in December, 120 per cent more than the year before.
