FBIS4-46215 "jptot023__l94001" JPRS-TOT-94-023-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 13 June 1994 FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 27 May-3 June FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 27 May-3 June FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 27 May-3 June 11111111 11111111 CSO Editor's Note: The FBIS Terrorism Desk welcomes suscribers' comments and suggestions at (703) 733-5512. Highlights and major incidents in this edition of the FBIS Terrorism Report include: Algeria A Belgian database reports rumors in Algeria that terrorists there intend to attack foreign embassies. Armenia On 27 May, a bomb went off in the Yerevan office of an Armeno-American joint tourist company. A second bomb detonated on a train en route between Sadakhlo and Ayrum stations on 2 June. Egypt Interior Minister Hasan al-Alfi announced that "a group belonging to the Muslim Brotherhood" has been involved in financing terrorist groups. Al-Alfi promised to provide more details later. Two men were injured when they accidentally tripped an explosive device that they were examining in a scrap metal shop in Kafr al-Dawwar. Security forces retrieved and detonated two similar devices there. Greece/U.S. A Greek newspaper reports that Greek-U.S. counterterrorism cooperation will be reorganized after the Greek anti-terrorist service complained that the U.S. side was "taking information without providing any." Iran/Iraq Iran's intelligence minister identified two Iraqi intelligence agents who were arrested for importing and placing bombs in Iran. Iran's foreign minister will visit Baghdad in early July, where one of the items on the agenda will be "to agree on a joint policy against Washington." Italy Genoa police are investigating leaflets from the new "Armed Group for the Proletarian Revolution--The New Walter Alasia Column." Japan The Japanese Red Army sent a statement to its supporters in Japan to mark the anniversary of their 1992 attack on Lod Airport. Police raided the Shinjuku office of the right-wing group "Shokonjuku" after one of its members fired a shot in the air near former prime minister Hosokawa on 30 May. Jordan/Palestinians Abu-Nidal's Fatah-The Revolutionary Council announced that Jordan had released some of the group's members charged with assassinating a Jordanian diplomat in Beirut last January. Lebanon Hizballah officials made several threatening statements against Israel during the week of 28 May-3 June, including a statement by Deputy Secretary General Qasim that "The strongest blow ever will be dealt to the enemy soon." Russia A 27 May remote-control carbomb detonated near the presidential motorcade killed the Chechen interior minister and deputy minister and wounded the Chechen president. Sudan A Cairo opposition paper reports that during the first week of March the Sudanese Interior Ministry granted passports to more than 120 refugees from Egypt, Algeria, Tunis, Jordan, Libya and Palestine. Thailand/Iran On 2 June, Thai police arrested Iranian Hossein Shahriari in connection with the aborted truckbomb found in Bangkok last March. Turkey/Serbia An Istanbul paper reports that Turkish army officers have been providing commando training to Muslim youth from Serbia's Sandzak province, where the trainees are to commit bombings and political assassinations.
