FBIS3-15742 "drsov046_m_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 Tajikistan Russian Peacekeeper Shot Dead LD0903111094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0842 GMT 9 Mar 94 LD0903111094 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Galina Gridneva and Aleksandr Kharchenko] [Text] Dushanbe March 9 TASS -- Viktor Repin, a serviceman of the collective peacekeeping force stationed in Tajikistan, fell victim to unidentified gunmen. Private Repin was on duty at a checkpoint of the 191st Motorised Rifle Regiment of the 201st Motorised Rifle Division stationed in Kurgan-Tyube when he was killed at 19.30 on Tuesday by gunmen from a passing car which fled to an unknown destination. An investigation was launched, Colonel-General Boris Pyankov, commander of the collective peacekeeping force in Tajikistan, told ITAR-TASS on Wednesday. Commenting on the tragic incident, the general said the crime was committed by forces that seek to set the peacekeeping force and the people of Tajikistan at loggerheads, to destabilise the situation in the republic and provoke an armed conflict. Way back in autumn and winter, military experts had predicted an increased activity of various terrorist sabotage groups on the republic's territory, pointing out that those groups would srping into still greater activity both inside Tajikistan and on the Tajik-Afghan border as the warm season arrives, Pyankov said. The commander made it clear unambiguously that most resolute measures would be taken to ensure the safety of peacekeepers. Touching upon the operational situation in the border areas of Tajikistan and on the Tajik-Afghan border, Pyankov said it remains complex. Unidentified gunners killed a local resident in Panj district in southern Tajikistan on March 8. The Navrangan post and the 13th picket of the Moskovskiy border-guarding detachment were fired upon on Tuesday afternoon from a mortar and recoilless rifles on afghan territory. The foe's weapon emplacements were later neutralised. There were no losses among Russian border guards.
