FBIS4-17646 "drsov080_e_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-080 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs WEU Head Comments on Meeting WEU Head Comments on Meeting LD2304095994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0849 GMT 23 Apr 94 LD2304095994 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by UKRINFORM correspondent Aleksey Trotsenko -- TASS] [Text] Kiev 23 April TASS -- Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk and Secretary-General of the Western European Union [WEU] Willem van Eekelen who met here on Saturday, discussed collective security in Europe, stability in the region and development of contacts between the Western European Union and Ukraine. Later in the day, Eekelen who visits Ukraine on an official mission at the invitation of the Ukrainian Peace Fund held a news conference where he stressed that he was satisfied with the results of his visit. He noted that meetings with Kravchuk and other Ukrainian leaders as well as broad exchange of opinions gave him a chance to understand better problems facing Ukraine. The secretary-general said that Europe now is not divided into two blocs. All nations should assume obligations to promote peace processes. "I believe that Ukraine, an influential European state, should play an important role in such issues." This is largely explained by its geopolitcal position in Europe. Asked by UKRINFORM whether Ukraine can be at least an associated member of the European or Western European Unions, the guest replied that this process will be gradual. However, the process does not preclude broader cooperation between Ukraine and European structures. This cooperation can develop even now in the form of a political dialogue and consultations, interparliamentary relations as well as in the framework of the Institute on Studies of Political Security which functions at European structures and which can establish fruitful relations with the International Relations Institute at the Kiev University. The secretary-general stressed that the Ukrainian president displayed interest in these forms of cooperation. According to Eekelen, Kravchuk said that such contacts should be actively developed.
