FBIS3-4722 "dreas040_d_94022" FBIS-EAS-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 South Korea Defense Ministry Adds `World Peace' to Objective SK2802081394 Seoul KYONGHYANG SINMUN in Korean 28 Feb 94 p 2 SK2802081394 Seoul KYONGHYANG SINMUN Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [Report by Kim Chong-tu] [Text] The government decided to revise its national defense objective, which is a long-term policy directing national defense, by inserting a section on "contributing to world peace." Until now, the government has only attached importance to contributing to security and peace in Northeast Asia because it regarded North Korea as its main enemy. The government has now expressed the will to also contribute actively to world peace. This is worth paying attention to. A high-ranking Defense Ministry official said on 27 February: "Our national defense goal is to `defend the country from an invasion, guarantee peaceful reunification, and contribute to regional security and peace.' We are actively examining adding a section on contributing to world peace." As soon as such a revision is approved by the president, the Defense Ministry plans to insert this into the national defense white paper sometime this autumn. A Defense Ministry official commented: "The government has started to make great contributions in efforts to achieve world peace, such as dispatching our forces to Somalia upon the request of the United Nations last year. Our national defense goal has to be revised as it is limited to regional security and peace. Inserting a section on contributing to world peace in our national defense goal displays the growth of our national strength. This will also play a positive role in enhancing our international status." This official added: "Our government's military diplomacy will also be greatly enhanced through the revision of our national defense goal. In particular, through good neighborly military relations with other countries, we will work to take the initiative in achieving peace and security on the Korean peninsula."
