FBIS3-11548 "drlat056_g_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 Guatemala New Government Minister Announces Emergency Crime Plan PA2203232894 Guatemala City PRENSA LIBRE in Spanish 22 Mar 94 p 79 PA2203232894 Guatemala City PRENSA LIBRE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Following new Government Minister Danilo Estuardo Parinello Blanco's appointment last night, the government announced an emergency plan to fight crime, the appointment of a serviceman as government vice minister, and the replacement of the director of the National Police. Hector Luna Troccoli, the general secretary of the Presidency, was called upon to swear in new Government Minister Parinello Blanco, who then swore in Colonel Mario Alfredo Merica Gonzalez as the new government vice minister. The government also announced the removal of Mario Rene Cifuentes Echeverria as general director of the National Police. Salvador Figueroa, who took his oath of office before Minister Parinello, replaces Cifuentes. In an interview with reporters, the minister admitted he was lacking experience in public security, but he said he is assuming his post with the greatest commitment to fighting crime. He also noted that there is close friendship between him and the president. Contents of Emergency Plan The emergency plan announced last night comprises six phases, all of which will be implemented in the near future. The first is the Holy Week Plan, which is designed to provide security during Holy Week and Easter festivities in urban areas and along highways. A large number of policemen have been assigned to this task. Another phase is the creation of an Immediate Reaction Team that will include a specialized 300-man mobile force trained in fighting crime head-on. A new investigative and seizure unit also will begin operations. The plan includes cataloguing and repairing internal police radio communications equipment. Meanwhile, Phase 6 deals with police force vehicles, all of which will be dedicated to civil order patrols. The plan, according to Parinello Blanco, will be launched immediately. The Immediate Reaction Team will not be a repressive force, but a preventive force. We will aggressively crack down on crime wherever it occurs.
