FBIS4-15479 "drsov068_a_94029" FBIS-SOV-94-068 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Yeltsin's Envoy Speaks on Russia's Role in Middle East Yeltsin's Envoy Speaks on Russia's Role in Middle East LD0704175894 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1534 GMT 7 Apr 94 LD0704175894 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Yuriy Tyssovskiy] [Text] Moscow April 7 TASS -- "The invigoration of Russia's role in the Middle East and recent intensive contacts by Russian diplomacy in that region of the world are connected with the critical situation into which it has been plunged by the tragic events in Hebron that claimed the lives of dozens of Palestinians," the Russian President's Envoy to the Middle East Viktor Posuvalyuk said. Speaking at a news briefing at the Foreign Ministry Press Centre in Moscow on Thursday, Posuvalyuk said that some Russian and foreign media reports have distorted the reasons for Moscow's growing role in the Middle East. He stressed that its main aim is to save the peace process and facilitate the resumption of the PLO-Israeli and Arab-Israeli talks. The envoy said considerable progress has been reached in this sphere. Palestinians and Israelis resumed talks in Cairo. Work is underway to prepare talks between Israel and Arabs. He denied that the peace process has acquired some element of competitiveness with the United States. The Middle East theme will continue to dominate our foreign policy, he added. He admitted that there have been disruptions in the work of the co-sponsors of the Middle East peace process, but they were not caused by malicious intent of either side. This is a new business on which no textbooks have been written yet. The co-sponsors must act extremely carefully while looking for ways of reaching peace between Arabs and Israelis, he said. Posuvalyuk did not deny that the U.S. and Russia are pursuing their own interests in the region, but added that this should not affect their efforts to help restore peace in the Middle East. He said that Russian and American officials will hold consultations in Washington to attain a greater degree of coordination in their joint work.
