FBIS4-24275 "drafr124_d_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Beira Reportedly `Main Center' of Support for Renamo Beira Reportedly `Main Center' of Support for Renamo MB2806092494 Maputo MEDIAFAX in Portuguese 27 Jun 94 p 1, 2 MB2806092494 Maputo MEDIAFAX Portuguese BFN [Text] Afonso Dhlakama yesterday confirmed his huge popularity in the city of Beira. More than 20,000 people gathered at the city center's CFM [Mozambique Railroad] square to watch and listen. They began gathering at 0600 as scores of people arrived from within and outside the city. The rally was scheduled to begin at 0800, but the Renamo [Mozambique National Resistance] leader only arrived at 1230. Despite the long delay, everybody stayed put. The rally ended at approximately 1500. People nearly invaded the tribune. The atmosphere of popular sympathy for Dhlakama was at one stage opposed by a group of war crippled who showed up, holding placards demanding compensation and the "return" of their limbs. There were instances of violence -- which did not stop the rally -- when Renamo sympathizers surrounded the crippled and took their placards which were then destroyed. Dhlakama's speech was basically a triumphant and emotional one, centering around his own image. The Renamo leader left the rally saying that "I have already won" in Beira. His speech was marked by a lack of any reference to Renamo's program for the future. This was an issue raised at the 22 June meeting with Beira's businessmen. A local businessman told MEDIAFAX that the audience heard Dhlakama reiterating his solidarity with the Mozambican business sector and his commitment to a market economy; that pleased businessmen. The source added, however, that businessmen left the meeting with the impression that Dhlakama has no concrete economic program to present. After yesterday's rally and at journalists' request, Dhlakama gave a news conference during which he reiterated his opposition to war. A journalist asked him why he only asks for money for Renamo and not for reconstructing the country whenever he travels abroad. He replied that "the priority" right now is to establish Renamo among the people and that economic matters are "for the government." He added that he would deal with he country's economic matters once he was in government. All our sources have told us that Dhlakama's visit to Beira proceeded without unrest between Frelimo [Mozambique Liberation Front] and Renamo sympathizers and served to confirm what was expected -- that the country's second largest city is the main center of electoral support for Renamo and for Dhlakama in particular.
