FBIS4-7427 "dreas083_a_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-083 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Camdessus Urges Tokyo, U.S. To Improve Ties Camdessus Urges Tokyo, U.S. To Improve Ties OW2504122394 Tokyo NHK General Television Network in Japanese 003000 GMT 22 Apr 94 OW2504122394 Tokyo NHK General Television Network Japanese BFN [Announcer-read report over video on an interview with Camdessus, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, with unidentified NHK correspondent on 21 April; place not given; from the "NHK News" program -- recorded] [Text] In an NHK interview on 21 April Camdessus, managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, strongly urged Japan and the United States to improve their relations, saying that economic friction between Japan and the United States has negative impact on the world economy. [Begin recording] [Camdessus in English, with Japanese subtitles] The world has nothing to gain from the dispute. We know that the two countries are responsible countries, and they will do everything they can to solve this dispute. [end recording] Camdessus also stressed that the important thing is for Japan and the United States to meet halfway. Moreover, he said the United States needs to exert efforts to reduce its trade deficit, and Japan needs to expand domestic demand and open its markets. While asking Japan to continue to introduce economic stimulus measures, Camdessus said further appreciation of the yen's value will hinder economic recovery in Japan. He pointed out the importance of cooperation among the developed countries for stability of the foreign exchange market. A meeting of finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven [G-7] major industrial nations will be held in Washington on 24 April. It can be said Camdessus, who will act as referee at the meeting, made the recent remark while feeling a strong sense of anxiety that Japan-U.S. economic frictions may weaken the G-7 member nations' conciliatory stand in the fields of foreign exchange policies and economic measures.
