FBIS3-45387 "drchi012_k_94010" FBIS-CHI-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Wife of Dissident Fu Shenqi Freed After 15 Days HK1701064694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 17 Jan 94 p 9 HK1701064694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Daniel Kwan] [Text] The wife of dissident Fu Shenqi, Li Liping, has been allowed to return home after she was detained for 15 days by Shanghai court officials who accused her of "contempt of court". Ms Li, who returned home last week, said she was "forcefully detained" by Huangpu District Court officials after she was told that the court had rejected a lawsuit filed by Fu. "Please help us now. We, the family, can no longer protect itself (against the Government)," she said. "We are driven to the wall. There is no road to heaven and no door into the earth," she pleaded. The ordeal of Fu has caught the attention of the United States Government which has warned that China might lose her low tariffs trade status this June if it fails to make "significant progress" on human rights. Fu was sentenced without trial by Shanghai police last June to three years "reeducation through labour" for instigating four other Shanghai activists to start a hunger strike. Fu has denied he was responsible for the hunger strike and has filed a lawsuit against the labour reform authorities for holding him illegally. The court held its first hearing last November at the Dafeng Farm in Yancheng District where Fu was held. Although Fu was represented by two lawyers, he was not allowed to call witnesses. When Fu's lawyers were notified on December 28 that a verdict had been reached, Ms Li went to the Huangpu District Court. She was told that the judges had decided to uphold the original sentence without giving reasons. Ms Li was so upset she accused the judges of a "miscarriage of justice" and acting "against their conscience". She was manhandled and taken away by court officials who accused her of "contempt of court" and "cursing the people's judges". She was locked in the Huangpu District Detention Centre for 15 days with about 10 "criminals" in a small cell.
