FBIS3-7900 "dreeu040__a94016" FBIS-EEU-94-040-A Document Type:Daily Report 1 March 1994 ANNEX Hungary Boross Comments on Foreign, Domestic Issues AU0103091294 Budapest MTI in English 2230 GMT 28 Feb 94 AU0103091294 Budapest MTI Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Budapest, 28 Feb (MTI) -- "Hungary's prestige abroad has improved over the past four years," Hungarian Prime Minister Peter Boross said on Hungarian Television tonight. The prime minister illustrated his statement, among other things, with the fact that half of foreign direct investment in East Central Europe landed in Hungary, whose inhabitants make up merely 10 percent of the population of the region. Replying to viewers' questions about Hungary's relations with its neighbours, Boross said that the talks on concluding basic treaties with these states should focus on improving the situation and enforcing the rights of ethnic Hungarian minorities rather than declaring the existing borders again. As for minority rights, Boross termed the implementation of the Council of Europe recommendations as a priority. "On this basis, we can negotiate on other issues, too," he said. Asked about Hungary's recent opening towards Serbia, the prime minister said, "there lives a large community of ethnic Hungarians in Vojvodina. We must maintain goodneighbourly ties with Serbia even in the future. We cannot wait until the weapons become silent. If we can pave the way for a peaceful settlement and the solution of disputed issues through negotiations, we must not hesitate," he said. Addressing home policy issues, Boross ruled out the possibility of any coalition to be formed between his party, the Hungarian Democratic Forum, and the largest party of the parliamentary opposition, the Alliance of Free Democrats, after the May elections. "Even a deadlock might emerge after the elections, with no parties being able to form a parliamentary majority. In this hypothetical situation, the best solution would be the calling of new elections," the prime minister said.
