FBIS3-9772 "dreeu061__a94012" FBIS-EEU-94-061-A Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 ANNEX Bulgaria German Defense Minister Meets With Officials AU2903131694 Sofia BTA in English 1249 GMT 29 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2903131694 Sofia BTA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Sofia, March 29 (BTA) -- German Federal Minister of Defence Volker Ruehe, who came on an official three-day visit to Sofia at the head of a German military delegation yesterday, was received by Deputy Prime Minister Evgeni Matinchev and First Deputy Foreign Minister Valentin Gatsinski. Mr. Matinchev familiarized Mr. Ruehe with the political priorities of the Bulgarian Government, the difficulties in implementing the economic reform and Bulgaria's losses ensuing from the Yugo-embargo. Mr. Matinchev emphasized that Bulgaria attaches paramount importance to Germany's support in settling its external debt problem by signing arrangements with the Paris and the London clubs, the Government Press Office said. Mr. Ruehe said that following the processes in Bulgaria, the German Government sees some positive signs. In answer to the Bulgarian Government's request that Germany ratify Bulgaria's Europe Agreement before the summer recess of the Bundestag, Mr. Ruehe said that the agreement had already been endorsed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and was now being considered by the Economic Committee. According to Mr. Ruehe, the German Government will do its best to help Bulgaria resolve its financial problems in the shortest possible time. Today the German military delegation had a meeting with First Deputy Foreign Minister Valentin Gatsinski. They discussed issues concerning Bulgaria's relations with its neighbours and Russia, the situation in the Balkans, the possibilities for strengthening security in the region, and the Partnership for Peace plan. In connection with the inclusion of Turkish troops in the UNPROFOR [UN Protection Forces] forces in Bosnia, Mr. Gatsinski confirmed the Bulgarian position that no Balkan countries should intervene in the Bosnia-Herzegovina conflict in any form.
