FBIS4-56132 "dreeu103__a94014" FBIS-EEU-94-103-A Daily Report 24 May 1994 ANNEX Czech Republic Duray on `Distressing' Government Attitudes Duray on `Distressing' Government Attitudes AU2405165794 Prague CTK in English 1446 GMT 24 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2405165794 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Bratislava May 24 (CTK) -- Egyutteles Party Chairman Miklos Duray said he had discussed the need to solve the bilateral relations of post-communist countries with the government but found its attitude to the problem no less "distressing" than the previous government. "We will make one last attempt in the framework of the coalition," Duray said at a press conference today. If they are unsuccessful the party will probably issue a statement asking the international community to take account of their requests, he said. Egyutteles is the largest party in Slovakia, representing the half a million members of the Hungarian minority. In Duray's view, the stability pact, proposed by French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur, should also resolve the problems of minorities. Bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries should address the problem and legitimate representatives of minorities should participate in the negotiations, he said. The status of minorities should be defined in a definitive bilateral agreement, such as exists between Austria and Italy in the case of the South Tyrolean minority. The Hungarian politicians are requesting that Bratislava grant collective rights to the Hungarian community in Slovakia but the government refuses, preferring that individual rights be accorded to them as to all other citizens. The stability pact envisages the signing of bilateral agreements between countries, but this aspect has been rejected by certain politicians in Slovakia and Romania, Duray said. The pact is an elaboration of the original Balladur plan of last September, and stems from Western fears that the tragedy of Yugoslavia may be repeated in other countries of the former communist bloc. It is designed to prevent international disputes over national minorities and joint borders. European countries begin to debate the adoption of the pact in Paris on Thursday [26 May].
