FBIS4-16669 "drsov075_b_94028" FBIS-SOV-94-075 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Chubays Confident in Privatization Program Chubays Confident in Privatization Program LD1904000694 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1626 GMT 18 Apr 94 LD1904000694 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Sergey Oleynik] [Text] St. Petersburg, 18 Apr -- "It may be confidently asserted today that mass privatization in Russia will be completed by 30 June and, moreover, it will be completed successfully," Anatoliy Chubays, vice-premier and chairman of the State Committee for the Management of State Property [Goskomimushchestvo], said. He was speaking at a news conference which was part of the third annual sitting of the board of governors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development which opened in the Taurida Palace today. The vice-premier cited a number of figures to corroborate his optimistic forecast. According to data from the state property committee, more than 50 percent of the gross national product is currently being produced by the non-state sector. By 1 July, 70 percent of industrial enterprises will be in the hands of private individuals, predominantly in the form of joint stock companies. Forty million Russians have become shareholders in various enterprises as a result of cheque privatization. "We have solved the problem of attracting people to ownership, the second stage of lifting state control over the economy and attracting money to the privatized enterprises is now beginning," Chubays stressed. "The second stage of privatization will begin on 1 July, based on monetary demand. This will enable us to resolve the important issue of the influx of investment into the Russian economy." The chairman of the state property committee also reported that -- by a decision of the Russian Government - he and government Deputy Chairman Aleksandr Zaveryukha had been given responsibility for carrying out the privatization of land. A draft program for this would be drawn up on the basis of experience in Nizhniy Novgorod Oblast and would be presented for consideration by the government of Russia in two months time.
