FBIS4-49224 "drchi086_u_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-086 Daily Report 2 May 1994 PRC MEDIA ON TAIWAN AFFAIRS State To Form Taiwan-Related Contingencies Group State To Form Taiwan-Related Contingencies Group HK0405070094 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO in Chinese 2 May 94 p B2 HK0405070094 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO Chinese BFN [Report: "The Central Authorities Have Decided To Form a Group To Handle Taiwan-Related Contingencies"] [Text] Beijing, 1 May (WEN WEI PO)--An authoritative person revealed here that the central authorities had recently decided to form a Taiwan-related contingencies group, which principal leaders of the mainland Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Strait will be invited to join. With the establishment of this new organization, if contingencies occur in the future, more transparent methods can be adopted to handle them. Reports have indicated that, when talking about the Qiandao Hu incident a few days ago, the high-level central leadership hoped to draw a lesson from handling the Qiandao Hu case. They pointed out that the relevant situation should be promptly reported to the Taiwan Straits Exchange Foundation and that media reports should be provided with more transparency and efficiency. The locality itself lacked experience in handling such incidents, and the Qiandao Hu case was handled inappropriately. In dealing with the case, no consideration was given to its particular nature. Therefore, there is a need to establish a new procedure for promptly reporting contingencies to the higher authorities and immediately releasing information abroad, allowing reporters to provide ongoing coverage to increase the transparency of the procedures for handling these contingencies. High levels of the central leadership invited the relevant experts to assess the negative impact of the Qiandao Hu incident on relations between the two sides. The relevant experts said that the incident will have a short-term negative impact on the two sides' relations, but it will not affect the two sides' relations too much in the long run, because Taiwan's economic development requires assistance from the mainland, and Taiwan businessmen will not easily give up the opportunity to invest on the mainland. The relevant experts said that the Qiandao Hu incident has had such great repercussions in Taiwan due to the involvement of the Taiwan authorities and the Taiwan independence forces.
