FBIS4-59007 "drnes090_v_94003" FBIS-NES-94-090 Daily Report 10 May 1994 Pakistan North Korean Envoy Backs Nuclear Program North Korean Envoy Backs Nuclear Program BK1005084794 Islamabad THE NATION in English 10 May 94 pp 1,9 BK1005084794 Islamabad THE NATION English BFN [Text] Rawalpindi (PPI) -- North Korea supports Pakistan's peaceful nuclear programme, said the North Korean Ambassador to Pakistan Mr Choe Su-il. He was informally talking to the PPI after a function held in connection with annual prize distribution ceremony of Little Angels School, which co-incided with the 17th foundation day of the institution. He said the perceptions of Pakistan and Korea on the nuclear issue were identical as Pakistan had an expressed desire for a nuclear free South Asia, while Korea wanted nuclear free Korean peninsula. Asked would it be justified to pressurize Pakistan on unilaterally signing the nuclear non-proliferation treaty (NPT) he said "it is upto the Government of Pakistan to make a decision in this regard". The Ambassador of the Democratic Republic of Korea (DPRK) earlier in his address said Pakistan and Korea enjoyed excellent traditional relations adding that the ties of friendship had further been cemented by the visit of Pakistan's delegation headed by Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto to Korea. "We highly value the friendship with Pakistan and will do our best too further promote the ties", Choe Su-il maintained. Underlining the importance of education he said it played key role for the nations to achieve the target of progress and prosperity. The Principal of the school Mrs Salma Siddiqui presented a momento from all the `angels' and staff of the school to the chief guest. The DPRK Ambassador presented a traditional Korean painting to Mrs Siddiqui and donated some books for the school library. Students of the school, wearing colourful dresses, presented interesting tableaus and sung amusing songs on the occasion. They also presented plays to entertain the participants of the function. The chief guest distributed prizes among the students who showed remarkable performance in curricular and co-curricular activities during the year.
