FBIS3-38383 "drweu022_n_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Denmark Official Attacks NATO's Partnership for Peace Plan PM0102174094 Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 31 Jan 94 p 4 PM0102174094 Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Language: Danish Article Type:BFN [Report by Erik Bjorn Moller: "Duetoft: NATO Agreements Are Pure Self-Deception"] [Text] The chairman of the Folketing's Foreign Affairs Council, Peter Duetoft, is currently causing great turbulence among the government parties on the question of Denmark's approach to NATO's new agreements with the countries of East Europe, the so-called Partnership for Peace agreements. The agreements do not guarantee that the NATO countries would automatically intervene the moment that Poland, Hungary, or the Czech Republic, for example, became the target of aggression. On the other hand, the agreements do make sure that in a crisis situation the threatened countries have a guarantee of so-called consultation with the 16 NATO countries. "But if this partnership is simply joint maneuvers and a consultation in a crisis -- then it is nothing. If there is no built-in automatic mechanism providing help, it is much easier to say, `Oh well, we need not take this too seriously,'" said Peter Duetoft, who compared the agreements to the 1938 Munich agreement. "I am furious, because I am afraid that things could end in the same way. In 1938 the agreement did not commit anyone to anything. People just wanted to play along with Hitler. My position is that if this does not end in new members for NATO before the next Russian presidential election in two years' time, the agreements are worth nothing, and the same could happen again. And then the agreements would simply be a bluff or a self-deception. It is not realistic that the countries could become NATO members once Zhirinovskiy (infamous and popular Russian right-wing extremist) is president. It would be too late and too great a provocation. And that risk is a very real one," Peter Duetoft said. Radical Liberal foreign policy spokesman Jorgen Estrup thinks it extremely unfortunate that Duetoft is airing his criticism at the present time. "Raising one's voice at the present time is not particularly helpful. Duetoft should have voiced his objections before the government had decided its line. It seems a little easy and cheap to say this now," Estrup said. Defense Minister Hans Haekkerup (Social Democratic Party) did not want to go into Peter Duetoft's motives for voicing his criticism now: "But in my contacts with the countries of East Europe I have come up against a strong desire for a security guarantee now -- but it has of course proved impossible to reach agreement on this. Nevertheless, we have a good compromise. For it is clear that the goal is an expansion of NATO. In addition, the countries are getting an extremely important crisis management tool in the form of consultation with the NATO council."
