FBIS3-22333 "jpten007___94060" JPRS-TEN-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 24 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Government Options for Radioactive Waste Disposal Viewed LD2402165694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1421 GMT 24 Feb 94 LD2402165694 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Veronika Romanenkova] [Text] Moscow Feb 24 TASS--If facilities for recycling liquid radioactive waste is not built in Russia's Far East within the next two months, Russia will possibly have to dump this waste in the Sea of Japan again in order to avert an ecological disaster. A choice whether to build the appropriate recycling facilities estimated at about $10 million or to dump the waste in the sea is to be made by the Russian Government, according to Viktor Kutsenko, head of the Russian Ministry for Environmental Protection and Natural Resources' Department for Ecological Safety. He also said the government was presently considering a request from the ministry to immediately solve the issue of waste disposal. Taking into account the current financial difficulties and therefore uncertainty over the recycling facilities project, Russia did not join the London convention on a complete ban on dumping radioactive and industrial wastes in the seas, which took effect from 21 February. Not acceding to the convention, Russia is losing politically, believes Valeriy Chelyukanov, a senior official at the Russian Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environment Monitoring. However, from the point of view of ecological safety, this decision was fully justified. If something happens to the tanker overloaded with liquid radioactive waste, which is now at moorage in the Zolotoy Rog bay near Vladivostok, the environment and people's health will be heavily damaged. Waste dumping in the sea does not threaten a catastrophe. A high-speed tanker dumps its load in the open sea, and the wastes are instantly dissolved in the water. Taking into consideration the present radioactive contamination of the Sea of Japan, "Russia's supplement" will be negligible and not cause any damage for the environment.
