FBIS4-10725 "drlat074_f_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-074 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 El Salvador FMLN Coordinator on U.S. Request To Withhold Aid FMLN Coordinator on U.S. Request To Withhold Aid PA1604123394 San Salvador Canal Doce Television in Spanish 0300 GMT 16 Apr 94 PA1604123394 San Salvador Canal Doce Television Spanish BFN [From the "Up to Date" newscast] [Text] Shafiq Handal, general coordinator of the FMLN [Farabundo Marti National Liberation Movement], has termed as logical a U.S. congressmen's request that President Bill Clinton withhold economic aid from El Salvador as long as the Salvadoran Government does not progress in its democratic reforms. Handal has said there is international frustration over both the government's failure to comply with certain peace agreements and irregularities observed in past elections. Handal said the congressman's request to President Clinton shows the international community's interest in the establishment of a democratic system in the country based on the peace agreements. [Begin Handal recording] Just as the congressman says, there is frustration over the progress of democracy in El Salvador. I think the congressman is right and is defend the right of the people who were unable to vote. [end recording] The congressman has said that progress with democratic reform is not in sight, because the government is unconcerned with fulfilling the Chapultepec Agreements. [Begin Handal recording] I think it will be impossible to carry out the necessary reforms before 24 April so that the electoral system may become democratic. A radical, in-depth change in the electoral system is necessary. [end recording] At the Civic Plaza on 15 April, Handal participated in the closure of the political campaign prior to the 24 April runoff elections. The activity was marred somewhat when an alleged Arena [Nationalist Republican Alliance] activist was caught trying to create disturbances. Several FMLN activists captured and beat him and finally handed him over to ONUSAL [UN Mission to El Salvador].
