FBIS3-28076 "dreas023_d_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 South Korea Ambassador to U.S. Denies Position Differences SK0302090194 Seoul YONHAP in English 0848 GMT 3 Feb 94 SK0302090194 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, Feb. 3 (YONHAP) -- South Korean Ambassador to the United States Han Sung-su said on Thursday there is no difference between Seoul and Washington's positions on the North Korean nuclear problem. Han, who is attending the annual conference of Korean ambassadors and envoys here, said the two nations' relationship is strong enough to weather any attempt to destroy it. He expected that the North Korean nuclear problem will be discussed by the United Nations Security Council after March 21. If the Board of Governors' meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), slated for March 21, comes to the conclusion that the continuity of North Korea's nuclear safeguards can no longer be assured, the issue will have to be discussed by the U.N. Security Council, he said. "Then, the council will discuss everything about the (North Korean nuclear) problem including sanctions against North Korea," he said. He urged Pyongyang to make a rational judgement, saying that the North Koreans themselves know very well that the issue will be transferred to the U.N. Security Council if the IAEA Board of Governors' meeting fails to solve the problem. He also confirmed that there are no problems with South Korean security. He denied U.S. reports that tension on the Korean peninsula is mounting, saying that South Korea's security has not deteriorated and is in fact no different from the past. Meanwhile, discussions on deployment of U.S. Patriot missiles in South Korea are under way between the South Korean and U.S. Governments, and the two have agreed that deployment of the anti-missile missiles should not affect the IAEA-North Korean negotiations, Han said. The reason why the IAEA and North Korea cannot narrow their differences is not the possibility that Patriot missiles will be deployed in South Korea, but that they differ on technical problems related to nuclear inspections, he added.
