FBIS3-26799 "drchi031_v_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 TAIWAN President Li Arrives in Thailand for 3-Day Visit OW1402143994 Taipei CNA in English 1403 GMT 14 Feb 94 OW1402143994 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By F. C. Kuo and Sofia Wu] [Text] Phuket, Thailand, Feb. 14 (CNA) -- Republic of China [ROC] President Li Teng-hui Monday [14 February] arrived in Phuket, a scenic island off the southern Thai coast, for a three-day unofficial visit [words indistinct] several Thai officials, including the deputy secretary-general of the Thai Prime Minister Office, and ROC representative in Thailand Edmund Y. Liu, greeted Li at the Phuket Airport. Thailand is the last leg of Li's three-country tour of Southeast Asia which began last Wednesday and has already taken Li to the Philippines and Indonesia. Li [words indistinct] member entourage are staying at the Pacific Thailand Club Hotel. While here, Li will play golf with ranking Thai officials and business leaders, including Deputy Prime Minister Amnuai Wirawan. He may also discuss with Thai officials possible economic and technological cooperation between the two countries. Li is also expected to meet with Thai Prime Minister Chuan Likphai when he makes a stopover in Bangkok on his way home Wednesday. Strong pressure from Beijing has, however, made it uncertain whether the planned Li-Chuan meeting will be held. Despite that absence of diplomatic ties, the ROC and Thailand have maintained close economic relations. Taiwan businessmen have invested more than US$4.5 billion in Thailand during the past few years, making the ROC the fourth largest foreign investor in the Southeast Asian nation after Japan, Hong Kong and the United States. Current [words indistinct] some 30,000 Thais are legally employed in Taiwan and a similar number are working illegally there. Tourist arrivals from Taiwan reach more than [number indistinct] annually. Taiwan is negotiating an investment guarantee agreement and an accord to avoid double taxation with the Thai Government. It is also urging Thailand's Economics Ministry to set up a special division to better serve Taiwan investors.
