FBIS3-55736 "drsov007_b_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues `Confidential Sources' Say Yeltsin Visits Grachev PM1101112194 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA in Russian 11 Jan 94 p 2 PM1101112194 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN ["Own Information" report carried as part of "Military Review" feature under the general heading "Everything Changes in the Army. Except the Defense Minister's Birthday": "It Isn't Every Minister That the President Visits Bearing Flowers"] [Text] According to information from confidential sources, Pavel Grachev received a visit 1 January from Boris Yeltsin, who congratulated him on his 46th birthday that day. The unofficial meeting between the president and the defense minister at the festive table lasted over two hours, after which, according to an eyewitness, both men went out into the street in noticeably good spirits. In the opinion of observers, the fact that the president visited the defense minister on his birthday demonstrates B. Yeltsin's sympathies for the military department and its leader. The visit was all the more important for Grachev since before this event, according to reports in some of the mass media, he had tried to obtain an audience with the president to discuss the results of the elections and the results of the year in the Russian Federation Armed Forces, but the president did not have the time for a meeting. That there has been some change in the cool attitude of the president's structures and B. Yeltsin himself toward the Defense Ministry and toward P. Grachev since the 3-4 October events is also indicated by comments from Dmitriy Volkogonov, the Russian Federation president's adviser on military questions. On B. Yeltsin's behalf he characterized the Russian Federation Defense Ministry's activity as "normal." The Russian president's adviser called the reorganization of the Defense Ministry and the General Staff at the present time dangerous because society and the Army are not ready for that just now, although he did not rule out such a possibility in the next few years.
