FBIS4-780 "drafr073_c_94023" FBIS-AFR-94-073 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC Opts Not To Deploy MK Troops in Natal ANC Opts Not To Deploy MK Troops in Natal MB1404123094 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English 14 Apr 94 p 2 MB1404123094 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY English BFN [Report by Sello Motlhabakwe] [Text] The ANC's armed wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe [Spear of the Nation; MK], would not be deployed in any capacity in Natal should guerrilla activity arise in the province in the post-election period, MK commissar Andrew Masondo said yesterday. He said the issue of deploying counter-insurgency forces in the province would have to be dealt with by the new Parliament, which would be in command of the integrated armed force. The ANC's force would not be in existence after the current process of integration into a new defence force, Masondo said. Camps to which MK members were reporting in the run-up to amalgation into the new force had a strict code of conduct designed to avoid a possible repeat of the problems encountered with the National Peacekeeping Force in Bloemfontein, he said. Men and women at assembly points would undergo a three- to six-month training period in preparation for their non-partisan role in the SA National Defence Force. Masondo said all the armed forces in the country would have to undergo an orientation period to create a single, unified army. Training would ensure and maintain professional standards so that the army could meet national and international obligations. The top command would be determined by the new president, he said. He said 16,000 MK troops would assemble at various assembly points identified in conjuction with the present SA Defence Force [SADF] and the Joint Military Co-ordinating Council. An advance party of 400 cadres were already in the camps preparing to receive 8,000 others who would report next week. The assembly points would also be administered by MK commanders. Recruits were currently assembling at Walmansthal north of Pretoria, Bourke's Luck in the eastern Transvaal and Hoedspruit in the western Transvaal. MK military hardware stored in the neighbouring states would be brought home and would be added to the national arms inventory, he said. This would be done according to a formula drawn up in discussions with the SADF. Joint security mechanisms had been agreed on by the Joint Military Co-ordinating Council, Masondo said.
