FBIS4-22333 "jpusr035___94038" FBIS-USR-94-035 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 11 March 1994 RUSSIA ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS Financial Constraints Plaguing Agriculture Financial Constraints Plaguing Agriculture Impact of Urban-Rural Financial Imbalance 944K0947C Moscow ZEMLYA I LYUDI in Russian No 10, 11 Mar 94 p 1 944K0947C Moscow ZEMLYA I LYUDI Russian CSO [Article by L. Semiletov, deputy chief of administration for price policy of the Ministry of Agricultural Production of the Russian Federation: "Held Captive By the Financial Deficit"] [Text] The opinion persists that the large amounts of subsidies and compensation being issued by the state to agricultural producers in our country are being used ineffectively. Is this actually the case? Let us first compare the budgetary funds being made available to agricultural producers both here and abroad. Last year these payments, per hectare of sowing area in Russia, amounted to 10,000 rubles, or less than 10 dollars, and in the U.S.A. -- more than 90 dollars and almost the same amount in Canada. As you can see, support for the agrarian sector in our country is negligible compared to that for states with developed market economies. It does not cover even a portion of the tremendous increase in the prices for resources, the result of severe inflation, excessive taxes and high credit rates. Owing to the severe financial situation, the farms are no longer able to maintain the production potential created earlier. Last year the withdrawal of fixed capital in agriculture exceeded by fourfold the placing of such fixed capital in operation. The workload borne by existing equipment increased greatly and this is bringing about an increase in the periods of time required for carrying out agricultural operations and also shortfalls in the production of goods. Moreover, a considerable decline in investments is posing the threat of a drastic drop in productivity in field crop husbandry and, in the final analysis, in livestock husbandry operations. Compared to 1991, when in order to procure one tractor and depending upon the machine model, the farms had to sell from 29 to 43 tonnes of grain, today the figure is almost twice as much. And in order to purchase one tonne of mineral fertilizer, today they must sell 3-22 times more agricultural products, depending upon the type of product involved. Hence, earnings in agriculture are considerably lower than that in other branches. Taking into account the non-equivalent exchange of products between cities and the countryside and the severe financial situation, importance is attached to increasing financial assistace for the agrarian sector. In our opinion, it must be directed primarily towards adapting the agricultural producers to market conditions, maintaining equivalence in inter-branch exchange, protecting peasants from competition by foreign entrepreneurs and towards the development of a market infrastructure and implementing measures aimed at demonopolization in the agrarian sphere. Moreover, the state must present the farms with the required guarantees with regard to the sale of their products. They must signify that if producers, for one reason or another, are unable to sell their products through direct market channels, the state will procure them at firm prices declared in advance. Such a system will prompt the farms to develop the production of the needed agricultural goods.
