FBIS4-65347 "drweu095_h_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-095 Daily Report 16 May 1994 GERMANY Bundestag Official Urges Reconsidering Aid to Russia Bundestag Official Urges Reconsidering Aid to Russia AU1605154694 Berlin DIE WELT in German 16 May 94 p 3 AU1605154694 Berlin DIE WELT German BFN [Report by Karl-Ludwig Guensche: "Wanted: A Place for Russia in Europe"] [Text] Bonn -- Karl Lamers, the Christian Democratic Union/Christian Social Union [CDU/CSU] Bundestag group's foreign policy expert, has spoken out for reconsidering the West's support for Russia. In a paper entitled "How To Help Russia? -- Ways and Limitations of Supporting the Reform Process," he says that Russia's preconditions for transferring to a democratic constitutional state and a market economy have "clearly deteriorated as a result of the parliamentary elections and the continuing economic crisis." Millions of people in Russia today associate reform policy with instability, supply shortages, unemployment, high crime rates, a declining international reputation, and the loss of Russia's superpower status. Europe, and Germany in particular, is especially interested in a stable, economically sound, and predictable neighbor to the east. Help for Russia, therefore, means "an active security and peace policy." Yet, Western support can only be effective if Russia itself does everything it can to promote the reform process, Lamers emphasized. "The country does not need fewer, but more reforms." The West must be prepared to be Russia's partner and to install a network of friendly cooperation between the European Union, NATO, and Russia. But it must also be prepared to show Russia its place. "Claims to special rights and looking for special ways do not help Russia." Although Russia must find a place in Europe that is appropriate to its size, "being part of the new Europe also means giving up its superior role, not insisting on special rights vis-a-vis its neighbors." Unless Russia answers the central question as to whether it wants to be a "national state or an empire," as long as it considers its role of world power more important than establishing an efficient administration, a modern economy, and a social security system, the country will not come to rest, the CDU/CSU expert warns. That is why further financial aid to Russia -- especially by the IMF -- should not be granted as "an advance signal of trust, but only as an acknowledgment of reforms effected so far." Otherwise, this would mean awarding premiums for "wrong decisions instead of reforms."
