FBIS3-22306 "jpten007___94033" JPRS-TEN-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 3 March 1994 EAST ASIA TAIWAN Economic Ministry, Danish Environmental Company Sign Accord OW0303085494 Taipei CNA in English 0703 GMT 3 Mar 94 OW0303085494 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Danielle Yang] [Text] Taipei, Mar 3 (CNA) -- The Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA) formed a strategic industrial alliance with a Danish environmental technology firm Thursday [3 March]. Under the pact, both sides will cooperate on environmental protection technology to produce high value-added products. Vice Economics Minister Yang Shih-chien, who signed the pact with Voluno Ecology Systems Chairman S. Costa in Taipei, said the deal is the 12th of its kind since the MOEA embarked on the mission to form strategic alliances with foreign enterprises. The Voluno group is a world-renowned multinational enterprise which has been an environmental technology leader for more than 60 years. The Danish firm has built 170 incinerators in 18 countries, including the United States, Japan, and Germany. Yang said at the signing ceremony that Voluno will set up Asia-Pacific business and manufacturing centers in Taiwan and establish long-term cooperative ties with local companies and investment consortia. He also stressed that through the alliance, Taiwan will be able to upgrade its industrial design and production ability as well as boost research and development. Yang said Voluno's willingness to enter into the venture reflects its confidence in Taiwan's potential to become a Asia-Pacific business hub. The Voluno pact brought the number of foreign enterprises which have signed strategic alliances with Taiwan to twelve. Strategic alliances have been signed with AT&T, GE, General Motors, Motorola, HMM [expansion unknown], Westinghouse, and Carpenter Technology Corp. of the United States, Holland's Philips, ABB [expansion unknown] of Sweden, CSR [expansion unknown] of Australia, and Cida-Geigy Ltd. of Switzerland.
