FBIS4-14593 "drsov063_a_94027" FBIS-SOV-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Diplomat Says No Threat Posed To Poland Diplomat Says No Threat Posed To Poland LD3103200994 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1436 GMT 31 Mar 94 LD3103200994 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: By correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboynikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy, and others] [Text] Russia does not pose any potential threat to Poland. On the contrary, it would like "to give a hand of friendship and cooperation to Warsaw," a high ranking Russian diplomat in charge for relations with Poland declared in his interview with Interfax. He expressed regret due to the fact that over the last period of time the Polish press "depicts modern Russia and its future in rather dark shades." "This places its own imprint on the perception of our country on the part of rank-and-file Poles and of many political functionaries. There is practically no reliable information from Russian in Poland," said the diplomat. In his words, there "are several actual but not imaginary problems in the Russian-Polish relations." We must bring order into the system of mutual accounts between two countries, to solve the problem of debts, and to coordinate everything what concerns the joint project providing for the construction of Russian gas pipelines on Poland's territory. This would help to increase Russian natural gas shipments both to Poland and to the Western European countries," said the diplomat. In his opinion, "the visit of a parliamentary delegation headed by Marshall (the lower chamber speaker -- Interfax) of the Polish Seimas Yosef Oleksa to Moscow will greatly promote to "the warming of Russian-Polish relations." On Wednesday Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin received the Polish parliamentarians at their request. On Thursday they are to hold "intensive contacts" in the State Duma's committees and commissions. They are supposed to meet with the speakers of the Federal Assembly's chambers, Ivan Rybkin and Vladimir Shumeyko. It is not ruled out that on Friday Russian President Boris Yeltsin will receive the Polish delegation.
