FBIS4-41632 "drsov123_f_94017" FBIS-SOV-94-123 Daily Report 26 Jun 1994 National Affairs Kravchuk: Supreme Council Cannot Limit President's Powers Kravchuk: Supreme Council Cannot Limit President's Powers LD2606140594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1344 GMT 26 Jun 94 LD2606140594 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondents Viktor Demidenko and Mikhail Melnik] [Text] Kiev 26 June TASS -- "Ukraine's Supreme Soviet cannot limit the head of state's powers after presidential elections" unless the latter agrees to it, Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk told TASS on Sunday [26 June]. "In case the parliament takes this path, it should first ask for the people's approval," he added. If in three months the parliament "raises a question about a referendum, this may spell the termination of its activities, since people will not stand any new elections or referendums," the president believes. Kravchuk is confident that lawmakers will not choose to take this move. In his opinion, if the parliament tries to restrict the president's powers without his agreement, this will lead to confrontation entailing grave consequences. However, Kravchuk fears that left-wing lawmakers may revise the course approved by the 1991 people's vote and currently pursued by Ukraine. "This may cause confrontation," he said. The president is strongly convinced the people advocates its state's independence and such values as personal freedom, family and confidence in the future. If a person is not economically free to choose the form of ownership, or areas for applying his or her intellectual and professional potentials, any talk about rights and liberties will be out of place. For these reasons, the president believes one should not trifle with such things as politics, property, social security and armed forces. We should proceed along the road we have chosen, Kravchuk said. We should improve our political line and adjust it, if appropriate, that is to revise our tactics rather than strategy. Otherwise, we will face confrontation and war, the president emphasised in conclusion.
