FBIS3-13671 "drnes053_m_94001" FBIS-NES-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 JORDAN Rabin's Statements in U.S., Status of Talks Viewed JN1703134394 Amman SAWT AL-SHA'B in Arabic 17 Mar 94 pp 1, 16 JN1703134394 Amman SAWT AL-SHA'B Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Rabin Will Not Bargain on Israel's Security!!!"] [Text] This large-scale diplomatic and political activity on Israel's part toward the United States and its allies may prevent the UN Security Council from adopting a just resolution on the massacre at holy al-Ibrahimi Mosque. Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin's visit to Washington and his meetings with President Clinton and his staff are an escalation of this Israeli activity. This is especially so since Rabin's visit coincides with the date set by the Security Council to adopt its resolution on the massacre at the holy al-Ibrahimi Mosque. Yitzhaq Rabin is depending totally on the U.S. to prevent the UN Security Council from adopting a decisive resolution that secures protection for the Palestinian people from the Zionist settlers and the oppression of the Israeli occupation soldiers. It is well known that the U.S. role to date has prevented the Security Council from adopting such a resolution. What is worse is that Yitzhaq Rabin declared in Washington that he is not willing to commit himself to any UN resolution that contradicts Israel's intentions. He rejects sending a UN peace-keeping force to the occupied Palestinian territories. He also refuses to evacuate the settlements and disarm the settlers. What is even worse is Rabin's statement that Israel will not bargain over its security!!! Meanwhile, the security of the Palestinian people, including women, children, and the elderly, is not important to Rabin and his government. Yitzhaq Rabin is turning the equation upside down. He is demanding security for the Israelis and the terrorist settlers instead of committing himself to protecting the Palestinian people under the wicked Israeli occupation. The U.S. Administration, in the first place, and the big influential countries in the UN Security Council, in the second place, should adopt a just resolution that forces Israel to abandon its intransigence, accept the formation of an international force to protect the Palestinian people, and agree to evacuate the settlements and disarm the settlers. Otherwise, the peace process, which these countries are concerned about, will come to a crossroads with no clear directions or become permanently paralyzed. The peace desired by the Palestinians and the Arabs is not just any kind of peace. A peace that is established at the expense of the Palestinian people, who are facing campaigns of containment and annihilation, is no peace at all.
