FBIS4-40055 "drsov114_m_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-114 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 Tajikistan Former Premier Abdullajanov Facing Corruption Charges Former Premier Abdullajanov Facing Corruption Charges LD1306165994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1506 GMT 13 Jun 94 LD1306165994 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Galina Gridneva] [Text] Dushanbe 13 June TASS -- The "SADO-I MARDUM" daily, an official newspaper of the Tajik parliament, has published a sensational exposure of "anti-popular and anti-state activities" of the Former Tajik Premier Abdumalik Abdullajanov, who is now Tajik ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary to the Russian Federation. The article, which takes up two pages and a half, includes accusations against Abdullajanov for breaking down the country's economy, selling out national economy, scheming with hard currency for the sake of personal wealth and other crimes against Tajik people. Moreover, the newspaper incriminates Abdullajanov - who was Tajik premier in 1992-93 and who was dismissed at a session of Tajik Parliament in December 1993, according to the official statement, "because he was appointed ambassador to the Russian Federation" -- political and economic support of the armed opposition. [passage as received] The daily clearly suggests that Abdullajanov was mixed up in establishing economic blockade in the southern regions of the Republic during the armed stand-off between the opposition and those who supported restoration of the constitutional order. The newspaper comes to a significant conclusion: The former prime minister is to blame for the troubles of the Tajik people and must be punished along with the former opposition leaders. It is not known as yet, how the Dushanbe officialdom responds to the publication. According to a well-informed source inside the Tajik leadership, the response is sure to come. One thing is certain: competent bodies will check on the published facts most carefully, he added. According to independent sources in Dushanbe, the article was published under the pressure from certain Tajik political forces (Abdullajanov has many foes in Tajikistan). Despite his resignation, Abdullajanov is one of Tajikistan's prominent politicians and influential reformers; he is regarded in the Russian corridors of power and in Western business circles. Moreover, it is persistently rumoured here that he is likely to run for president in accordance with a new Tajik draft Constitution. Though the presidential rule in the republic has to be approved at the forthcoming referendum scheduled for the end of this summer, unofficial campaign for the highest governmental position has begun in point of fact.
