FBIS3-37311 "drsov032_s_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 Georgia Shevardnadze Seeks Peacekeeping Forces in Abkhazia LD1502185894 Tbilisi First Program Television Network in Georgian 1700 GMT 15 Feb 94 LD1502185894 Tbilisi First Program Television Network Language: Georgian Article Type:BFN ["Excerpt" from interview with Georgian Head of State Eduard Shevardnadze by Russian Independent TV Company correspondent Nona Andiashvili in Tbilisi on 15 February, conducted in Russian -- recorded] [Text] [Andiashvili] The Georgian Government issued a statement in the wake of the events which started on 7 February in Abkhazia. The statement says that although the Georgian government supports a peaceful settlement of the conflict, it will take all necessary measures to protect the Georgian population on the territory occupied by the Abkhaz separatists. Does this mean that the Georgian side is ready to start hostilities against Abkhazia? [Shevardnadze] First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to say that we expected a more substantive reaction from the relevant Russian authorities, which were well informed about this tragedy. There has not been a single statement, not a single protest, not a single address condemning this. I do not want Russia's television representatives to feel offended, but the information which was sent to them through official channels was not conveyed to the public. I think that in this way it will be difficult for us to join efforts to solve the conflict peacefully. It is especially upsetting that all these dramatic events happened after a very successful visit to Georgia by Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin. As for the part of the Georgian government's statement which you mentioned, I think that if we fail to deploy peacekeeping forces in the near future -- it does not matter how it happens and what proportions it takes -- this will happen spontaneously. We are finding it extremely difficult to restrain people, tens of thousands of people [words indistinct], a great number of weapons on the border in Zugdidi rayon and in other rayons adjacent to Abkhazia. We are told openly: If you are not able to defend us, we will try to determine our fate ourselves. I am afraid that everything will happen spontaneously and then it will be too late to speak about a peaceful settlement [words indistinct]]. We are naturally pinning high hopes on a Security Council resolution. A Security Council meeting will probably be held after the 20th. As regards the Security Council, Russia has, I would say, a sensible position there. In principle, we determined our (?common) attitude during the visit to Tbilisi by Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin. If this issue [sending peacekeepers to Georgia] is decided, then hope for a peaceful settlement remains.
