FBIS3-11862 "drlat059_a_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 Caribbean Cuba OAS Election `Engulfed' in `Difficulty' FL2603151394 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 1255 GMT 26 Mar 94 FL2603151394 Havana Radio Rebelde Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN ["Our Opinion" Commentary by Orlando Contreras] [Text] Elections will be held in Washington tomorrow, 27 March, to choose a new OAS secretary general to replace Brazil's Joao Baena Soares, undoubtedly one of the most outstanding secretaries general of the OAS, an organization which has lost much of its prestige. The candidates are current Colombian President Cesar Gaviria, who will conclude his presidential term by the middle of the year, and Bernd Niehaus, foreign minister of the outgoing Costa Rican Government. Over the past few decades, the OAS has stood on the sidelines of the main Latin American and Caribbean problems. It has been used as an instrument of the successive U.S. Administrations against Cuba, and after a brief period when it seemed to have regained the path of respect for self-determination and for the legitimate governments of each nation, it yielded again to U.S. pressure and aligned itself with the one-sided idea of presuming the traditional representative democracy to be the sole legal system. However, OAS Secretary General Joao Baena Soares in public remarks has reaffirmed that Cuba should not be absent from this organization. The elections that will be held tomorrow have prompted the emergence of contradictions within the organization. Costa Rica, which has maintained a policy too tied to Washington in the recent past, has had some disputes with the United States over the issue of expropriations and over the seizure of a U.S. fishing boat within Costa Rican jurisdictional waters. Now it is directly accusing Washington of pressuring countries which have promised to support Niehaus. Niehaus himself had said that it is a battle of a group of small countries against the large and strong countries. He recalled -- quoting his words -- that if we are to say that the OAS's task is to defend democracy, how can it be that its secretary general is elected in an antidemocratic manner, disregarding the free will of the majority, using the mechanism of pressure? U.S. pressure was precisely what led the OAS to a total loss of credibility. Absent from the main conflicts on the continent, because of U.S. pressure, it is no surprise to anyone that the OAS today is engulfed in this type of difficulty when it is choosing a new secretary general, giving heed to denunciations made by Niehaus, who had also supported the U.S. policy of exclusion and alignment.
