FBIS3-1525 "drafr062_a_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-062 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Central African Republic Patasse Signs Business Law Treaty With Senegal AB3003174594 Bangui Radiodiffusion-Television Centrafricaine Radio in French 1800 GMT 28 Mar 94 AB3003174594 Bangui Radiodiffusion-Television Centrafricaine Radio Language: French Article Type:BFN [Summary From Poor Reception] "President Felix Ange-Patasse this morning signed a treaty on the harmonization of business law in Africa." Senegal was represented by "Justice Minister Jacques Baudin, who is Senegalese President Abdou Diouf's special envoy. The ceremony took place at the Renaissance Palace in the presence of Prime Minister Jean-Luc Mandaba, government officials, and the head of state's adviser. The signing of this treaty took place a few hours after the head of state received the Senegalese minister. On this occasion, President Felix Ange-Patasse made a statement in which he touched on the importance of true African integration." [Begin Patasse recording] "Mr. Minister and special envoy from my brother, President Abdou Diouf, we receive you here today joyfully to sign this treaty on the harmonization of business law in Africa. We are now signing this treaty, because the Central African Republic was absent at the CFA franc zone talks held on the sidelines of the francophone summit in Mauritius. During our visit. During our visit to Dakar, President Abdou Diouf asked me if he could send the minister of justice" to sign this treaty, which is one of the elements which can promote cooperation among African countries. "We have signed this treaty because we believe in the real integration of Africa." There are clauses that must disappear because businessmen cannot settle in this or that country because their respective laws are not the same or because these laws portray nationalistic feelings. "African countries are faced with difficulties because they do not have complementary legislation." The moment has come for Africans to unite. Europe is united. The United States is united. Asia is united. But Africa is always late. Instead of giving priority to consultations and dialogue for a real takeoff, we are groping around. [end recording]
