FBIS3-35313 "drnes036_s_94009" FBIS-NES-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 SOUTH ASIA Iran Tehran Views U.S.-North Korean-IAEA Relations NC2202094794 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0445 GMT 22 Feb 94 NC2202094794 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Language: Persian Article Type:BFN [Commentary by News Research and Commentaries Group] [Text] North Korea has taken new steps on the eve of the assembly of the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA] heads in Vienna. On Monday [21 February] Pyongyang put forth new conditions for the inspection of its nuclear installations by the IAEA. Among these conditions is the date for this inspection. North Korea has made the date of the inspection of its nuclear installations contingent on the progress in the U.S.-North Korean talks, which are to be held in New York. In North Korea's opinion, the precise date of the inspection should be in coordination with the date that the United States has set for its other decisions on North Korea. Probably, Pyongyang wants all the aspects of the issue to be clarified before the inspection of its nuclear installations by the IAEA. It seems that what North Korea means by U.S. decisions is the cancellation of the joint military maneuvers by the United States and South Korea and U.S. economic assistance to North Korea. At the same time, Pyongyang has announced that it has agreed only to a limited inspection of its nuclear installations and has threatened that if it is pressured to expand this inspection it will cancel its agreement with the IAEA. On the basis of this agreement, North Korea will allow the IAEA to inspect only seven of its nine nuclear bases. North Korea's objective behind this threat is to gain an IAEA guarantee from the very start that it will not apply pressure about the other two nuclear sites. The developments in the Korean peninsula will be determined by the IAEA's reply to North Korea. Political analysts believe Pyongyang's new actions are a result of the pressure that the United States has placed on it through threats. Negative action leads to negative reaction, and as long as the United States ignores North Korea's wishes and intends to pressure that country, it will have no alternative but to retaliate. At any rate, if the United States and the IAEA ignore North Korea's recent threat, the talks may reach an impasse. Moreover, Pyongyang will prevent an inspection by the IAEA. Thus, the crisis in the Korean peninsula will become more complicated and finding a solution will become more difficult.
