FBIS3-51295 "drlat011_c_94016" FBIS-LAT-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 MEXICO Chiapas Crisis Salinas Submits Amnesty Bill To Congress PA1601175894 Mexico City XEW Television Network in Spanish 1703 GMT 16 Jan 94 PA1601175894 Mexico City XEW Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN ["Special message" by President Carlos Salinas de Gortari in Mexico City -- live] [Text] Mexicans: In view of recent developments in Chiapas State, the nation remains fully committed to peace. Social organizations, religious associations, the news media, the country's political forces, and all citizens are decidedly against violence. A defined and clear sentiment exists in favor of a solution that saves lives and ensures the path of justice. The efficient action by the Mexican Army and the decision for a unilateral cease-fire have increased tranquillity in the affected areas of Chiapas and in the country. The government has taken the path of conciliation and union among Mexicans so this painful situation will not be repeated. For that reason, I have decided to ask the Permanent Committee of the National Congress to immediately convoke a extraordinary period of sessions. I will submit a bill to grant a general amnesty to everyone who participated in the violence that has affected several towns in Chiapas from 1 January to 1100 [1700 GMT] today, 16 January. Any criminal action against towns or the Mexican Army after that time will not receive the benefit of amnesty. With this decision, the Mexican state is making it clear that it seeks peace. Those who have entered into a confrontation with the state no longer have any pretext for refusing to peacefully rejoin their communities and participate in the tasks of meeting needs and overcoming vices through solidarity. In the days ahead, I will implement an overall justice program in the upper and jungle areas of Chiapas. With this program the federal government will join the decisions and work by all Chiapas residents without exception. I will continue to act in favor of the security, tranquillity, and greater justice Chiapas State needs. I will continue asking for cooperation from all in these decisions and for the indispensable participation of Chiapas residents in the responsible search for peace and justice. In this way Congress will play the key role that befits it to continue advancing toward the restoral of peace in that area of Chiapas. Fellow countrymen, the president continues making all decisions available to him to protect the people, avoid violence, and find justice. With this amnesty law initiative and the additional effort for justice, we will strengthen the harmony of the republic and the unity of the nation. Thank you.
