FBIS3-47186 "dreas006__a94005" FBIS-EAS-94-006-A Document Type:Daily Report 10 January 1994 ANNEX Japan Status of Insurance Talks With U.S. Noted OW1001005094 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 9 Jan 94 Morning Edition p 3--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1001005094 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] It seems that insurance services negotiations at the Japan-U.S. framework trade talks, which will be held on 10 and 11 January in Washington, will "soon come to a stage of seeking compromises" (according to a senior Finance Ministry official). There is not much time left for the negotiators because Japan-U.S. summit talks, which will complete the negotiations, will be held in less than one month. However, Japan's policy is to "make no concessions at all" in accepting U.S. demands, which may be linked to setting numerical standards or intervening in private companies' business affairs. Therefore, it seems that representatives of both countries will continue to have rough sailing at the negotiations. The United States is calling for the following five points: 1) rectify Japan's customary practice of doing business among companies related to each other through corporate affiliation; 2) further liberalization of government-related insurance services to foreign companies; 3) securing transparency of government procedures for issuance of approvals or licenses for goods; 4) introduction of a broker system; and 5) shelving liberalization of the third sector [daisan bunya]. In addition, the United States also wants to adopt foreign insurance companies' rate of market share in Japan as a standard to measure the degree of market liberalization and to use such a standard in future negotiations. Among other things, Japan is asking the United States to unify supervisory regulations, which vary from state to state. The Finance Ministry, which is in charge of promoting negotiations in the area of insurance services, thinks that many U.S. requests are consequences of insufficient understanding regarding insurance services because the United States Trade Representative, which represents the United States at the negotiations, is not an organization that is responsible for supervising insurance companies.
