FBIS4-19542 "drweu076_i_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-076 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 FRANCE Criticizes Government, Other Ministers Criticizes Government, Other Ministers BR1904150694 Paris LE QUOTIDIEN DE PARIS in French 19 Apr 94 p 3 BR1904150694 Paris LE QUOTIDIEN DE PARIS French BFN [Report by Eric Zemmour: "Pasqua, the Reasons for His Anger"] [Excerpt] The conflict between the interior minister and the justice minister is a classic of French political theater. But, this time, it is the whole of Edouard Balladur's policy which is being questioned by Charles Pasqua, who is determined to show his strength one year before the presidential election. For a long time Charles Pasqua was Balladur's favorite. In spring 1993, the prime minister gave him priority in legislative matters during those famous "first 100 days," beyond which, it seems, reforms are more difficult to implement. He supported him with his full weight in the battle which the interior minister launched against the Constitutional Council on the right of asylum. And when Charles Pasqua, wearing his second hat, that of regional development, launched a "tour of France," Edouard Balladur immediately joined him. Charles Pasqua was at the time presented as the deputy prime minister. With a vocation to take over the Hotel Matignon [prime minister's office] once Balladur was installed in the Elysee [presidential palace]. The "honeymoon" period is over. Charles Pasqua is not an enthusiastic supporter of the Balladur method. Without saying so publicly, he thinks that the government is backing down too much, too often, and is not bold enough. In his introductory speech on his immigration laws, he had explained that it was necessary to coordinate with other ministries, responsible for justice, urban policy, and so forth. However, one year later, Charles Pasqua can see that this has not happened. That is why he attacked the judges who snubbed him by bringing back the two young Algerians to Lyons, and through them, he attacked Justice Minister Pierre Mehaignerie. That is why he is also attacking urban policy -- or rather the lack of it -- and Simone Veil, the minister responsible, when he says: "The police cannot be society's road sweeper. Economic, social, and cultural life must be restored to these districts and they must no longer be abandoned to their fate, like ghettos within national territory." [passage omitted]
