FBIS3-2980 "drchi051_a_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General UN Head Praises Beijing's `Important Role' OW1603083894 Beijing XINHUA in English 0619 GMT 16 Mar 94 OW1603083894 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, March 15 (XINHUA) -- U.N. Secretary-General Butrus Butrus-Ghali today praised China, a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council, for playing a more and more important role in the world organization and international affairs. The U.N. chief was speaking to Chinese Deputy Foreign Minister Liu Huaqiu when they met here today. Butrus-Ghali said the U.N. and China have cooperated very well on U.N. affairs and important international issues. Under the current situation, the secretary-general said, it is quite necessary to encourage developing countries to take part in U.N. affairs since they form the bulk of the world body consisting of more than 180 member nations. To encourage all developing countries to play a positive role in international problems is also significant to maintaining world peace and promoting economic development, said Butrus-Ghali. He said the U.N. needs close cooperation from developing countries since they can express their wishes and requests through the world body. Only by doing so, can the U.N. truly stand for their interests, he said. Referring to the World Women's Congress to be held in Beijing in September 1995, Butrus-Ghali said that it will be a prominent meeting in the world. He praised China for making outstanding preparations for the congress. The U.N. chief also said that the congress will exert far-reaching influence on the promotion of women's status in the world. Butrus-Ghali said he will visit China this year together with U.N. officials in charge of the World Women's Congress to help prepare for the congress, he said. The Chinese deputy foreign minister agreed to Butrus-Ghali's views on the role of developing countries, saying that they will play a more and more important role in international affairs. Liu emphasized that the Chinese Government attaches great importance to the World Women's Congress. He said the Chinese Government will make proper preparations as the U.N. requires. Liu arrived in Argentina on Sunday [13 March] on a visit at the invitation of the Argentine Foreign Ministry.
