FBIS4-58361 "drnes086_j_94007" FBIS-NES-94-086 Daily Report 4 May 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen House Chairmanship Urges Armed Forces To Protect Unity House Chairmanship Urges Armed Forces To Protect Unity JN0405075194 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0430 GMT 4 May 94 JN0405075194 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN ["Appeal" by the chairmanship of the House of Representatives to the Armed and Security Forces; date not given -- read by announcer] [Text] In the name of God, the merciful, the compassionate. Praised be God who said: And hold fast, all together, by the rope which God stretches out for you, and be not divided among yourselves. God also said: And fear the trial which affecteth not in particular only those of you who do wrong [Koranic verses]. God's peace and blessings be upon the honest messenger and his relatives and companions. Following the military developments and ensuing tensions, the House of Representatives chairmanship expresses extreme regret over the continued developments, deeming them an execution of the wishes of the enemies of unity and democracy. Thus, the House chairmanship appeals to all the personnel, noncommissioned officers, and officers of the Armed and Security Forces--Yemen's great (?shield)--throughout all camps and positions in the Republic of Yemen to show wisdom and self-restraint and to reject any conspiracy calling for infighting. The House chairmanship considers this a human, ethical, moral, and national responsibility resting with the personnel of the Armed and Security Forces. History will register for them this great position, which calls for maintaining souls, property, and, most importantly, the Yemeni unity--the crowning achievement of their determined struggle. The House chairmanship holds the brother chairman of the Presidential Council and members of the Presidential Council fully responsible for the bloodshed, destruction, and threats to unity. We beseech God to guide our steps along the right path.
