FBIS3-10413 "drlat044_i_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Nicaragua El Salvador's Cristiani Visits, Meets Chamorro Chamorro Decorates Cristiani PA0503185194 Managua Radio Nicaragua Network in Spanish 1200 GMT 4 Mar 94 PA0503185194 Managua Radio Nicaragua Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "This Morning" newscast] [Text] Nicaraguan President Violeta Chamorro last night decorated Salvadoran President Alfredo Cristiani with the Jose Dolores Estrada San Jacinto Battle Order in the degree of Great Collar. Cristiani is in Nicaragua on an official visit. During the ceremony, Chamorro emphasized the ties of friendship between the two Central American countries. [Begin Chamorro recording] On this occasion, I wish to reiterate the deep friendship that the Nicaraguan people have always expressed for our Salvadoran friends. The feeling is mutual. In this way, I am returning the hospitality that I received during my visit to El Salvador in March last year, when the entire Salvadoran community treated me with love, friendship, and understanding. These ties are strong because we are one and the same people who have shared the experiences of the same history. The two peoples are united by efforts to attain peace and progress in our countries. It is up to us Nicaraguans to testify to this friendship. To you, Mr. President, and the friends that accompany you, I reiterate our sincere feelings of friendship toward the Salvadoran people, so worthily represented in the past four years by a statesman who has wisely led his people along the path of peace and reconciliation. The Salvadoran people suffered through a sad and cruel war, and they appreciate President Cristiani's great efforts toward pacification, disarmament, reconciliation, and democratization in his country. In Nicaragua, we also have had to work ceaselessly to consolidate the peace that we enjoy today. We learned a lesson that we will never forget. Dialogue and reconciliation should be the instrument for resolving our disagreements. Peace in our country becomes stronger by the day and overshadows all memories of the past. For that reason, our commitment to democracy is based on the rule of law and justice, which is enforced by strengthening the state of law and democratic institutions and by protecting human rights. [end recording]
