FBIS4-41138 "drsov120_g_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-120 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Visit by Russian Delegation Said Prompted by Election Fears Visit by Russian Delegation Said Prompted by Election Fears WS2106140694 Minsk RID in Russian 1000 GMT 21 Jun 94 WS2106140694 Minsk RID Russian BFN [Text] A group of Russian Duma deputies led by Konstantin Zatulin, head of the Committee for CIS Affairs, unexpectedly arrived in Minsk at the end of last week. According to official accounts, the aim of the Russians' visit was to discuss three issues with their Belarusian colleagues: Belarusian-Russian relations, the unification of monetary systems, and the Belarusian attitude toward amending the Constitution. According to Belarusian People's Deputy Uladzimir Novik, however, the visit was actually prompted by the upcoming presidential elections in Belarus. The deputy shared with an RID correspondent his impressions from the meetings with the Russian delegation: "I believe that Russian experts analyze the situation in Belarus and realize that the image of Vyachaslaw Kebich is very unattractive. Other candidates, including Paznyak, Lukashenka, and Shushkevich, have a much higher rating. That is why the Russian side is undertaking certain steps, given that it needs a "loyal" president. People like Paznyak or Shushkevich intend to build a Belarusian state and not a northwestern province [of Russia]. Besides, neither of them is going to disrupt ties or contacts with Russia. The visitors, undoubtedly, had one goal --to support the pro-Russian candidate, who will then walk in the footsteps of Russia's politics and pursue servile policies. Zatulin did not try to conceal the fact that Russia has large military-political and strategic interests in Belarus. In particular, he pointed out that the Republic hosts important military bases in Vileyka and Baranovichi, and that it can have its bases in Russia, too. This was said in such a mocking manner that my impression is -- Russia does not want to see or perceive us as a state. I think that their delegation has demonstrated that there is no normal sober atmosphere in the Russian Duma and no prospects for equal cooperation. The spirit of a great empire prevails there, and plans are being made to revive this empire. Zatulin told me that the union was disbanded for Russia to build a new empire. That is why I have the impression that the unification of monetary systems is just another invention of Russian wizards and strategists, aimed at eliminating Belarusian statehood. They are ready to ratify this absurd agreement if this can help their protege. A majority of Belarusian deputies present at the meeting, however, opposed the agreement and the introduction of amendments to the Constitution."
