FBIS3-20761 "jpeer008__s94026" JPRS-EER-94-008-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 10 March 1994 POLAND Head of Workers Interest Group Profiled 94P20426A Poznan WPROST in Polish No 6, 6 Feb 94 p 6 94P20426A Poznan WPROST Language: Polish Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article under the rubric "People": "Piotr Ikonowicz"] [Text] The creators of the Sejm Group to Protect the Interests of Workers (Zespol Ochrony Interesow Pracowniczych--ZOIP)--Piotr Ikonowicz, chairman of the Polish Socialist Party [PPS], and Stanislaw Wisniewski, deputy chairman of the OPZZ [All-Polish Trade Unions Agreement--communist-government-sponsored trade union founded in 1984]--claim that the group's creation is not to be viewed as a vote of no-confidence in the authorities of the SLD (Democratic Left Alliance) parliamentary club. However, they do not exclude the possibility of closer cooperation between the PPS and the OPZZ in the future, at the expense of the alliance with the SdRP (Social Democracy of the Polish Republic [the inheritor of the communist party and main party in the SLD]). "We are not interested in factional games and scissions. We want only to force the SLD to correct the economic policy," says Ikonowicz. He foresees pressures exerted on members of his Sejm club and commission. At the same time, OPZZ chairman Ewa Spychalska formed her own group of trade unionist deputies and senators from within the SLD parliamentary club. Piotr Ikonowicz was born in May 1956 in Pruszkow. He is a graduate of the Department of Law and Administration of Warsaw University. Following completion of his studies, he was employed as a reporter for NSZZ Solidarity [Independent Self-Governing Trade Union "Solidarity"], Mazowsze region, and also as a translator. In November 1987, he founded the PPS, which is bound to the traditions of the PPS formed in 1892. Ikonowicz publishes ROBOTNIK (The Worker), a publication of the Interfactory Workers Committee of Solidarity. He is a member of the Association of Polish Translators and of the Association of Polish Journalists. Since November 1992, Ikonowicz has chaired the PPS Executive Council. In July 1993, for his role in initiating the idea of an electoral coalition with the SLD, against the Council's will, the Council wanted to dismiss him from his function as chairman and remove him from the party. Ikonowicz maintained his position and won a seat in the Sejm from the SLD list. He is married and has a daughter. His hobbies are soccer and billiards.
