FBIS3-22215 "jpten006___94078" JPRS-TEN-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 8 MARCH 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Ecological Fund Supports Radiation Decontamination Work OW1502103194 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel and Orbita Networks in Russian 1945 GMT 8 Feb 94 OW1502103194 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel and Orbita Networks Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Interview with Aleksandr Nikolayevich Penyagin, chairman of the All-Russian State and Public Radioekologiya Fund, by an unidentified correspondent; from the ``Utro'' program; date and place not given -- recorded] [Text] Chernobyl is our constant agony. Recently mysterious things have been occurring in the disaster zone. Specialists have to their own great surprise discovered the radioactive element Americium-241, a substance dangerous to all living things. This element should not have escaped the sarcophagus. Nevertheless, this has happened. Americium-241 is very dangerous since even in miniscule amounts it causes the severest poisoning and mutations. Scientists are presently wracking their brains on how to prevent the spread of this element beyond the disaster zone. Of course, there are many other very serious problems in Chernobyl, and apparently the Ukraine will not be able to solve them alone. That is why Ukrainian ecologists may be interested in the work of the All-Russian State and Public Radioekologiya Fund. Our Novosibirsk correspondent talks with Aleksandr Penyagin, chairman of this fund. [video shows correspondent talking with Penyagin who has a large map of Central Siberia on the desk at which he sits] Correspondent: Could you tell us what brought you to Novosibirsk? Penyagin: Well, you may recall the logic of events. First Chernobyl, then the Urals -- I mean the problem which we raised and elevated to the level of a state program there. The third state program concerns the consequences of the effects of the Semipalatinsk test range. Correspondent: You mean the rehabilitation of the population, yes? Penyagin: Both of the population and the territory, absolutely. The Semipalatinsk test range aftermath affected the Altay, the mountainous Altay, and part of Novosibirsk Oblast. That is the first point, and we consider that it is necessary to begin solving radiation and ecological issues throughout Siberia. Not many people are aware of it, but the Yenisey -- that wonderful, beautiful, and mighty river -- has been polluted over almost 1,000 km. This problem will have to be solved at the appropriate state level. The same problem exists on the Tom River, and so forth. This involves underground nuclear tests carried out for national economic purposes, and so forth. Correspondent: What do you mean by a state program? Are there simply tasks or are their funds as well? Penyagin: It is both tasks and funds. Everything has already been scheduled, what everyone has to do. The prime minister has already signed this and the organizations which are implementing this state program have already been informed. In other words, real assistance to the region is beginning. Correspondent: Aleksandr Nikolayevich, I do not want to make you into a kind of hero, as has been traditional in our propaganda presentations, heaven forbid, but tell us, to compile this kind of a map for yourself, a map showing the unfortunate areas, a map of your activities, you must have visited all these places, that is how I imagine it, yes? These are all places which people would leave if they had the opportunity, which they would probably flee. Yet you went there. Tell us, how did you feel and how do you feel today after all this? Penyagin: First of all, I have had excellent experiences. I did all my service on a nuclear submarine. So radiation is something I am familiar with. On the other hand, if a person decides to solve a problem which he is sounding out for others as a state problem, then his personal choices must take second place. If you have never been in these regions, if you cannot recognize the situation with your eyes closed ... [Penyagin pauses] Well, for a government official, a bureaucratic attitude to people and the territory as a rule turns into mistakes. These mistakes have a very harmful effect on the budget and on some categories of people who have been overlooked because a bureaucratic outlook does not permit a comprehensive assessment of the situation. So in this case, strange as it may seem, one must visit these places, one must see how state programs are being implemented, one must know how to set up a system to verify state activities, and even to verify the activities of the legislators themselves. Correspondent: Aleksandr Nikolayevich, you presently head a fund known as, which has the status of a state public fund, the Radioekologiya Fund. What is this fund? What do you have at your disposal and what are you doing with the funds which you now have or will have? Penyagin: First of all, our fund has narrowed things down to four areas -- social, economic, ecological, and moral rehabilitation of those areas which have suffered from the effects of radiation. To implement the program of ecological rehabilitation of radioactively contaminated lands, we have established an entire specialized company which we call the Bioflora Joint Stock Association. It has the high technologies which are capable of cleaning lands with low radioactive contamination. Correspondent: Have you already begun working on this? Penyagin: Yes of course, we are working, and I hope that the time will come when I can show you the results of what we are doing.
