FBIS4-64357 "drweu085_l_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-085 Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 SPAIN Solbes, UGT, CEOE Offer Economic Outlook Solbes, UGT, CEOE Offer Economic Outlook `Misguided' Economic Policy 94ES0287B Madrid DIARIO 16 in Spanish 24 Mar 94 p 51 94ES0287B Madrid DIARIO 16 Spanish CSO [Text] Castellon -- Jose Maria Cuevas, president of the CEOE [Spanish Confederation of Employers Organizations], stated yesterday, in Castellon, that the Spanish economy has suffered the consequences of a misguided policy, although he acknowledged that the "side effects" of the "correction of the wrong course" are beginning to be felt. Cuevas noted that a slight recovery of the economy is perceptible, owing to the rebound in other countries and the lowering of interest rates in Spain. This change, he said, "stems more from a recycling of those who implemented the misguided policy than from a change in the attitude of the business community." The CEOE's president announced that its primary objective in this year's round of collective bargaining will be to slow the increase in unemployment; the objective must not be wage increases. He pledged that the CEOE will try to "break the dynamic" of meeting cost increases by reducing staff. This, he said, will make wage moderation indispensable. The Ministry of Economy, for its part, asserts that the economic recovery is taking root as the year progresses, although during 1994 the recovery will be based solely on exports, since the growth of consumption and investment can be expected to remain practically flat. The Ministry's most recent report on the economic situation states that "the signs of a rebound, particularly an industrial one, are increasing, while the resurgence of domestic demand is lagging somewhat. This lag is related to the slow return of confidence on the part of the economic operators." It adds: "This initial lag is to be considered normal, in that it reproduces the patterns the Spanish economy has followed in past recoveries from crises."
