FBIS3-39371 "drweu032_j_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Country's `Low' Bosnia Profile Criticized BR1502142394 Milan IL GIORNALE in Italian 12 Feb 94 p 11 BR1502142394 Milan IL GIORNALE Language: Italian Article Type:BFN [Report signed "m.v.": "Facing Minister Andreatta's Anger"] [Excerpt] Rome -- Italia Uno television's "Open Studio" news program is turning into an "open polemic" with Foreign Minister Beniamino Andreatta. Replying to a question by a female journalist from the network, who had pointed to Italy's low foreign policy profile on Bosnia, Andreatta, yesterday evening, hit back with a vitriolic response: "For days 'Open Studio' has been criticizing us, while we are working in the country's interests." Yesterday, on the 1400 [1300 GMT] news, it was director Paolo Liguori's turn to counterattack: "After days, weeks, instead of casting his anger at the persons responsible for the massacre, he took it out on us who given evidence of it. We had only mentioned that Italy also was doing too little. Now Andreatta wants to cover the past. He is going to Sarajevo, along with Prime Minister Ciampi and President Scalfaro. Their presence, in these decisive times, can dedramatize the situation and favor a solution." Liguori then went on to denounce the contradiction that we have recognized Bosnia as an independent sovereign state but do not yet have an accredited an ambassador in Sarajevo, "and as a result there is no Bosnian ambassador in Rome, with the result that the Swiss ambassador has to go down to Bergamo to sign the passports of Bosnian refugees in our country." It is also on details, which are not minor , that "one has to judge a country's commitment." Andreatta, Liguori explained to us after the TV news program, "in fact provided a mumbled response on the question of ambassadorial accreditation, maintaining that one had been appointed, but had then resigned. A justification which is not valid in international diplomacy." In fact the polemics go back to the 10 days during which "Open Studio's" team was away in Bosnia. "In Sarajevo," Liguori said, "when we brought President Izetbegovic into the studio, we would have liked to have had him hooked up with Andreatta in Milan or Rome. He, on the other hand, did not turn up, and naturally we said so. Then we discovered the case of the ambassador, and we disclosed that too." Liguori f state: "We have been to Sarajevo, now the ministry is moving. It is important to break the Bosnians' isolation. When French President Mitterrand arrived at Sarajevo, this led to the opening of the airport, which since then has served for humanitarian flights. A whole number of ministers and prime ministers have gone to Sarajevo, French, English, Turkish. But not us." Nor does the "Open Studio's" director like Andreatta's approach toward the Serbs: "It is wrong to vilify a whole people. But if the Serbs of Bosnia and Belgrade continue to arm and to supply the Bosnian Serbs, they need to be held accountable. And it seems to me, unfortunately, that Andreatta is using a dangerous tone in his dealings with the Serbs. In this war, neutrality is complicity. To indulge in semantics as to who fired the grenade in the market is stupid, ridiculous and hypocritical, when everyone knows who fired it." Conclusion: "Andreatta, go to Sarajevo." [passage omitted]
