FBIS3-56069 "drsov009_i_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 CENTRAL ASIA Kazakhstan Dual Citizenship, State Language Issues Viewed PM1201162194 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 12 Jan 94 p 3 PM1201162194 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Anatoliy Ladin report: "Still No Dual Citizenship in Kazakhstan, but Society Already Split in Disputes Over It"] [Text] The question of the possibility of some Kazakhstanis' acquiring dual citizenship is still a subject of discussion in the republic's mass media. The newspaper ABC [literally ABV -- first three letters of Cyrillic alphabet], published by the "Karavaninform" Joint-Stock Company, reports that the Sokolovsk-Sarbay Production Association collective sent an appeal to Kazakhstan's president which, in addition to economic demands, raised the questions of dual citizenship, the recognition of Russian (a language of international communication) as a state language together with Kazakh, and the appropriate amendment of Kazakhstan's Constitution. Yermukhamet Yertysbayev, secretary of the Socialist Party of Kazakhstan Political Executive Committee, answering questions asked by the sociopolitical newspaper RESPUBLIKA's [as transliterated] correspondent, stressed the need for state bilingualism in Kazakhstan. At the same time he voiced the view that the dual citizenship initiative should come from Russia and Kazakhstan at once. "If Russians living in Kazakhstan want this," Yermukhamet Yertysbayev believes, "Kazakhs living in Russia should be accorded similar rights." However, there is also a totally different view of the matter. Some experts predict that dual citizenship could prove not an advantage but grounds for restricting rights. By becoming a Russian citizen a person, as it were, ceases to be a "committed" Kazakhstani. Hence the authorities' attitude to him may be that of a potential "foreign visitor." And problems may crop up at work: Should a person, say, be allowed access to state secrets and his career rise encouraged if he is also a citizen of another state? During the election campaign in Kazakhstan the questions of state bilingualism and dual citizenship will most likely be used by candidate deputies to win over voters.
