FBIS4-65868 "drweu101_e_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-101 Daily Report 24 May 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Programs for European Election Campaign Issued Programs for European Election Campaign Issued Liberal Democrat Manifesto PM2405130494 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 24 May 94 p 9 PM2405130494 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH English BFN [Article by Robert Shrimsley: "Key to Future Lies in Full Integration, Says Ashdown"] [Text] The Cover of the Liberal Democrat manifesto bears the slogan "Unlocking Britain's Potential." Inside, the 28-page document takes a straightforward tone. Britain could achieve far more if at the heart of a fully integrated Europe. It opposes a "centralised superstate," preferring a streamlined Commission and a strengthened Parliament. The Council of Ministers would be required to take its decisions in public and the use of qualified majority voting would be extended. Nevertheless, the Lib-Dems are ready to put their views to the test. If the 1996 inter-governmental conference proposes significant reforms the party will seek "popular assent for them." Mr Ashdown said yesterday this meant that if all parties remained pro-EC he would hold a referendum on any major changes . SOCIAL POLlCY The manifesto calls for the scrapping of the Social Charter opt-out and says the party will try to guarantee equal rights for women and part-time workers. It rejects however, an imposed 35-hour week while supporting greater employee rights. EDUCATION It calls for the reskilling of the British workforce by investing in education. A pre-school nursery place for every three and four-year-old and nore spending on books, equipment and school buildings is pledged. The Lib-Dems promise to fund this with an extra penny in the pound of income tax. UNEMPLOYMENT The party recommends spending in investment and infrastructure, making full use of European social and regional funds. These would be used to generate more private investment in major capital projects. FINANCE The party would back moves towards a single currency. The Bank of England would become independent, making interest rate changes, prior to the creation of a European Central Bank. Low taxes are promised wherever possible. Local income tax would replace the council tax. ENVIRONMENT Green taxes are also favoured -- a Europe-wide carbon/energy tax should be phased in -- and there should be cross-Continent initiatives to tackle pollution. COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY It should be replaced by a "Common Rural Policy," aimed at sustainability, diversification towards forestry and less intensive use of land. CAP (Common Agricultural Policy) payments would be redirected on environmental lines. DEFENCE While supporting NATO, the manifesto says Europe should take more responsibility for its security and for world peace-keeping. CRIME Europe-wide co-operation to tackle the drugs threat is proposed. The European Convention on Human Rights would be incorporated into UK law. DECENTRALISATION The greater emphasis on Europe is counter-balanced by a policy of downward decentralisation with measures aimed at recreating communities and giving more power to local, parish and neighbourhood councils.
