FBIS4-42832 "drweu111_b_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-111 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 BENELUX COUNTRIES Belgium Libyan Embassy Denies Tense Relations Libyan Embassy Denies Tense Relations BR0806124794 Brussels LE SOIR in French 8 Jun 94 p 9 BR0806124794 Brussels LE SOIR French BFN [Report signed by B.L.: "Libya -- Reaction From the Embassy"] [Text] Following our article entitled "Strange Belgian-Libyan Tension" published on 28 May, the Libyan Embassy, or, to be more precise, "The People's Bureau of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya in Brussels," expressed its "regret" at our "insinuations" concerning Belgian-Libyan relations which, according to the embassy, are tension-free and, on the contrary, "under the sign of the greatest serenity." Notwithstanding a foreign visit of the Libyan ambassador accompanied by a Libyan member of parliament that was made without the Foreign Ministry authorization, an event that the embassy's clarification does not deny, we had been impelled to use the word "tension" by the Libyan ambassador's lament printed on the front page of DE STANDAARD on 27 May. Here the diplomat complained that Belgium was showing rather more zeal than its European and U.S. partners in applying Security Council Resolution 883 (requiring the toughening of economic sanctions against Tripoli from last December). Indeed, the funds of the Libyan Embassy were frozen around the end of April, thus preventing the diplomatic mission from continuing to function. On verification, it does appear that this Belgian "zeal" was indeed excessive because of technical and administrative confusion surrounding the freezing of the Libyan accounts. The Finance Ministry charged with applying the royal decree of 17 March which set out the manner in which Resolution 883 would be applied, finally last week had to reopen the embassy's current account. Was this a storm in a teacup, as all the interested parties are now at pains to point out? Maybe it was. However, as we mentioned, mystery still surrounds the "safe deposit box" in which our sources, who request anonomity, claim the gendarmes found some "strange" things. The Libyan Embassy says it does not possess any such box in a Belgian bank.
