FBIS3-47574 "dreas010_a_94018" FBIS-EAS-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Population Symposium To Prepare for UN Forum OW1201135294 Tokyo KYODO in English 0940 GMT 12 Jan 94 OW1201135294 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Jan. 12 KYODO -- Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) will discuss problems resulting from the growing world population at a symposium from Saturday in preparation for a United Nations Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, Egypt, later this year, organizers said Wednesday [12 January]. The symposium, which will be held at Waseda University in Tokyo, is co-organized by the "Peoples' Forum 2001," an NGO umbrella organization, and "Japan's Network for Women and Health," which aims at increasing women's representation at the Cairo conference. Panelists will include Makoto Ato, head of the Health and Welfare Ministry's Institute of Population Problems, Assistant Prof. Chizuko Ueno of Tokyo University and representatives of the U.N. Population Fund. The symposium will adopt an appeal urging the Japanese Government to include NGO and women representatives in its delegation for the Cairo conference. The suggestions will be submitted to the government-organized "Tokyo Wise Men's Conference on Population and Development," which will be held on February 26 and 27. "Population growth in developing countries is a result of environment destruction by developed countries. There the Japanese bear responsibility too," said Shunsuke Iwasaki, assistant professor at Tsukuba University and head of the Peoples' Forum 2001. "This problem is not that simple that it could be solved by just providing means for birth control. As the Cairo conference is drawing closer, we want to make the first step to give ordinary people a say (in these matters)," Iwasaki said in explaining the objectives of the symposium. The U.N. holds its international Conference on Population and Development every ten years. This year's conference, from September 5 to 13, will adopt an action program seeking to establish a sustainable balance between the soaring population, scarce resources and an increasingly damaged environment. The U.N. estimates that the world population will grow by a record 93 million to over 5.7 billion in 1994, with the majority of the growth occurring in developing countries.
