FBIS4-38882 "drsov107_g_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-107 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Authorities Seen Clamping Down on Independent Authorities Seen Clamping Down on Independent Media MK0206104094 Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI in Russian No. 22, 29 May-5 Jun 94 (Signed to press 31 May) p A3 MK0206104094 Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI Russian BFN [Unattributed report in the "Mass Media" column: "A Political Gag. All Avenues to Readers and Listeners Have Been Cut Off to Opposition Belorussian Journalists"] [Text] The management of a number of opposition mass media of Belorussia [Belarus] have been advised about the impossibility of their further functioning. The Belorussian Press House, for instance, told Igor Germenchuk, editor of SVOBODA weekly, that it will not publish his paper while the Ministry of Communications will not disseminate it through its channels. Germenchuk received no official explanation, but he is sure that corresponding orders to the Press House and the Ministry of Communications have come from the Belorussian Council of Ministers. According to the editor, such ill-considered action by government structures has been prompted by the publication in SVOBODA's latest issue of a letter from a soldier who told about his participation in servicing a hunting spree by republic Prime Minister Vyacheslaw Kebich and his retinue. Under the pretext of reorganizing the Belorussian National TV and Radio Company, two radio stations broadcasting on the state radio wire network -- Belorusskaya Molodezhnaya and Krinitsa -- have been closed. These facts are not an exception but the regular attitude by Belorussian official authorities to independent mass media. It should be recalled that independent TV companies were not granted the right to broadcast on Channel 8 only until their leadership undertook not to "air any politics." Attempts were made to close Belorussian private news agency BELAPAN. After the agency reported a statement by people's deputy Aleksandr Lukashenko about contacts between top state officials and representatives of the mafia, a ban was imposed on using BelaPAN information on the radio. A little more than a month ago the Information Ministry annulled the registration certificate of newspaper NOVOSTI BELORUSSKOGO NARODNOGO FRONTA.
