FBIS4-62488 "drsov095_h_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-095 Daily Report 16 May 1994 Moldova Trans-Dniestrian Problem Remains `Primary Task' Trans-Dniestrian Problem Remains `Primary Task' LD1605125194 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1051 GMT 16 May 94 LD1605125194 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Deputy speaker of Moldova's parliament, Dmitry Motspan, who leads the Agrarian Democratic Party (INTERFAX note: parliamentary majority party) qualified the call for setting up a Russian military base in Moldova as political speculation. "Having proclaimed itself a demilitarized zone, Moldova does not accept the idea of turning Russia's 14th Army into a military base or maintaining the army on its soil under some other status," he told INTERFAX on Monday [16 May]. "To define a political status for Trans-Dniestria and for the localities populated largely by the Gagauzi is a primary problem requiring urgent solution," Motspan said. According to him, "it would be good to determine the status of Trans-Dniestria and Gagauzi-populated localities prior to adopting a new Constitution, so that it could be reflected in the fundamental laws." "A new constitution will have to be adopted no later than this autumn in any case," the deputy speaker said. "By that time some of the problems connected with the special status of Moldova's southern and eastern areas might remain unresolved," Motspan said. If a new constitution is adopted earlier than a special status for Trans-Dniestria and the Gagauzi-populated areas is determined, "no amendments to the Constitution will be required," Motspan said. "The fundamental laws will state that Moldova is an independent state, and the establishment of a federation or confederation on its territory is inadmissible," he said. The leader of Moldovan agrarians believes that another armed conflict in Trans-Dniestria must not be allowed to take place. At the same time he expressed willingness to "cooperate in the endeavors to resolve this and other problems with any political forces, even if they are not represented in the parliament."
