FBIS3-40507 "jpjst002___94010" JPRS-JST-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan Selections from the Proceedings of the 9th NAL Symposium on Aircraft Computational Aerodynamics 7 February 1994 Selections from the Proceedings of the 9th NAL Symposium on Aircraft Computational Aerodynamics Role of Wind Tunnel Tests and CFD Analysis for the Development of Aero-Engines at IHI 93FE0499J Tokyo SPECIAL PUBLICATION OF NAT'L AEROSPACE LABORATORY in Japanese Dec 92 pp 337-344 93FE0499J Tokyo SPECIAL PUBLICATION OF NAT'L AEROSPACE LABORATORY Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Article by Atsushige Tanaka of the Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co., Ltd.] [Text] Abstract: When aero-engines are developed, several different types of wind tunnel tests are involved. For instance, one type of tunnel is required for fundamental tests of the cascades; a second is required for high altitude engine performance tests. Experimental models for these tests consist of real engine components or of close replicas. Certain effects may not be adequately addressed in wind tunnel tests, for example, the effects of high speed revolution, flow properties in unmeasureable regions, realistic boundary conditions. The twofold object of computational fluid dynamics (CFD) for internal flows is to predict the performance of models before expensive wind tunnel tests are done and to provide information of the internal flow that is inaccessible to experiment measurement. CFD is already useful for improving designs or making new ones. As computers and CFD technology advance, CFD can expand from the role of prediction and design to that of a numerical wind tunnel. This paper shows how features of numerical wind tunnels parallel those of experimental wind tunnels. The paper also assesses future trends for the use of numerical wind tunnels. 1. Introduction Wind tunnel testing in aircraft engines involves widely diverse configurational elements, wind tunnel scale, and computation volumes, from the basic turbine and compressor blade cascade tests to the high-altitude performance tests of the complete engine in the wind tunnel. Usually wind tunnel tests and CFD are used together in blade cascade tests and duct tests, but the scope has broadened in recent years with the phenomenal advances made in computers and analytical techniques. We here look at the different wind tunnel tests used on aircraft engines and discuss how CFD fits into the picture. 2. Wind Tunnel Testing of Aircraft Engines 2.1 Types of Wind Tunnel Tests As diagrammed in Figure 2-1, the wind tunnel tests used on aircraft engines include high-altitude performance tests (Figure 2-2) to determine overall engine performance, ground performance tests (Figure 2-3 [photo not reproduced]), element tests on fans, compressors, combustors, and turbines (Figure 2-4), and configurational element tests such as blade cascade tests and strut tests. Figure 2-1. Wind Tunnel Tests Figure 2-2. High-Altitude Performance Test Facilities Figure 2-4. Fan Element Test Apparatus Then these configurational element problems are further divided for investigation into wingtip clearance tests, cooling hole effect tests, and the like, and we also do basic testing on aft surface step flows and shear flows, etc., in analyzing basic internal flows. The ultimate purpose of wind tunnel testing is to improve the performance of the whole engine. For this reason it is not enough for these tests merely to be reliable. There must also be a structural rationale to the entire series of tests, and they must also match the development resources and time allowed. 2.2 Correspondence With CFD Compared to the wind tunnel test facility, which ranges widely in size, the test sample [i.e. model] is almost always made of the same material and in the same shape to withstand high speeds, high temperatures, and high pressures. Because this is so, it is more important that there be an equivalency between the actual craft's operating conditions and the wind tunnel tests than that of the actual craft and the test sample be similar in the flight tests and wind tunnel tests. The issue of equivalency in wind tunnel tests includes such things as similarity in the supersonic and hypersonic wind tunnel tests, and in the environmental impact tests for noise and NO[.sup]x[/] generation and propagation. However, if we limit the problems to the flows inside the engine, then the issue of the degree to which the wind tunnel inlet/outlet and side walls coincide with the actual operating conditions becomes very important. Even when we break the whole engine down into element tests, blade cascade tests, and basic tests, setting the test conditions is still a very important issue. When we consider the correspondence with CFD, we try to achieve correspondence primarily in element tests and blade cascade tests, depending on the scale of the computer and test equipment, and the time allowed for the wind tunnel tests, and we are working very hard to improve the precision with which we set the boundary conditions. 3. Roles of Wind Tunnel Tests and CFD 3.1 Role of CFD We have simplified the engine design and fabrication processes in Figure 3-1, and attempted the following broad classification of the role CFD plays in research and development, design, and verification. 1) Prediction of R&D results; prediction of problems, possibilities prior to design, testing 2) New design, modification design; designing by adding CFD technology -- which analyzes important design points with suitable means in the limited time allotted -- to conventional means 3) Numerical/mathematical wind tunnel testing; narrowing the focus of wind tunnel tests and substituting for wind tunnel tests The object of analysis will vary with the size of the computer, the reliability of the analysis, the time allotted, and the costs allowable; and we think it will take on the same type structure as the wind tunnel tests described above. Figure 3-1. Role of CFD 3.2 Predicting R&D Results In Figure 3-2 we have diagrammed the prediction of R&D problems and possibilities by wind tunnel testing and CFD. With correspondence to wind tunnel tests, CFD is being used to verify the presence or absence of separation in flows generated by simple blade cascades, and in elucidating pronounced flows which interfere complexly in internal flows, with the number of subject elements increased, so as to match the subject elements of wind tunnel testing in terms of everything from predicting two-dimensional flow effects to inter-blade interference and dynamic and static blade interference analysis. Figure 3-2. Prediction of Problems, Possibilities In Figures 3-3 and 3-4 [not reproduced] we exhibit the analysis grid and analysis results for flows around fan outlet guide blades and struts. The guide blades do not have a uniform shape, and the strut shapes are each different too, so analysis is done all around the circumference, and relatively good agreement with the experimental values is obtained in the pressure distribution at issue, even though this is non-viscous. Figure 3-3. Grid for Fan Outlet Guide Blade and Strut Flow Analysis In Figure 3-5 we add flow velocity vectors by analyzing the flows inside the combustor liner. This is a useful tool for studying the flow of cold air inside the combustor. Figure 3-5. Flow Velocity Vectors Inside Combustor Liner We believe that increasingly more importance will be attached to predicting the performance of these shapes, that are extremely close to the experimental configurations, prior to actual testing. 3.3 New Designs, Modification Designs In new design and modification design work, one basically uses analysis techniques which are thoroughly verified by comparison with wind tunnel tests. In Figures 3-6 and 3-7 we diagram the results of CFD and L2F measurements on moving fan blades, and in Figure 3-8 we compare the tests on static fan blades. We now see relatively good agreement in terms of performance at design points, even in cases of reverse pressure gradients as in fans and compressor blade cascades. In Figure 3-9 we show a comparison in the case where the injection angle is varied, inclusive of non-design points. We believe that this has become useful in estimating qualitative trends, particularly injection angle limitations. In Figure 3-10 we give an example where these were used in a modification design, and in Figure 3-11 a comparison with wind tunnel test results. By these means we can verify the propriety of both our predictions and our modification designs. Figure 3-6. Comparison of L2F Measurement Results and Figure 3-7. Comparison of L2F Measurement Results and Numerical Analysis Results Figure 3-8. Comparison of Static Fan Blade Analysis Results and Experimental Results Figure 3-9. Variation in Flow-Out Angle and Pressure Loss When Varying Injection Angle Figure 3-10. Comparison of Oil Flow Patterns in Modification Design Figure 3-11. Modified Design Wing Aerodynamic Performance Characteristics Comparison What is urgently needed now is the development of techniques for analyzing blade cascades which involve secondary flows in reverse pressure gradients. 3.4 Numerical Wind Tunnel Tests We now need numerical wind tunnel tests which will be nearly as reliable as, and serve in part as substitutes for, conventional wind tunnel tests. To create such numerical wind tunnel tests, we must perform more of the verification checks discussed earlier, do detailed studies on turbulence models and schemes, and improve our measurement techniques. This will require us to cooperate widely with other research institutions, as we do with basic wind tunnel tests. 4. Measurement and CFD One of the advantages of analyzing an internal flow such as found in an engine is that this permits us to estimate flows that cannot be conventionally measured. Accordingly, this foundational measurement of internal flows contributes greatly in improving the precision of our estimations of internal flows. In the past the focus has been on measuring the pressures on wing surfaces and in blade cascade inlets and outlets, but the scope of applications is broadening to such things as the photographic effects of the behavior of shock waves at the leading edges of rotating fans by means of holographic measurements, depicted in Figure 4-1, and the measurement of cooling efficiency distributions in cooling paths inside high-pressure turbine wings using liquid crystals. We hope that such advances in measurement technology as these will pave the way for improved CFD reliability and wider CFD applications. Figure 4-1. Inter-Wing Shock Wave Shape Based on Holographic Measurement 5. Concluding Remarks The scale of wind tunnel tests in aircraft engines varies widely from high-altitude performance testing on the high end to basic blade cascade tests on the low end, where the test samples (models) used are either full or nearly full-size models. Thus other things are of greater importance than wind tunnel testing and CFD being mutually complementary in high Reynolds number regions, namely how CFD can be used to estimate wind tunnel tests with good precision, providing information which cannot be measured in a wind tunnel, and reflecting this in the design. And, as CFD technology, computers, and measurement technology become more advanced, the concept of using numerical wind tunnels in place of conventional wind tunnels is gaining acceptance. We believe that it will not be long before further technological breakthroughs give numerical wind tunnel testing a more important role to play. We would like to take up the matters of environmental impact survey testing and supersonic/hypersonic testing in a subsequent article. We are deeply appreciative of all the help we received in drafting this article from the National Aerospace Laboratory and from universities and other public research institutions.
