FBIS4-66917 "jptac005__l94032" JPRS-TAC-94-005-L JPRS Arms Control 13 May 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA KAZAKHSTAN Nuclear Bomb To Be Removed From Test Site Nuclear Bomb To Be Removed From Test Site PM1305095594 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA in Russian 13 May 94 p 2 PM1305095594 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA Russian BFN [Vadim Prokopenko report under the "Topic of the Day" rubric: "Ownerless Atomic Bomb Waiting for Its Fate To Be Decided for Over Three Years"] [Text] "Following the breakup of the Soviet Union the Belovezhskaya agreement, the Almaty declaration, and agreements among the CIS heads of state say that everything that is on the territory of each state is its property. The Baykonur cosmodrome and the Semipalatinsk test site are the property of Kazakhstan.... So Russia has nothing to do with them," Nursultan Nazarbayev said in a speech at UN headquarters in New York in 1994. But it does. Russia very directly has something to do with the Semipalatinsk test site. No matter how Nursultan Nazarbayev wanted to stun the whole world community in the golden hall at UN headquarters with his presidential authority, he has to give Russia's atomic specialists their due. Back in May 1991 a physical irradiation experiment was prepared at installation 108-k in the granite Degelen mountain "in order to improve military equipment." This means that a tunnel 592 meters long was driven through a mass of granite around 20 km in diameter at a depth of at least 126 meters from the surface. A small (by present-day standards) atomic bomb with a yield of 0.4 kilotonnes, equivalent to 400 tonnes of TNT, was set up at one end of this tunnel 108-k, and specially designed objects were set up at the other end. When the bomb was detonated, the articles would receive the full impact. Scientists would bring them to the surface, study the damage, and refine the latest achievements of the Soviet Union's military thought. On whose territory, I would remind you, both Russians and Kazakhs lived until the end of 1991.... In August 1991 the Kazakhstani president closed the Semipalatinsk test site, but the atomic bomb remained deep within Degelen mountain. It could in principle have been detonated long since. But in big-league politics Kazakhstan had employed the tactic of a state which had voluntarily renounced nuclear arms, and an underground explosion with that kind of yield would have been noticed by satellites all around the world.... A decision was made to remove the atomic charge and the military equipment back in 1992. Since then talks have been under way at the highest state level. Kazakhstan has even recruited U.S. specialists. They have insistently recommended that this problem be entrusted to Russia. "We have experience of unearthing atomic charges. Through the history of the test site there have been several known cases of buried charges' suffering technical failure," according to Anatoliy Matushchenko, a specialist from the Russian Federation Ministry of Atomic Energy. "A joint Russian-Kazakhstani group is now starting work and is to implement a project formulated by the All-Union Scientific Research and Planning Institute of Industrial Technology (Moscow) and draw up an estimate of expenditure. The whole job could take more than six months, but it must be done before winter sets in. The Russian side will cover all the expenditure. By all accounts this will amount to in excess of 1 billion rubles...." Everything that is removed from under the ground will be the property of the Russian Federation. Corresponding agreements have already been signed to this effect. No one, not even Kazakhstan representatives, will be able to see the irradiation facilities or touch the bomb that has spent over three years underground. Incidentally, nuclear charges have never been stored for so long out of storage facilities. So in this respect the Semipalatinsk experiment will prove unique in its own way.
