FBIS4-21510 "jpten004__l94020" JPRS-TEN-94-004-L JPRS Environmental Issues 17 March 1994 WEST EUROPE SWITZERLAND Swiss Report on Global Warming Strategy Presented Swiss Report on Global Warming Strategy Presented BR3003100794 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 0859 GMT 17 Mar 94 BR3003100794 Bern ATSA/SDAA French BFN [Article signed BN/SV: "Convention on Climate Effective as of Monday; Fighting the Greenhouse Effect; More Active Measures Are Required"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Bern, 17 Mar (ATS) -- The UN framework convention on climate change will take effect as of Monday. Its aim is to limit the emission into the atmosphere of greenhouse gases. In February, Switzerland presented a report explaining the basis of its strategy for fighting global warming. Certain governments and ecologists are demanding more restrictive measures to limit this problem. The convention comes into force 90 days after having been ratified by a 50th state and less than two years after it was signed at the Rio Summit in June 1992 by more than 150 governments. It requires developed countries to reduce their carbon dioxide (CO2) emission and the emission of other greenhouse gases, in particular CFC's [Chlorofluorohydrocarbons], to 1990 levels by the year 2000. These countries have until 21 September to present their official reports explaining how they intend achieving this aim. Developing countries have been granted a period of three years. Support for Developing Countries The other commitments included in the convention concern the protection and expansion of forests which absorb CO2 in the atmosphere, and financial and technological aid for developing countries enabling them to respect the terms of the convention. These countries have notably agreed to implement programs intended to strengthen scientific and technical research in this domain. Where Switzerland is concerned, Philippe Roch, Director of the Federal Office of Environment, Forestry and Countryside, in February presented the report on global warming. The document provides the first complete inventory of greenhouse gas emissions in Switzerland. It aims to be an "evolving program" to set up strategies of prevention and adaptation to climate change. The document also analyzes the possible effects of such a warming and does not rule out the rise in sea level, the increase in floods, heat waves and droughts. However, Mr. Roch avoided the catastrophic approach, although he stressed that regions of Switzerland, especially the mountainous areas, could suffer directly from global warming. Adopted by the Federal Council in February, the report will serve as a basis for a definitive program to be set up in the summer. However, despite the convention coming into force, most governments recognize that this will not be enough to achieve its global aim. The aim is to stabilize concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at a level which makes it possible to avoid attacks on the climate due to human activity. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) has asked industrialized countries to take additional measures to reduce CO2 emissions by a further 25 percent by the year 2005. Measures Demanded by Greenpeace For its part, Greenpeace wants Switzerland to reduce the emission of such gases by a further 20 percent by the year 2005, beyond the deadline set by the convention. To achieve such a result it is necessary to introduce, as soon as possible, a combined CO2 and energy tax, and to regulate the use of vehicles and other engine-driven machines. It is also essential that financial incentives be proposed in favor of low-consumption machines and renewable energy sources. Switzerland must finally abandon nuclear energy and stop cutting public transport services. To date, the Convention on Climate Change has been signed by 16 countries and ratified by 55. A number of problems remain unresolved, with the distribution of resources being provided for by the Global Environment Facility. This fund, created in Rio, was boosted on Wednesday by another $2 billion for the coming three years. Switzerland should receive some $40 million. The signatories of the convention will meet again in March 1995 in Berlin.
