FBIS4-17947 "drsov083_d_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-083 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 Regional Affairs Chernomyrdin Arrives in Orenburg, Gives Interview Chernomyrdin Arrives in Orenburg, Gives Interview LD2904104194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0950 GMT 29 Apr 94 LD2904104194 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Nikolay Goncharov] [Text] Orenburg April 29 TASS -- Russian Premier Viktor Chernomyrdin who arrived in Orenburg on Friday to celebrate the 250th jubilee of the Orenburg region (gubernia in the past), said at the airport to journalists that the government will make payments, first of all, to peasants after the federal budget is approved by parliament. "Concerns, now experienced by all Russia, are characteristic of the Orenburg region too," he stressed. "Let us try and settle at least some of them," he added. Journalists welcoming Chernomyrdin at the airport also asked him other questions. They were interested when a package of documents on press support is put into operation and what its essence is. The premier replied that the government is also interested in this question. He expressed doubt that Russian people need the press and television in such amounts as now. "The state will maintain several newspapers and tv channels," the cabinet head assured. "However, this is for the time being. Experience will show what to do in future. I'm against commanding the media. The government plans to issue a special decision on questions of the press, which do not brook any delay. The decision will be issued before the adoption of a press law which will be soon approved." Asked by ITAR-TASS about his attitude to the Russian president's decision to suspend till July the execution of the cabinet's decision on raising customs duties on imports, Chernomyrdin noted: "We postponed this decision ourselves, since we `outdid' ourselves." "There are international norms: When changes are made in customs duties, three months are given to conclude new contracts and to establish contacts. We should also abide by this three-month norm by some items." The premier's trip to the Orenburg region will last three days.
