FBIS4-10816 "drlat075__a94003" FBIS-LAT-93-075-A Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 ANNEX Brazil Results of `Hectic' Visit by UK's Hurd Examined Results of `Hectic' Visit by UK's Hurd Examined PY1404194794 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 13 Apr 94 p 8--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY1404194794 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL Portuguese BFN [By Ruth de Aquino] [Text] London -- Great Britain and Brazil are studying a bilateral agreement for the confiscation of goods, aimed at punishing those involved in drug trafficking and financial crimes. It will be an unprecedented treaty, the likes of which Brazil has never before signed with any country. This is one of the results of the hectic visit that British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd paid from 5 to 8 April to Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Brasilia. Preparations for the extradition treaty, which was prompted by the busy presence of entrepreneur Paulo Cesar Farias in London, are on their final stage. There are only a few details to be adjusted over the next few days by Brazilian Ambassador Rubens Barbosa and the British Foreign Office. According to Barbosa, Hurd, who visited Brazil accompanied by representatives of six British enterprises, was -- upon his return -- enthusiastic about the prospects for cooperating with the Brazilian privatization program. In Sao Paulo, Hurd had a productive meeting with Sabesp [expansion unknown], which is a state-run water supply enterprise that is being opened to private capital. There was also a promise for possible British contribution to the Tiete-Parana waterway. During his stopover in Rio de Janeiro, Hurd heard a proposal to create a Brazilian-British entrepreneurial council, following the model of a council that the Brazilian Government has with Germany. "We are at the final examination phase here with the Department of Commerce and Industry. We also talked about the transfer of technology from British to Brazilian enterprises," the ambassador explained. In Brasilia, in addition to an unscheduled meeting at the UK Embassy with Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Hurd was surprised at the Ministry of Mines and Energy when he learned that the privatization program for the Brazilian electric power sector is based on the British model that was implemented four years ago. "The model is being examined for use in Brazil," the ambassador said. He added: "The point is the transmission, how the private sector will engage in power transmission. We agreed to send more information from here for the final phase of the Brazilian privatization program in the electric power sector." Hurd's visit gave new momentum to some bilateral agreements. The double taxation and investment protection agreements are very close to being concluded and signed. Next week, from 20 to 22 April, a Brazilian delegation will come to London to talk about the guarantees for pound sterling investments. "It is an agreement that we are negotiating with six or seven countries, like Chile, Korea, Germany, Switzerland, and France," Rubens Barbosa explained. The agreement was prompted by the lack of formal protection, which has prevented major investments. This is what Brazil is trying to avoid.
