FBIS3-4144 "drchi059_a_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General PRC `Strongly Opposes' Internal Affairs Interference OW2503153894 Beijing XINHUA in English 1513 GMT 25 Mar 94 OW2503153894 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Paris, March 25 (XINHUA) -- Zhu Qizhen, head of the Chinese delegation attending the 91th session of the Inter-Parliamentary Union here, stressed today that China strongly opposes any interference in its internal affairs under any pretext. He was referring to the issue of human rights and added that China will hold dialogue about any of these issues on an equal footing with any other nation. At a general debate about the political, economic and social situation of the world, Zhu said that any statement or action which interferes in another country's internal affairs should be condemned. He pointed out that the Chinese Government has advocated on many occasions the establishment of a just and reasonable new international political and economic order with peace and stability. "Such an order is based on the five principles of peaceful co-existence and recognition of the diversity of the world's nations," he added. He said China maintains that in the new international political order, countries should respect one another, cooperate on an equal footing, oppose hegemonism and power politics, settle their problems through peaceful negotiation, dialogue and consultation and refrain from the use or threat of use of force. Zhu said with the world ushering in a transition towards multipolarity, conflicts and problems hidden in the previous bipolar structure have become aggravated and hegemonism and power politics in international relations are on the increase. He warned that the world is still turbulent and beset with many destabilizing factors. Zhu stated that China maintains that all countries, big or small, rich or poor, should respect one another, participate in handling international economic affairs as equal members of the international community and develop their economic relations and trade in accordance with the principle of equality and mutual benefit. He also said China will never seek hegemonism or become a super power and it does not, and will not, station a single soldier in any other country, adding that China will be a lasting force in keeping world peace instead of posing a threat to other countries. Zhu stressed that no matter what changes take place in the world, China will adhere to its current foreign policy and continue to develop friendly cooperation with other countries on the basis of the five principles of peaceful co-existence. The meeting, which began on March 21 and is scheduled to end on Saturday, focuses on preventing conflicts, peace-keeping, protecting the international environment and the international political, economic and social situation.
