FBIS3-16093 "drsov049_a_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev Meets With 'Arafat LD1203074094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0640 GMT 12 Mar 94 LD1203074094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Text] Rabat, 12 Mar (ITAR-TASS) -- "Yasir 'Arafat has confirmed the firm adherence of the Palestinian Liberation Organization to the peace process and has stressed that the PLO is committed to resuming the talks" with Israel, Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs Andrey Kozyrev has reported. He made the statement in Tunis on the results of the meeting with the chairman of the PLO Executive Committee. During the meeting Yasir 'Arafat was handed a personal message from Russian Federation [RF] President Boris Yeltsin. Kozyrev pointed out that the decision of the Palestinian side demanded great political courage on the part of the PLO and of Y. 'Arafat personally. The Palestinian leadership is counting on the swift and complete carrying out of the resolution, the draft of which was drawn up at the UN Security Council in connection with the massacre at El-Khalil, the head of the RF foreign political department noted. The PLO is hoping that Russia and the United States as co-founders of the Arab-Israeli peace talks will guarantee the implementation of this document. In the opinion of the Russian minister, the priority task at the present time is the fastest possible implementation of the Palestinian-Israeli agreement on the Gaza sector and Jericho, which was signed in Washington in September last year. Russia, stressed A. Kozyrev, will promote the implementation of the provisions of this agreement and the UN Security Council resolution as far as possible, "which everyone is expecting". The Russian side is also in favor of the resumption of the talks between all the Arab states and Israel for the purpose of acceleratingn progress towards an agreement in all the directions of the dialogue, Kozyrev stated. He said that he intended to discuss the question of the role of the co-founders of the Near East peace process at the forthcoming stage during the meeting which is soon to take place with U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher in Vladivostok.
