FBIS4-36481 "drnes111_l_94018" FBIS-NES-94-111 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 ISRAEL Defense Ministry Wants Funds for Gaza Fence Defense Ministry Wants Funds for Gaza Fence TA0706184494 Tel Aviv DAVAR in Hebrew 7 Jun 94 p 1 TA0706184494 Tel Aviv DAVAR Hebrew BFN [Report by On Levi] [Text] Without an additional allocation of 300 million shekels, it will be impossible to complete the Gaza Strip fencing work. Senior defense establishment officials said this yesterday in a special meeting held in the defense minister's bureau attended by the prime minister and finance minister. According to the security officials, the lack of funds prevents progress in the work and approval for the additional funds is essential now. The discussion was not completed yesterday; treasury officials are slated to give their reply early next week. In a special session convened in Rabin's bureau in Tel Aviv, the heads of the defense establishment -- Chief of Staff Baraq, Defense Ministry Director General David 'Ivri, and Brigadier General Mikha'el Navon, the chief of staff's financial adviser -- presented their additional budgetary requests to Finance Minister Shohat, Budget Department head David Brodet, and Accountant-General Re'uven Kokolevich. Senior defense establishment sources say the sum required is approximately 300 million shekels, stemming from the high costs of Operation Rainbow -- the IDF [Israel Defense Forces] redeployment plan in Gaza and Jericho. So far, the defense establishment has received an additional allocation of 200 million shekels, based on the understanding that there will be no more financial requests for the redeployment. The costs of Operation Rainbow, however, have grown immensely, and now an additional 300 million shekels are necessary for financing additional portions of the fence surrounding the Qatif Bloc settlements and the fence surrounding the Gaza Strip. The participants did not enter details concerning the additional budget required, but rather presented it in general terms. Rabin and Shohat agreed that joint Defense Ministry and Finance Ministry teams review the defense establishment's request over the next few days and will submit their conclusions early next week.
