FBIS4-48243 "drafr094_c_94019" FBIS-AFR-94-094 Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA * Future of White Cultural Heritage Questioned * Future of White Cultural Heritage Questioned * Editorial Response to Serote 94AF0161B Johannesburg BEELD in Afrikaans 16 March 94 p 10 94AF0161B Johannesburg BEELD Afrikaans CSO [Unattributed article: "Cultural Danger"] [Text] The cultural attitude of the ANC, as expounded in an interview with BEELD, is most disturbing and should incite all cultural organizations to take action. For it represents a school of thought that endangers the free exercise of culture. It is also a disavowal of principles in the new constitution. Wally Serote, the ANC cultural leader, says that organizations that exclude those who are not members of a certain racial or language group--such as the Messengers, the Junior Messengers, and the Dynamic Young Ladies--will not be tolerated in a new South Africa under an ANC government. Their days are numbered, for this is discrimination. We should like to refer Mr. Serote to Article 3 of the new constitution. This deals with fundamental rights and declares among other things that: "Every person has the right to freedom of association." This simply means that one has the right to associate with other people, a woman with other women, an Afrikaner with other Afrikaners, a Zulu with other Zulus, etc. Of course, groups will also have the right to be formed along language lines. This has nothing to do with degrading discrimination, but everything to do with the right of people to protect and expand their own cultural inheritance. To the best of our knowledge, all Afrikaner cultural organizations (except those of the rightists) are in the process of eliminating racial restrictions, so that such discrimination no longer exists. The Serote standard would imply that Jewish organizations must close their doors, that a male chorus can no longer exist (discrimination against women!), that the hundreds or thousands of women's clubs in the country are inappropriate, etc. What absurdity! And what a weakening of cultural distinctions will it not indicate! If this is the kind of thinking that is at the heart of the ANC, the entire cultural life of the nation is threatened. Such a policy has the potential of turning South Africa into another Bosnia--far more than do any other controversial ANC policies such as nationalization, for example.
