FBIS4-1376 "drafr082_a_94002" FBIS-AFR-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Burundi Kanyenkiko Urges End to Ethnic Differences Kanyenkiko Urges End to Ethnic Differences EA2704170794 Bujumbura Radio-Television Nationale du Burundi Radio in French 1100 GMT 27 Apr 94 EA2704170794 Bujumbura Radio-Television Nationale du Burundi Radio French BFN [Text] Prime Minister Anatole Kanyenkiko met today at the Meridien Hotel with provincial governors or their representatives. Four items were on the agenda, including security. Marie-Jose Niyonzima reports: [Niyonzima] The security situation, refugee repatriation, the primary and secondary school situation, and the provincial administration of security in Bujumbura -- where the civilian population illegally possesses many weapons: These were the topics that Prime Minister Anatole Kanyenkiko and Interior Minister Jean- Baptiste Manwangari based their speeches on. They each recalled the government's position concerning disarmament, a policy which will be pursued up to provincial level. They also discussed the recently failed coup d'etat and its continuing investigation. Burundi has a high number of refugees who are called upon to live together with others, but who are faced with the problems of food, shelter, and health. The prime minister believes provincial governors with territory bordering Rwanda must play a large role in reestablishing trust among the people. The most important recommendations for the governors are ending suspicion between the security forces and the population, and placing themselves above ethnic groupings and partisanship. Governors must head an administration where all levels of the population are involved. Since the nation must survive despite its current crisis, the resumption of economic activity is imperative. The prime minister suggested that schools which are still sheltering displaced people release them, so as to allow the resumption of classes. However, the problem is returning people to their homes when their houses have been burned down or demolished.
