FBIS4-18604 "drweu067_h_94016" FBIS-WEU-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 Germany Media Union Threatens Organized Warning Strikes Media Union Threatens Organized Warning Strikes AU0604162394 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT in German 6 Apr 94 p 1 AU0604162394 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT German BFN ["df" report: "Organized `Warning Strikes' in Numerous Newspaper Companies"] [Text] With organized warning strikes in numerous newspaper enterprises, the Media Trade Union wants to force the employers of the printing industry to negotiate on their basic wage demands and to make concessions regarding the collective wage agreement. The negotiations on both collective agreements have failed. The duty to maintain industrial peace resulting from the collective wage agreement ends on 30 April, but the duty under the basic wage agreement has already expired. Today, Wednesday, Professor Dr. Heinrich Reiter, chairman of the FRG Social Court, will try to mediate in Frankfurt. The mediation proceedings will be very complicated and presumably lengthy because a solution has to be found for the basic wage agreement, the collective wage agreement, and the employers' employment initiative. An escalation of the industrial action of the Media Trade Union has to be expected. The chairman of the district of North Rhine-Westphalia stated that one is prepared for months of industrial action if no progress is made in the mediation process. In North Rhine-Westphalia alone, altogether 52 printing and newspaper companies were hit by several strikes in the past few weeks. Almost all major dailies were affected by them. The Media Trade Union has announced that it wants to involve additional staff in the industrial action every day. The Media Trade Union calls for a 5-percent wage increase. The employers have stated that they are striving neither for a zero- nor for a minus-wage round. They are prepared to increase the wages if this is connected with an employment initiative -- that is, a 37-hour week with a corridor for longer and shorter working hours -- the inclusion of Saturday in the regular working hours, compensation for overtime by time off without any premium, and, for two years, a 10-percent wage reduction for newly employed unemployed who are older than 50 years. Thus, this wage model is largely oriented according to the model of the previous wage agreements of this year, whose precedent the Media Trade Union, however, does not want to recognize, despite the bad economic situation of the printing industry. The employers' preparedness for lockouts as an answer to strike actions of the trade union is regarded as an unknown wage policy factor in this wage round.
