FBIS3-27628 "drchi038_p_94011" FBIS-CHI-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Central-South Region Guangdong To Increase Controls Over Economy HK2402035594 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 24 Feb 94 p 11 HK2402035594 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Daniel Kwan] [Text] Guangdong will try to maintain its competitive edge by imposing more, not less, control over the economy, according to its Executive Vice-Governor, Lu Ruihua. Contrary to popular belief that Guangdong will further dismantle the "birdcage" imposed by Beijing over the operation of the economy, Mr Lu said the province would stay in tune with the central authorities in the next round of reform. In financial reform Guangdong will seek to establish an overseas Chinese bank and a provincial bank. Guangdong shared much of the same policies with other provinces in areas such as restrictions on foreign financial institutions, control over the retail market, and a state monopoly over the telecommunications industry. Mr Lu defended Beijing's latest reform measures on tax revenue and exchange rates, saying these policies would help set a level playing field for all competitors. Guangdong, according to the Vice-Governor, was still special because it had a better economic foundation more experience in the operation of a market economy and close proximity to Hong Kong. "Central versus regional", and "liberalisation versus controls", are two major themes dominating the Eighth Guangdong People's Congress. While many congress delegates urged the provincial government to Strike a better deal with Beijing over issues such as taxation and banking reform, an equally large contingent demanded a more aggressive government in dealing with inflation. Although Mr Lu admitted Guangdong was haunted by inflation, he said this was the price the province had to pay in order to develop. "High-speed growth will always lead to a certain degree of inflation. But I believe this is better than keeping prices at a very low level and a stagnated growth rate. The question now is whether the government can adopt effective measures to keep price increases in check." These measures, according to the Vice-Governor, include strict control over capital investments and retail markets and increased supplies of staple products. He claimed these restrictive policies would not hurt foreign investors and promised no change to the five-year tax breaks promised in China's joint-venture law.
