FBIS3-55699 "drsov007_a_94028" FBIS-SOV-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Official Denies Rumors of Fighting on Cargo Ship LD1101094094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0244 GMT 11 Jan 94 LD1101094094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Valentin Vasilets] [Text] Ottawa, 11 Jan -- "Khudozhnik Pakhomov," a Russian container vessel, unexpectedly called on Monday at the port of St. John's, Newfoundland, causing a wave of controversial reports on alleged dramatic events on board. The CBC television company reported in the morning, quoting police sources, that Canadian policemen and customs officials boarded the ship after learning that there had been a gun battle on board. At least one person was reported killed. Canadian Press agency reported, quoting its own sources, that two people had been killed and three wounded. It was alleged that the conflict began after stowaways had been found on board. However, representative of the Russian Federation marine fleet in Montreal, Nikolay Zharnakov, contacted on the phone by ITAR-TASS, categorically refuted these reports. He said that there had been no gun battle and no firearms on board, and of course there were no casualties or fatalities. Mr. Zharnakov added that "Khudozhnik Pakhomov" had been heading for Montreal, having taken part one week ago in the search for the crew of "Marika-7", a Greek vessel that had sunk in stormy seas 1,500 km off of Newfoundland. The container vessel, owned by the Baltic shipping line, had also been affected by the storm and its anchor had been damaged. The vessel had to head for the nearest port for repairs. As she was approaching St. John's, a stowaway, who had been hiding in the hold, emerged on deck. The captain called the police and customs in order to have the surprise "passenger" sorted out. A representative of St. John's customs service also confirmed in the evening that no dramas had happened on board. Police detained six stowaways who had penetrated the ship in a port in Europe. The customs official said three of the stowaways were Romanians, two Armenians, and one Russian. They all requested asylum.
