FBIS3-35528 "drnes038dd_94014" FBIS-NES-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Palestinian Affairs Palestinian Leaders Comments on Hebron Mosque Attack Knesset Member Comments NC2502145094 Cairo Arab Republic of Egypt Radio Network in Arabic 1255 GMT 25 Feb 94 NC2502145094 Cairo Arab Republic of Egypt Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Telephone interview with Israeli Knesset member 'Abd-al-Wahhab al-Darawshah by Muhammad Husayn in Cairo on 25 February; al-Darawshah's location not given; from "The World Around Us" program on 25 February --recorded] [Text] [Husayn] What do you think about the incident in Hebron earlier today and its effects on the peace process? [Al-Darawshah] The incident is tragic. Around 40 of our Palestinian sons were martyred in Hebron and adjacent areas. This incident, which was planned and was carried out by the extremist settlers, is chiefly aimed at torpedoing the peace process and at killing the largest number of our Palestinian people. This is a tragedy. The Israeli Government is responsible for this incident. The settlers are also responsible. I believe the consequences will be grave. I contacted Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin twice today and asked him to withdraw the army from Hebron and the Palestinian towns and to guarantee that the settlers do not enter the Palestinian areas. I also asked him to disarm the settlers, the thugs, who attack the Palestinians. Regrettably, the killings are continuing. The martyrs who fell in these past few hours were not killed by settlers' guns but by the army forces. [Husayn] What was Yitzhaq Rabin's response? [Al-Darawshah] Rabin said he was studying the issue and that he is in constant contact with the army. He said he instructed the army not to shoot to kill. But this response is not sufficient, because, regrettably, the killings are continuing. A curfew has been declared in Hebron and the adjacent area. But this is not normal, because the Palestinian people are entitled to demonstrate and to express their sorrow and pain for the incident. That is something natural. This is what I told Rabin during my discussion with him. I told him the Palestinian people have the right to demonstrate and to voice their anger and extreme pain. He must withdraw the army from the towns.
