FBIS3-51032 "drlat008_c_94011" FBIS-LAT-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 MEXICO Chiapas Crisis San Cristobal de las Casas Returning to Normal PA1101202794 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1900 GMT 11 Jan 94 PA1101202794 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1900 GMT 11 Jan 94 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Juan Manuel Pereyra; from the "At Noon" newscast] [Text] There are more evident signs that the situation is going back to normal here in San Cristobal de las Casas. In this town, located in the higher area of Chiapas, the troops were withdrawn from the main square, but strict vigilance continues by the military police, pardon me, the municipal police. Last night, after eight days in the dark, street lights were turned on. Traffic became normal since then. At noon, the Cardenist National Reconstruction Party began its presidential campaign, in the main square, which shows that the situation is returning to normal. Candidate Rafael Aguilar Talamante gave a speech expressing support for the people of Chiapas. He demanded that the struggle against the insurrection should not be used as a pretext to fight the true leaders of social struggle. I also want to report that the Special Autonomous Commission -- which consists of Senator Eduardo Robledo, writer Heraclio Cepeda, and anthropologist Andres Fabrega--is visiting Palenque to meet with social organizations seeking channels of communications that can lead to a solution for the armed conflict being experienced in this region. The commission members will arrive during the afternoon and will report on what they accomplished during the day. I also want to inform that Manuel Camacho Solis, the peace commissioner appointed by President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, is expected in Tuxtla Gutierrez at approximately 1400 and in San Cristobal between 1600 and 1700. We will find out about the details of his mission when he arrives here. There have been reports, however, about it through a news conference that Camacho Solis held in Mexico City. To conclude, I must inform you that air patrolling near the higher Chiapas region by Mexican Air Force aircraft is constant to fight rebels and prevent them from reaching towns. In the meantime, the garrison of the 7th Military Region in Rancho Nuevo is still harassed by the guerrillas who are executing sporadic attacks there.
