FBIS4-44191 "drweu124cc_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Corfu Summit Agrees on High-Speed Train Links Corfu Summit Agrees on High-Speed Train Links AU2706183294 Berlin DIE WELT in German 27 Jun 94 p 11 AU2706183294 Berlin DIE WELT German BFN [Report by Wilhelm Hadler: "Billions for European Transport"] [Text] Corfu -- Jacques Delors' White Book on Growth, Competitiveness, and Employment continues to be the major guideline for the European Union's [EU] economic policy. At the summit in Corfu at the weekend, the heads of state and government confirmed their view that the growth in production achieved up to the turn of the millennium must mainly be used for investments and for creating new jobs. The emerging economic recovery must not lessen efforts towards achieving structural adjustments. This aim, the summit's conclusion statements say, should "be realized in the spirit of solidarity and taking particular account of the weakest members of society." As expected, the "heads" agreed on a list of 11 priority traffic projects that are to be started or completed with the EU's support. These include high-speed train connections like the planned Brenner Axis, Verona-Munich going on to Nuremberg-Erfurt-Leipzig, and Berlin, as well as the western connection linking Paris-Brussels-Cologne-Amsterdam-London. The EU Commission estimates the required investment at 130 billion German marks. The member countries concerned have been asked to start immediately all the traffic projects whose preparation has progressed far enough and to begin all the others in 1996 at the latest. In the course of this, it will also be examined whether the "trans-European networks" can be extended to the Central and East European countries and the Mediterranean regions. Funding of the networks is to be decided on a case-by-case basis. "If necessary, measures will have to be adopted to make sure that priority projects do not face financial obstacles that might endanger their coming into existence." Should a project be threatened due to insufficient profitability, the Council, together with the Commission and the European Investment Bank (EIB), will immediately examine "suitable solutions" within the EU's financial planning possibilities. In the heads of governments' view, the challenges in the field of new information and communications technologies must, however, be created by private industry alone. But a permanent coordination body shall ensure that public and private agencies work in the same direction.
