FBIS3-18037 "drweu039__a94027" FBIS-WEU-94-039-A Document Type:Daily Report 28 February 1994 ANNEX United Kingdom CBI Predicts `Modest Growth' for British Economy PM2502133894 London FINANCIAL TIMES in English 24 Feb 94 p 13 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PM2502133894 London FINANCIAL TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [Emma Tucker report: "CBI Forecast Trims Hopes for Economy"] [Text] Manufacturers saw the best improvement in order books for four years in February, but have lowered their expectations for economic expansion. The Confederation of British Industry [CBI] yesterday joined most other economic forecasters in predicting that the economy was poised for only modest growth -- 2.3 per cent this year and 2.4 per cent next year. The CBI said the downward revisions from last November's forecasts -- 2.4 per cent and 2.8 per cent respectively reflected the expected impact of tax rises and cuts in public spending in the next two years. Meanwhile, its latest industrial trends survey showed that the net proportion of companies assessing order books as below normal is the least negative since September 1989. Some 19 per cent reported their books to be above normal, while 30 per cent said they were below. The negative balance of 11 per cent compares favourably with negative balances of 21 per cent and 36 per cent in January and February last year. Export order books are also significantly better than they were a year ago, although there has been no improvement since December, suggesting a rise in home demand. The survey, carried out between January 24 and February 16, covered 1,360 of the UK's biggest manufacturers, which account for about half of manufactured exports. It shows that slightly more companies expect to increase domestic prices in the next four months than to reduce them. The CBI expects inflation to reach 3.1 per cent by the end of this year and 3.7 per cent by the end of next year. The underlying measure which excludes mortgage interest payments -- will stay within the governments 1 per cent to 4 per cent target range, but nearer to the top end. Mr Sudhir Junankar, the CBI's associate director, said: "Last November's Budget introduced a more restrictive stance on personal taxation than we had previously anticipated. This has contributed to our downward revision of growth in national output." He added that the tax changes had altered the composition of economic growth. Consumer spending was now expected to rise moderately this year and next, but this would depend on individuals running down their savings to offset the slow growth in take-home pay. The CBI expects the balance of payments to stay flat this year at about 9.7bn pounds -- compared with 9.5bn pounds last year -- as recovery in continental Europe leads to a rise in exports. Unemployment will fall only slowly. It stressed that a big risk to the forecasts was uncertainty about the way in which the economy was likely to respond to the spring tax rises. Although the forecast assumes that consumer spending will continue to rise, the CBI pointed out that consumers could turn out to be more cautious than expected.
