FBIS4-1249 "drafr080_b_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-080 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 EAST AFRICA Eritrea Foreign Ministry Reviews Talks With Sudan Foreign Ministry Reviews Talks With Sudan EA2404183994 Asmara Voice of the Broad Masses of Eritrea in Tigrinya 1600 GMT 23 Apr 94 EA2404183994 Asmara Voice of the Broad Masses of Eritrea Tigrinya BFN [Statement issued by the Foreign Ministry in Asmara on 23 April] [Excerpts] It is obvious that the relations between the people of Eritrea and Sudan are historical and long standing. On the basis of this view, and believing that the government of the national salvation revolution of Sudan would place its national interest and the peace and stability of the region above all else, our relations with Sudan were very special before the independence of Eritrea. To further strengthen and develop these relations, we have been working jointly with the Sudanese Government. However, the National islamic Front of Sudan, from its political bases in Sudan, wished to control a force in Eritrea and formed a group called the Islamic Jihad of Eritrea in 1989. It continued to support this group until and after the independence of Eritrea. As the Government of Eritrea, we have placed those considerations regarding relations between the two nations above everything else and we hope that we will overcome the obstacles through communication and dialogue. We have made every effort to further strengthen and develop cooperation between the two peoples. It is true that we have noticed the positive role played by the Sudanese Government in controlling and containing the movements of this Eritrean group [Islamic Jihad], but since the middle of 1993 up to now this group has been carrying out its destructive activities, coming all the way from Sudan to collaborate with other groups from other regions. This new development compelled us to tell our people and the international community everything about this. So the main reason for the deterioration in relations was that the destructive activities which had been directed against Eritrea had been emanating from Sudan. [passage omitted] The practical implementation of the agreement reached will guarantee positive developments in relations between the two countries.
