FBIS4-31092 "dreeu108_h_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-108 Daily Report 4 May 1994 HUNGARY Horn Comments on Nomination, Coalition Horn Comments on Nomination, Coalition LD0406171494 Budapest Kossuth Radio Network in Hungarian 1600 GMT 4 May 94 LD0406171494 Budapest Kossuth Radio Network Hungarian BFN [Excerpts] The congress has elected Gyula Horn as its candidate for the post of prime minister. Kata Peli Nagy reports: [Nagy] Gyula Horn is the official MSZP [Hungarian Socialist Party] candidate for the post of prime minister. [passage omitted] Gyula Horn commented on his victory by saying: It was not I who applied for this post; I was nominated. In his closing speech, he said among other things that the party would have to maintain its current profile; the MSZP should remain a people's party, the party of Aunt Mary and Uncle Joe. The congress unanimously decided to call on the SZDSZ [Alliance of Free Democrats] to start coalition negotiations with them. The letter containing this request has already been sent to SZDSZ Chairman Ivan Petoe. [passage omitted] The letter also states that the similarities of the programs of the two parties offer favorable conditions for the establishment of the coalition. The letter contains those subjects which the MSZP would wish to negotiate; they would assess the economic situation, negotiate the strengthening of democratic institutions, discuss the urgent measures of the new government, talk about the personnel composition of the government and its mode of operation, and discuss political and legal guarantees. Gyula Horn announced that they were ready for a compromise on all the essential issues. The delegates, in their contributions earlier, called on the party and the party chairman to show greater tolerance and readiness to compromise. Gyula Horn too agreed with this. As he said: We cry and laugh together, we take the rap together, comrades. Should the MSZP receive a favorable reply from the SZDSZ, coalition negotiations could begin at the start of next week.
