FBIS3-11543 "drlat056_t_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 Venezuela Defense Minister Says FAN Ready To Face Any Contingency PA2203164094 Caracas EL DIARIO DE CARACAS in Spanish 20 Mar 94 p20 PA2203164094 Caracas EL DIARIO DE CARACAS Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [All quotation marks as published] [Text] In order to dispel doubts and foster confidence in the country, Defense Minister General Rafael Montero Reverte has said that with their current plans, the National Armed Forces [FAN] are prepared to handle any contingency that may arise in the nation. This was the ranking officer's response to statements made by Brigade General Gonzalo Vargas Ortiz, chief of planning and budget of the Defense Ministry, who, when asked by the Finance Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, replied that the FAN needed an overall budget because its military capacity was collapsing, and this influences the country's security. "That is one official's opinion, not the FAN's opinion," Montero Reverte indicated. The defense minister also made comments on a report published in a Caracas daily stating a group of officers are meeting to discuss the country's problems and are being investigated by the Directorate of Military Intelligence, DIM. The minister indicated the Constitution, its Charter Law, and the will of all the military ban politics within the FAN. When we enter the military, we voluntarily sign a statement saying we do not want to be politicians or decision makers. There is not going to be politics in the garrisons," he added. Commenting on the dismissal of charges against coupist officers, he said that neither the Defense Ministry, the Miraflores Palace, nor the military justice had stopped it. He denied there is a state of alert from the fear of a Colombian guerrilla invasion since the FAN has the plans and personnel, including three task forces that operate on the border and coordinate with the Colombian Army. He concluded by saying that studies are being done along the border to increase guard posts, and announced that the Army and the National Guard are building 10 posts.
