FBIS3-30628 "dreeu025_r_94010" FBIS-EEU-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 ROMANIA UDMR Deputy Claims Home Looted, Ransacked AU0502200494 Bucharest ROMANIA LIBERA in Romanian 2 Feb 94 p 9 AU0502200494 Bucharest ROMANIA LIBERA Language: Romanian Article Type:BFN [Report by Ana Maria Vintan: "The Home of Sandor Konya-Hamar, Secretary of the Chamber of Deputies, Has Been Ransacked"] [Text] On Friday, 29 January, between 1200 and 1600, the Cluj apartment of the secretary of the chamber of deputies, [and Cluj deputy on behalf of the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania -- UDMR, Sandor] Konya-Hamar was looted and ransacked in a rather unusual way. The way in which the thieves operated and the nature of the objects stolen made the UDMR deputy draw the conclusion that it was "a perfectly organized action of intimidation." From among the valuable things that would have sold well, the thieves selected only a few pieces of jewelry, although they could have also stolen a fur coat, a large golden watch, a number of other valuable things, as well as brand new audio and video equipment. However, they did bother to steal a great number of documents and audio and video tapes belonging to Mr. Konya-Hamar, the contents of which was related to events in his political and parliamentary life. For instance, they stole the parliamentary diary he wrote over 1992-93, as well as recordings of a number of discussions held by Mr. Konya Hamar with various personalities, among whom figure Vaclav Havel and [former Romanian minister for culture and opposition figure] Andrei Plesu. The secretary of the chamber of deputies has been receiving threatening phone calls recently, and although he notified the telephone company requesting that they monitor the incoming calls, he has not received any concrete answers. As the violation of the apartment has been reported to the police, the latter -- considering that Konya-Hamar is a member of parliament -- should notify the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Interior, and the Chamber of Deputies. However, no official report on the incident was sent to Chamber of Deputies Speaker Adrian Nastase by Monday [31 January] at 1600.
