FBIS4-19805 "drweu078__a94009" FBIS-WEU-94-076-A Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 ANNEX Germany Kinkel: `Basic Agreement' to U.S. Bosnian Initiative Kinkel: `Basic Agreement' to U.S. Bosnian Initiative AU2204070794 Hamburg DPA in German 2136 GMT 21 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2204070794 Hamburg DPA German BFN [Text] Washington (DPA) -- FRG Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel has indicated the possibility that NATO might extend a ban on heavy weapons -- along the line of the Sarajevo model -- only to Gorazde and not to all safe areas in Bosnia. "It could be that first a decision will be made in connection with Gorazde," Kinkel said on Thursday evening [21 April] after talks in Washington with his U.S. counterpart Warren Christopher and U.S. National Security Adviser Anthony Lake. In addition, the minister expressed doubts about U.S. ideas of tightening sanctions against Serbia. He has "announced doubts that we can further tighten the screw," Kinkel said, referring to the effects of the sanctions on countries such as Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania, and Macedonia [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia -- FYROM]. On Wednesday, U.S. President Bill Clinton had suggested a united course against the Bosnian Serbs to bring them back to the negotiating table and to save the Muslim enclave of Gorazde. The United States wants to win over the Western allies and Russia for banning heavy weapons in the surroundings of the other five UN safe areas, following the example of Sarajevo. Otherwise, the Serbs must expect NATO air raids. Kinkel stressed the "basic agreement" to the U.S. Bosnian initiative. In addition to the military plans, it is absolutely necessary to push ahead the political process and to include Russia. He assessed the Russian suggestion of a summit with restraint. Such a conference should be held only if success is relatively certain, Kinkel said. Apart from Bosnia, Germany's presidency in the European Union, which begins on 1 July, was one of the focal points of Kinkel's talks. He announced close cooperation with the Americans in the fields of environmental protection, combating crime, drug trafficking, and terrorism, as well as disarmament.
