FBIS3-26558 "drchi027_m_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 Military Provinces Hold Forums on Double-Support Work Hunan Holds Forum HK0702150594 Changsha Hunan People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 3 Feb 94 HK0702150594 Changsha Hunan People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Text] Yesterday morning [3 February], the provincial party committee and government held a forum for provincial party, government, and military leaders, leaders of the armed forces units stationed in Hunan, leaders of the Changsha City CPC Committee, and comrades in charge of the relevant provincial departments. They gathered to discuss the close relations between soldiers and civilians, as well as double-support work. Provincial party Secretary Wang Maolin chaired and addressed the forum. He said: Hunan was an important place of origin for the founding of the Chinese armed forces and was the native place of our great leader, Chairman Mao. It has always had the fine tradition of supporting the Army and giving preferential treatment to the families of soldiers and martyrs, and of supporting the government and cherishing the people. Both in the revolutionary war years and in the period of peaceful construction, the Hunan people have united with the People's Army, shared weal and woe with it, and established deep feelings with it. In recent years, officers and soldiers stationed in Hunan have developed the fine tradition of supporting the government and cherishing the people, have taken an active part in the province's spiritual and material civilizations, and have made major contributions to maintaining social order, providing relief aid to disaster-stricken areas, helping the poor, carrying out key construction projects, and invigorating Hunan. Wang Maolin stressed these three points: First, double-support work should be taken as a major matter that has an important bearing on the overall situation and should be done well. Second, focusing on economic construction, we should carry out double-support work and the activity of building civilized units and villages. Third, it is necessary to serve the construction of the armed forces wholeheartedly. Provincial party deputy secretary and Governor Chen Bangzhu also spoke at the forum.
