FBIS4-20248 "drweu083_e_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-083 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Iran Receives `Stern Warning' on IRA Contacts Iran Receives `Stern Warning' on IRA Contacts LD2804121994 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 1113 GMT 28 Apr 94 LD2804121994 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By Sian Clare, PRESS ASSOCIATION lobby correspondent] [Text] Britain today issued a stern warning to Iran that it must have no contact with the IRA. Iran's charge d'affaires Gholam Reza Ansari was summoned to see Foreign Office [FO] Minister Douglas Hogg following reports that Tehran's spies have been secretly helping the terrorists. After the 10-minute showdown at the Foreign Office, a FO spokesman said: "We are convinced that there have been contacts between Iranian intelligence and the IRA. We take the gravest view of any contact which might assist or encourage terrorism. Mr. Hogg summoned the Iranian charge to convey our concern and to request an assurance at senior level that contact would be immediately and conclusively severed." Britain believes contacts have been going on for some time and it is clear measures will be taken against Tehran if today's warning has no effect. Relations between the two countries are already sour following the late Ayatollah Khomeyni's death order on author Salman Rushdie over his controversial book, The Satanic Verses. Britain and Iran do not have full diplomatic relations, with only an Iranian charge d'affaires in London, instead of an ambassador. But Britain is unlikely to break off all diplomatic relations with such an important Middle East country and will be reluctant to impose sanctions. The Iranian embassy refused to comment on today's events. The Government is believed to be concerned that Iran was planning to supply money and arms to the IRA. Later, Mr. Ansari told ITN's Lunchtime News that his meeting with Mr Hogg was very friendly. "I was informed about their concern. I am sure it is not right, but I will be in contact with my country -- definitely it is not right."
