FBIS4-17481 "drsov079_f_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-079 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 National Affairs Lanovyy Outlines Stance on Current Issues Lanovyy Outlines Stance on Current Issues LD2404221994 Kiev UNIAR in Ukrainian 2000 GMT 24 Apr 94 LD2404221994 Kiev UNIAR Ukrainian BFN [Text] Kharkov, 24 Apr -- Former vice prime minister Volodymyr Lanovyy said at a news conference on 23 April: "My candidacy for the post of Ukrainian president at the forthcoming elections is supported by Rukh [Ukraine People's Movement for Perestroyka], the Ukrainian Republican Party, the Democratic Party of Ukraine, the Party of Social Justice, the Green Party, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, and the Peasants Party of Ukraine." Leonid Kuchma, whom Volodymyr Lanovyy considers not to be a strategist, has the highest rating among the contenders for the presidential seat and this is caused exclusively by the "empty stomachs of Ukrainian citizens." Mr. Lanovyy said that it is planned to create a new parliamentary faction in the new Supreme Council which would unite the political forces of the center right and center left as well as part of the party of power that is market-oriented. The basis for such a faction would be formed by nonparty democratic deputies. In the event of an understanding on the part of market-oriented deputies, the size of such a faction could be 130-150 persons. Mr. Lanovyy noted that with regard to carrying out market reforms, the new composition of people's deputies would be more liberal than the old one. Mr. Lanovyy's position concerning the Black Sea Fleet is: "The transfer of part of the Black Sea Fleet is a transfer of bases and therefore of the infrastructure, i.e. of territory. Apart from that, it is unwise and even criminal to settle economic debts with means of defense." The former vice prime minister expressed support for a parliamentary republic as the best form of statehood for Ukraine. A strong, and even tough presidential power should exist in the transitional period. Personally, Mr. Lanovyy would immediately combine two posts: those of the president and the prime minister.
