FBIS4-21617 "jptnd009___94004" JPRS-TND-94-009 JPRS PROLIFERATION ISSUES 5 April 1994 EAST ASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS MINJU CHOSON Demands Removal of ROK Research Center MINJU CHOSON Demands Removal of ROK Research Center SK0504045094 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0444 GMT 5 Apr 94 SK0504045094 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN [Text] Pyongyang, April 5 (KCNA) -- The Kim Yong-sam group must ponder over the consequences to be entailed by its development of nuclear weapons stepped up behind the facade of a nuclear row against the fellow countrymen and remove its heavy water reactor and multi-purpose research reactor before it is too late, says a MINJU CHOSON analyst today. The news analyst goes on: The puppets' nuclear row is aimed at hurling abuses and slanders at the DPRK to create the impression that its reactors are being used to develop nuclear weapons. However, it is the pressurized heavy water reactor (PHWR) in Wolsong and the multi-purpose research reactor in Taedok, South Korea, not the graphite moderated reactor in the North, that are actually being used to develop nuclear weapons on the Korean peninsula. The South Korean puppets has stockpiled spent nuclear fuel containing more than ten tons of plutonium obtained through the PHWR and the multi-purpose research reactor they put into operation for the purpose of development of nuclear weapons. It will increase to twenty-four tons by the year 2000. Referring to the aim sought by the Kim Yong-sam group in raising a hue and cry over the fictitious "North's nuclear problem," the analyst says: The puppets seek in this to create the impression that the North is developing nuclear weapons and thus mislead public opinion and find an excuse for keeping the U.S. troops and nuclear weapons in South Korea. At the same time, they intend to use their nuclear row as a smokescreen for covering up their own nuclear arms development, while pretending to have any concern for a solution of the nuclear issue. If they are really interested in a solution of the nuclear issue, they must stop taking issue with the fellow countrymen in a far-fetched manner and demand the withdrawal of U.S. nuclear weapons from South Korea. And they must discontinue their nuclear row, immediately give up their own nuclear arms development and prove this through the elimination of the PHWR in Wolsong and the multi-purpose research reactor in Taedok.
