FBIS4-25363 "drchi111_v_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-111 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 TAIWAN Mandela Assures Li `Ties Will Remain Strong' Mandela Assures Li `Ties Will Remain Strong' OW0806130294 Taipei CNA in English 0746 GMT 8 Jun 94 OW0806130294 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Sofia Wu] [Text] Taipei, June 8 (CNA) -- South Africa is not expected to cut its longstanding diplomatic ties with the Republic of China [ROC], the ROC ambassador to that country said Wednesday [8 June]. Testifying before the Legislative Yuan's Foreign Affairs Committee, Ambassador Lu said South African President Nelson Mandela personally assured President Li Teng-hui in May that the South African Government under his leadership will continue its formal ties with the ROC. Mandela met with Li in Pretoria on May 11 after he was sworn in as South Africa's first black president. Lu was present at the Li-Mandela meeting. During their 15-minute talk, Lu said, Mandela told Li not to worry about relations between the two countries. Mandela said his administration will follow the foreign policy adopted by the previous white minority governments and will continue its diplomatic ties with the ROC. Lu quoted Mandela as stressing that unless the ROC does something unfavorable to South Africa, Pretoria won't cut its official ties with Taipei. Mainland China is seeking to forge formal ties with South Africa. It, however, wants Pretoria to first cut its ties with the ROC. Lu said although the new South African Government is willing to develop ties with Beijing, it won't accept Beijing's conditions. The ROC has managed to improve its ties with the African National Congress, South Africa's current ruling party, Lu said, adding Taipei-Pretoria relations will remain solid in the years ahead. President Li attended Mandela's inauguration in May to signify ROC's determination to strengthen its cooperation with South Africa. After his meeting with Mandela, Li told overseas Chinese community leaders there that they can feel safe to "do big business" in South Africa as Taipei-Pretoria ties will remain strong.
