FBIS4-37101 "drnes117_k_94003" FBIS-NES-94-117 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 IRAQ Kurd Factions Blame Each Other for `Massacre' Kurd Factions Blame Each Other for `Massacre' NC1606164594 Paris AFP in English 1256 GMT 16 Jun 94 NC1606164594 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Ankara, June 14 (AFP) -- The Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK) blamed rival Kurd leaders for the "massacre" of mourners at a slain rival's funeral in northern Iraq, in a statement received by AFP here on Thursday. The rival Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) had said PUK gunmen shot dead 51 people and wounded 40 more at the funeral of 'Uthman Qadir Munawwar, a KDP leader, in the town of al-Sulaymaniyeh on Monday. But the PUK charged Thursday that the KDP was to blame for the slaughter, saying it had been "determined to exploit the funeral to destabilise the situation in the town." The PUK statement said two grenades were thrown in the direction of PUK fighters and mourners at Munawwar's funeral, provoking an exchange of gunfire between the rival factions which killed 14 people and wounded 46 more. An initial toll from a UN source Monday had said seven people were killed and 47 wounded. Munawwar was killed near the Iranian border during fighting between the KDP and the PUK, which have been locked in a violent power struggle since early last month. The KDP said in a statement Tuesday that PUK fighters shot "without any warning," and that women and children were among the victims. It said it was "shocked by this appalling massacre" in al- Sulaymaniyeh, a PUK stronghold. The PUK called for "the immediate launch of an independent inquiry into this tragedy to bring those responsible to justice." The shooting took place on the same day as the rival KDP and PUK leaders, Mas'ud Barzani and Jalal Talabani respectively, met in the Turkish border town of Silopi to discuss ways to end the fighting. About 100 people have been killed in the PUK-KDP showdown in northern Iraq, which is controlled by Kurds with the backing of a US-lead coalition and in defiance of Baghdad, according to independent sources. The Iraqi opposition has said the fighting claimed more than 600 lives.
