FBIS3-7180 "dreas058_a_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Hosokawa Urged Not To Impose DPRK Sanctions OW2503122294 Tokyo KYODO in English 1105 GMT 25 Mar 94 OW2503122294 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 25 KYODO -- The leader of the biggest party in Japan's seven-party coalition urged Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa on Friday [25 March] not to go along with a multilateral move to slap economic sanctions on North Korea. Social Democratic Party Chairman Tomiichi Murayama said he pushed the request in a meeting Friday with Hosokawa at the premier's official residence. "I told the premier that even the U.N. Security Council would not be able to reach an agreement (to impose the sanctions) easily," he told reporters as he stepped out of the room where he held talks with Hosokawa. "I asked the premier to respond cautiously regarding the North Korean matter," Murayama said. He quoted Hosokawa as replying to him on the spot, "it may be so." The premier's remark came one day after he told South Korean President Kim Yong-sam, "if the U.N. Security Council adopted a resolution (to impose economic sanctions), Japan will take a responsible step (to comply with the resolution) within the boundary of the Constitution." Vice Foreign Minister Kunihiko Saito told a lecture meeting Thursday the premier's vow to act in accordance with the Constitution implies Japan's readiness to revise laws to impose economic sanctions. The United States has been asking Japan to block the annual flow of cash remittances to North Korea from the pro-Pyongyang Korean community, whose size Japanese intelligence reportedly estimated at 180 to 200 billion yen. The SDP, which has long maintained friendly ties with the (North) Korean Workers' Party, has consistently balked at Japan's possible participation in the economic sanctions. The U.N. Security Council is now sketching out a resolution following Thursday's report to it by Hans Blix, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, that Pyongyang broke its vow to allow its inspectors to take samples of radioactive materials from its suspected nuclear arms facilities.
