FBIS3-53132 "drnes008_a_94005" FBIS-NES-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria Former Official Urges Participation in Talks LD1101153894 Algiers Radio Algiers Network in Arabic 1200 GMT 1 Jan 94 LD1101153894 Algiers Radio Algiers Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Retired Colonel Ahmed Bencherif [former minister of irrigation and former member of National Liberation Front politburo] has called on everybody to take part in the national dialogue and, speaking at a news conference, he described those who reject dialogue as being unpatriotic. Amal Meddah attended this news conference: [Meddah] Before that, I would like to inform you that following its recent meeting with the National Dialogue Commission [NDC] the Islamic Arab Rally held a news conference at the club of journalists and artists, at the radio station, this morning to inform public opinion about the proposals made by this party to the NDC. [Islamic Arab Rally leader] Ali Zeghdoud indicated that his party has detected a certain flexibility and moderation in the commission's position regarding other parties' views. He added that there was a development in the dialogue since everybody, the authorities and opposition alike, now believes in the dialogue and regards it as a means to come out of the crisis. We are, he said, advocates and supporters of dialogue. As for retired Colonel Bencherif, he said: If they entrusted me with the responsibility, I would manage to resolve the debt problem within three months and I would find a solution to the security problem, since I was previously in charge of security [as commander of the Gendarmerie], within six months provided that they accepted all my conditions. He added: Between 1963 and 1979, Algeria experienced five violent convulsions, but it never went through the bloodshed it is going through now. Bencherif seized this opportunity to ask [Higher State Council Chairman] Ali Kafi to release the political prisoners Abassi Madani [leader of the banned Islamic Salvation Front] and his colleagues. He also urged his friend Ait Ahmed [leader of the Socialist Forces Front; currently in Europe] to return to his country and participate in the dialogue. He also appealed to [FLN Secretary General] Mr. Mehri to attend the national conference and said in this respect: Anyone who does not take part in the dialogue is not a patriot.
