FBIS4-33418 "drlat109__a94009" FBIS-LAT-94-109-A Daily Report 4 Jun 1994 ANNEX Cuba Ibero-American Summit To Stress Science, Technology Ibero-American Summit To Stress Science, Technology PA0506040794 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 1608 GMT 4 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA0506040794 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [Report by Abel Sardina] [Text] Cartagena de Indias, 4 Jun (PL) -- Directors of scientific activities from 17 countries meeting here urged Ibero-American rulers to reinforce investment to "consolidate scientific and technological capacities." Following three days of debate in this Colombian city, participants think that scientific-technical consolidation is essential "due to the impact it has on improving competitiveness and employment in our economies, as well as the well-being of our society." The conference on sustained financing for technological investigation and development in Ibero-America approved the conclusions the previous day. These will be handed to the heads of state and government of Spain, Portugal, and the 19 countries of Iberic origin, which will meet here 14-15 June. "Sustained growth in public investment in innovation must be reinforced in order to consolidate the incipient modernization processes of the productive apparatus and to induce businesses to participate in the financing of these activities," the recommendations state, according to what was learned today by PRENSA LATINA. The directors of scientific, technological, and investigative activities also think that "the decisive participation of the three multilateral credit organizations is essential." Likewise, they recommended persisting in investigative and development efforts, "despite the macroeconomic limitations imposed by pressing social priorities." To this end they argued that, if this is not done, "the region's project to remain competitive in world trade and to use science to improve the people's conditions, can be seriously compromised." A press communique on the talks recognized Cuba's effort in training masses of professionals and investigators in basic sectors as "a notable example of what is sought" in this field. Cuba's Dr. Rosa Elena Simeon, minister of science, technology, and environment, speaking with PRENSA LATINA, thinks that Latin American countries do not have the technical-scientific base required to enter the free competition imposed by free trade and the GATT [General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade] agreements. The meeting also had representatives from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Spain, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, Portugal, and Venezuela.
