FBIS3-60347 "jpten002__l94005" JPRS-TEN-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 25 January 1994 EAST ASIA JAPAN Japan Environmental News Update (1-15 September 1993) MITI To Dispatch Environment Advisors to Developing Nations 946C3801E Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 5 Sep 93 p 3--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 946C3801E Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Complete text of article obtained through NIKKEI BIZ DATABASE] [Text] The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) is planning to expand its assistance to developing nations in the area of the environment. It has already included the creation of the "International Environment Advisor System" in its initial request for the FY94 budget, which is under negotiations with the Ministry of Finance. MITI will also expand on-going cooperation projects for desulphurization technologies in China. The International Environment Advisor System certifies and registers "Environment Advisors" among "Managers in Charge of Pollution Control," designated specialists with knowledge and technical backgrounds, in the private sector based on their experience in developing nations and language ability. They will be sent to developing nations to organize seminars for pollution prevention and to provide assistance and advice based on requests from such nations. Cooperation with developing nations through the dispatch of experts in environmental issues, such as pollution prevention, has already been implemented as part of private enterprise's social contribution. The International Environment Advisor System is intended to expand such efforts and establish a governmental system for human cooperation. The technological cooperation for desulphurization in China is intended to establish several simplified desulphurization testing facilities for low- quality coal with a high level of sulfur to prevent air pollution by coal- burning thermal power plants. The construction of the first such facility began in May in Qingdao, Shandong, with the Chinese side recently agreeing to a second facility to be established in Taiyuan, Shanxi. The project is expected to be completed by the year 2000, with a total budget of ¥7.3 billion. MITI plans to promote international cooperation further since "Environmental issues are not confined to Japan, as in the case of technological cooperation with China for desulphurization as a countermeasure to acid rain in the East Asia region" (Industrial Location and Environment Bureau).
