FBIS3-8186 "dreeu044_c_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Milan Uhde Discusses NATO, Integration AU0403164394 Prague RUDE PRAVO in Czech 24 Feb 94 pp 1, 14 AU0403164394 Prague RUDE PRAVO Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Article by Nada Adamickova: "Belgium Is Concerned About NATO's Operation"] [Text] Belgium has always strived to ensure that the North Atlantic Alliance functions well and, therefore, tries not to complicate its work. Although, on the one hand, it wants to open up this structure, it is, on the other, concerned that this step could complicate its operation. This statement was made by Ch. F. Nothomb, chairman of the Belgian Parliament's Chamber of Representatives, in response to a question from his Czech counterpart, M. Uhde (Civic Democratic Party), concerning the prospects for the development of the security structures. Nothomb added that the Western European Union is an excellent base for "the eventuality that has not yet arisen. Only after its shortcomings have been eliminated can the issue of its expansion come onto the agenda." The chairman of the Chamber of Representatives, in this context, asked M. Uhde whether the trend toward incorporation into European structures is the stance of the government majority alone or whether it is also the view held by the opposition. Uhde declared that this is the majority opinion, with the exception of part of the opposition. On Wednesday [23 February], during his official two-day visit to Belgium, the chairman of the Czech Parliament also met other deputies and senators. The two sides exchanged information on the functioning of a constitutional system. Deputies from the Benelux Interparliamentary Council, during their meeting with the Czech parliamentary delegation, expressed their confusion about the Czech Republic's attitude toward Visegrad. They commented on the fact that, while Hungary, Poland, and Slovakia support cooperation within the Visegrad Group, the stance of the Czech Republic is somewhat reserved. The Czech Parliament representatives said in response to this that our country has nothing against bilateral agreements; nevertheless, it is not enthusiastic about the formation of broad structures.
