FBIS3-39701 "drweu035__a94032" FBIS-WEU-94-035-A Document Type:Daily Report 22 February 1994 ANNEX Switzerland Federal Council Report on Foreign Policy Approved BR1002151894 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1049 GMT 9 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1002151894 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed BB: "Swiss Foreign Policy Report: No Unanimous Approval From Committee"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Bern, 9 Feb (ATS) -- The National Council's Foreign Policy Committee, chaired by Ernst Muehlemann [Radical Democratic Party, Canton of Thurgau], approved the Federal Council's report on Swiss foreign policy and the report on neutrality. However, approval was not unanimous: 17 votes to five. A minority requested that the report be sent back to the Federal Council with the article asking for European Union [EU] membership removed. According to a press release issued on Wednesday [9 February], the majority approved the government's global strategy. For domestic political reasons, however, a minority wanted the Federal Council to consider EU membership not as a goal, but as a possible solution depending on circumstances. Similarly, during the discussion on neutrality it was stated that this traditional rule must not be considered an end in itself but rather a means of defending the nation's interests. This maxim cannot remain inflexible if external circumstances change. As an initial success of the bilateral Swiss-EC negotiations, the committee cited the rapidly reached agreement on the rules of origin. The issue of what strategy to adopt in these negotiations was also raised. The committee expressed its support for the new coordinator, Secretary of State Jakob Kellenberger. Concern Over Events in Bosnia In light of the situation in Bosnia, the committee expressed its concern at the violent attacks on the civilian population. The committee condemned the massacre of 5 February in Sarajevo and the blatant and continued violation of the Geneva Convention. It demanded in the strongest terms that, despite attempts at "ethnic cleansing," a multicultural society be guaranteed in Sarajevo.
