FBIS4-21134 "jptdd016__l94013" JPRS-TDD-94-016-L JPRS Narcotics Reaction to the 1994 U.S. State Department International Narcotics Control Strategy Report 7 April 1994 LATIN AMERICA NICARAGUA Caldera Says Country `Has Made Progress' in Fighting Drug Caldera Says Country `Has Made Progress' in Fighting Drug Trafficking PA0704190494 Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 7 Apr 94 p 2 PA0704190494 Managua BARRICADA Spanish BFN [Report by Juan Jose Lacayo] [Text] National Police Chief Fernando Caldera said yesterday he did not have any details concerning a U.S. State Department report that charges Nicaragua has made little progress in its struggle against drug trafficking and money laundering. Nevertheless, Caldera said, "the Nicaraguan state has made progress in its fight against drug trafficking--a fight that started from nothing." Caldera indicated that in Nicaragua drug trafficking is a relatively new crime. The police chief said: "Drug consumption, particularly cocaine consumption, is a new element that has increased significantly in the past two years with trafficking." He said this kind of criminal activity has increased 116 percent. "These actions have increased significantly since 1993," the high-ranking police officer asserted. Nevertheless, Caldera explained that last year the National Assembly began discussing a draft drug fighting bill, which he termed modern. He also stressed that last year the government created the National Antidrug Commission, while police created the Narcotics Directorate. "We now have a higher level of coordination with the DEA and Central American police forces," Caldera remarked as he recalled that the amount of drugs confiscated has increased sharply. "We are not yet doing everything we can, but the foundations have been laid," he pointed out. Caldera explained that the U.S. DEA does not have an office in Managua, "but we maintain a close, cooperative relationship." He insisted a large publicity campaign will be needed to fight drug trafficking and consumption, but he warned that there will not be enough resources this year to undertake such a campaign. Caldera said he wants "all of us" in Nicaragua "to develop a social disapproval for those engaged in drug-related activities in order that these people do not acquire the levels of notoriety they have in other countries in which there is a certain status attributed to narcotraffickers." The police chief added there are abuses by some judges who lend themselves to the objectives of drug traffickers. "These are very rare cases, and they do not mean that everyone within the judiciary branch is in on it," he explained. In addition, Caldera admitted some policemen have been punished for collaborating with drug traffickers, and he reiterated that police organizations are determined to fight these crimes. The police chief said money laundering is an activity that is very easily detected in our country, although he admitted it might take place on a small scale in Nicaragua. "Dollars are laundered everywhere, even in the United States," Police Chief Caldera concluded.
