FBIS4-31202 "dreeu109_d_94009" FBIS-EEU-94-109 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 SLOVAKIA Small, Emerging States Seen as Market for Arms Small, Emerging States Seen as Market for Arms AU0606203794 Bratislava SMENA in Slovak 2 Jun 94 p 2 AU0606203794 Bratislava SMENA Slovak BFN [Interview with Defense Minister Pavol Kanis by Ivan Brozik; place and date not given] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] [Brozik] You are currently holding talks with an Indian delegation visiting Slovakia. What are the plans of your government department in that country? [Kanis] The Indian defense minister arrived on the basis of a cooperation plan, within the framework of previously concluded agreements. It is an official visit. Apart from holding talks on cooperation between the ministries of defense, the Indian guest will visit Slovak companies--[Tatra Sipox at] Banovce nad Bebravou, Konstrukta Trencin, ZTS [Heavy Engineering Works] Dubnica, ZTS Martin. Together, we will also pay a visit to the IDET exhibition in Brno. The Slovak exhibition will be our destination there. [Brozik] Your reply suggests that these international talks and activities might be aimed at the recovery of our arms industry, to a certain degree. [Kanis] I believe that the Slovak arms industry finds itself in its present problematic situation also because of the absence of an effective and sufficiently strong steering center in Slovakia. That is also why our manufacturers were unable to find their bearing when arms production was halted and the conditions for exporting arms deteriorated. The very change of the political line in the wake of the revolutionary changes did not have to bring about such a drastic weakening of arms production and such an enormous decline in arms exports. One only had to find one's bearing far more quickly and look for new customers. The number of potential new customers is fairly large. They are interested in weapons from Slovakia because of their quality and also because Slovakia, while being a small country, avails itself of a huge production potential. Many small countries are emerging in the world that are interested in building up an effective defense potential. In the long run, we have good chances in those countries.
