FBIS3-11441 "drlat055_i_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 Nicaragua FPI Sets 72-Hour Deadline for Leader's Release PA1903224694 Managua EL NUEVO DIARIO in Spanish 19 Mar 94 p 2 PA1903224694 Managua EL NUEVO DIARIO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Moises Castillo] [Text] Matagalpa -- The Leftist Punitive Forces, FPI, issued a communique in Matagalpa announcing that it will take up arms again because of the insecurity "we are experiencing" and because the Chamorro administration has sentenced top FPI leader Frank Ibarra Rojas. The FPI says that although Ibarra was given amnesty, he is now being sentenced to 20 years. "We are giving the government a 72-hour deadline to release our leader unconditionally. Otherwise, we will hold the executive responsible for whatever happens in the country after the deadline expires," they said. The FPI has also reported Commander Halcon missing and said they expect an answer from the government as to the whereabouts of that leader. Former Lieutenant Colonel Ibarra benefited from an amnesty decreed by the government at the time of his surrender. The courts, however, have revoked that ruling and sentenced Ibarra to 20 years for the death of Dr. Arges Sequeira Mangas, president of the National Association of Owners of Confiscated Property. The FPI staff also warned that it is in contact with all recompa forces to fight "this corrupt government, which starves the people and keeps them unemployed and in anguish." The FPI also demands that Jose Angel Talavera, alias El Chacal, be tried and sentenced for assassinating 211 of their Sandinist comrades. "He is not covered by the amnesty," they said. The FPI leaders called on Government Minister Alfredo Mendieta "to stop rewarding the murderers of the people." The document, distributed to the media, adds: "We laid down our weapons to contribute to peace, but the government is not honoring its word. It always violates the agreements it signs. The government is putting us behind bars and making us disappear. We will fight to help our people."
