FBIS4-13977 "drnes080_s_94014" FBIS-NES-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 Iran UK Arms Sales to Persian Gulf States Assessed UK Arms Sales to Persian Gulf States Assessed LD2504190994 Tehran IRNA in English 1751 GMT 25 Apr 94 LD2504190994 Tehran IRNA English BFN [Text] London, Apr. 25, IRNA -- After securing land and air arms deals with Persian Gulf states that are due to go on until the next century, the UK is now focusing on maritime defense equipment sales based again on invented fears of a so-called Iranian threat. According to Jane's sentinel editor, Paul Beaver, international submarine suppliers are rushing to exploit the fears. For example, he points out Britain's offering to rent to littoral states the first of four new upholder-class submarines decommissioned by the defense ministry. The sale pitch is apparently orchestrated around the false perception in the West of Iran's naval defense capability following the delivery to Iran of two Russian kilo-class conventional submarines last year. To give the drive more credibility, Western navies are said to have fitted their warships in the region with torpedo decoy equipment. The old adage about 50 percent of hydrocarbons used by industrial nations passing through the Hormuz Strait is also exploited to the hilt. The switch in emphasis to naval defense follows Britain's much-trumpeted arms sales in the Persian Gulf, which climaxed the biggest-ever "al-Yamamah deal" to Saudi Arabia and which has made the UK the world's second biggest arms exporter after the U.S. The British proposal to rent submarines was said by Beaver to include an experienced crew as a way of outbidding the French and Americans, who are also seeking to reap the benefits of the built-up feeling of maritime insecurity in the region. In a special report for this week's Middle East Economic Digest, Beaver quoted numerous Western defense companies bidding for contracts to supply Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE with a variety of submarines. Although budgets are tight in the Persian Gulf due to low oil prices, Beaver believed that there was little doubt that the need for security of oil platforms will ensure funding is found. He suggested that the first significant anti-submarine defence and surveillance systems could be expected in the Persian Gulf later this year.
