FBIS4-777 "drafr073_c_94020" FBIS-AFR-94-073 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Administrator Denies Report Administrator Denies Report MB1404200494 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1828 GMT 14 Apr 94 MB1404200494 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Report by A Thomson] [Text] Mmabatho April 14 SAPA -- Bophuthatswana Joint Administrator Tjaart van der Walt on Thursday [14 April] night refuted a report that the homeland was on the brink of going out of control. A South African Broadcasting Corporation [SABC] report quoted Dr van der Walt's co-administrator Mr Job Mokgoro as saying dissatisfied policemen in Mmabatho were demanding payment of their pensions, law and order was threatened and this month's elections could be affected. Reacting to rumours that some policemen loyal to the deposed government of Mr Lucas Mangope were threatening trouble during the elections, Mr Mokgoro said sentiments expressed at a meeting with policemen in Mmabatho on Thursday morning confirmed the possibility of loyalty to the old order. He said the Transitional Executive Council had been informed about the deterioration of the situation in the homeland. Dr van der Walt said he had attended the meeting with about 500 policemen and he had "not the least doubt" that the Bophuthatswana police were committed to being officers of the law, with responsibility to the community. After hearing the SABC report, Dr van der Walt continued, he had held talks with the acting commissioner of the Bophuthatswana Police and the acting chief of the Bophuthatswana Defence Force, as well as the officer commanding the South African Defence Force contingent in the territory. "They were unanimous that, of course, the situation in Bophuthatswana is volatile, but definitely not out of control," he said. "There are all kinds of political tensions and we are very much concerned about the efficiency of the public service but, for example, the crime rate is lower than it was a year ago. There is no need for panic." Regarding the elections, Dr van der Walt said: "If the public service isn't functioning effectively it will be difficult to have free and fair elections. However, we are sure the tide is turning." On Tuesday the Executive Council Task Force on the Public Service held talks with the joint administrators, and a council for administration was established in the homeland. "We are certainly making progress. Yesterday (Wednesday) morning I met (Dr) Frank Chikane of the Independent Electoral Commission and both of us don't have the least doubt we will have free and fair elections. "We still have to solve some problems, that we don't deny, but the situation has improved over the past few weeks." Dr van der Walt said he had not yet had the opportunity to discuss the SABC report with Mr Mokgoro.
