FBIS4-21716 "jptot014__l94016" JPRS-TOT-94-014-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 27 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA REGIONAL AFFAIRS EL TIEMPO Says Beltran Not at Cuban Guerrilla Summit EL TIEMPO Says Beltran Not at Cuban Guerrilla Summit Prosecutor Clarifies Evidence on Summit PA2803011294 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0800 GMT 27 Mar 94 PA2803011294 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Spanish BFN [From the ``NTC News'' newscast] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] Prosecutor General Gustavo de Greiff today clarified his office's position regarding the case of the bishop being in Cuba: [Begin recording] Reporter: De Greiff said this morning that his office has never been deceived. He explained that the Prosecutor General's Office has evidence -- evidence that includes testimonies and documents -- which proves a church representative was involved in a guerrilla summit in Havana, Cuba. De Greiff: Whether I should recant is not an issue here. The Prosecutor General's Office cannot base its opinion on anything but the evidence it has. As I told you, we have such evidence. Nevertheless, the evidence countering this evidence is respectable. We will have to compare their evidence to ours. As for the case of the bishop, we have decided that this not our responsibility. [end recording] De Greiff also said his evidence will have to be compared with the evidence of other investigative organizations to determine which is genuine. Meanwhile, the Prosecutor General's Office said Bishop Nel Beltran is not the person in question, as has been claimed from the very beginning. [Begin recording] Reporter: Is it necessarily Nel Beltran? De Greiff: Not necessarily. One piece of evidence involves a priest. Like I said, this is only one piece of evidence. The integrity of this evidence has yet to be determined. After comparing all of the evidence, the Prosecutor General's Office will present documents to the Ecclesiastical Tribunal, the organization in charge of investigating church representatives. [end recording]
