FBIS3-14695 "drnes061_m_94014" FBIS-NES-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 JORDAN Daily on PLO Stand on Talks, Clinton's Remarks JN2603124494 Amman AL-ASWAQ in Arabic 26 Mar 94 p 21 JN2603124494 Amman AL-ASWAQ Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Once Again: He Who Owns Nothing Gives To The Ones Who Do Not Deserve"] [Text] Did U.S. President Bill Clinton offer Jerusalem as a gift to Israel even before the end of the ongoing negotiations with the PLO over self-rule and before the start of negotiations on the final status of the occupied territories? We pose this question in view of Clinton's recent statements to Jewish leaders on his claimed belief in the need to keep Jerusalem as the united capital of Israel. President Clinton left such an issue to be decided during negotiations between the PLO and Israel on the final status of the occupied territories. However, the PLO, which agreed through the Oslo accord on a solution of unlinked phases, is now required to pause at the contents of Clinton's statements on Jerusalem, which, aside from its sanctity, also represents a large part of the West Bank area. If the PLO continues the negotiations while overlooking these statements, it will mean an implicit acceptance of a predetermined decision on the issue of occupied Jerusalem, even before negotiations on it begin. The PLO and all the concerned Arab and Islamic parties are required to stress what Jordan has repeatedly stressed -- that sovereignty over holy Jerusalem can only belong to Almighty God, and that if peace is to be achieved in this part of the world, Jerusalem should be a symbol of peace and a meeting point for the sons of the three monotheistic religions. Jewish hegemony over Jerusalem will only fuel conflict and instability. The continued Jewish insistence on clinging to Jerusalem as the united capital of Israel and the growing U.S. support for this direction should prompt the PLO -- which has shouldered the responsibility of negotiation over the issue of the West Bank territories occupied in the 1967 war, including Jerusalem -- to adopt a clear and sound stand on the issue of Jerusalem. Israel has repeatedly claimed Jerusalem is an inseparable part in tandem with increasing U.S. support for the annexation since the recent UN Security Council resolution in which the issue of Jerusalem was included. Washington had reservations over this issue and hence an agreement was reached to resume the negotiations despite these reservations and Clinton's statements on his belief that Jerusalem should remain united under Israel's control. Since we are still in the first stage of the negotiations, we, as Arabs and Palestinians, are required to return to the strongest form of coordination so that we will not leave the door open for the Arab parties to be isolated and so we do not end up with results such as those which surprised us in the secret Oslo negotiations and the well-known Washington accord.
