FBIS3-7430 "dreas060_m_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 Thailand Cambodian Foreign Minister Continues Visit `Difficulties' in Refugee Repatriation BK2703123094 Bangkok SIAM POST in Thai 27 Mar 94 p 11 BK2703123094 Bangkok SIAM POST Language: Thai Article Type:BFN [Text] A report from correspondents about the repatriation of Cambodian refugees who fled the fighting in Cambodia into Thailand's village of Ban Phakkat in Khlong Yai, Pong Nam Ron District, Chanthaburi Province, says that the Chanthaburi-Trat border task force completed the repatriation at about 1800 on 26 March. The mission was fraught with difficulties due to lack of familiarity with the roads and terrain. The repatriation of over 20,000 Cambodians who ran away from the fighting between the Cambodian Government and Khmer Rouge forces for control of Pailin in Battambang Province was made via Sap Tali town in Soi Dao District, Chanthaburi Province, about 40 km north of Ban Phakkat. The people were sent back in a convoy of military GMC trucks and 10-wheel trucks provided by Thai mine operators. Some traveled by their own motorcycles. The mission was reportedly carried out with difficulty due to the long journey and winding roads. Many vehicles overturned or had accidents. Some lost their way and missed the border crossing point. Speaking through interpreters, some Cambodians said they had to leave behind at Ban Phakkat some bulky belongings, such as power generators, television sets, video players, as well as motorcycles which had no gasoline. The people said they were returning with small valuables like jewelry and cash. Several pregnant women gave birth during the trip. Asked about food, the Cambodian people said they had no problem with a food supply because of the ample ration provided by Cambodian group leaders. Correspondents said the 563d Company of Thai Marine Rangers was responsible for moving the Cambodians from Ban Sap Tali to an area about 1 km inside the Cambodian border. The refugees would then cross the canal and be met by Khmer Rouge rear guards, who will check the refugees and take a head count. Regarding the evacuation of Pailin, there was a report that all civilian Cambodians had left Pailin. This included relatives of the Khmer Rouge leaders who had earlier left Pailin by cars and trucks. Those remaining in Pailin now are combatants who stand ready to resist the offensive by Cambodian Government troops.
