FBIS4-14586 "drsov063_a_94020" FBIS-SOV-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Yeltsin Representative on Moldovan-Dniester Talks Yeltsin Representative on Moldovan-Dniester Talks LD3103224194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1822 GMT 31 Mar 94 LD3103224194 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Boris Krivoshey] [Text] Moscow March 31 TASS -- A new strong impulse has to be given to attempts at political settlement in the Dniester region, Vladilen Vasev, plenipotentiary representative of the Russian president told ITAR-TASS in an exclusive interview. He returned the other day from a two-week-long tour of the republic of Moldova and Dniester region. Vasev met with Moldovan President Mircea Snegur, Parliament Speaker Petru Luchinski, Dniester leader Igor Smirnov and other officials. Russia is concerned about the lack of progress at the direct talks between Moldova and Dniester, which have been going on for about 18 months, he said. On the other hand, Moscow praises Moldova and the Dniester region for their readiness to come to a compromise at settling the crisis and the fact that they have called on Russia to mediate at the talks. Vasev told the Moldovan president and the Dniester leader about Russia's concept of a special status for the Dniester region, which could form a basis for holding talks and working out mutually acceptable decisions. That was the major aim of my tour. The Russian party aims at helping to set the dialogue going, since the past talks, in which "amorphous parliamentary-and-governmental expert groups participated, were ineffective," he emphasized. The Moldovan and Dniester presidents now seem likely to confer wide powers to their respective delegations at the forthcoming talks, with Russia acting as an intermediary. "Both parties pay due attention to the issue and look for a format for a new stage in negotiations," the high-ranking Russian diplomat said. "The Republic of Moldova and the Dniester region would like to give a strong impetus to the new stage in the talks," he said. Vasev surmised that the two parties will agree upon the conditions for providing the impetus at an early date.
