FBIS3-60518 "jptep002___94046" JPRS-TEP-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 13 January 1994 LATIN AMERICA GUATEMALA Cholera Epidemic Worsening in Chiquimula 94WE0107A Guatemala City EL GRAFICO in Spanish 23 Oct 93 p 4 94WE0107A Guatemala City EL GRAFICO Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Article by Ricardo Gatica Trejo] [Text] Chiquimula Department, located 167 km east of the capital, is being stricken by a cholera epidemic that has caused 10 deaths in only 72 hours, and has hospitalized 54 more persons, according to volunteer firefighters. The report provided by that institution's public relations office claims that its units are working in the town of Chiquimula and other settlements in the department, transporting the victims. Between Wednesday and yesterday, Friday, the CVB [Volunteer Firefighter Corps] ambulances have taken 85 patients to the Chiquimula National Hospital, 54 of whom proved to have contracted the disease. In the Urban Area It was added that, in the town of Chiquimula, there are cholera victims in the Cuatro de Febrero, El Angel, La Democracia, and El Molina districts, to which the CVB ambulances have been dispatched. It was also noted that, of the cholera patients in the town of Chiquimula, one adult and one child have died; however, more deaths are feared, because the same circumstances are prevalent. In the Rural Area It was further explained that seven more persons died of the disease in the municipality of San Juan la Ermita, and that there is evidence of many other victims in that entire section. Elsewhere in the report, it was noted that another young girl, aged 16, had died from cholera in Equipulas, and that patients from the villages of Marraxco and Canan are appearing at the national hospital. The volunteer firefighters added that cholera victims have also been reported in the villages of Shusho Arriba and Shusho Abajo. Although these volunteers have but little equipment, they are responsible for transporting the patients. At the national hospital as well, work is being done with only meager resources available. Nevertheless, the staff's major effort is aimed at saving the lives of patients, many of whom are already in an advanced state of dehydration upon arrival. The volunteer firefighters explained that, if the rate continues as it is now, they will have to request aid from their headquarters in the capital, so as to be reinforced with personnel and equipment, in addition to ambulances for moving the patients.
