FBIS3-12074 "drlat061_c_94013" FBIS-LAT-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 MEXICO Commerce Leader Says Country Steady on Course PA2803193494 Mexico City EL FINANCIERO in Spanish 26 Mar 94 p 9 PA2803193494 Mexico City EL FINANCIERO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Leticia Rodriguez Lopez] [Text] Ricardo Dajer Nahum, president of the Confederation of National Chambers of Commerce, Concanaco, has said that Mexico's economic project "has not drifted off course" and that continuity of the country's economic policies is essential for the population's tranquility. Control of the country has not been lost. The course remains the same. The "tragic" event in which presidential candidate Luis Donaldo Colosio lost his life, which intended "to divide us and make us confront one another," does not mean that Mexico "is going overboard." For this reason, "we must remain calm and have Mexico's future clearly before our eyes," he said. The leader of the country's organized commerce said that, although violence has increased in Mexico and there is even a state of "psychosis" in some states because of kidnappings, the possibility of establishing the death penalty in the country is a delicate matter that requires a careful analysis and that "very nearly requires a national forum." In a news conference, Dajer Nahum said that more federal highway police are needed, more training of the Judicial Branch is required for this branch to act efficiently, and the penalties passed should be "stiff enough" to discourage illegal actions. He also said that certain crimes, such as the kidnappings that have caused "psychosis" in Sinaloa, Sonora, and Coahuila, must be given special attention so they can be avoided and resolved. Although, "technically" speaking, these types of crimes could discourage investors, the crimes must be resolved, not only for economic reasons but for the security to which all Mexicans are entitled. Dajer Nahum also said that the store owners' response to a call for declaring a partial stoppage and then resuming their activities at noon on 28 March has been favorable throughout the country. He said this is a country-wide protest against the recent violent events and at the same time reaffirms their support for the Mexican Government. He added that the financial cost of this stoppage will be minimal because stores will remain closed only a few hours. He went on to say that the social price is nonexistent because the basic services employees have been asked to work normally so the country's economic life is not disturbed at all. He also said that the partial closure of stores throughout the country will serve to repudiate violence and Luis Donaldo Colosio's murder and to demand that the state of law, democracy, harmony, and justice prevail. Finally, he said he is sure the investigation of Colosio's murder will yield results soon and that a clear report will be issued so the community "can learn what the situation is."
