FBIS3-27211 "drchi035_k_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Advised by Doctors Not To Travel HK2202023494 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 22 Feb 94 p 1 HK2202023494 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Willy Wo-lap Lam] [Text] Deng Xiaoping's doctors have advised the Chinese patriarch not to travel in the near future because of his declining health. Chinese sources in Beijing said yesterday the power struggle among the Communist Party's factions had intensified in anticipation of the absence of Mr Deng with a campaign of innuendo against the senior leader's relatives and his personal office. The sources said Mr Deng, who left Shanghai for Beijing on Saturday, was asked by his large team of medical specialists to "take a good rest". They said even assuming that his health picked up soon, it was unlikely the 89-year-old leader would leave the capital again before spring. Sources in Guangdong said the local leadership had not lost hope that the "patron of the south" might still call on them. Diplomats in Beijing said factions hostile to the patriarch, including Maoists and ultra-liberal intellectuals, had started a "campaign of innuendo" against Mr Deng's relatives and personal office. "A widely circulated report in Beijing claims that some of the patriarch's relatives are using Mr Deng's influence to help their business interests--and that these relatives know they must make the best use of the relatively short time that is left," a diplomat said. "For example, a few of the facilities that Mr Deng inspected recently are said to be related to these business interests." Another target of what has already been described as an embryonic anti-Deng campaign is criticism of the "imperial manners" of the patriarch's powerful personal office. In theory, outside the party and government establishment the office has tremendous clout because it controls the patriarch's communications with the outside world. Criticism of the office ranges from preventing certain types of in formation from reaching Mr Deng to run-ins with local police and other authorities over the kind of protection that should be accorded the senior leader on the road. Sources in Shanghai said Mr Deng's security guards had a brief confrontation with a group of bus drivers last month, partly caused by the "overzealousness" of his personal office.
