FBIS3-18650 "drweu044_n_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * Arms Sales to Indonesia, Turkey Viewed 94EN0222B Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 8 Feb 94 p 5 94EN0222B Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Language: Finnish Article Type:CSO [Article by Jukka Perttu: "Why May Defense Goods Be Exported to Indonesia and Turkey?"] [Text] Vammas Oy received permission from the government to export 60 mortars to Indonesia. Sisu-Auto Oy in turn received permission to export bulletproof Nasu all-terrain trucks to Turkey. In the explanation of the law regulating the exportation of defense goods from the country it is stated, among other things, that exportation of the goods is not permitted to crisis regions or to countries in which there are serious human rights violations. Aapo Polho, office director in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, asks if it is not true that human rights violations of the type that occurred with the Indonesian occupation of East Timor would prevent arms exports to Indonesia. "The matter cannot be simplified in this way. The government has decided that the CSCE and EU [European Union] criteria, which are considerably more precise than the Finnish law, which leaves a good deal of room for interpretation, will also be used as bases for licensing. At present neither Indonesia nor Turkey is the object of sanctions by the UN Security Council or the EU. Finland condemns human rights violations in East Timor just as elsewhere. ``A working group headed by the Ministry of Defense recently considered how the EU and CSCE criteria would be applied in Finland. In practice it would mean that supervision would expand to cover many more products than at present, for example cameras and computer programs intended to be a part of certain weapon systems.'' Has the export licensing policy been relaxed or is it being relaxed somewhat? "Licensing policy is neither being tightened nor relaxed in applying the EU and CSCE criteria -- it is just being made more precise. The present law permits a situation in which the interpretations change even monthly. In this case it is difficult for manufacturers to plan their output. For preserving Finland's defense capability it is important that Finland also have an arms industry." Bulletproof all-terrain trucks may be exported to Turkey. Are the Nasus of such a civilian nature that they may be exported anywhere at all? "It depends a little on how they are equipped. Those that are bulletproofed require a license, but those that are not protected do not." May Nasus without bulletproofing be exported to Sudan, Somalia, or Burundi, for example? "Their exportation in principle does not require a license at all, but according to the new lists that are being prepared, they too will be included in the monitoring without further ado." May mortars be exported to Great Britain although it is waging war in Northern Ireland? "Yes. There is no state of war there but rather the disturbances in Northern Ireland involve problems of internal security."
