FBIS3-28421 "dreas025_d_94026" FBIS-EAS-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 South Korea President Expresses Will To Hold Clean Elections SK0702012494 Seoul YONHAP in English 0101 GMT 7 Feb 94 SK0702012494 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, Feb. 7 (YONHAP) -- President Kim Yong-sam, convinced that the success or failure of his administration depends on political reform and "an election revolution," plans to bring about drastic changes as soon as the National Assembly adopts political legislation at its extraordinary session in February. Pending in the National Assembly are political reform bills on unified elections, political fund-raising and local autonomous bodies. As part of the reforms, President Kim hopes to have the political fund-raising law revised and passed by the National Assembly so as to halt under-the-table contributions and other illegal funding channels. The current law on political fund-raising has been all but dead since Kim's civilian administration was launched last February, with the president declaring that he would receive no money from political funds. One senior Chongwadae [presidential offices] official on Sunday acknowledged the persistent skepticism regarding the practicality of revising the political fund-raising bill as "the proposed revision is idealistic." "But those who voice doubt about the revised bill are the ones who do not know the will and determination of President Kim for political reform," the official said, adding that the flow of "all black money" will be shut off in the future. The government will help carry out the current elections for heads of the nation's agricultural, fishery and livestock cooperatives in a fair and correct manner. It hopes to apply the revised election law beginning with by- elections for local councils that are scheduled for this year, the official said. He said the government will then employ its power to hold fair and clean elections for chiefs of local autonomous governing bodies and polls for provincial and city councils in 1995. President Kim has said that he will carry out political reform at any cost, even if it means that all National Assembly representatives lose their seats for violating the election law, the official added. The president also believes that political reform should be realized not in stages but in a drastic manner, he said.
