FBIS3-24348 "jpusr002__l94005" FBIS-USR-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 25 March 1994 INTERSTATE AFFAIRS Russian-Kazakh-Central Asian External Border Defense Memorandum 944Q0222B Moscow DIPLOMATICHESKIY VESTNIK in Russian No 1-2, Jan 94 [Signed to press 24 Jan 94] p 37--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 944Q0222B Moscow DIPLOMATICHESKIY VESTNIK Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Text: "Memorandum on Cooperation in Defending External State Borders"] [Text] Memorandum on Cooperation in Defending External State Borders The states who have signed the present Memorandum, expressing their concern at the alarming situation which is taking shape in certain segments of their external borders in Central Asia, stressing the need to take additional, urgent steps to ensure the security of their borders, and stressing the obligations adopted in conformity with the 7 August 1993 Declaration of the Inviolability of Borders, declare the following. 1. In light of the situation that has developed on the borders of the states of Central Asia that belong to the Commonwealth of Independent States under conditions of open borders among that states that have signed the present Memorandum, guarding external borders is a common cause for them and should be accomplished by coordinated, joint efforts. The conditions of cooperation among the states that have signed the present Memorandum to guard external borders are determined according to multilateral or bilateral understandings. 2. To realize the points of the memorandum, within three months the states that have signed it will agree upon and conclude appropriate bilateral or multilateral agreements. 3. Before these agreements are signed the present Memorandum is viewed as the basis for practical multilateral or bilateral actions to defend borders. States that have signed the present Memorandum will, before the end of 1993, carry out urgent steps to staff and supply border troops in the region, reinforce the border, and improve operational cooperation in defending it. 4. The states that have signed the present Memorandum undertake to act in strict conformity with its provisions. Completed in the city of Ashgabat on 24 December 1993 in one original in the Russian language. The original copy will be stored in the Archives of the Government of the Republic of Belarus, which will send verified copies to the states that have signed the present Memorandum. For the Republic of Kazakhstan--N. Nazarbayev For the Kyrgyz Republic--A. Akayev For the Russian Federation--B. Yeltsin For the Republic of Tajikistan--E. Rakhmonov For Turkmenistan--S. Niyazov For the Republic of Uzbekistan--I. Karimov
