FBIS4-34575 "drlat120_i_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-120 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 Nicaragua EU Pledges $20 Million To Aid Producers EU Pledges $20 Million To Aid Producers PA2206015694 Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 21 Jun 94 p 4 PA2206015694 Managua BARRICADA Spanish BFN [Report by Aida Castillo] [Text] At a news conference following the signing of an agreement between Nicaragua and the EU, Manuel Marin, EU vice president for Latin America, Asia, and the Mediterranean Region, said the EU does not agree with the United States on the move to remove the financial aid offered to the Nicaraguan Government should the property issue remain unsettled. The agreement, called "The Consolidation of the State of Law and the Promotion of the Economic Takeoff in Rural Nicaragua," offers $20 million to small- and medium-scale producers in the Nicaraguan northern and Pacific zones. This donation will be disbursed within five years. The agreement's main objective is to authorize the use of and issue property titles to more than 220,000 manzanas belonging to small- and medium-scale producers. This plan approves the use of 70 percent of the country's land. In addition, the agreement will sponsor the creation of a savings and loans network (30 branches) as a financial source for peasants, who will also be legally and physically trained to keep their properties. Marin ratified the support for the Nicaraguan Government with the signing of this development project and pointed out that within the peace process this project will "be used to attract investors to Nicaragua, which needs them greatly." He added that, along with other donor countries, the EU is supporting the Nicaraguan effort to have the Paris Club forgive its foreign debt. However, he maintained that receiving "this much economic aid" is unhealthy, adding "Nicaragua should be attempting to receive less." Blandon Talks About Paris Since 1990, the EU has given a third of the economic aid this organization allocates for Latin America -- more than $80 million -- to Nicaragua. The EU official met yesterday morning with President Violeta Chamorro, who was accompanied by Deputy Foreign Cooperation Minister Sergio Mario Blandon. He stressed the results of the Paris meeting held by the World Bank Advisory Group, in which Nicaragua was offered $750 million in economic aid for this year. Blandon pointed out the amount of money deemed necessary to "close up and implement" the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Policy Program signed with the IMF was obtained at the Paris meeting. Questioned on how the disbursements will be made, the deputy minister explained the Nicaraguan Government will try to have the funds "disbursed as soon as possible." He also said "payments are made according to schedules, because not only countries but also international financial institutions are involved." Blandon stressed that $60 million in economic aid for this year are included in the $750-million package. "This means these additional funds will be available to be invested in production." The government had previously said that additional funds for 1994 would amount to $75 million.
