FBIS3-19276 "drweu050_n_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Feb 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Sweden * Environmental Board Fears Cuts After EU Entry 94P20484Z Stockholm DAGENS NYHETER in Swedish 27 Feb 94 p 8 94P20484Z Stockholm DAGENS NYHETER Language: Swedish Article Type:CSO [Article by Gosta Karlsson: "Environmental Research in Danger: Contribution to EU May Force Reductions"] [Text] Swedish environmental research is in danger of large cutbacks as Sweden moves closer to the EU [European Union]. Sweden's contribution to the EU's research program will eat up more than half of the National Environmental Protection Board's appropriation for environmental research here at home. This is what Erik Fellenius, head of research at the National Environmental Protection Board (SNV), says. He believes that the government should distribute the EU payment to more Swedish authorities and research councils that finance research on the environment. Increased Influence In 1992, when Rolf Annerberg, the general director of the National Environmental Protection Board, turned his environmental research study in to the government, SNV warned that national environmental research goals could not be achieved within the budget framework that the government set at that time for environmental research. Two years ago, 20 million from SNV's budget went to the EU research program "Environment." In fiscal year 1995-96, between 70 and 100 million kronor from of SNV's total purse of 155 million will go to research projects decided upon by the EU. "Even if we get increased influence over the EU's research program, we cannot be sure that Sweden's special research needs will be satisfied. At issue are research on acidification, the salmon disease M74, and other things. The research program that we need to form a basis for arguments in international environmental negotiations is in danger of suffering serious reductions," says Erik Fellenius. Spread the Contribution He believes the government should distribute the EU contribution to more Swedish financiers, for example the Business and Technical Development Board (Nutek), the Science Research Council, and the Forestry and Agricultural Research Council.
