FBIS4-43212 "drweu114_a_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-114 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 AUSTRIA EU Diplomats Welcome Referendum Result EU Diplomats Welcome Referendum Result AU1306185494 Vienna DER STANDARD in German 13 Jun 94 p 13 AU1306185494 Vienna DER STANDARD German BFN [Report by Norbert Mayer: "Joy, Wiener Schnitzel, and Potato Salad"] [Excerpt] When the reports came in from Austria, there was tangible relief among the European Union [EU] diplomats. EU Commission President Jacques Delors told correspondents that Austria is an "ideal link between East and West" and a "great nation" that will contribute its share to Europe, while maintaining its own identity. The EU motto "No more war" and "Unity gives strength" has been confirmed by the Austrian decision. The EU now needs both enlargement and a deepening of its institutions, Delors said. Dutch Foreign Affairs Commissioner Hans van den Broek has called the result a very positive contribution. "In my opinion, the Union has become more European today. EU membership does not mean a loss of sovereignty and cultural identity but assuming joint responsibility." Asked by DER STANDARD whether he, an avid supporter of putting deepening before enlargement, has now changed his mind, Van den Broek said: "I have been in favor of enlargement not just for the past 15 months but since the Lisbon summit in 1992. I just wanted to make sure it will not water down the Union's substance and prevent a deepening." Egon Klepsch, president of the European Parliament, is also pleased about Austria's yes vote: "The majority would not be deceived by the anti-EU campaign. This is a good sign for the progress of the ratifications in Scandinavia." "If anything had gone wrong, we could only have conducted crisis management during our presidency in the second half of 1994," a high-ranking representative of the German EU delegation said. "The Austrians have clearly voted against national selfish tendencies and have shown responsibility in deciding for a common European future," a statement by [German] Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel was quoted. [passage omitted]
