FBIS3-19592 "drweu054_e_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Major Announces New Aid Package for Bosnia LD1803162894 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 1549 GMT 18 Mar 94 LD1803162894 London PRESS ASSOCIATION Language: English Article Type:BFN [By David Mason and Chris Moncrieff, PRESS ASSOCIATION] [Text] Prime Minister John Major flew into Sarajevo today and announced a 12 million pound package of immediate aid for war-torn Bosnia. The deal includes 5 million pounds of direct aid to get key public services running in Sarajevo and 7 million pounds to support international aid agencies working throughout Bosnia. Overseas Aid Minister Lady Chalker, who has just completed a four-day review of British aid to Bosnia, said: "It's pump-priming, it's paving the way for reconstruction. The whole package of aid can help us get started on the reconstruction, whether it's basic engineering for water and power, basic infrastructure, mending bridges or basic medical." Mr Major, accompanied on his first trip to the Bosnian capital by Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind, was met at the airport by Lady Chalker and British UN Commander Lieutenant General Sir Michael Rose. They drove to General Rose's residence for talks through streets which have come to life beneath the battle-scarred buildings during the month-old ceasefire. Mr Major and General Rose went on to meet Bosnian Vice-President Ejup Ganic to discuss the peace process and the city's vital reconstruction needs. As they were holding talks at the presidency the boom from an artillery round echoed over the city, one of numerous minor breaches of the ceasefire. Mr Major was later visiting the city's central water pumping station to meet British emergency aid engineers working to repair and maintain water supplies, heating systems, power distribution, sanitation and other key services over a wide area of central Bosnia. Their work provides a model for the Anglo-American initiative to get the city on its feet again which Mr Major and President Clinton announced when the Prime Minister visited Washington earlier this month. While Mr Major was meeting Mr Ganic, Lady Chalker and Mr Rifkind set off to visit the 70-strong Royal Artillery troop manning the Cymbeline mortar-locating radar battery brought in by General Rose to monitor breaches of the ceasefire.
