FBIS4-5988 "dreas074_c_94012" FBIS-EAS-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 North Korea Japan Urged To Renounce `Militarist' Thinking Japan Urged To Renounce `Militarist' Thinking SK1704085194 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0830 GMT 17 Apr 94 SK1704085194 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["Invariable Aggressive Design of Japanese Militarism"--KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, April 17 (KCNA) -- Japan is trying to become a military power and expand its sphere of influence and establish domination over Asia and, furthermore, the rest of the world with the backing of its military strength, says NODONG SINMUN in a signed article today. Noting that the Japanese reactionaries are oblivious of the historical lessons from the defeat which they suffered while engaging themselves in the aggression and colonial rule in the past, and are running along the same road, the article says: This is clearly manifested, first of all, in their attempt to justify the aggressive crimes committed by old Japan. They allege that their past aggression and war were aimed at "saving" and "protecting" Asian countries from the "danger of aggression and subjugation" by some others. Their remarks mean that they would repeat the aggression and war of old Japan in the future, too, zecause they are not crimes. It is a stark historic fact that old Japan enforced a colonial policy toward Korea. The colonial rule of the Japanese imperialists over Korea was the most heinous one the like of which could not be seen in the world. The Japanese reactionaries' attempt to justify it is an outrageous act and a mockery of the Korean people. The militarist ambition of the Japanese reactionary circles finds its manifestation in their talk about "superiority" of the "Yamato nation". Now, the Japanese reactionaries are preaching "self- confidence" and "superiority" of the "Yamato nation" to instill the idea of overseas expansion and domination over other nations into the Japanese people. Their militarist ambition also finds its graphic expression in the fact that they are trying to expand the self-defensive right of Japan outside its territory, describing preemptive attack as an "exercise of Japan' right of self-defence". Their claim to accomplish the "sacred cause" of the "great empire of Japan" means to realize their wild ambition of domination today. Their much-touted "building of a new Asian order" is also intended to establish an order of Japan's domination over Asia. The Japanese reactionaries must renounce the militarist mode of thinking and attitude.
