FBIS4-33728 "drlat112_q_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 Paraguay Wasmosy Signs Freedom of Press Declaration Wasmosy Signs Freedom of Press Declaration PY0906235394 Asuncion ULTIMA HORA in Spanish 9 Jun 94 p 3 PY0906235394 Asuncion ULTIMA HORA Spanish BFN [Text] After signing the Chapultepec Declaration this morning in Government House, and despite the fact that he does not agree with "the unfounded campaigns directed at personal reputations," President Juan Carlos Wasmosy stated that his administration is committed to the unrestricted free development of the press. In the Independence Hall of Government House the chief of state stressed that the signing of the document was another way of following up on his democratic convictions, as well as on his pledge to the Paraguayan people that he would comply with the Constitution and see to it that it was complied with. "Before signing this document, I have with satisfaction verified that its contents perfectly reflect the reality of my country regarding freedom of expression," the chief of state emphasized. Wasmosy recalled a saying of former U.S. President Thomas Jefferson, who said that if he had to choose between a government and a free press, he would not hesitate to opt for the latter at the expense of the former. "He stressed this at a time when as president of the United States he was the favorite target of a series of cruel pamphlets. The names of those yellow publications have already been forgotten, while the figure of Jefferson continues to grow in the esteem of his people," the chief of state said, alluding to his current situation with respect to a certain sector of the media. "I cannot find a better maxim than this one to describe my feelings regarding the media," he said. Wasmosy expressed his disagreement with what he termed "personal slander campaigns," although he did not mention specifics. He did, however, allege "that at no time can there be any doubt about the commitment" of his administration "to maintain and encourage unrestricted freedom."
