FBIS3-21832 "jptdd011__l94044" JPRS-TDD-94-011-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 14 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA MEXICO `Absolute, Complete' Reorganization of State's Judicial Police Planned PA0903023394 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network in Spanish 0000 GMT 9 Mar 94 PA0903023394 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Jaime Flores in Baja California State; from the "ACIR Radio News" newscast--live] [Text] [Flores] At noon, Juan Francisco Franco Rios, attorney general for Baja California State, announced a total reorganization of the Baja California Judicial Police. This is what he said: [Begin Rios recording] In 15 days, we will totally reorganize the state's Judicial Police. When I say totally, I mean the absolute and complete reorganization relating to the actions and conduct of Judicial Police members. [end recording] At a news conference, the state attorney general said that bad policemen will be dismissed immediately, especially those who took part in Thursday's shoot-out, here in Tijuana, where Federal Judicial Police Commander Salvador Miramontes Torres died, federal policeman Juan Jesus Hernandez Tejeda was seriously wounded, and a state policeman was also killed. Franco Rios reiterated that the investigation continues so as to supply the judge handling the case with the most evidence so he can best ascertain the responsibility of the policemen involved as well as the involvement of Tijuana Assistant Attorney General Sergio Ortiz Lara and the group leaders named by the Attorney General's Office. The attorney general said that many of these policemen went to the scene of the shoot-out to do their duty but their names are listed in the case. He also said that on Monday two agents from the Attorney General's Office in Ensenada and Mexicali arrived here in Tijuana to continue the case and to clarify which agents are involved in drug trafficking. Finally, Deputy Alejandro Monraz called for the creation of a special Prosecutor's Office, with no connection with the state Attorney General's Office, to investigate Thursday night's shoot-out in La Mesa area, where four people were killed and eight, wounded. Announcer: I asked you if this is in response to the Thursday shoot-out? Flores: Yes, of course. The Attorney General's Office held a news conference on Sunday here in Tijuana. It was learned that there is a direct connection between the shoot-out and State Judicial Police. Many of them are at the state Attorney General's Office right now. No arrests warrants have been issued yet, even though many were detained. At least three group leaders are accused of being involved in the shoot-out, especially as bodyguards of a lieutenant working for the Arellano Felix brothers. They said they sold protection to the lieutenant.
