FBIS4-64425 "drweu086__a94002" FBIS-WEU-94-086-A Daily Report 4 May 1994 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs Commissioner Urges EU Firms To Remove Barriers Commissioner Urges EU Firms To Remove Barriers PM0405091094 London THE GUARDIAN in English 4 May 94 p 12--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PM0405091094 London THE GUARDIAN English BFN [Julie Wolf report: "Brittan Hits EU Firms Over Export Timidity"] [Text] Brussels -- Sir Leon Brittan, the EU [European Union] trade commissioner, yesterday strongly criticised European companies for not being aggressive enough in pursuing export markets. In a speech on the Uruguay Round world trade agreement, Sir Leon urged companies to co-operate with national governments and the European Commission on strategies to promote exports. "European business is not as active on this front as are our American or other competitors. On the Japanese market, I am struck by the direct involvement of American chief executives, even from very large companies, in the hunt for contacts and the hunt for contracts," Sir Leon said. "If industrial co-operation really is one of the keys to sustained exports success, then the diaries of top European businessmen must be shaped to reflect this more closely than is the case today," he added. The commissioner said that, although European business leaders repeatedly stressed the importance of Asian markets in the future, "there is not yet a Europe-wide network linking those with expertise and resources in those markets." This means that "European business has a less strategic vision of prospects in Asia than is needed," he said. Sir Leon's comments came as the commission released a report on the "global benefits" of the GATT accord. According to Brussels, the EU stands to reap substantial gains from the Uruguay Round agreement signed last month in Marrakesh. Tariffs on trade between the EU and the United States will be cut almost in half, with about 7.5 billion pounds in EU exports to the rest of the world no longer subject to any tariffs at all. European firms will also benefit from the opening up of a global public procurement market estimated at 260 billion pounds. The commission said that clearer and tighter rules on trade and investment set out in the GATT agreement would allow companies to operate in a more secure environment. According to Sir Leon, the onus in the post-Uruguay Round world will increasingly be on the business community to remove barriers to trade. "Since nowadays the obstacles to European exports or foreign investments are located in other economies' domestic rules and behaviour, the paths around those obstacles will not always be found rapidly by government to government negotiations," he warned.
