FBIS3-49697 "dreeu010__a94018" FBIS-EEU-94-010-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 January 1994 ANNEX Czech Republic Unions Protest Ban Against Civil Servants AU1401082694 Prague CTK in English 1753 GMT 12 Jan 94 AU1401082694 Prague CTK Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Prague, Jan 12 (CTK) -- The trade unions cannot allow any restriction of either the establishment of trade union organizations within the state administration or membership in these organizations, Vladimir Petrus, chairman of the Czech and Moravian Chamber of Trade Unions (CMKOS), says in a statement given to CTK today. Convention No. 87 of the International Labor Organization (ILO) "On Trade Unions' Freedom and Protection of the Right to Assemble" must be respected even in relation to civil servants, Petrus stresses. He quotes the agreement as saying that both employees and employers have the right to establish organizations according to their own choice, without previous approval, and to become members of these organizations. Czechoslovakia ratified the convention in 1964, and the document is binding the Czech Republic as well, Petrus states. He admits certain restrictions, mainly as regards the right to strike and collective bargaining, which can be replaced by another kind of negotiating working conditions. These partial restrictions can be applied in relation to civil servants and organizations providing for fundamental services, Petrus says. "It is impossible either to replace trade unions with any loyal association of interest or push for senior officials' associating in their own, exclusive and loyal trade union organizations," Petrus says. At its meeting on Monday, the CMKOS board discussed a draft General Agreement for 1994 and decided not to sign it in its present form. One of the reasons for the decision was the board's opposition to the removal of trade unions from the state administration, as proposed by the government. The agreement aimed to maintain social peace is concluded annually by the government, trade unions, and employers.
