FBIS4-25706 "drchi114_o_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-114 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 REGIONAL AFFAIRS East Region Shanghai Stepping Up Social Order Strenghtening Effort Shanghai Stepping Up Social Order Strenghtening Effort OW1306134494 Shanghai JIEFANG RIBAO in Chinese 7 Jun 94 p 3 OW1306134494 Shanghai JIEFANG RIBAO Chinese BFN [Unattributed Report: "Municipal Committee for Comprehensive Management of Social Order Maps Out Plans for Improving Social Order in the Summer and Calls For Intensified Efforts To Check the `Six Vices'"] [Text] The Shanghai Municipal Committee for the Comprehensive Management of Social Order held its 12th plenary session yesterday to map out plans for cracking down on criminal activities by hooligans and for improving social order in the summer. Wang Liping, deputy secretary of the municipal party committee and chairman of the municipal committee for the comprehensive management of social order, spoke at the meeting. Wang Liping said: In recent years Shanghai has taken tough and resolute measures to check activities in connection with the "six vices," and we have received favorable comments from people at home and abroad. However, in some places the activities have continued despite efforts to check them. Therefore, all localities and departments should pay attention to this situation and intensify efforts to crack down on such activities. Wang Li Ping stressed: Once discovered, prostitution, gambling, drug abuse, drug trafficking, persons engaged in spreading pornographic publications and products, and owners of public entrainment facilities trying to seek customers by means of sex must be resolutely investigated and punished according to law. In dealing with criminal elements and gang leaders who refuse to repent despite repeated education, it is necessary to apply the principle of meting out severe punishment promptly. The practice of replacing penalties with a fine or replacing education with a fine shall not be permitted in dealing with these people. Criminal elements who have been found to assist or protect "six vices" activities, and party cadres who participate in prostitution activities must be investigated and severely punished. Law-enforcement departments must resolutely resist the practice of pleading for mercy for somebody and strengthen overall control over and day-to-day management of public entertainment facilities. Resolute measures must be taken to close down public entertainment facilities that operate in violation of the law and that have refused to reform themselves after repeated warnings. All public entertainment facilities must observe and abide by the provisions governing the management of social order. In Shanghai, under no circumstance shall we allow the existence of a place that is beyond the reach of the law. Participating in the meeting were Zhu Daren and Gu Nianzu, vice chairmen of the municipal committee for the comprehensive management of social order, and leaders of various districts, counties, departments, commissions, and offices who are also members of the municipal committee for the comprehensive management of social order.
