FBIS3-43499 "drafr005_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Government, UNITA Resume Talks in Lusaka 6 Jan MB0601181194 London BBC World Service in English 1705 GMT 6 Jan 94 MB0601181194 London BBC World Service Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] The Angola peace talks [words indistinct] back to life again in Lusaka today, a day late, after a Christmas break of two weeks. The talks have already been interrupted by UNITA [National Union for the Total Independence of Angola] claims that the MPLA [Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola] government army had tried to kill Jonas Savimbi and in the past couple of weeks, they have had more incidents in Angola. Only yesterday, UNITA prevented American congressmen from visiting Malanje, where they launched a bombardment of the town. When the talks began again today, the atmosphere was apparently less than cordial, but there is also some optimism. From Lusaka, Joel Mwinga faxed this report: This morning, the two sides held a plenary session and discussions opened with a debate on the composition and role of a future police force. UNITA is demanding that the current Angolan police force be transformed from what it described as a partisan military unit into a nonpartisan civic force. UNITA says it wants it what calls extreme elements of the force to be disbanded and more UNITA men to be recruited into the police. The government and the rebel UNITA movement have spent the past few days blaming each other as the fighting has intensified in Angola, but both sides have said that they are determined that the talks which started on 15th November last year produce a peace settlement. Despite continued fighting in the country, the two sides have made steady progress and there is agreement in principle on the terms for a cease-fire as well as the composition of a future national army. A meeting of military experts from both sides will take place in Sao Tome next week to try and conclude details for a military pact.
