FBIS4-7750 "dreeu066_r_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-066 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 ROMANIA Serbian President, Jovanovic Arrive for Talks Serbian President, Jovanovic Arrive for Talks Milosevic Assesses Visit, Departs AU0504181394 Bucharest Radio Romania Network in Romanian 1700 GMT 5 Apr 94 AU0504181394 Bucharest Radio Romania Network Romanian BFN [Text] The last point in the program of the visit that Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic made Bucharest was the meeting of the two heads of state with representatives of the mass media at Cotroceni Palace. The two heads of state, Ion Iliescu and Slobodan Milosevic, stressed the fact that this summit visit is a significant political event in the traditional bilateral relations and a constructive factor in promoting a favorable climate for the establishment of stability in the area. President Slobodan Milosevic expressed his particular satisfaction with the results of the visit and said that the viewpoints expressed on this occasion were quite close and they proved a mutual understanding of bilateral and international issues that are of great interest to both sides. Likewise, the sides recalled the efforts made by the two countries to support and stimulate the peace process in the area of the former Yugoslavia. President Ion Iliescu said that the only way to emerge from the current situation of conflict is through peaceful political means and not by resorting to the application of forceful measures. In turn, President Slobodan Milosevic positively stressed the role played by Romania in developing relations in the region, commending the objective way in which our country approached the current situation. The sides recalled the efforts made by the two countries to return to normal bilateral relations after the sanctions imposed on Yugoslavia by the UN Security Council are lifted and the conflict in the area is extinguished. Answering a question asked by a journalist, the Serb President categorically denied the involvement of regular Serb troops in the conflict in Bosnia, however, he accused the Muslims of an offensive against the Serbs in the area. Referring to the recent establishment of the federation of Croatians and Muslims in Bosnia, President Milosevic declared that it is important that this federation should not harm the interests of the Serb side, which is in no way engaged in its operation. At around 1900 the Yugoslav guest left for Belgrade.
