FBIS4-43539 "drweu118_e_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-118 Daily Report 19 Jun 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Mayhew Condemns Ulster Shootings Mayhew Condemns Ulster Shootings LD1906132194 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 1221 GMT 19 Jun 94 LD1906132194 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By Ian Graham and Deric Henderson, PRESS ASSOCIATION News] [Excerpt] The murder of six men in a village pub by loyalist terrorists was condemned as "inhuman savagery" by Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew today. He pledged the RUC [Royal Ulster Constabulary] would never give up their hunt for the masked killers who struck last night as customers at O'Toole's Bar in the hamlet of Loughinisland in Down Patrick, Northern Ireland, watched the Irish team in their winning opening match against Italy in the World Cup on the pub television. Sir Patrick said that in their grief and horror he offered all his sympathy to the families of the dead and injured and "denounce the inhuman savagery and injustice of this act. The moral squalor of those who perpetrated it is beyond description." The cheering stopped suddenly mid-way through the second half to be turned to screams of terror and pain when two killers from the outlawed Ulster Volunteer Force burst in and opened fire indiscriminately. They opened fire and kept firing into the crowd of 24 packed into the tiny pub. Five men died instantly, another a short time later in hospital. All were Catholics. Among five men injured in the shooting one was today critically ill. The four others were described as ill. Sir Patrick said he had faith the Province was going to put behind it "the foul madness and sectarian murder perpetrated by so few. One thing is certain: it will achieve no political purpose, no concession, no blackmailer's reward no matter how long it continues. Let this revolting massacre now, therefore, mark the end of it from whatever quarter." He appealed to anyone who knew anything, or suspected anything, to help the police catch the murderers. [passage omitted]
