FBIS4-29701 "dreas119_l_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-119 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 Philippines Government Signs Trade Protocol With PRC Government Signs Trade Protocol With PRC BK2006141694 Manila BUSINESS WORLD in English 17 Jun 94 p 1 BK2006141694 Manila BUSINESS WORLD English BFN [By Dahlia R. Dugtong] [Text] The Department of Trade and Industry is harping on a $600 to $800 million trade target this year with the People's Republic of China as a result of the signing of the Protocol on the Importation and Exportation of Commodities between the two countries. The protocol was agreed on last week in Beijing, China during the 17th meeting of the RP [Republic of the Philippines]-China Joint Trade Committee. Trade Undersecretary Cesar Bautista also forecasts the narrowing of the trade deficit with China. Last year, the trade deficit with China was registered at $7 million, the lowest since 1988 when trade deficit was $175 million. Mr. Bautista added that the country expects a balancing of trade with China as the latter moves towards readmission to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Under the protocol, Mr. Bautista said the following export products from the Philippines are expected to benefit most from the trade protocol: phosphatic and compound fertilizer, fresh bananas, chrome ore, mangoes, shelled cashew nuts, copper cathodes, coconut oil, tin plates, cold-rolled steel, copper concentrate, manganese ore, phosphoric acid, fatty acid and alcohol, refined glycerine, copper wire bars, rods, floppy disk drives, black and white picture tubes, and, processed coffee. On the other hand, the Philippines will import from China items like soya beans, light machineries for garment manufacturers, power generators or mini-hydros, Mr. Bautista identified. While the government expects a substantial increase in trade in China, Mr. Bautista said China's investments in the Philippines will still "take a backseat," primarily because of lack of capital. The Filipino delegation that participated in the negotiation of the protocol included Peter Chua of the Philippine-China Trade Council, Victoriano Lecaros of the Philippine Embassy in Beijing, and officials from the Department of Trade and Industry.
