FBIS3-40331 "jpeer006__s94004" JPRS-EER-94-006-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT Recent Legislation: Romania 18 February 1994 ROMANIA * Decision on Hiring Soldiers on Contract Basis 94P20175A Bucharest MONITORUL OFICIAL in Romanian 5 Oct 93 p 8 94P20175A Bucharest MONITORUL OFICIAL Language: Romanian Article Type:CSO ["Text" of Decision No. 503 Authorizing the Ministry of National Defense to Hire Soldiers on a Contract Basis] [Text] The Government of Romania has decided: Article 1 In order to supplement the cadres of the armed forces with specialized personnel in some positions of noncommissioned officers and warrant officers and ensure the necessary cadres from the ranks of graduates of military educational institutes, as well as in those positions which cannot be supplied with cadres, through incorporation, from the ranks of enlisted men, the Ministry of National Defense is authorized to hire soldiers, on a contract basis, from the ranks of youth who have satisfied their military service obligation. Article 2 The persons hired in accordance with Article 1 are considered to be soldiers and are subject to military laws and regulations. Article 3 The manner of recruiting and hiring the soldiers specified in Article 1, their duties, the conditions for their promotion and the positions which they can hold will be determined by the minister of national defense. When he is hired, each soldier will be given the rank which he held in the reserves and he will be able to be promoted successively, upto the rank of sergeant, on the basis of the results achieved. Hired soldiers who signed contracts with units before the appearance of the present decision will keep the rank of sergeant. Article 4 The period during which a person carries on his activity in the army as a hired soldier is calculated in his length of service. Soldiers hired on the basis of a contract enjoy the rights specified by legal regulations in force, as well as compensation for food, vacations, and paid medical leave, as well as disability pensions, and the state allocation for children, in accordance with the law. Article 5 The contracts on the basis of which the soldiers mentioned in Article 1 carry out their activity belong to the category of documents specified in Article 2 letter b) of Law No. 29/1990 on the Disputed Claims Office. Article 6 The provisions of Government Decision No. 1030 of 18 September 1990 on the authorization of the Ministry of Defense to hire soldiers on a contract basis are repealed. -- Prime Minister Nicolae Vacaroiu Countersigned: Minister of National Defense, Lt. Gen. Niculae Spiroiu For the minister of state, minister of finance, Dan Mogos, state secretary Minister of State, Minister of Labor and Social Protection, Dan Mircea Popescu Bucharest, 23 September 1993 No. 503
