FBIS4-24843 "drchi106_w_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-106 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong CPC To Exercise `Direct Control' of Hong Kong Daily CPC To Exercise `Direct Control' of Hong Kong Daily HK0206061194 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS in English 2 Jun 94 p 1 HK0206061194 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS English BFN [By Bruce Gilley] [Text] Beijing is planning to set up a newspaper in Hong Kong as pressure mounts on the territory's media to tone down criticism of its future landlord. The Hong Kong Special Region Daily will be published under the direct control of the Chinese Communist Party after 1997. The move would contravene repeated assurances by Beijing that the party would be barred from operating in the territory after the handover. In addition, a privately funded pro-China newspaper, the Mirror Daily, will be set up in 1996. The two papers are expected to serve as models for what Beijing considers appropriate interpretation of Hong Kong press freedom without undermining socialism on the mainland. According to the China watching monthly Open Magazine [KAI FANG], the Hong Kong Special Region Daily will "completely reflect Beijing's point of view". It said the move was part of overall plans to restrict press freedom in the territory after 1997 out of fears that excessive criticism of Beijing could topple the communist government. Top media cadres from the mainland would be selected to serve as senior editors at the paper. Sources said that reporters for the new paper were already being trained during short stays at pro-China newspapers in Hong Kong. A senior deputy editor at Ta Kung Pao, Lu Fuwei, who is in poor health, is expected to be replaced by a top mainland cadre who would double as the new paper's preparatory head in Hong Kong, the sources said. While at least five pro-Beijing papers already exist in Hong Kong, Beijing has become concerned about growing signs of independence, reflected in the strong reaction to the 12-year sentence handed down to the Ming Pao journalist Xi Yang. Even Ta Kung Pao and Wen Wei Po, which have direct links to the Communist Party's propaganda department in Beijing, printed editorials critical of the sentence. A prominent local pro-China figure, Xu Simin [publisher of the journal CHING PAO], said his new paper, the Mirror Daily, would be "patriotic and outspoken".
