FBIS3-41543 "jpten004___94013" JPRS-TEN-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 17 February 1994 CHINA Vice Premier Zou Jiahua Meets U.S. Energy Experts OW1911050293 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1013 GMT 17 Nov 93 OW1911050293 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By reporter Xu Zhaorong (1776 0340 2837)] [Text] Beijing, 17 Nov (XINHUA) -- Vice Premier Zou Jiahua met with representatives from the United States to the ``1993 Sino-U.S. Energy Conference'' at the Great Hall of the People this morning. At the meeting, the Chinese vice premier spoke highly of the outcome of the conference, as reflected in the strong desire of both sides to develop cooperation and the intent to sign agreements on a number of cooperative projects, especially a tentative plan for combining the development of energy industry with environmental protection. He expressed the hope that both Chinese and U.S. energy sectors will expand cooperation by pooling their respective resources under the premise of mutual benefit and common development. The ``1993 Sino-U.S. Energy Conference'' was sponsored by the State Science and Technology Commission, the Society of American Chinese Engineers in the United States, and the Chinese Energy Society. The conference, held from 15 to 17 November in Beijing, is a relatively comprehensive meeting between the Chinese and U.S. energy sectors in recent years. Attending the conference from the Chinese side were 200 officials from the State Science and Technology Commission, the State Planning Commission, the State Economic and Trade Commission, electric power, coal, and petroleum departments, and enterprises; experts and scholars from universities and research institutes; and representatives from local energy companies. Jack Siegel, U.S. assistant secretary of energy, made a special trip to China to attend the conference on behalf of the U.S. secretary of energy. About 60 participants from the U.S. side attended the conference, including president Liang Youping of the Society of American Chinese Engineers, chairman Rayken [name as published] of the Anran [name as published] Corporation Board of Directors, presidents and managers of some energy corporations, and experts and scholars from relevant universities and research institutes. The conferees studied and discussed exploitation of energy and structural reform; energy strategies, policies, and laws; popularization of advanced energy technology; energy exploitation and environmental protection, Sino-U.S. cooperation in energy, and other topics of common interests. They also reached consensus on the intent to establish a Sino-U.S. association for promoting energy cooperation and development; to step up the pace of Sino-U.S. energy science and technology cooperation; to decide on more key energy cooperative projects; and to hold periodic seminars on energy management, legal framework and system, on ways for fund-raising and cooperation; on selection of key technical projects; and on energy pricing. During the conference, Song Jian, state councillor and minister in charge of the State Science and Technology Commission, met with representatives from the United States. The conference ended this afternoon.
