FBIS3-52900 "drnes006_s_94010" FBIS-NES-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 Iran Commentary Views PLO-Jordanian Cooperation Talks NC0801101694 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0445 GMT 8 Jan 94 NC0801101694 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Language: Persian Article Type:BFN [Commentary by News Research and Commentary Group] [Text] Three days of intensive talks between the representatives of the PLO headed by Faruq Qaddumi, the head of the PLO political bureau, and the Jordanian delegation headed by Deputy Prime Minister Sa'id al-Tall in Amman concluded with the signing of a joint communique by the two sides yesterday. This communique specifies all the areas of cooperation in political, economic, and security matters between Jordan and Palestine following the establishment of Palestinian rule under the Gaza-Jericho autonomy accord. The implementation of a major part of the elements depends on the implementation of the Gaza-Jericho accord, which is now rather ambiguous as a result of differences between the PLO and Israel. With this accord, Jordan has consolidated its future position in the autonomous regions. Recently, as a result of an agreement between Jordan and Israel, Jordanian banks are seeking to resume activities in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. The activities of these banks had been suspended following the usurpation of these areas in the six-day Arab-Israeli war in 1967. Besides, the Jordanian dinar is currently circulating in these areas alongside the Zionist regime's currency, the shekel. In view of the fact that one-third of Jordanian currency is circulating in these areas, Amman does not wish to relinquish this sector of its economic activity. The consolidation of the Jordanian dinar and the banking activities of this country in the occupied areas of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip has been affirmed with the signing of this agreement. In conjunction with economic agreements, committees on the issues of Jerusalem, refugees, homeless persons, security, borders, and social affairs have been envisaged in this agreement. PLO-Jordanian talks commenced a few days after King Husayn's vehement criticism of 'Arafat and the PLO. King Husayn described these talks as the last chance for coordination of relations between Palestine and Jordan. Political observers believe that Jordan's insistence on this agreement stems from numerous factors, most importantly that Jordan is concerned that 'Arafat is giving preference to coordination and cooperation with Israel even at the expense of adversely affecting cooperation with Jordan. In view of the considerable number of Palestinians living in Jordan, which exceeds half of the country's population, Jordan is greatly affected by these developments. In fact, 'Arafat's regional cooperation with Israel undermines Jordan's historical role. What is interesting in this matter is the regional rivalry over the economic future of autonomous Gaza and Jericho without any clear picture of the actual situation.
