FBIS3-26556 "drchi027_l_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 Science & Technology Commentary Views Daya Bay Nuclear Power Plant HK0902024494 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 9 Feb 94 p 4 HK0902024494 Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:BFN [China Daily Commentaries: "New Nuclear Plant"] [Text] The Daya Bay Nuclear Power Plant has started commercial operation. This event marks another step forward in the development of China's nuclear power industry. It will send electricity to Hong Kong in addition to greatly easing power shortages in Guangdong Province. The Daya Bay plant is China's second nuclear power station. The Qinshan Nuclear Power Plant in East China's Zhejiang Province began operation in 1991. Daya Bay is China's first large-scale nuclear power station that makes use of foreign investment, sophisticated foreign equipment and advanced technology. This would have been impossible without the reform and opening policy. The question of safety is the people's primary concern. From its design through construction, trial and commercial operation, the Daya Bay plant has observed all requirements of the International Atomic Energy Agency and has passed several of its examinations. Residents in nearby regions can trust the safety reassurances made by experts, both Chinese and foreign, who work at the Daya Bay plant and whose families live nearby. Though China is rich in energy resources, the distribution is poorly balanced. Shortages of energy are becoming a bottleneck to economic development, especially in coastal southeast China. So far, nuclear energy, the cleanest, safest and most economical source, constitutes only 1 per cent of China's energy production. This means that there is vast potential as well as urgent need for future development. The Daya Bay project has, among other achievements, provided experience and trained personnel for nuclear power production. It has also set an example of successful international co-operation. All this surely will have very favourable effects on the further expansion of China's nuclear industry.
