FBIS3-4668 "dreas040_i_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 Cambodia Adoption of French Accounting System Criticized BK0103105594 Phnom Penh CAMBODIA TIMES in English 20-26 Feb 94 p 7 BK0103105594 Phnom Penh CAMBODIA TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Phnom Penh -- The adoption of a French accounting system here will be a disincentive to much needed foreign investment and an unnecessary administrative burden for local companies, local businessmen have alleged, according to the Government news agency AKP. "It is a waste and totally unnecessary. No trading company here is going to present their accounts like this," it quoted a businessman as saying. The Finance Ministry has recently announced that the French system would be the official accounting system to be used by local and foreign companies. Under the former government, there was no centralised tax collection system. [passage omitted] The main difference between the French and Anglo-international system is the way assets and liabilities are classified and how depreciation is treated, an investment consultant said. The decision has brought about protest from local companies who claim that their accounts will have to be double-booked in two systems, new software and the retraining of current accounting staff. At the most, eight to 10 companies, which are all French, will benefit from this system while the others will suffer. A businessman has predicted widespread chaos in the local business community as Singapore, Taiwanese and Hong Kong-based companies, the biggest investors here, are only familiar with the Anglo international accounting system. [passage omitted] The decision to adopt a French accounting system follows a dispute last year over the decision to retain French as the country's second language. Students had protested against this move at the University of Technology as they claimed that English was being widely accepted here, especially amongst the business community and that English, not French, would benefit them better.
