FBIS3-23909 "jpusr022___94047" FBIS-USR-94-022 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 9 March 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS St Petersburg News Half Million Unemployed Expected in City 944F0360C St. Petersburg NEVSKOYE VREMYA in Russian 18 Feb 94 p 1 944F0360C St. Petersburg NEVSKOYE VREMYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Report by Zoya Shpanko: "Half a Million--Is It a Lot or a Little?"] [Text] There may be up to half a million unemployed in St. Petersburg soon--this is the forecast of First Deputy Mayor Dmitriy Sergeyev, who spoke yesterday at the Palace of Labor. The palace was the site of a conference with the participation of mayoralty representatives, the city's Trade Union Federation, heads of rayon administrations, enterprise directors, and representatives of rayon employment centers. Such a development of events is possible if prices for fuel and power continue to rise, resulting in mass bankruptcy of enterprises. Alas, the maximum number of unemployed the city employment fund can handle is 150,000-160,000. According to Dmitriy Cherneyko, chairman of the mayoralty's committee on employment, seasonal work is unlikely to provide solution to the unemployment problem. For instance, last year there were no requests in Leningrad Oblast for the labor of student construction brigades. Trade unions took a rather tough position on the issue of employment. As the chairman of the Trade Union Federation of Petersburg and the Oblast put it, trade unions do not care why people become unemployed. According to the estimates of international experts, the number of unemployed in our city exceeds the official figures by a factor of three. Only a regional employment program, which will envisage well-considered conversion, small business development, and seasonal works, can change the situation. The conference adopted a resolution. One of its points instructs the economic development committee jointly with the finance committee to look into the issue of targeted appropriation to support socially significant enterprises.
