FBIS4-14490 "drsov063_d_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-063 Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 Regional Affairs `Linear Proton Accelerator' Offers Safe Nuclear Power `Linear Proton Accelerator' Offers Safe Nuclear Power PM3103132394 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 0600 GMT 24 Mar 94 PM3103132394 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Russian BFN [From the "Novosti" newscast: Video report on Theoretical and Experimental Physics Institute's work on safe nuclear reactors by Vladimir Polozhentsev, identified by caption] [Excerpts] [Polozhentsev] The problem of safe nuclear power stations is a worldwide concern today. In ordinary nuclear reactors the chain reaction sets in after the fuel rods have been lowered in, and it is controlled automatically by means of special absorbers. However, the regulation of this process cannot be 100-percent reliable. In the event of a malfunction a reactor runaway can occur, which is very difficult to halt. In the nuclear-electric installation proposed by scientists at the Theoretical and Experimental Physics Institute the chain reaction is triggered by a powerful proton beam directed at a beryllium target from which it knocks out neutrons. The same physical processes take place, but they can be halted at any moment by switching off the electricity, for example. [V.V. Vasilyev, deputy head of a Theoretical and Experimental Physics Institute laboratory] Given funding and two and a half years of work, the installation could be ready for physical startup. [Polozhentsev] But funding is a problem at the Institute. Because of the low wages, talented staff are leaving for commercial ventures. Five billion rubles are needed to complete the work on the accelerator. Meanwhile "Mosenergo" is threatening to cut off electricity in the near future as a result of unpaid electricity bills. [passage omitted] [Polozhentsev] Despite all the problems, Russian nuclear physicists are continuing to perfect the linear proton accelerator. It will now depend on the government how successful their efforts are.
