FBIS3-15842 "drsov047_b_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Seeks Support for Civic Accord Memo LD1003112594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0958 GMT 10 Mar 94 LD1003112594 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Anna Melnikova] [Text] Moscow March 10 TASS -- "The time of confrontation is over. Russia has embarked on a new path", President Yeltsin said in his opening address at his meeting in the Kremlin today with representatives of different public and political movements, the Federation Council, groups and groupings in the State Duma, and the government. The meeting, devoted to drafting a memorandum on civil accord and peace in the country, was attended by Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, Russian Orthodox Church Chief Patriarch Aleksey, Constitutional Court Chairman Nikolay Vitruk, representatives of parliamentary groups Russia's Choice, Communists of Russia and the Agrarian Party, as well as of the Miners Independent Trade Union. The president called for drafting a document to bring together all political movements and representatives of the state power. According to him, "the programme of any party, be it communist or democratic, contains provisions concerning problems of importance for the entire country and care for each Russian citizen". These common provisions should be summarised and incorporated in the memorandum on civil accord and peace. President Yeltsin said a working group should be set up to draft the text of the memorandum. He suggested that the group be made up of five people with Boris Topronin, co-chairman of the president's public chamber, as its head. According to the president, the working group should draft the memorandum and submit it for discussion in two weeks. He said he expected every party and public movement to consider the draft. The president also proposed that participants in the meeting discuss a mechanism of adopting the memorandum on civil concord and peace. "It is necessary to involve the widest possible range of representatives of parties and public movements in the signing of this document," President Yeltsin said.
