FBIS3-47328 "dreas008__a94015" FBIS-EAS-94-008-A Document Type:Daily Report 12 January 1994 ANNEX Japan Accord Reached With Beef-Exporting Nations OW1101100694 Tokyo SANKEI SHIMBUN in Japanese 9 Jan 94 Morning Edition p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1101100694 Tokyo SANKEI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] Following a decision at the new multilateral trade negotiations (Uruguay Round) to lower the tariff rate on beef, a Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries [MAFF] source disclosed on 8 January that Japan had reached an agreement with beef-exporting nations, including the United States and Australia, regarding a new safeguard (emergency import restriction) which Japan can apply when beef imports increase rapidly. Reportedly, Australia, which is a beef-exporting nation, basically approves. Since requirements for its application will be eased, and definite action can be taken, the MAFF hopes it will be able to minimize the adverse affect to cattle farmers of lowering the tariff rate. Currently, a 50-percent tariff is charged on beef but it will be reduced to 38.5 percent during the six years starting in 1995, thanks to the agreement at the new round. Under the new safeguard, Japan will be able to increase the tariff rate to 50 percent, which is the current rate, if an import amount, calculated on the basis of beef imports for every quarter period, increases by 17 percent or more compared to that of the same quarter of the previous year. Under the current safeguard, which was introduced under a Japan-U.S. accord in 1988, the tariff rate can be increased by 25 percent if the annual import quantity grows by 20 percent or more. Domestic cattle farmers are critical of the current safeguard, saying that "requirements for its application are severe and it is not a definite measure." Moreover, the new safeguard can be applied to chilled and frozen beef separately. However, the reality is that the quantity of imported beef is rapidly increasing even though the tariff rate is 50 percent. Moreover, it seems that cattle farmers may have doubts about the effect of the new safeguard should primary factors of beef import expansion, including further appreciation of the yen, be felt.
