FBIS4-68312 "jpusp004___94016" JPRS-USP-94-004 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia: Space 6 March 1994 SPACE POLICY, ADMINISTRATION Prospects for Upgrading Capacities of Plesetsk Cosmodrome Prospects for Upgrading Capacities of Plesetsk Cosmodrome 947Q0098 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 6 Mar 94 p 4 947Q0098 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian CSO [Article with no byline: "Russia's New Space Capital"] [Text] Before the year 2000, Plesetsk (in Arkhangelsk Oblast), where no heavy-lift launchers or manned spacecraft have ever lifted off, could become the cosmodrome from which all types of domestic space systems are launched. That's according to the chief of the Main Center for Testing and Use of Space Systems (the Plesetsk Cosmodrome), Maj. Gen. Anatoliy Ovchinnikov. The official date of birth of Plesetsk -- initially a defense facility where the R-7 intercontinental missiles stood in combat readiness and were aimed at the United States and were, during the Caribbean crisis, on red alert -- is 1957, when the wave with the first landing force arrived there. In 1964, the decision was made to re-orient the missile complexes of Plesetsk to the peaceful purposes associated with space. Today, from the nine launch pads of the northern spaceport, four types of launchers lift off (the Soyuz, the Molniya, the Tsiklon, and the Kosmos), and they place in orbit nine types of science- or national-economy-related satellites (the Bion, the Resurs, the Foton, the Molniya, the Meteor, the Okean, the Musson, the AUOS, and the Nadezhda). Military satellites are also launched from Plesetsk. Over Plesetsk's nearly 30 years of history, two accidents have occurred (in 1973 and 1980), taking nine and 51 human lives. Because of the indecision between Russia and Kazakhstan on the question of the fate of the Baykonur cosmodrome, the role of Plesetsk has recently begun to grow. Even if Baykonur is leased from Kazakhstan, Russia will still need a base for launching heavy-lift vehicles and manned spacecraft. That is especially important for performing the Russian-American program Mir-Shuttle and the international project for the creation of the orbital station Alpha. In the opinion of Anatoliy Ovchinnikov, Plesetsk is best suited for solving those problems. True, the location of the cosmodrome -- far from the equator, which requires more power to put some space vehicles into orbit -- does present something of a problem, but one that can be solved. But the Arkhangelsk taiga and tundra -- a sparsely populated area -- is convenient as an area into which spent rocket stages can fall. In addition, radiation field effects are minimal here, which is important for the integrity of biological experiments. In Plesetsk, the cosmodrome chief says, there wouldn't be any need to perform new construction -- some of the facilities would just have to be reoutfitted, and the living area would have to be renovated. That would take about 5 billion rubles at 1992 prices, three of which has been promised by the President of Russia. But the biggest problem for Plesetsk, in the words of Anatoliy Ovchinnikov, is the lack of specialists and the assembly of launch-support teams. In fact, the drain of personnel has virtually come to a halt, and many of those serving at Baykonur now are getting ready to move to Plesetsk.
