FBIS3-31864 "dreeu038_y_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal First Month of New Economic Program Reviewed LD2402223094 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1720 GMT 24 Feb 94 LD2402223094 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Vesna Arsenic] [Text] Belgrade, February 24 (TANJUG) -- In one month's time of its implementation, the government's program aimed at reconstructing the monetary system and invigorating the economic recovery has revived optimism amongst people in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (F.R.Y.). The elimination of a hyperinflation is the most obvious success of the program makers, awaiting confirmation by official statistics for February. Between December 24 and January 24, the prices were growing at a rate of two per cent per hour. In the past month's time, however, the prices have constantly declined. Before the program was enforced, one kilogram of meat sold for 50 deutsche marks (DM). Now, however, the price fell to around 6 dm (one DM to one dinar). Confronted with shortages of ready money, which can no longer be obtained from primary issue, the shops and factories opened the doors of their storages, re-marketing the articles hitherto in short supply. The new dinar superseded the "inflationary dinar," the purchasing power of which was next to nil. Old dinar bills, denominated in millions and billions, only were the money collector's attraction abroad. The convertible new dinar is on a par with the DM, but because of the lack of new dinars, German currency circulates at the green market and restaurants. Since the foreign currency may be bought and sold freely, the government reserves have increased by 160 million DM in the past month's time. Bankers announce the return of a variety of credit cards, while retailers begin to grant short-term consumer credits. These are the signs that inflation has been under control, while the value and the purchasing power of the national currency has stabilized. The program makers have evidently won the first round in eliminating hyperinflation and regaining confidence in the national currency. What they face now is the re-start of production, the success of which is to determine the future of the program. "The F.R.Y. implements this program relying upon itself, without any foreign support and under the conditions of economic sanctions imposed on it by the U.N. Security Council on May 30, 1992."
