FBIS3-10466 "drlat045__a94004" FBIS-LAT-94-044-A Document Type:Daily Report 8 March 1994 ANNEX Brazil Franco Wants To Influence Upcoming Elections PY0503205094 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 28 Feb 94 p 2--FOR OFFICIAL USE PY0503205094 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Marcia Carmo from Brasilia] [Text] Although he has not joined any political party since he left the PRN [National Reconstruction Party] in 1992, President Itamar Franco has made up his mind to participate in this year's elections. He has already told some of his friends that, being a politician, he does not plan to remain aloof from the race. According to the president "this is part of the presidential system and democracy." On the last day of Carnival, Franco said that "should" Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso become a candidate, he, Franco, would support him. Although his statements to this effect have prompted negative reactions, the president insists that the finance minister is the ideal candidate. He does emphasize, however, that he will give Cardoso his explicit support only after the latter makes up his mind to run for president. People who are close to the president have said that Sao Paulo Governor Luiz Antonio Fleury Filho could be the president's second choice. Franco, who has been in politics for more than 30 years and is one of the founders of the MDB [Brazilian Democratic Movement], is also planning to influence the elections in Minas Gerais State. To this end he has been holding frequent talks with Governor Helio Garcia. An old local politician who is close to both the president and the governor has said: "Minas Gerais will set an example of unity." Last week, Deputy Israel Pinheiro Filho (PRS) [Social Reform Party] -- who is also from Minas Gerais -- was running around Congress pushing yet another proposal: to get dissatisfied members of the PMDB [Brazilian Democratic Movement Party] and the PFL [Liberal Front Party] to join forces with the PSDB [Brazilian Social Democracy Party] to support one candidate on whom they could all agree. He believes that this group could establish a new party which the president could join. This, however, is not in Franco's plans. He believes that being nonpartisan he is free to support any candidate he wants. Time and again Cardoso's name crops up as Planalto Palace's ideal candidate. The reason is simple enough: Even those who, until recently, looked upon his good standing with the president with rabid envy, now consider him a magician. The main cause for the mixed feeling of awe and admiration is the fact that the people do not hold the minister directly responsible for the high inflation. One of Franco's friends wondered: "How can a man under whose management inflation is as high as it is now walk the streets of Rio de Janeiro and be cheered?" He added: "This means that whether he wants it or not, he is a prime candidate. Therefore, why shouldn't he have the president's support?" Six months ago Franco did not display the enthusiasm and willingness to participate in the elections that he now has. He was dispirited, overwhelmed by too many problems, and counting the days left before he could step down. Now, as he has said himself, he has returned to Brasilia "reinvigorated" after the Carnival celebrations. After a survey of his administration which will be released in the course of an advertising campaign called "The Administration Puts the House in Order," Franco has been in a good mood, and is determined to stand up more for his administration, be it during trips to inaugurate projects or at Government House. According to high-ranking government officials, this could give Franco the credentials he needs to influence his own succession.
