FBIS4-10620 "drlat073_j_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-073 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 Panama Endara Announces Decision To Release Videotapes Endara Announces Decision To Release Videotapes PA1504010394 Panama City Radio and Television Networks in Spanish 0004 GMT 15 Apr 94 PA1504010394 Panama City Radio and Television Networks Spanish BFN [Message to the Nation by President Guillermo Endara from the Palace of the Herons in Panama City on 14 April -- recorded] [Text] Fellow countrymen: One of the most important duties I have as president of a transition government moving the nation toward democracy is to ensure clean and free elections. I have committed myself to this because the country needs it. I have put forth my best efforts to ensure that the traumas we have traditionally experienced during similar situations not be repeated, especially the shameful experience of the May 1989 elections. However, it is one thing to guarantee free elections, and it is another thing to remain silent while, amid the heated electoral campaign, my government is being subjected to unfair criticism that neglects the very special circumstances under which we have had to work. Within this context, I have decided to make public some material of genuinely historical value. I learned of the specific contents of this material only a few days ago. Since then, I have conscientiously weighed this in my mind. I deliberated greatly on whether or not I should disclose its contents. In the end, what weighed most in terms of my decision was the knowledge that my teacher, Dr. Arnulfo Arias Madrid, would have disclosed this material if he were in my position, because, if the voice of the people is indeed the voice of God, then the people are sovereign and have a right to know. The truth must not be hidden from the people, especially truth that is relevant when important decisions must be made. My conscience would bother me if, knowing that this material is in my hands, I did not inform the Panamanian people of its contents. The film clips you will now see are only a sample of hundreds of films personally recorded by public officials of that time -- tapes that were filmed and recorded by the officials of those days. They were the only ones who filmed this material. You will see their faces and hear their voices in all their crudity. They are official Presidency documents that I am making public. As a Panamanian these truths embarrass me and fill me with great shame. However, this happened in our country. As president, I would not like to see this happen again in Panama. However, this does not depend on me. It will depend solely on the Panamanian people's choice on 8 May. I will hand over power to the person elected by the people. Thank you very much.
