FBIS3-39802 "drweu035_p_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 GREECE Economic Blockade Reportedly `Tightened' NC1902192894 Paris AFP in English 1658 GMT 19 Feb 94 NC1902192894 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Athens, Feb 19 (AFP)--Greece on Saturday [19 February] tightened its economic blockade against neighbouring Macedonia [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia--FYROM] despite bitter criticism over the shock move from its European Community partners. [Deputy] Finance Minister Alexandros Papadhopoulos said Saturday that additional measures ordered Friday forbidding the importation of all Macedonian products had been applied "in a very satisfactory manner" and would "prevent any fraud." Papadhopoulos also ordered Friday all Greek border customs points to bar the passage of oil products destined for Macedonia. The moves strengthened the trade embargo imposed Wednesday, when Greece barred Macedonia access to the Greek port of Thessaloniki, halting its oil imports, thereby drawing a volley of criticism. Greece's European Community partners sharply criticised the embargo Friday, as Turkey, Bulgaria, Albania and Italy agreed to set up a road and rail supply corridor to the country to be coordinated in the Bulgarian capital. Athens, which currently holds the revolving EC presidency, is due to explain its action Monday at a meeting of the community's 12 foreign ministers in Brussels, while the European Commission is to examine its legality. Papadhopoulos on Saturday reiterated earlier Greek claims that the embargo was "legally founded with regard to national, European and international rights," while the Greek Orthodox church assured the government of its "total support." The church's metropolitan, Monsignor Seraphim, said the move was "approved by the overwhelming majority of the Greek population" and showed the determination of the government to "defend its just cause and its rights." The action also drew media backing, with the influential liberal daily I Kathimerini stressing in a front-page editorial that Athens's would not bow to international pressure and that it was now up to other EC countries to resolve the crisis by putting pressure on Macedonia to cede to Greece's demands. The move was designed to force Macedonia to change its name, which Athens says is solely part of Greek heritage and implies expansionist ambitions over the northern Greek province of Macedonia, and to stop spreading "anti-Greek propaganda." Belgian Foreign Minister Willy Claes, had said Friday while attending a meeting in Athens of the EC "troika" of past, present and future EC presidents -- Belgium, Greece and Germany -- that the blockade was "naturally in contradiction" with the Maastricht Treaty on European union. German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel, also attending the troika meeting, demanded Greece immediately lift the embargo of its land-locked neighbour in a sharp attack on Athens' "extraordinary" unilateral action. Most of Greece's EC partners recognised Macedonia shortly before Athens took over the EC presidency in January, while the United States recognised the country earlier this month.
