FBIS3-48054 "dreas015aa_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 24 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Conference on Bosnia Held in Kuala Lumpur Mahathir, Izetbegovic Hold Talks BK2201124294 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA in English 1006 GMT 22 Jan 94 BK2201124294 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Kuala Lumpur, Jan. 22 (OANA-BERNAMA) -- Prime Minister Dr. Mahathir Mohamed has assured Bosnia-Herzegovina that Malaysia will continue to help its suffering people, Foreign Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said Saturday. Briefing reporters on the talks between Dr. Mahathir and visiting Bosnia-Herzegovina President Alija Izetbegovic, Abdullah said discussions at ministerial and senior official level between the two countries would be held to work out details of the aid. Izetbegovic, who is on a four-day visit to Malaysia, and Dr. Mahathir met alone before being joined by their respective delegations for another meeting which lasted more than an hour. The president also delivered a keynote address at the influential conference of parliamentarians on Bosnia, which began here Saturday. The Malaysian delegation to the meeting included senior officials from the Prime Minister's Department, the Foreign Ministry, the Defence Ministry, and the National Unity and Social Development Ministry. Abdullah said the discussions between the two delegations had resulted in a very clear understanding of the problems facing Bosnia-Herzegovina. He said apart from strengthening cooperation between the two governments, the meeting had also enabled Malaysia to understand Bosnia's stand in declining the offer made at the latest peace talks in Geneva. We understand their position and will continue to support them at international conferences, Abdullah said. He said Bosnia regretted very much the West's accusation that they were the obstacle to peace in the Balkans for refusing the offer made by the West. How will they accept the offer when land seized from them is given to the Serb and Croatian invaders and also when they have no access to the sea. It tantamounts to surrender, Abdullah said.
