FBIS3-38499 "drweu023_q_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 TURKEY Ciller Said To Order Raid To Offset Economic Slide NC0302090394 Ankara TURKISH DAILY NEWS in English 31 Jan 94 p 3 NC0302090394 Ankara TURKISH DAILY NEWS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Editorial by Ilnur Cevik: "Will Ciller Run Out of Smoke Screens?"] [Text] Only on Saturday [29 January] we wholeheartedly applauded the Turkish air raid against the Zhalah terrorist camp of the Kurdistan Worker's Party (PKK) and said we believed the terrorists got what they deserved. Now we see that an unfortunate controversy has surrounded the military operation against Zhalah in northern Iraq. The operation against Zhalah was justified and well overdue. We had pointed out several times in the past in the TURKISH DAILY NEWS that the Iraqi Kurdish leaders had lost control over the separatist militants of the PKK who were using Zhalah as a logistics base as well as a training camp. The fact that Turkey can launch such an operation deep inside a foreign territory should be an appropriate message for all those who provide shelter to terrorists. This is all fine. Yet we are saddened by claims that Ciller had ordered the air raid against Zhalah simply to divert public attention from her economic defeat when the Turkish lira was devalued by 13.6 percent earlier last week. We know well that the military had contingency plans to raid Zhalah and that all preparations had been made for the attack. Yet we are now told that Ciller wanted the air raid on Friday at short notice for her own political benefit rather than to fulfill a particular security goal. The fact that the PKK claims its casualties are minimal, and is prepared to take journalists to Zhalah to prove it, will put many people in a poor light. It seems Ciller did not bargain for the current controversy surrounding the Zhalah raid. Now she will have to create a new smoke screen to make people forget the Zhalah incident. So what can she do? She can start with devaluing the Turkish lira a bit more, or even announce a new bitter economic austerity package to bring us back to our senses. Then we will all be thinking about our pockets again and we can forget about Zhalah... If things really get out of hand and people revolt, then Tansu Ciller could even declare war on Armenia or Syria to once again divert our attention abroad. She will never run out of smoke screens and the Turkish nation will continue to find itself in woman-made disasters until the people get the chance to vote her out of office or her own party deposes her.
