FBIS3-28126 "dreas023_a_94034" FBIS-EAS-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 February 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Power Industry To Upgrade Safety of Reactors OW0202072294 Tokyo KYODO in English 0651 GMT 2 Feb 94 OW0202072294 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Feb. 2 KYODO -- Japan's electric power industry revealed plans Wednesday [2 February] to upgrade the country's boiling water reactors (BWRs) to minimize damage in case of a serious accident. The power industry had previously maintained that technical modifications for the sake of safety were unnecessary because there was very little chance of such an accident with Japanese reactors. The containers of all BWRs, the reactor type used in the majority of the country's nuclear power plants, will be furnished with pressure valves, which, in case of an accident, would allow surplus radioactive gas to escape to prevent the container from bursting, power industry sources said. Before release into the atmosphere, the gas would go through filters designed to retain its radioactive components, they said. To prevent damage from a buildup of pressure in pressurized water reactors (PWRs), this reactor type will be equipped with a device that will burn surplus hydrogen gas originating from the reactions in the reactor core. The safety measures, which will cost several hundred million yen, will be carried out after being approved by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) and the nuclear safety commission, but not earlier than next year, the sources said. The power companies will officially submit their upgrading proposals to MITI in March. France, Germany and other industrialized countries have taken similar measures following major nuclear disasters such as the near meltdown of a nuclear reactor at Three Mile Island in the United States in March 1979, and the Chernobyl disaster in the Ukraine, at that time in the Soviet Union, in April 1986. In a 1992 report, the Nuclear Safety Commission, under pressure to reassure the public after an accident at Kansai Electric Power Co.'s nuclear power plant at Mihama, Fukui Prefecture, in February 1991 triggered the reactor's emergency core cooling system, urged the Japanese power industry to improve reactor safety. After thorough examination of the commission report the nuclear power suppliers decided to take preventive measures such as improving the coolant capacity of reactors to minimize the risk of a serious accident, the sources said.
