FBIS4-33457 "drlat109_h_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-109 Daily Report 4 Jun 1994 Honduras Oil Companies Threaten To Discontinue Imports Oil Companies Threaten To Discontinue Imports PA0606231194 Tegucigalpa EL PERIODICO DE HONDURAS in Spanish 4 Jun 94 p 4 PA0606231194 Tegucigalpa EL PERIODICO DE HONDURAS Spanish BFN [Article by Donaldo Torres Argenal] [Text] Petroleum-importing companies have threatened the government with discontinuing purchases of oil; therefore, rationing could result beginning 6 June if fuel prices are not deregulated. According to sector businessmen, ever since the Economy Ministry made the decision to freeze fuel prices, they have been registering losses amounting in the millions. Augusto Gigerbaud, manager of Distribuidora de Productos Derivados del Petroleo (DIPPSA) [a petroleum byproducts distributing company], has said if government officials do not reply to them within the next 48 hours, fuel rationing will commence nationwide beginning 6 June. They Demand the Government Take Measures Gigerbaud has added they can no longer register such losses; therefore, it is necessary for the government to take immediate and extreme measures. Either our cost of the product is taken into consideration, or they must sacrifice their profit margin, he has said. As to the freezing of fuel prices, the businessman has termed the measure as arbitrary and dangerous, due to the repercussions that could adversely affect importing companies. Gigerbaud has reiterated the measure is arbitrary, because whenever the government has asked us to make a sacrifice or help, we have agreed to do so. In this regard, the businessman has said that before President Carlos Roberto Reina made his presentation via television to mark his first 100 days in office, a member of his economic cabinet had called them three days before requesting that fuel prices not be increased. Gigerbaud has said they are often asked to do this type of favor, and this is why they consider it unjust for the government not to make the correct decision, thereby creating a crisis. Texaco and Esso Will Join The DIPPSA manager has said he is certain the multinational companies Esso and Texaco will also agree not to continue importing petroleum and to initiate rationing. They cannot continue to support losses in the millions, as it is occurring with us, because these losses already total in the millions, the businessman has said. EL PERIODICO has wanted to find out the opinion of the representatives of the multinationals, but the security personnel of both companies only stated the executives did not want to disclose any information, adding they had been ordered not to allow any members of the media inside the installations. The Government Does Not Know How To Handle the Petroleum Sector Meanwhile, Henry Arevalo, DIPPSA executive president, has said that by freezing the prices of petroleum byproducts the government is demonstrating it does not have the capability to handle the petroleum sector. It has changed its petroleum policy several times within two months A Crisis Draws Near According to Arevalo, these measures demand too much a sacrifice from them, cornering them to the extent they can no longer support these losses. Thus, the companies can no longer export petroleum. [sentence as published] Arevalo has warned that if the situation persists, a large crisis could be created in the fuel supply, and the government would be solely responsible for not taking the correct measures. He has said if additional purchases of petroleum abroad are not confirmed within the next three days, they will have to start rationing to stretch their inventories. Consequently, alarming situations will be produced. Arevalo has reiterated that, until the government assumes its responsibility, they will no longer continue to import fuel. This would force the public sector in turn to supply the demand for which it does not have the capability. The businessman has explained they do not wish to cause additional problems for the current administration; to the contrary, they would like to cooperate in every way possible so as not to adversely affect the community. The only thing at which the government measure is aimed is not allowing them to recover their investment in importing petroleum. To recover the investment, fuel prices must be deregulated, because the value of this sector on the international market continues to rise, Arevalo has said. In conclusion, the businessman has said the government's problem is "it starts to look for medicine when the patient is already in a coma." [Tegucigalpa EL PERIODICO in Spanish on 4 June 94 on page 1, in a similar item, adds: "Economy Minister Delmer Urbizo Pating has warned the government will not negotiate anything under pressure, given the importers' decision not to continue the supplying of fuel. The minister has added that based on advice from a consultant of the World Bank, the price of fuel will be negotiated with the petroleum importers."]
