FBIS4-42487 "drweu108_a_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-108 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 AUSTRIA Klestil Meets With Slovenia's Kucan Klestil Meets With Slovenia's Kucan AU0206140994 Vienna KURIER in German 2 Jun 94 p 4 AU0206140994 Vienna KURIER German BFN [Report by Susanne Lintl: "Slovenia Is Banking on Austria's EU Membership"] [Text] In Ljubljana, President Thomas Klestil has noted "great interest in 12 June," the day of European Union [EU] referendum in Austria. EU membership was the main topic of talks held by Klestil with his counterpart Milan Kucan at the beginning of his visit to Slovenia on Wednesday [1 June] morning. "President Kucan has indicated that this decision is not only of importance for Austria. We are bearing responsibility for the future course and fate of our neighboring states," Klestil concluded. The Slovene side expects and appreciates this responsibility. Klestil: "Milan Kucan said that it is good when a child has a godfather at its side -- as we are for the Slovenes." President Klestil also voiced Austria's concerns about the Krcko nuclear power plant near the Austrian border. He was assured by Kucan that an early warning system for nuclear accidents would be installed between Vienna and Ljubljana. A group of experts is to work out the details of the agreement soon. Regarding the minority rights of the ethnic Slovenes in Carinthia, which are laid down in Article 7 of the State Treaty, Klestil emphasized that he regarded the State Treaty as being fulfilled. "This, of course, does not mean that unsolved minority issues will be solved on the basis of goodneighborly relations." [as published] In his talks with Prime Minister Janez Drnovsek, President Klestil, who is accompanied by Provincial Governors Josef Krainer and Christof Zernatto, discussed a railroad agreement between Austria and Slovenia. Vienna is mainly interested in extending the line from Graz to Maribor and Koper to establish an efficient link to the Adriatic coast. The 2.4-billion schilling agreement should be signed within the next few weeks.
