FBIS4-23940 "drafr118_d_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Renamo Accepts Government Troop Figures Renamo Accepts Government Troop Figures MB1806185294 London BBC World Service in English 1705 GMT 18 Jun 94 MB1806185294 London BBC World Service English BFN [Report by correspondent Barnaby Philips in Maputo] [Text] In Mozambique, the Frelimo [Mozambique Liberation Front] government and the former Renamo [Mozambique National Resistance] rebels have overcome a major obstacle to the holding of elections in October. The two sides have been quarreling over the size of the Frelimo army. The government declared 64,000 men in its forces, a figure that surprised both Renamo and the UN peacekeeping mission, as they had been working under the assumed figure of 76,000 men for Frelimo. Renamo cried foul and accused the government of secretly withdrawing thousands of soldiers from the current demobilization process. But, as Barnaby Philips reports from Maputo, the two rivals have now patched up their differences. [Begin Philips recording] Last night Renamo signed an agreement accepting that the government's army does in fact number only 64,000 men. Renamo's grudging acceptance of the downward-revised figure came with one condition, that they would be no final confirmation of the government's military strength until a further inspection has taken place in the near future, but it seems the hurdle has been overcome much to the relief of the United Nations. In Maputo last week Renamo leader Afonso Dhlakama said the issue was worrying and serious and reminded him of the run-up to Angola's ill-fated elections. The government has escaped only with a degree of embarrassment about not appearing to know how many soldiers it possesses. It is assumed that the discrepancies in numbers were due to inefficiency and corruption in the Ministry of Defense. Meanwhile, attention is now focussed on the ongoing voter registration process approaching its third week. All has not gone smoothly. Registration teams complain of a lack of transport. Many remote areas have still not been reached, but across the country, Mozambicans are registering with enthusiasm. Last week I traveled across the central Province of Inhambane. In tiny villages long queues had built up outside registration posts. One elderly man clutched his voter's card with joy. I asked him who he was going to vote for? Politics is like marriage, he told me. You stick with an old partner even when times are bad. So, I will stay with Frelimo. [end recording]
