FBIS3-11257 "drlat054_a_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Further Denials Issued on Guerrillas at `Summit' Government Confirms Denial PA1803152494 Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 0142 GMT 18 Mar 94 PA1803152494 Mexico City NOTIMEX Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Havana, 17 Mar (NOTIMEX) -- Cuba confirmed today its denial of an alleged Colombian guerrilla "summit" in Havana after the government of the South American country stated it had "firm indications" of the encounter. "It is all false; it is untrue a guerrilla summit was held in Cuba," Jose Ramon Balaguer, who is in charge of international relations of the ruling Communist Party's Politburo, told NOTIMEX. Colombian Foreign Minister Noemi Sanin said on Thursday in Santa Fe de Bogota she had requested an official explanation from Cuba in light of the "firm indications" she had of the meeting, although President Cesar Gaviria subsequently explained the request was being processed. President Cesar Gaviria added Colombia's relations with Cuba now depend on Havana's response to the petition for an explanation on the case. the Cuban Foreign Ministry on Thursday morning denied having received the note mentioned by Sanin. "We hold in high esteem our relations with Colombia, and in no way could something of that sort have occurred," Balaguer said regarding the alleged meeting. The political leader said the version of the meeting published in the Colombian daily EL TIEMPO is "an attempt to mar relations" between the two nations, which "were being developed earnestly and can continue to develop." The media report on a meeting in the Cuban capital among Colombian guerrillas was published five months after the two nations had resumed diplomatic relations. The media version followed the announcement made by the Colombian Government on negotiations that will lead to the sale of 15,000 to 20,000 barrels of petroleum to Cuba, which for three decades has been under a U.S. trade embargo.
