FBIS4-56263 "drlat084_o_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-084 Daily Report 9 Apr 1994 Colombia Samper, Pastrana Discuss Economic Programs Samper, Pastrana Discuss Economic Programs Pastrana Discusses Program 94CA0108B Santa Fe de Bogota EL ESPECTADOR in Spanish 9 Apr 94 p 2B 94CA0108B Santa Fe de Bogota EL ESPECTADOR Spanish CSO [Conservative Party presidential candidate Andres Pastrana discusses his economic policy proposals during a meeting of the 29th Convention of Banking and Financial Institutions, 8 Apr in Cartagena] [Text] Cartagena -- According to candidate Andres Pastrana, the essential and most equitable goal is to reduce inflation to levels under 10 percent in the next four years. The tax burden should also be reduced and improved coordination with the board of directors of the Bank of the Republic is needed in order to put an end to revaluation. The views of the conservative presidential candidate follow. Taxes The maximum income tax rate will be reduced from 37.5 to 30 percent. Tax instruments will also be improved. Revaluation Quick action will be taken on this front, as it has become an obstacle blocking private investment. Revaluation is not caused by an influx of foreign capital or the return of money from Colombian citizens. Drug Traffic One cause of revaluation is excessive drug trafficking revenues, which have totally distorted the exchange rate. He will oppose legalizing drugs. Banking In an open economy the development of universal banking is desirable, so the existence of a fragmented financial sector, in which credit is directed toward goals preset by the government, loses its rationale. Bank Reserves He plans to reduce this burden on the financial system, thus helping financial institutions to compete internationally. Credit Government intervention in the private sector's financial management will be minimal. Restricting the credit of savings and loan institutions will stimulate even more the influx of foreign capital to finance construction projects. Macroeconomy There will be fluid and effective coordination between the government's economic team and the board of directors of the Bank of the Republic, faithfully respecting the commitments made to pursue macroconomic goals. This is the only way to avoid the sudden shocks that now jolt the economy, which are really disastrous for activities like construction. Jobs The biggest challenge of the current development process is to find ways to help people who work peacefully and honestly. Financial and economic conditions will be created that will enable the development of more businesses, and consequently, the creation of more jobs. Security The state will be strong in fundamental areas, that is, in the maintenance of public order and the campaign against crime and violence. There will be strong consumer protections, and abuses by monopolies will not be tolerated. Economic Liberalization Savage capitalism is capitalism with public disorder, high inflation, macroeconomic imbalances, excessive competition, abuses by private and public monopolies, and closed markets. These problems are going to be eradicated. Inflation To control the cost of living and avoid revaluation, the support of various social classes will be sought. He has made a commitment to remove economic indexing. All administrative prices, including public service and utility rates, will be adjusted in line with inflation goals. The aim is to keep the sacrifices incurred in reducing inflation from striking wage earners or vulnerable population groups. Government Spending Revaluation will be halted by measures to control inflation and public spending. This policy has not been carried out by the current administration, and in Pastrana's opinion, the liberal candidate has not advocated such a policy. Government spending will concentrate on areas like education, clean water supply systems, health care, road modernization, and environmental protection.
