FBIS3-14487 "drnes060bb_94003" FBIS-NES-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 Inter-Arab Affairs Further Reportage on Arab League Council Session Iraq's al-Sahhaf on Weapons, Foreign Relations NC2603194294 Cairo MENA in Arabic 1900 GMT 26 Mar 94 NC2603194294 Cairo MENA Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Cairo, 26 Mar (MENA)--Iraqi Foreign Minister Muhammad Sa'id al-Sahhaf has stressed that Iraq is neither keeping nor able to produce any type of weapon of mass destruction now that such weapons have been completely destroyed under the supervision of the UN commission set up for this purpose. In a news conference at the Arab League headquarters this evening, al-Sahhaf called on the UN Security Council to lift the embargo against Iraq now that the country has met its obligations on the destruction of weapons of mass destruction. He said Security Council procrastinations in this regard are a kind of political pressure applied by the member states, especially the United States, against Iraq to overthrow President Saddam Husayn. He noted differences among the Security Council's permanent members on the removal of the boycott. He explained that France, China, and Russia support lifting the embargo. The Iraqi foreign minister said the Iraqi people are suffering diseases, epidemics, and food and medicine shortages. He said his country cannot import food and medicine because of a lack of finances. This causes large numbers of children and elderly to die daily, he said. On Kuwaiti captives and detainees in Iraq, al-Sahhaf stressed that not one Kuwaiti is imprisoned in Iraq. He said that all prisoners from all nationalities were released through the International Committee of the Red Cross [ICRC] at the end of the war. He said Iraq is cooperating with the Arab League to solve this problem. We invited popular committees from the Kuwaiti parliament to see the facts for themselves but the Kuwaitis rejected the offer, he said. He said Iraq is prepared to provide all facilities to the ICRC, the Arab League, the Gulf states, and any other Arab country to solve this problem. He said Iraq's relations with the Gulf states, especially Oman, Qatar, and Bahrain, are good. He said Iraq's relations with the United Arab Emirates have not been broken off either.
