FBIS4-9178 "dreeu078_d_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-078 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 SLOVAKIA Ministry Explains EU Application Procedure Ministry Explains EU Application Procedure AU2104185294 Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 18 Apr 94 p 5 AU2104185294 Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA Slovak BFN [Unattributed item carried in the "You Ask, We Answer" column: "When Will We Join the European Union?"] [Text] A reader, J. H. from Povazska Bystrica, would like to know why, of the Visegrad Four states, it is Poland and Hungary that are making haste with their applications to become full-fledged members of the European Union [EU]. The Foreign Ministry Press department has issued a statement on this matter from which we have selected the following: "On 13 April, Foreign Minister E. Kukan received in Bratislava the ambassador of the Polish Republic, J. Korolec, who, on behalf of the Polish Government, requested support from Slovakia for the Polish Republic's official application to join the EU, which Polish Foreign Minister A. Olechowski had submitted in Athens on 8 April to the current Greek chairman of the EU. Minister E. Kukan welcomed the submission of Poland's application to become a full-fledged member of the EU. At the same time, he said that Slovakia will also submit its application for EU membership following the completion of the ratification process for the European Association Agreement in all of the parliaments of the EU member countries. Until then, all of the necessary measures will be taken in order to achieve such standards in political, economic, legislative, and social development that, along with the other applicants for EU membership from Central Europe and the assistance of the EU and its member states, the Republic attains full-fledged membership in the EU as quickly as possible." It is also necessary to point out that Poland and Hungary have already gone through the ratification "sieve" of approval for their association agreements and, therefore, were able to submit their applications to become full-fledged EU members.
