FBIS4-44215 "drweu124_k_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-124 Daily Report 25 Jun 1994 PORTUGAL Cavaco Silva Blames `Agitators' for Lisbon Events Cavaco Silva Blames `Agitators' for Lisbon Events LD2506152794 Lisbon Radio Renascenca in Portuguese to Europe 1300 GMT 25 Jun 94 LD2506152794 Lisbon Radio Renascenca Portuguese BFN [Text] Prime Minister Cavaco Silva's first reaction to the incidents yesterday and early this morning at Lisbon Bridge was that the whole thing was planned and organized by professional agitators. The prime minister made these comments at the end of the Corfu summit. He went on to say that extremist forces were behind the crowds: [Begin Cavaco Silva recording] The action that took place yesterday in Lisbon is totally unacceptable in a democratic state. Attempts were made to block the city of Lisbon and, according to information I have received, these were organized attempts, planned by professionals who clearly were attempting to destabilize the country and cause agitation. We cannot be complacent, despite the openness and dialogue that we offer, when we can see clearly that the intention was to engage in agitation, provocation, and violence. I would like to praise the security forces, who, despite the extreme provocation, stayed calm and knew just when to act in defense of our country's legitimate democracy. It is obvious that we were concerned. According to statements made by some people, we believe that apart from the professional organizers -- and it is not possible to carry out such an action without methodical planning aimed at agitation -- there may be some extremist political forces behind the action, given the language that was used and the people among those who were agitating the crowds, people linked to the Communist Party and the far left. I am also bearing in mind the statements made by several members of the Communist Party. There were some people that journalists recognized among the protestors as members of the Communist Party. [end recording]
