FBIS4-37178 "drnes117_d_94008" FBIS-NES-94-117 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 Libya African Leaders Arrive for Regional Talks African Leaders Arrive for Regional Talks Al-Qadhdhafi Addresses Banquet LD1706085394 Tripoli Voice of Greater Arab Homeland in Arabic 0300 GMT 17 Jun 94 LD1706085394 Tripoli Voice of Greater Arab Homeland Arabic BFN [Text] The brother leader of the revolution [Colonel Mu'ammar al-Qadhdhafi] hosted a dinner banquet last night in honor of Presidents Blaise Campaore, president of Burkina Faso, Alpha Oumar Konare, president of the Republic of Mali, and Mahamane Ousmane, president of the Republic of Niger, and the delegations accompanying them. The banquet was also attended by the secretary and members of the secretariat of the General People's Congress, the secretary and members of the General People's Committee, in addition to the heads of the diplomatic missions accredited to the Great Jamahiriyah and a number of army officers. The brother leader of the revolution delivered a speech at the banquet and began by welcoming the leaders of these Islamic African states, Mali, Niger, and Burkina Faso. The leader said that the Libyan people welcome and appreciate the solidarity of their African brethren and this solidarity reinforces the position of the Libyan people in confronting the conspiracy led by the three colonial western states. The leader added: The triumph of the will of the peoples of Mali, Niger, and Burkina Faso strengthens freedom and democracy. He also warned that the colonial western states are still involved in creating problems and hardship for those countries where the nationalist movements were victorious. He pointed out that it has become clear that the colonial western states which were accusing Libya of being behind the destabilization of the African continent were in fact themselves working hard to destabilize the situation in the African continent and prevent the latter from building itself. The leader further said: The peoples of the Third World, whom the colonial western states are trying to force to surrender, have decided to resist and the West must understand this. He added: The West is now using the United Nations, after it tore up its Charter and trampled on its laws, as a neocolonialist means in the same way it used the League of Nations in the past to impose its mandate on the peoples of the Third World. The brother leader warned: This trend which the western states are entrenching is a dangerous trend for the peoples of the world, will turn the world into a jungle, and will be responsible for its collapse.
