FBIS3-50919 "drlat007_j_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 Panama Perez Balladares on Ruling Parties' Alliance Failure PA1001173394 Panama City LA PRENSA in Spanish 6 Jan 94 p 4a PA1001173394 Panama City LA PRENSA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Hermes Sucre Serrano] [Text] The ruling parties' alliance failed because it is made up of parties that have united for "electoral" purposes with the sole objective of grabbing a slice of the "government pie", said Ernesto "Toro" Perez Balladares, presidential candidate for the opposition Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD). Perez Balladares said the ruling parties have no interest in meeting the people's needs. On the contrary, the only thing that unites them is their desire to continue taking advantage of public finances. "We don't lose any sleep over alliances because we are interested in sharing our government platform with political parties and organized groups that are interested in serving the people," the PRD leader said. The PRD presidential candidate made those statements yesterday during a morning radio talk show hosted by radio commentator and journalist Mario Velasquez. Perez Balladares recalled that alliances were created by former liberal leaders to oppose the candidacy of former president Arnulfo Arias Madrid. "One party would split into many groups to get more representatives at the polling table, thus making it true that whoever counted the votes would decide who wins," he added. Regarding the role that the Christian Democratic Party (PDC) will play in the May 1994 elections, Perez Balladares said the Christian Democrats turned out to be a failure because they are not fit to rule, only "to be among the fallen" opposition. Referring to the Papa Egoro Party and Ruben Blades' candidacy, the PRD leader said Blades is a capable man with good intentions but he lacks political experience. "They are on the right track. They have a meaningful movement that is critical of the status quo, but they lack political realism," he added. Regarding the renegotiation of military bases proposed by Ruben Carles, Perez Balladares said such a negotiation is unnecessary, because the U.S. people are not even interested in remaining in Panama.
