FBIS3-20896 "jpest005___94013" JPRS-EST-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International Economic Competitiveness 3 March 1994 WEST EUROPE SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY POLICY German Government Increases Funds for R&D in New Laender MI2601133694 Bonn DIE WELT in German 13 Jan 94 p 11 MI2601133694 Bonn DIE WELT Language: German Article Type:BFN [Article by Heinz Heck: "Krueger: Funding Is Showing Results -- Bonn Provides Several Hundred Million Marks To Boost Research in East"] [Text] Although the cutbacks in the research and development (R&D) work force in the new federal laender have slowed down over the last year or two, they have not yet stopped altogether. Research Minister Paul Krueger said before today's Bundestag research debate that the Federal Government would therefore "not relax its considerable commitment to R&D funding in industry in the new laender." Krueger nevertheless rejected the claim by the Halle Economic Research Institute (IWH) that the R&D work force had been cut from 86,000 to 10,000 between 1989 and the end of 1993 and that another 3,000 jobs were expected to be lost: His ministry could not agree with these figures. The terms of the comparison with an estimated 86,000 employees in the former GDR were not proper, as the figure of 10,000 referred solely to industry in the strict sense, whereas that of 86,000 took in the whole of the economy. Krueger did not expect further heavy cuts in R&D jobs: "On the contrary, the funding programs are showing results, and the R&D work force in industry in the new laender is receiving increasing support -- over 50 percent -- from state funding measures. The Federal Government realized early on that maintaining and expanding a productive industrial research capability would require an exceptional commitment on the part of the state." The range of funding measures had thus been extended back at the beginning of 1992 and considerably more funds provided for industrial R&D in the new laender. Krueger considered even greater efforts on the part of government and industry necessary to make up lost ground. Companies from the original laender were setting up research stations in the new ones, and this, together with the funding measures sponsored by his own ministry, the Industry Ministry, and the governments of the new laender, should have a stabilizing effect on staffing levels there. The two ministries had set aside 740 million German marks for 1994, and additional funds would be forthcoming from the new laender themselves. Krueger saw a strong export trade aspect in this funding, as "R&D-intensive goods are a strong feature of German exports." These are goods in which R&D expenditure represents over 3.5 percent of the sale price. They gave Germany a considerable trade surplus each year, 48 percent of German industrial exports being R&D intensive (1992). Numerous east German firms were still not internationally competitive with their products, so a greater orientation toward product innovation was required. Industry in the new laender would need support in developing products based on selected key technologies. "This will also contribute to stabilizing the R&D work force."
