FBIS3-51086 "drlat009_n_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 Chile Government Seeks Another Trial for Chileans in Peru PY1201131894 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network in Spanish 1000 GMT 12 Jan 94 PY1201131894 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Carmen Castro] [Text] The Chilean Government has asked the Peruvian Government to apply appropriate norms in the case of Chilean terrorists sentenced to life imprisonment in Peru. The Chilean Government seeks the application of appropriate norms in the case of three Chileans sentenced to life imprisonment in Peru. This was stated by Chilean Foreign Ministry spokesmen. The Chilean Government considers unapplicable the norms and jurisdiction of the Peruvian courts that sentenced the Chileans for the crime of treason to the motherland, a crime valid only for Peruvians. The defendants are Chilean citizens; therefore, they cannot be the object of such an accusation, the ministry spokesmen said. The Chilean Government wants them tried by a Peruvian civilian court for the crimes they committed even if they again receive prison sentences if their guilt in participating in terrorist actions is demonstrated. These Chileans are connected with the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Army. The Chilean Government does not oppose a trial but it wants the application of appropriate norms and procedures according to international law. The trial that took place last week in Lima violated the law, given that after the defendants were notified of their charges, they were given only 24 hours to present their defense. The sentence was issued within the same time span, which is unacceptable. The defendants' relatives also said the detained were mistreated and isolated. They were even sentenced to life imprisonment by faceless judges. Several norms were violated, such as the fact that the defense did not have enough means and time. The law establishing that witnesses for the prosecution and the defense must testify under the same conditions was not respected. The four Chileans involved in this case were questioned on 14 October without respecting these conditions. In the face of these juridical violations, the Chilean Foreign Ministry asked the Peruvian Government for the appropriate application of justice. The Peruvian Government has not given an official answer to the Chilean Government yet.
