FBIS4-20639 "jpjst015__l94018" JPRS-JST-94-015-L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 12 April 1994 AEROSPACE Third and Fourth Solid Propellant Storage Facilities Third and Fourth Solid Propellant Storage Facilities 43070064A Tokyo NASDA REPORT in English Fall 93 pp 4-5 43070064A Tokyo NASDA REPORT English CSO [Text] The third and fourth solid propellant storage facilities store the solid rocket boosters (SRBs) for H-II launch vehicles. They are located 2km northeast of Yoshinobu Launch Site and are surrounded by embankments and fences. Major Structure and Functions of Third and Fourth Solid Propellant Storage Facilities (1)Building The third and fourth solid propellant storage facilities are reinforced concrete buildings, each with 478 square meters of floor space. The ceilings of the facilities have a blast-releasing structure to release inside pressures above the specified pressure. Each facility consists of a storage facility and an air-conditioning machine room where an air-conditioner and other equipment, such as signal transmission unit and temperature and humidity monitoring unit, are installed. (2)Electric, Air-Conditioning, and Other Equipment 1) Electric equipment has an explosion-proof structure. 2) Debonding and cracking, which might cause abnormal combustion or explosions, may occur between the rocket chamber and the propellant due to temperature and humidity changes during their storage. Therefore, the temperature and humidity are controlled by employing a circulating air-conditioning system. The warm or cool air is injected from the upper part of the wall, and the air is sucked from the lower part of the wall passing through the air-conditioning machine through the concrete ducts. Twenty percent of the circulated air is replaced with fresh air. Temperature and humidity sensors are installed in the facilities and their data can be monitored and recorded at the Operation Monitoring Building (adjacent to Osaki Power Supply Facility). 3) Two 15-ton explosion-proof hoists are installed on the girder for transferring SRBs in and out and moving them in the facility. 4) Intruders are monitored at the Integrated Disaster Prevention Monitoring Station through vibration sensors installed on the doors and ceilings, a warning system with door switches on the doors, and ITV cameras installed on the embankments. FIGURE The electric, air-conditioning, and other equipment consists of the items below: 1. Lighting equipment; 2. Electric power equipment; 3. Incoming transfer equipment; 4. Telephone equipment; 5. Signal equipment; 6. Lightening protection equipment; 7. Disaster prevention warning equipment; 8. Sanitary equipment; 9. Fire fighting equipment; 10. Air-conditioning equipment; and 11. Control equipment.
