FBIS3-33121 "drlat034_i_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 Nicaragua FSLN Criticizes U.S. `Threat' To Deport Nicaraguans PA1702160394 Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 15 Feb 94 p 8 PA1702160394 Managua BARRICADA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Letter issued by the National Directorate of the Sandinist National Liberation Front in Managua on 14 February] [Text] The Sandinist National Liberation Front [FSLN], in light of the threat from U.S. authorities to expel Nicaraguan citizens currently living in the United States, firmly backs the defense of the legal permanence of these Nicaraguan countrymen in U.S. territory. The FSLN believes that one reason for the migration of Nicaraguan citizens to the United States was the war of aggression financed, directed, and organized by the U.S. Government against the Sandinist Government. Exodus Promoted The U.S. Government in those days encouraged an exodus of skilled Nicaraguans to the United States. The effect of that policy was to subject a large number of Nicaraguans to a vulnerable migratory condition. Our countrymen, seduced by offers of well being and democracy in the United States, pay their taxes and contribute to the economy with their work, whether they are aware of it or not. However, their legal vulnerability makes them second-class citizens, subjects them to low wages, and leaves them without the social protection afforded other immigrants who, for different reasons, emigrate to that country. Object of Propaganda We believe it is totally unfair that citizens who have lived in the United States for many years, after being used as propaganda and cheap labor, are being pressured to leave that country. Furthermore, by virtue of their years of residency, our countrymen are protected by the rights they have acquired in accordance with U.S. laws. The most conservative forces in U.S. society and "the establishment" [previous word in English] bolster xenophobic measures against Nicaraguan immigrants, thus universalizing the phenomenon observed in other parts of the world. Such actions must be rejected by the Clinton administration, which has the human rights doctrine as its main political banner. Our Nicaragua of today is going through one of the worst moments of its economic crisis. The high unemployment rate and the stringent pressure from the international financial agencies (IMF-World Bank) preclude any thought of a possible economic reactivation that may bring hopes of progress and work for our countrymen. The FSLN calls on the National Assembly and all the country's political and social forces to support our fellow countrymen. The FSLN demands that the Nicaraguan Government defend the rights of these Nicaraguans, who are threatened with imminent deportation that implies familial and social instability. The FSLN believes that the Clinton administration has an opportunity to exercise its human rights policy and to remain separate from the more conservative forces of his country that encourage xenophobic feelings. [Signed] FSLN National Directorate [Issued] Managua, 14 February 1994
