FBIS4-4983 "dreas066__a94008" FBIS-EAS-94-066-A Daily Report 6 April 1994 ANNEX Japan SDPJ Group Reviews Meeting With Qian Qichen SDPJ Group Reviews Meeting With Qian Qichen OW0504110894 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 5 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0504110894 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Japanese BFN [From MAINICHI SHIMBUN 5 April Morning Edition] [Text] Issei Inoue (vice chairman of the Social Democratic Party of Japan [SDPJ]) and leader of the SDPJ Diet members delegation who visited China from 1 to 3 April, and other members of the delegation held a news conference at the Diet building on 4 April. At the news conference, they revealed the contents of their talks with leading figures of China on such issues as the DPRK's (North Korea's) refusal of inspections of its nuclear facilities. Mr. Inoue revealed that during talks with Foreign Minister Qian Qichen on 2 April, the delegation had indicated the SDPJ's intention to support the UN Security Council [UNSC] presidential statement and to attach importance to cooperation with the United Nations. He said he had told the foreign minister that "because the SDPJ is one of the ruling parties, it intends to abide by the UN policy" on the issue. Moreover, he showed eagerness to develop diplomatic activities of ruling party members for solving the issue at the "diplomatic forum" which is to be set up on 5 April by Diet members of the ruling parties. According to Mr. Inoue and other delegation members, while the SDPJ delegation indicated the party intention to seek a solution of the DPRK nuclear issue through dialogue during series of meetings with Chinese leaders, it said that the SDPJ, in its capacity as a ruling party, has no intention of deviating from the Japanese Government's policy. Moreover, in connection with the UNSC's mildly worded presidential statement which was recently adopted, the delegation urged China to take a positive part in efforts to solve the issue, saying: "We suppose that China also bears a responsibility (for implementing the contents of the statement)." However, Foreign Minister Qian insisted on the view that China "is not a party directly involved." During the meeting, they reportedly could not reach an accord on the issue.
