FBIS3-20962 "jpest005___94079" JPRS-EST-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International Economic Competitiveness 3 March 1994 WEST EUROPE EUROPE-ASIA RELATIONS Daimler-Benz Obtains Semiconductor Know-How From Mitsubishi 94WS0144C Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT in German 2 Dec 93 p 19 94WS0144C Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT Language: German Article Type:CSO [Article by FO: "Daimler-Benz/Mitsubishi: Fifth Summit Meeting With Concrete Agreements; Semiconductor Know-How From Japan for Company Subsidiary Temic Secured"] [Text] Berlin, HANDELSBLATT, Wednesday, 1 Dec--Temic (Telefunken Microelectronics, Ltd.), a subsidiary of Daimler-Benz, has secured the semiconductor know-how of the Mitsubishi Electric Corporation. Access to the so-called CMOS [complementary metal oxide semiconductor] technology has been opened through a license, something that company head Edward Reuter described as a "milestone" in cooperation with the Japanese Mitsubishi combine. The Temic agreement is part of a package of projects which was agreed on by the top managers of both companies on Tuesday in Berlin (which has already been reported in another section of HANDELSBLATT). With it, according to Shinroku Morohashi, the chairman of the Mitsubishi Corporation, six of a total of 35 planned joint ventures can be realized. Morohashi and Reuter described the fifth meeting as extraordinarily successful. Reuter confronted critics of the talks held between the two technology combines for three and a half years now with the fact that the participants had been "not so impatient" and the contacts "somewhat longer-term" deliberately. Morohashi indirectly explained the obviously difficult rapprochement of the Germans and Japanese as being attributable to "different management methods" and "a different corporate philosophy." They also reached a concrete stage on the planned joint construction of a metallurgical recycling plant for used cars in Germany. According to Reuter, two locations for the DM100-million project, in which the Austrian firm, Voest Alpine, is also to be participating, are being studied. Mercedes-Benz and Mitsubishi want to examine the cost effectiveness of the technology with this pilot plant. Another cooperative project involves joint research in the field of recycling of plastics. However, an agreement in principle is still to be negotiated in detail between Mercedes-Benz and Mitsubishi Motor Corporation on the licensed production of the MItsubishi L-2000 minivan by Mercedes-Benz of South Africa. Mitsubishi is at present producing from 50,000 to 60,000 units a year of this vehicle with a payload of one ton in Japan. According to the firm, its worldwide competitors in this class of vehicle are Nissan and Toyota. Further arrangements between Daimler and Mitsubishi involve a joint appearance at the "New Earth '93" environmental exposition in Osaka this month, various research fields, joint purchases of materials worldwide, and management training. Furthermore, Mitsubishi wants to submit an offer to take over the general management of one or several of the buildings of the Daimler construction project on Potsdamer Platz in Berlin. Reuter estimates that his company spends from DM50 to DM100 million a year on research and investments involving joint ventures. With more comprehensive aerospace projects, this figure could be considerably higher.
