FBIS4-38179 "drnes125_l_94008" FBIS-NES-94-125 Daily Report 28 Jun 1994 ISRAEL Peres Proposes Membership in Partnership for Peace Peres Proposes Membership in Partnership for Peace TA2806110194 Tel Aviv HA'ARETZ in Hebrew 28 Jun 94 p A3 TA2806110194 Tel Aviv HA'ARETZ Hebrew BFN [Report by political correspondent Aluf Ben] [Excerpts] Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres has proposed incorporating Israel into NATO's Partnership for Peace in Europe. The proposal, included in a report Peres presented to the Knesset on his ministry's activities, says that the expansion of Israel's diplomatic ties includes joining organizations in which it has not held membership to date. Peres raised the proposal in a conversation with U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher in Washington about a month ago, when he proposed that Israel, Jordan, and Egypt join the Partnership for Peace and form a dialogue with NATO on joint security problems as a start toward future regional security cooperation. [passage omitted] A different Peres proposal was to include Israel in the CSCE and to establish a dialogue on security in the Mediterranean basin and on economic cooperation. The Foreign Ministry began contacts with the CSCE secretariat in Vienna, and according to the report presented to the Knesset, the Israeli initiative was welcomed by the organization's secretary general. Foreign Ministry sources said yesterday that the proposal for inclusion in European security organizations were brought up as a basis for the new security regime Israel is proposing be set up in the Middle East. Peres had proposed that it be based on the existing European mechanisms initially, with a separate regional framework being set up later. According to the sources, the Foreign Ministry top echelons now prefer to immediately set up a regional framework to be called the "Middle East CSCE," which would have three "baskets": security, economic cooperation, and human relations. Peres proposed that the multilateral talks be used as the basis for setting up the organization, which would serve as a nucleus for a new system of relations between Middle East countries in the era of peace.
