FBIS3-32391 "drlat025_j_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 Panama Carles Proposes Commissions To Investigate Corruption PA0402182694 Panama City LA PRENSA in Spanish 3 Feb 94 p 1a PA0402182694 Panama City LA PRENSA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Hermes Sucre Serrano] [Text] Molirena [Nationalist Liberal Republican Movement] presidential candidate Ruben Dario Carles has advocated the creation of special commissions to investigate the scandal with the Social Security Fund's (CSS) housing projects, the National Financial Corporation's (COFINA) operations, and the Van Dam Bridge project. According to the former comptroller general, the recommendations that the Directorate for the Recovery of State Property (DRP) made to the Legislative Assembly must be made again. These recommendations found no fertile ground before and were rejected. In a document entitled, "The Position of Presidential Candidate Ruben Dario Carles With Regard to Corruption," the Molirena politician explains his views about the creation of commissions to speed up the cases on dealings investigated by the Comptroller's Office and the DRP. Carles also recommended adopting legislation concerning seized funds. These funds should be deposited at the National Bank and used to finance social projects. With regard to legal matters, Carles proposed profound changes to the penal and judicial codes. As to the Fiscal Code, he maintained that it must be modified in the area that pertains to contracts in which the public sector is a party. He also proposed serious regulation of the civil service system to improve bureaucracy. According to Carles, corruption does not only mean stealing but providing bad service. Concerning the administration of justice, Carles noted that since the outset of the democratic government in December 1989 the Attorney General's Office has experienced a continuous crisis, one that "reached a climax with the investigation, trial, and ruling on the case of former Attorney General Rogelio Cruz. However, this did not end the crisis at the Attorney General's Office. This government office is safeguarding dozens of millions of dollars linked to drug trafficking or money laundering without making any progress in the investigations that are to lead to the respective trials," he stressed.
