FBIS4-61620 "drsov089_b_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-089 Daily Report 6 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Rutskoy Confirms Intention To Run For Presidency Rutskoy Confirms Intention To Run For Presidency LD0605122494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1114 GMT 6 May 94 LD0605122494 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Lyudmila Aleksandrova] [Text] Moscow May 6 TASS -- Russia's former Vice-President Aleksandr Rutskoy intends to take part in the presidential elections and hopes he will be backed by "his" party, Popular Party Free Russia (PPFR). He confirmed this in an interview with ITAR-TASS, saying: "If I am nominated, I will run". Aleksandr Rutskoy admitted that he is no longer related to the Civic Union coalition, of which he used to be one of the leaders. Rutskoy explained: "I did not distance myself from the Civic Union, on the contrary, its leaders have distanced themselves from me". He added that the latter, particularly leader of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Arkadiy Volskiy "betrayed those who was at the sources of the movement". As concerns the PPFR, of which he is an honorary chairman, Rutskoy said that not all of its members "took a firm stand during the September-October events" (Rutskoy was referring to armed resistance to President Yeltsin's decision to disband the parliament in the autumn of 1993) and had to leave the party. The PPFR is planning to hold a congress this month to consider the party's new rules and program and "identify positions with a view to winning the new elections and conduct reforms in the interests of the people". As concerns his part in the last autumn events, Aleksandr Rutskoy confirmed that he continues to think that his actions were right. "What else could be done, if we acted in conformity with the laws of the land, in conformity with the constitution". According to Rutskoy, about 500 people were killed in October and not 149 as officially reported. Responding to a question about his relations with former parliament speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov, Rutskoy said there were differences between them but they were not of "principled nature". The former vice-president said he is now working on several books. One of them, "The Collapse of a Great Power", will present an objective analysis of "what happened to us and how we found our selves in this disgraceful situation". Another book "will set forth new approaches to state building and economic reforms, a political program and a new Russian idea as I see it".
