FBIS4-26230 "drchi118_f_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-118 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 Near East & South Asia Minister Wu Yi, Indian Counterpart Discuss Trade Minister Wu Yi, Indian Counterpart Discuss Trade Agree on Expansion, Coorporation OW1706161494 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0241 GMT 16 Jun 94 OW1706161494 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [By reporter Li Guorong (2621 0948 2837)] [Text] New Delhi, 15 Jun (XINHUA) -- The fifth meeting of the Sino-Indian joint group on the economy, trade, science, and technology opened here today. Both sides exchanged views on further developing and expanding Sino-Indian trade. Both sides also agreed that there is great potential for economic and trade cooperation between the two countries. Wu Yi, Chinese minister of foreign trade and economic cooperation, and Indian Commerce Minister Mukherjee headed their respective delegations at the meeting. Mukherjee said that thanks to their joint efforts and compared to 10 years ago, bilateral trade has increased in a many-fold way and has scored good results. He pointed out, however, that this trade still does not accord with the two countries' status. Wu Yi agreed with Mukherjee's views and said that the economic and trade cooperation between the two countries needs to be further developed. Wu Yi said that both China and India are strong in the area of technology. Therefore, it is necessary to encourage the development of the technology trade. Over the last year, the range of bilateral economic and trade cooperation has begun to develop from the commodity trade to the technology trade. There has been considerable development in the areas of mutual investment and technological cooperation. Both sides can take advantage of each other's superiority in the areas of metallurgy, machinery, and computers. Mukherjee expressed the hope of changing the mode of Sino-Indian trade transactions, which used to be mainly conducted through a third party. Wu Yi agreed with him on this point. This afternoon, Wu Yi and Mukherjee also signed the 1994 Sino-Indian trade agreement and the minutes of the fifth meeting of the Sino-Indian joint group on the economy, trade, science, and technology.
