FBIS3-34195 "drnes024_s_94010" FBIS-NES-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 Iran Turkey Urged To Explain Military Operations on Border NC0302171994 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Turkish 1630 GMT 2 Feb 94 NC0302171994 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Unattributed commentary: "The Visit of Turkish Experts to Iran's Border] [Text] Turkish military aircraft fired rockets and dropped bombs on several of the villages affiliated with Sar Dasht on Iran's border with Iraq on Friday, 28 January. Some 28 people were either killed or wounded as a result of the air attack. Meanwhile, significant damage was done in the villages. The Islamic Republic of Iran's Foreign Ministry officials contacted their counterparts in Turkey and expressed concern over the incident. They also urged Turkey to offer a convincing explanation for the operation. Turkish officials rejected the claims that the attack on Iranian villages was preplanned by the Turkish Government and stressed that the target of the air attack was the Kurdish Workers Party camps in northern Iraq. However, the disclosure made by Deputy Foreign Minister Borujerdi after his meeting with the Turkish ambassador in Tehran indicated that Iran's officials wanted Turkey to seriously assess the matter. Undoubtedly, a more detailed assessment could be made if Turkey decides to dispatch a delegation to study the situation in the bombed areas and visit the wounded people. According to the political experts, the Turkish officials must provide a convincing explanation about the attack on Iran's border. This is necessary because Turkey and Iran have common borders. Furthermore, they are very sensitive about the maintenance of border security and stability. That is confirmed by the talks the Turkish and Iranian committees have held on border security during the past 18 months. Obviously, the Iranian Foreign Ministry officials' call for an inquiry into this incident can be described as an initiative based on good-neighborly relations. However, that approach can only be maintained if the Turkish officials seriously consider the magnitude of their military operations against opposition forces and avoid any move that may harm the cooperation between the two neighboring countries.
