FBIS4-53188 "dreas096_m_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-096 Daily Report 18 May 1994 Thailand ROK Foreign Minister Begins Official Visit ROK Foreign Minister Begins Official Visit Seeks Cooperation To Strengthen ASEAN SK1805082594 Seoul YONHAP in English 0603 GMT 18 May 94 SK1805082594 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] Bangkok, May 18 (YONHAP) -- South Korea sought Thailand's cooperation Wednesday in strengthening ties with Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in its bid to get actively engaged with the region. Visiting South Korean foreign minister, here on the second stop of his Southeast Asian tour, met with Thai Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai for talks on regional issues covering ASEAN, its relations with Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and the regional security dialogue that opened for the first time this year, Han's aides said. Han expressed hopes of giving a boost to Seoul-Bangkok relations when Chuan visits South Korea next month, the aides said. He explained the latest developments on North Korea's nuclear problem with emphasis that the situation is not just a regional concern but an international one that threatens world stabiliity. The foreign minister sought Thai's active role in mediating South Korea's involvement with ASEAN as Bangkok plays chairnation to this year's ASEAN post-ministerial conference July 26-28, the aides said. Chuan explained Thailand's "constructive engagement policy" aimed at improving relations with the three Indochinese country -- Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia -- and its efforts to establish the "baht economy" that would also incorporate Myanmar [Burma]. South Korean officials said they wish to connect to these countries as well economically through Thailand. The two leaders touched on Seoul-Bangkok economic relations with Chuan noting the trade imbalance in South Korea's favor. Bilateral trade tallied at 2.3 billion U.S. dollars last year with South Korea pocketing 1.2 billion dollar surplus. Chuan urged South Korean businesses to more actively enter Thai market and to make more investments as part of efforts to balance these trade figures, the aides said.
