FBIS4-14759 "drsov064_b_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-064 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Yeltsin Will Not Join Presidential Party Yeltsin Will Not Join Presidential Party LD0104193794 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1636 GMT 1 Apr 94 LD0104193794 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Russian President Boris Yeltsin gave his backing to the establishment of a pro-presidential party during his meeting with Russia's Choice leader Yegor Gaydar in the Kremlin on Friday. However, Yeltsin does not intend to become a member, Gaydar told journalists after the meeting. Gaydar stressed that the new party Russia's Choice would not be a party of high officials led by the president. "Boris Yeltsin believes that no narrow party of the his supporters must be established and that is why he is not going to head it or to be a formal member," Gaydar said. Gaydar considered the firm agreement that there would be no other presidential party other than Russia's Choice to be the most important result of the meeting. "We will coordinate our organizational activities with the president. This is necessary since there is much misunderstanding between supporters of democracy due to different initiatives on the structuring of the democratic movement," Gaydar pointed out. Commenting on the correlation between the establishment of the president's party and the memorandum on accord, Gaydar said the significance of the agreement on civil accord was that the document speaks of the unacceptability of violence and tension in the society. However, Gaydar stressed that the head of state as a politician was not a "sterile being raised in a tube with no past or political supporters, no own views or program." He must have political allies. Gaydar announced that the Russia's Choice faction would meet Yeltsin on Monday. The meeting is to discuss the situation in many Russian regions and the threat of administrative countermeasures. "We will also discuss issues concerning the memorandum on accord and the efficiency of the democratic forces' activities in the State Duma," Gaydar added. The Russian president's Press Secretary, Vyacheslav Kostikov, stated after the meeting that Yeltsin and Gaydar had much in common, especially in the fields of economic reform and renewal in Russia. However, he stressed that despite this the Russia's Choice Party would be independent of the president. They will closely cooperate, Kostikov suggested. Kostikov said the coming meeting between the president and the Russia's Choice faction was the first one opening a series of meetings between the president and representatives of different blocs and parties. It was not by chance that the first meeting would be held with Russia's Choice. This shows that the president's political orientation remains the same, said Kostikov.
