FBIS3-20028 "drweu058_k_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 PORTUGAL Guterres on Socialist Party Election Strategy PM2403141294 Lisbon DIARIO DE NOTICIAS in Portuguese 15 Mar 94 p 3 PM2403141294 Lisbon DIARIO DE NOTICIAS Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Report on interview with Socialist Party Secretary General Antonio Guterres by unidentified TVI correspondent on 14 March: "Referendum for Belem Palace"] [Excerpts] Distraining the Antas Stadium was a reversal of priorities in a country where "tax evasion is widespread." This was how [Socialist Party (PSP) Secretary General] Antonio Guterres commented on the affair of the moment on TVI, in an interview in which he accepted the possibility of holding an internal referendum in order to select the PSP candidate for the presidential election. [passage omitted] "Primaries" To Select Candidate for Belem Palace In yesterday evening's interview with journalists Artur Albarran (TVI), Jaime Antunes (editor of SEMANARIO ECONOMICO), and Luis Delgado (assistant editor of DIARIO DE NOTICIAS), Antonio Guterres accepted the possibility of holding an internal referendum in order to select the party's candidate for the next presidential election. "If necessary," Guterres stressed, "the Socialists could hold a kind of presidential `primary,' especially if it transpires that there are several would-be candidates within the party." For the present, the Socialist leader asserted that he will not be "distracted by the issue" of the presidential election, because his main aim is the legislative elections. With respect to those elections, Guterres reaffirmed that the PSP will run alone, planning to win an overall majority. What if, while winning the election, it does not achieve that majority? That was the unavoidable question. Will it make alliances? With the PCP [Portuguese Communist Party] or with the Social Democratic Center Party? Guterres accepted the possibility in that event of trying to "find the essential forms of cooperation within the parliamentary framework." One thing is certain: "I will not be stubborn; I will not go home, as the prime minister would do." Before the election, he gave his assurance, there will be no alliance with the PCP, partly because "the PSP and the PCP will get more votes if they run separately than if they run together." "Left-wingers will realize that the best way to defeat the Social Democratic Party will be to vote for the PSP," he asserted. With respect to the PCP, he said that "if it evolves, it could become a credible party." And evolution, in Guterres' opinion, means introducing the secret ballot in its internal life, accepting the rationale of the market, and changing its pessimistic view of Europe. The elections to the European Parliament were another unavoidable topic for this interview, at a time when the PSP is the only one of the major parties that still has no list leader. European List Leader After Weekend But Antonio Guterres had no news to give on TVI: "The selection of candidates for the European Parliament will not be made before next weekend's National Convention," he repeated. Nor did Mario Soares' alleged criticisms of his conduct as party leader draw many words from Guterres. "The country has problems too grave to waste even a minute on intrigues," the Socialist leader said: "What concerns the Portuguese people most is employment, pay, and their children's education, and those are the issues which concern the PSP." With respect to the next revision of the Constitution, Antonio Guterres showed himself, like Cavaco Silva, in favor of retaining the post of minister of the Republic for the autonomous regions and opposed to revising the powers of the president of the Republic. What is essential, he said, is to set up municipal police forces.
