FBIS4-66470 "jpjst025__l94015" JPRS-JST-94-025L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 15 February 1994 Energy MOT To Develop Fuel Cell Prototype Vessel MOT To Develop Fuel Cell Prototype Vessel 94FE0585B Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 15 Feb 94 p 13-- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0585B Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN Japanese CSO [Text] On 14 February the development of a fuel cell prototype vessel was approved under Shipbuilding-Related Expenditures in negotiations over the FY94 national budget plan that are aimed at reviving the Ministry of Transportation. The MOT will proceed with design and development of a prototype ship in a four-year project to study whether fuel cells, which have high heat efficiency and burn clean, can be used to replace current diesel and gas turbine engines for ship propulsion. In the initial year, ¥200 million in the national budget has been approved under the category ``R&D Expenditures for Next-Generation Ships.'' The original budget, as announced unofficially, included no funds for this project. This project calls for companies in the private sector to bear an equal amount of the costs, which brings the total expenditures for the project to ¥400 million. In fuel cells hydrogen and oxygen are reacted to provide electrical energy. Electric power generating systems approaching practical application include the phosphoric acid type and the molten carbonate type. The MOT will conduct research on the properties of a ship carrying a power generating system fueled by liquified natural gas (LNG) and methanol, and develop a prototype vessel. In the same category of R&D Expenditures for Next-Generation Ships, ¥673 million was approved in the original budget plan for R&D expenditures for the Techno Super Liner (TSL). FY94 will be the final year of this project, and two types of experimental vessels will be completed. In other Shipbuilding-Related Expenditures, ¥164 million was approved for Environmental Preservation, somewhat less than the requested ¥175 million. This breaks down to ¥45 million for countermeasures against exhaust gases such as nitrogen oxides (NO[.sub]x[/]) and ¥119 million to protect against oil spills. Each of these expenditures will subsidize one-half of a government undertaking, so the amounts actually spent on these projects will be doubled. In addition, the government raised the ceiling on the ratio of loans from open [sic] banks for marine shipping companies to aid in compliance with International Maritime Organization (IMO) double-hulled tanker regulations. In the past the ratio had been either 50% or 60%, but now it has been revised to 60% uniformly.
