FBIS3-42947 "jpusr018___94001" FBIS-USR-94-018 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 28 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Patriarch Statement on Bosnia 944F0343A Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 18 Feb 94 p 5 944F0343A Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Statement by Patriarch Alexis II of Moscow and All Russia, 17 February 1994, Moscow] [Text] The armed conflict in Bosnia and Hercegovina has already been evoking great alarm throughout all of the Russian Orthodox Church for a long time. The numerous sacrifices borne by the warring sides, the grave sufferings of the peaceful population, the destruction of cities and towns and the demise of the habitat are the tragic consequences of the fratricidal war into which the peoples inhabiting this region have been drawn. In May 1993 the Patriarch and Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church issued a Statement on the Current Situation in the Territory of Former Yugoslavia. It in, we stated our empathy for the grave sufferings of the Serbian people, with whom we are tied by centuries-old knots of brotherhood and the one Orthodox faith, and our sympathy for the other peoples of former Yugoslavia--Catholics, Muslims and people without religion. "We appeal," this statement read, "to all leaders of peoples drawn into the armed conflict to immediately desist from military activities and go over to peaceful resolution of existing disputes through peaceful concessions. "We pray and beseech these peoples, including the Serbian people, who are of one faith with us, to live in peace, and goodly concordance with one another. "We beseech the world community to reject plans for armed intervention into the conflict, unilateral military support or unilateral economic blockade of any of the sides involved. "We welcome all steps toward peace, no matter whence the come, and pray for their success." However, to our deep regret the tragic situation that has evolved in relations between the warring sides has not yet experienced any radical positive changes. Moreover the ultimatum regarding plans by aviation of NATO countries to bomb Serbian fire positions at Sarajevo will unquestionably lead, in the event of implementation of these plans, to great human sacrifice, including deaths in the peaceful population, no matter what direction from which they are approached. The bombing may evoke the most unpredictable military and political consequences, and in and of itself, it would be an extremely dangerous precedent. We appeal to all upon whom this depends not to permit such a dangerous development of events, and to reject the very idea of bombing. We must persistently seek a peaceful, and only a peaceful solution to the problem. On the road to this end, the warring units must withdraw their heavy armaments simultaneously and without delay, or place them under international control, so that the blockade of the city of Sarajevo could finally be lifted and so that humanitarian assistance could finally be delivered unhindered to its long-suffering population. May the Lord shed wisdom upon all decision makers, and let them hear His voice, calling for peace and reconciliation. The Lord shall say peace to His people and to His chosen; yet let them not return to folly (Psalms 96, 9).
