FBIS4-54083 "dreas101_c_94020" FBIS-EAS-94-101 Daily Report 24 May 1994 North Korea Foreign Organizations Support Korean `Just Cause' Foreign Organizations Support Korean `Just Cause' SK2405215694 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1508 GMT 24 May 94 SK2405215694 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["`Let Us Defend Socialism of Korea'" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, May 24 (KCNA) -- Foreign political parties and organisations expressed support to the just cause of the Korean people to resolve the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula and achieve the reunification of the country. Chairman of the for peace and socialism-the communist Workers' Party of Finland Timo Lahdenmaki in his speech at a rally celebrating May Day said the United States is the very one which has divided Korea. The United States has been opposed to all the proposals of North Korea to settle the Korean question, seeking to perpetuate the division of Korea, he noted, adding: "The United States expects the socialism of North Korea to collapse but the future of mankind lies in socialism. "We should actively support the socialism of Korea with might and main. This is the only way of guaranteeing the victory of the international working class movement and a brighter future." Addressing a mass rally celebrating May Day, Preben Moller Hansen, chairman of the Danish Workers' Party, Common Cause, said the United States is scheming to isolate and stifle socialist Korea under the pretext of the "nuclear issue". "We express full support to and solidarity with the Korean people in their struggle for just cause under the banner of socialism," he stressed. He supported the proposal of the DPRK for negotiations with the United States to replace the armistice agreement with a peace agreement and establish a new peace arrangement on the Korean peninsula and demanded that the United States affirmatively accede to this proposal. Delegates of the Communist Party of Denmark (Marxist-Leninist), the Danish Workers' Party, Common Cause, the Communist Party of Denmark, the Metal Workers Trade Union of Denmark, the Red Youth League of Denmark, the Denmark-the DPRK Friendship Association and other political parties and organisations expressed support to and solidarity with the Korean people in their struggle for the reunification of the country. James Stewart, general secretary of the National Executive Committee of the Communist Party of Ireland, said that to defend the socialism of Korea and actively support and encourage the just struggle of the Korean people today is the internationalist duty of the communist and workers' parties of all countries.
