FBIS4-58559 "drnes087dd_94005" FBIS-NES-94-087 Daily Report 5 May 1994 Palestinian Affairs Al-Hut Sees More Chance of `Explosion' Than Peace Al-Hut Sees More Chance of `Explosion' Than Peace NC0505082094 Beirut Radio Lebanon in Arabic 0430 GMT 5 May 94 NC0505082094 Beirut Radio Lebanon Arabic BFN [Interview with PLO Executive Committee member Shafiq al-Hut by an unidentified correspondent in Beirut on 4 May -- recorded] [Text] [Al-Hut] Although I have not acquainted myself with the details of the Palestinian-Israeli agreement, I think it is based on the Israeli interpretation of the Oslo Agreement. This is also what happened with regard to the other agreements, such as that on the crossings, which was signed in Cairo. Perhaps what we and millions of viewers saw today when Yasir 'Arafat refused to sign the agreements and then finally submitted to various pressures and made another concession to ensure the success of the ceremony proves this point. But this does not rule out that the signing of this agreement constitutes a significant move in the sense that the differences over the negotiations will be seen on the ground, in the popular arena. I think there is cause for concern when the implementation takes place according to the Israeli interpretation. The Palestinian Arab people will discover the grave loss suffered by the Palestinian cause as a result of the Oslo Agreement, the basis of all the agreements, including today's agreement. [Correspondent] What are the prospects for the peace process in the area after the signing of the agreement? [Al-Hut] My feeling is that we are drawing away from peace more than many people think, especially those who support this process according to the current framework and agreements. The situation of the Palestinian people has not changed. Perhaps it is even worse than before 13 September 1993. There has been no progress on the Lebanese, Syrian, or Jordanian tracks. This means there is still a long way to go. This way is fraught with dangers. I see the possibilities for an explosion are perhaps greater than the possibilities for peace.
