FBIS4-58464 "drnes086_s_94004" FBIS-NES-94-086 Daily Report 4 May 1994 Iran Armenian Vice President `Regrets' Downing of Plane Armenian Vice President `Regrets' Downing of Plane Received by Hashemi-Rafsanjani LD0405104294 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0930 GMT 4 May 94 LD0405104294 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Text] President Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani today received Armenian Vice President Gagik Arutyunyan. During this meeting the president referred to the incident of the Iranian plane crash in the Karabakh region as a bitter and unpleasant tragedy and stressed it would not serve the two countries' interests to leave the true cause of this tragedy unclear. Iran expects the outcome of the investigating team's work to be made available as soon as possible so as to inform the people of the two countries and particularly the families of the victims. Iran expects that if negligence is proved the culprit is punished. Mr. Hashemi-Rafsanjani referred to this incident as one of the sinister consequences of the futile war between the republics of Azerbaijan and Armenia in the Karabakh region. He added: Resorting to military force is not a suitable alternative for resolving the Karabakh dispute, and this war will have no military victor. Stressing the need for finding a political and peaceful solution to the Karabakh conflict, the president reiterated Iran's readiness to help stop more bloodshed and homelessness of this region's people. The Armenian vice president, in the course of this meeting, said the objective of his visit to Iran is to provide some explanations to the cause of the Iranian C-130 plane crash. He offered condolences and conveyed the deep regret of the Armenian Government to the Iranian Government and people, particularly to the families of the victims, and said: I will personally pursue this case until the cause of the Iranian plane crash is cleared, and I shall inform the Iranian Government of the outcome. He also presented a report to the president on the latest developments of the Karabakh conflict.
