FBIS4-20215 "drweu082__a94012" FBIS-WEU-94-082-A Daily Report 28 April 1994 ANNEX Germany Bonn Worried by Fundamentalism in North Africa Bonn Worried by Fundamentalism in North Africa AU2704125994 Hamburg DPA in German 1040 GMT 27 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2704125994 Hamburg DPA German BFN [Text] Bonn (DPA) -- The attacks of fundamentalist Muslims in Algeria and Egypt have given rise to concern in Bonn. For safety reasons the German Embassy in Algeria has already sent half of its staff home or to safe neighboring countries, Helmut Schaefer (Free Democratic Party of Germany), minister of state in the Foreign Minister, announced on Wednesday [27 April]. Presenting a profound analysis of German policy toward Northern Africa at the German-Tunisian Society, Schaefer stressed that Tunisia and Morocco are the only reliable anchors of stability in this region. In Algeria one must fear a rise in violence because of the extremists in the Mouvement Islamique Armee as well as in the Groupement Islamique Armee. Since the beginning of 1992 the fight has already claimed 3,500 lives, including those of 35 foreigners. So far, the government has not managed to establish a dialogue among the parties, Schaefer said. The domestic policy situation in Egypt has "become more difficult," Schaefer admitted. While Egypt's active political role in the Middle East peace process is welcomed, the internal conflict of the government with the radical Islamic fundamentalists is growing. Schaefer stressed that, with its current annual development aid of 225 million German marks, Germany occupies second place among all donor countries behind the United States. Necessary restructuring must be tackled carefully so as not to provide the Islamic fundamentalists with new nurturing soil because of mass layoffs. Furthermore, Schaefer pointed out that Libya occupies third place among Germany's suppliers of crude oil. Bonn is still urging Libya's cooperation with the United Nations in clarifying the Lockerbie attack.
