FBIS4-57209 "drlat094_i_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-094 Daily Report 14 May 1994 Nicaragua FSLN's Ortega Rejects U.S. Stand FSLN's Ortega Rejects U.S. Stand PA1605013594 Managua EL NUEVO DIARIO in Spanish 14 May 94 p 11 PA1605013594 Managua EL NUEVO DIARIO Spanish BFN [Report by Moises Castillo Zeas] [Text] Matagalpa -- Daniel Ortega, secretary general of the Sandinist National Liberation Front [FSLN], has rejected the Gonzalez-Helms amendment recently approved by the U.S. Congress on the return of property to U.S. citizens in Nicaragua within 90 days. Santa Emilia Assembly Ortega addressed an assembly of peasant leaders meeting at the Santa Emilia School, 18 km north of Matagalpa, to discuss a peasant proposal that will be presented at the FSLN special congress to be held in Managua. The former president said that the only way to stop this threat is "for all Nicaraguans to join in a common front and tell the United States that this is not feasible because it would create greater instability in the country." Search for a Solution However, Ortega added, we must find a solution to this issue without affecting the country's interests because paying the compensation they are requesting ($600 million) is totally unacceptable. The FSLN leader added that during meetings of the Superior Council of Private Enterprise [COSEP] it has been said that the COSEP would not agree to a policy of compensation because it would worsen the country's economic problems. Daniel warned that this threat will force the executive to seek solutions. Ortega warned that "that the decision could result in serious problems in the search for the country's stability." Somoza Family Benefited The former president stressed that these measures will benefit the family of the late dictator Anastasio Somoza because they are gringos "since they have requested U.S. citizenship and will now come and claim their properties." The Sandinist leader said that for the government to put an end to this property issue it must recognize Laws 85, 86, and 88. He said that these are valid and legitimate laws. Ortega recalled that the government had specialists in legal matters brought in to review the aforementioned laws, who found these to be flawless and thus gave their approval. Ortega added that had the government found a flaw in these laws it would have abolished them immediately. The Problem in the Countryside Meanwhile, hundreds of peasant leaders in the northern sector of the country gathered at the Santa Emilia School to reach an agreement on the problems experienced by the countryside that will be presented at the FSLN special congress next week. At this moment, hundreds of peasant leaders are studying various proposals such as the legalization of property, the distribution of agrarian deeds, financial assistance, technical assistance, land, participation by women, and other issues that will be discussed at a meeting scheduled for 0900 on 16 May at the Santa Emilia School. Jose Gonzalez, FSLN political secretary in Matagalpa, said that the FSLN National Directorate will be present at this peasant meeting. The meeting will also be attended by peasant leaders of the Nicaraguan Resistance, the UNAG [National Union of Farmers and Cattlemen], the ATC [Farm Workers Association], and others who can offer ideas aimed at solving the problems encountered by the countryside.
