FBIS4-43308 "drweu114__a94011" FBIS-WEU-94-114-A Daily Report 14 June 1994 ANNEX Germany Kohl: Euroelections `Not Test Election' for Bundestag Kohl: Euroelections `Not Test Election' for Bundestag AU1306141994 Hamburg DPA in German 1244 GMT 13 Jun 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1306141994 Hamburg DPA German BFN [Text] Bonn (DPA) -- Christian Democratic Union [CDU] Chairman Federal Chancellor Helmut Kohl has said that the last election Sunday [12 June] was a "very good day for the CDU and the CDU/Christian Social Union [CSU]." An important stage had been achieved but there was "absolutely no reason to give the all-clear signal," Kohl said after the meeting of the CDU Presidium and Executive Committee that discussed the results of the European and municipal elections. The European election was "not a test election for the Bundestag election," the CDU chairman said. An additional voter turnout of 20 percent as expected for 16 October will lead to different decisions on the part of the voters. Nevertheless, the result of the European election refuted those who said that the CDU was on the decline. For the good results achieved by his own party, the election of the federal president played a major role for the motivation of the CDU supporters. The economic upswing that set in in the spring and the clinging to a clear European course have also been helpful. The Social Democratic Party of Germany [SPD] had banked on "pessimism and on trying to make the situation appear as worse than it is. The voters did not support that." Through its pessimism the SPD did not make any gains but, willy-nilly, helped the Party of Democratic Socialism [PDS] in the new laender. The chancellor described the Alliance 90/Greens as "profiteers of the weakness of the SPD." It was now time for the Social Democrats to clearly declare their support for an alliance between the SPD and Greens, the chancellor said. He said that the poor result of the Free Democratic Party of Germany [FDP] was a result of the low voter turnout. For him it was obvious that the FDP would be voted into the Bundestag again. The chancellor described as particularly encouraging -- particularly because of the effects abroad -- the poor performance of the Republikaner.
