FBIS3-670 "drafr048_c_94033" FBIS-AFR-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Ciskei Soldiers Reportedly Mutiny Over Pensions Gqozo Holds Talks With Troops MB1003170894 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1642 GMT 10 Mar 94 MB1003170894 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] Bisho March 10 SAPA -- Ciskei military ruler Brigadier Oupa Gqozo was locked in talks with troops of his first battalion at a military base outside Bisho on Thursday [10 March] after a South African cabinet minister expressed concern earlier in the day about the possibility of a coup in the independent territory. Ciskei police who were monitoring the base from a dirt road nearby said the brigadier entered the base about 3pm. He was still there at 5.30pm. A guard at the base gate said there were "problems being experienced by us as soldiers" and that the brigadier was addressing them. Earlier in the day SAPA reported that South Africa Law and Order Minister Hernus Kriel, speaking in Berlin on an Eastern Cape election tour, apologised for cutting short his address and told his audience: "I'm talking about the Ciskei, various problems in the Ciskei, in Bisho. There's talk of a coup. I'm not involved in the coup but ii am involved in the security side." The National Party politician then left for Bisho, Ciskei's capital, to monitor the situation. Mr Kriel's spokesman, Craig Kotze, said the minister's remarks had to be seen "against the background of increasing tension in the homeland". He added: "Obviously we will be monitoring the situation to see the lives, property and interests of South African citizens (in Ciskei) are not directly threatened." Ciskei TEC [Transitional Executive Council] member Mickey Webb said any rumour of a coup in the independent territory was "devoid of all truth". Quoting South Africa's ambassador to Ciskei, Pieter Goosen, Mr Webb claimed he had been told Mr Kriel had denied making any reference to a possible coup in Ciskei. [passage omitted]
