FBIS3-48867 "dreas020__a94010" FBIS-EAS-94-020-A Document Type:Daily Report 31 January 1994 ANNEX Japan MITI Official Outlines Auto Talks Proposal OW2901045894 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 29 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2901045894 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [From Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 29 January Morning Edition] [Text] Sozaburo Okamatsu, deputy vice minister of international trade and industry, in a news conference on 28 January revealed the outline of a draft agreement presented by Japan at talks on the auto sector in the current round of Japan-U.S. economic consultations. The main points are proposals on the use import figures of finished automobiles by Japan as objective criteria, and an evaluation of import performance and discussion of remedial measures every six months. But Okamatsu admitted there remained a big gap in views between Japan and the United States, saying, "In the talks in Washington early this week I could not see any change in the U.S. demand for numerical targets, including future numbers." The Japanese draft agreement proposes promoting cooperation among private companies, and using as objective criteria import figures for finished automobiles, the number of imported-auto dealers, and figures on U.S.-made auto parts bought by Japanese plants in the United States. It proposes using as criteria only the numbers of actual purchases in the past, and not quantity or the future growth rate of automobile imports. The draft also presents necessary future actions such as the sale of right-hand drive cars by U.S. companies and participation by U.S. parts makers in designing finished cars. It proposes conducting regular evaluation to determine progress in this area. Explaining the role of the government, Okamatsu said, "It will not go beyond providing support for business meetings and creating an atmosphere that encourages private-sector cooperation, such as through the provision of loans for the promotion of imports for instance."
