FBIS3-38930 "drweu027_q_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 TURKEY Germany's Suessmuth Concludes Contacts TA0802205394 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1800 GMT 8 Feb 94 TA0802205394 Ankara TRT Television Network Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Text] German Bundestag President Rita Suessmuth has stated that violence and terror cannot achieve any political aims and added that only stopping the bloodshed can achieve the development of cultural identity. Concluding her contacts in Turkey, Suessmuth returned to her country. Suessmuth and Husamettin Cindoruk, speaker of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, held a joint news conference at Ankara's Esenboga Airport. Stating that very useful exchange of views were conducted, Suessmuth said that primarily the PKK [Workers Party of Kurdistan] terrorist organization issue was discussed. Explaining that views were also exchanged on Turkey's cultural mission in the Asian countries, the Bosnia-Herzegovina issue, and the situation of Turks living in Germany, Suessmuth said that there was agreement on the PKK terrorist organization issue. Recalling that the PKK was banned in Germany, Suessmuth added that terror and violence cannot achieve political aims and that the development of cultural identity can be achieved only after bloodshed is stopped. Suessmuth explained that during her visit, the two countries' parliaments had established working groups to put into order the citizen and voting rights of the Turks living in Germany. Cindoruk, in turn, said that Turkey's aim -- since Ataturk -- is to unite with Western democracies thus becoming a European country. Explaining that Turkish and German parliamentarian workings groups were established during the guest speaker's visit, Cindoruk stated these groups will make every effort to solve the problems existing between the two countries. Cindoruk further stated that Turkey is not only a country which aims at democracy but it is a country which is getting on with democracy and added that this gives his German colleagues a feeling of security.
