FBIS3-15248 "drsov043_a_94013" FBIS-SOV-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Ivanov on Diplomatic Mission to Israel, Mideast LD0303165494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1535 GMT 3 Mar 94 LD0303165494 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Aleksandr Zhudro] [Text] Tel Aviv March 3 TASS -- Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov, who is presently staying in Israel on a Mid-East diplomatic mission, said today in a press release: "Our visit to Israel, the same as the entire current Mideast mission, is carried out by Russian President Boris Yeltsin's order. A decision to send a special envoy to the region was passed by the president with due reagrd for the sharply aggravated situation on the Jordan West Bank and in the Gaza Strip, as well as for the threat of peace process disruption. Being a great power and co-sponsor of Arab-Israeli talks, Russia is fully aware of its special responsibility for their further progress. In this connection, our main task is to do our utmost to prevent peace process from being disrupted, to promote the creation of such an atmosphere, such conditions that would prevent any further escalation of violence." The contacts established by us in Tunisia, with Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization's Executive Committee Yasir 'Arafat, and in Tel Aviv, with Israeli leaders Yitzhaq Rabin and Shim'on Peres, revealed what we consider the main tendency, the deputy foreign minister went on to say. The essence of this tendency is that both sides understand quite well there is no alternative to peace process. Only through a dialogue, constructive and restrained, we will manage to address the sensitive issues now facing Palestinians and Israelis, Ivanov stressed. During detailed conversations with the Israeli prime minister and foreign minister, and taking into account our meetings with the PLO leader, we tried to find such a solution to the Hebron crisis that would enable the confronting sides to return to the negotiating table. In the context of these conversations, Ivanov said, we also considered the problem of international presence on the occupied territories, which is designed to become an additional guarantee of safety and stability. The Russian diplomat emphasised that "both Palestinian and Israeli leaders highly praised the initiative moves by the Russian co-sponsor taken under President Yeltsin's decision and aiming to preserve and bolster peace process, pointed to their timeliness and spoke in favour of closer contacts in the future."
