FBIS3-59799 "jpjst004__l94040" JPRS-JST-94-004L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 27 January 1994 Nuclear Engineering FY94 Nuclear Energy Related Budget Proposal Nuclear Energy Budget Proposal by STA, MITI 94FE0166B Tokyo GENSHIRYOKU SANGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 2 Sep 93 p 1 94FE0166B Tokyo GENSHIRYOKU SANGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] STA On 30 August, STA announced its budget estimate request for next fiscal year. The nuclear energy related portion is ¥189,206 million from the general account (a 3.1% increase from the preceding fiscal year) and ¥141,124 million from the special account for electric power resource development (a .4% increase from the preceding fiscal year), for a total of ¥330,331 million (a 2.1% increase from the preceding fiscal year). Next fiscal year, efforts will be made toward new developments in plutonium use and nuclear fuel recycling, such as the beginning of full-scale construction of a recycling equipment testing facility (RETF) and manufacturing of equipment for the demonstration advanced thermal reactor (ATR) fuel fabrication development facility, international problems regarding nuclear non-proliferation will be addressed and public relations concerning nuclear energy will be enhanced. STA's total budget request is ¥617 billion (a 6.1% increase), the first time it has gone to the ¥600 billion level. Nuclear energy related allocations are 53.5% of the total budget request (it was 55.7% in the preceding year). Looking at the budget request in terms of institutions, the Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute (JAERI) accounts for ¥108,745 million, a 5.2% increase. About ¥22 billion has been requested for nuclear fusion research. Of this, about ¥8.2 billion is allocated for cooperation in the engineering design activities of the International Thermonuclear Fusion Experimental Reactor (ITER) project, which will be going into its third year, and about ¥10.3 billion is for JT-60 operational control. Also, a contribution of about ¥11.3 billion to the high temperature test reactor (HTTR) will be made with the goal of reaching criticality in FY98. About ¥5.9 billion is requested for the large-scale radiation (SPRing-8) facility, which is being built jointly with the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research. Shared use of part of this facility is scheduled to begin in FY97. About ¥2.2 billion is requested for decommissioning of the nuclear-powered ship Mutsu and about ¥2 billion is requested for future R&D on nuclear-powered ships. The Power Reactor and Nuclear Fuel Development Corporation (PNC) has requested a total of ¥153,522 million, a .2% increase, from the general account and the diversification account of the special account for electric power resource development. The portion from the general account is ¥52,663 million (2% increase), and about ¥10.9 billion is allocated for fast breeder reactor (FBR) development. About ¥1.8 billion has been allocated to the ``Joyo'' upgrade remodeling (Mark III) project and about ¥5.8 billion is for preparations for tests to study the characteristics of coolant flow methods for the top entry type reactor, which is said to be the reactor type selected for the demonstration FBR, and for technical confirmation tests in connection with large-scale structural design. In addition, about ¥1 billion has been allocated for development of FBR reprocessing and other reprocessing technologies, and about ¥4.5 billion is for development of high level radioactive waste (HLW) disposal technology. The amount requested from the diversification account of the special account for electric power resource development is ¥100,859 million (.7% decrease). The decrease is due to the fact that the construction cost (about ¥42.9 billion) of the ``Monju,'' which takes up about half of expenditures, is about ¥5.7 billion less than the preceding fiscal year. The major portion of expenditures for ``Monju'' construction costs will end in FY94. Additional requests are for about ¥6.9 billion for RETF construction and about ¥3.5 billion for HLW processing technology. The budget request for the National Institute of Radiological Sciences (NIRS) is for ¥13,249 million (19.8% decrease). Of this, about ¥6.7 billion will be committed to projects at the heavy particle ray cancer treatment center. clinical testing that will begin this fiscal year will be continued. About ¥1.4 billion has been allocated to begin construction of new hospital buildings and a center for international common use of heavy particle ray clinical equipment will be designed. The allocation for the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research (IPCR) is ¥8,978 million (30.4% increase). About ¥6.3 billion is for cost of construction of SPRing-8, which is being built jointly with JAERI. About ¥2.2 billion has been requested for heavy ion science comprehensive research. On the other hand, ¥5,194 million (32.7% increase) has been allocated for public relations related costs from the electric power resource siting account. The public relations budget increases every year, and in FY94, public relations work concerning plutonium use and FBRs will be enhanced. Subsidies for nuclear power generation facility safety training and grants for social welfare of regions surrounding nuclear power generation facilities will be created from the electric power resource siting account. Furthermore, consideration is being given to establishing the ``safeguards center'' (provisional name) as a base for safeguards related activities at the fuel cycle facility in Rokkasho-Mura, Aomori Prefecture, and FY94 will be the first time that an allocation has been made for this project. Other new allocations are for a survey of the effects of ocean dumping of radioactive waste by Russia, transporting measures for the return of waste, and expenses for consultations on a system for Asian nuclear energy cooperation. Efforts also are being made to increase support for nuclear safety in Russia and eastern Europe. MITI's Budget MITI submitted its estimated budget request for FY94 on 31 August. The nuclear energy related budget items included ¥287 million from the general account (about 4% increase from preceding fiscal year), ¥93,209 million from the siting account of the electric power resource special account (about 1.3% increase), ¥29,268 million from the diversification account of the electric power resource special account (about 1.8% decrease), and ¥382.5 billion as the Japan Development Bank (JDB) quota of fiscal investments and loans (about 3% increase). The estimated budget request, reflecting the new administration's policies, is aimed at promoting a strong nuclear energy policy based on six principles: enhancement of safety measures, provision of information and other public relations measures, technological developments in areas such as sitings, nuclear fuel cycle, and new reactor types, and promotion of international cooperation. In view of the new administration's policies, safety measures will continue to be one of the emphases of MITI's policies. Of these safety measures, special emphasis will continue to be placed on testing to confirm reliability of advanced light water reactor (LWR) technology, human error prevention measures and severe accident countermeasures. Total allocation will be almost ¥30 billion from the electric power resource development special account. Through these measures, MITI plans to work to raise the people's understanding of safety. A new endeavor will be to spend ¥200 million to begin reliability confirmation testing of an advanced control rod drive mechanism as part of reliability confirmation testing of welding and other areas affected by heat, which will be carried out whenever concrete progress is made on the advanced boiling water reactor (ABWR). Also, MITI will input ¥1.2 billion, double the FY 93 amount, into reliability confirmation testing, to confirm the margin of safety against the flow excitation phenomenon, which was discovered when there was trouble with the tubing in the steam generator of the Number 2 Mihama plant. The building of testing equipment will begin. The highlight of the siting promotion measures is the creation of a ¥2.5 billion grant for measures to promote important electric power resource sitings that require countermeasures. To strengthen earlier site measures, a grant was requested for management and maintenance of public facilities, which will be applied to the recently reviewed important electric power resources requiring countermeasures. Initially, around five locations will be selected to receive coverage under the grant. Additionally, the FY93 ¥3.9 billion subsidy to support the nurturing of industries in regions where electric power resources are located has been increased to ¥5.37 billion to support stepped up promotion of industries in regions where sites are located. MITI also plans to provide generous support to promote social welfare measures in regions surrounding sites by substantially increasing the grant for social welfare measures for regions surrounding nuclear power facilities from ¥50 million in FY93 to ¥490 million in FY94. MITI intends to ensure a budget of over ¥60 billion for such siting related measures. In view of the new administration's policies, public relations measures will continue to emphasize disclosure of information. MITI is aiming for yet another increase, from ¥6.6 billion in FY93 to ¥8.7 billion in FY94. Special emphasis will be given to public relations measures aimed at overseas audiences concerning the use of plutonium, but multimedia public relations measures will be developed for domestic consumption as well. For this purpose, MITI is requesting an increase, from ¥4.08 billion in FY93 to ¥5.77 billion to cover the expense of consignment of electric power resource siting promotion surveys, etc. As for promotion of the nuclear fuel cycle, to ensure funding for the commencement of full-scale facility construction, including start of construction of the reprocessing facility and construction to expand the enrichment facility, MITI has requested a substantial increase in the JDB quota of fiscal investments and loans, from ¥290 billion in FY93 to ¥382.5 billion in FY94. MITI also has requested an allocation from the JDB's nuclear energy quota for funding support to build a domestic mixed oxide (MOX) fuel fabrication enterprise. This was requested for the first time in the preceding fiscal year, but was held over because of lack of sufficient progress in the project. This was included in the request for FY94 on the assumption that the project will enter the stage of concrete progress, such as a decision on the lead enterprise.
