FBIS4-39718 "drsov112_m_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-112 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 Tajikistan Opposition Impeding Refugees Return From Afghanistan Opposition Impeding Refugees Return From Afghanistan LD1006082594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0735 GMT 10 Jun 94 LD1006082594 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Galina Gridneva] [Text] Dushanbe 10 June TASS -- The leadership of Tajikistan informed military authorities of the Afghan province of Kunduz bordering on Tajikistan the Republic's profound concern of the attempts of extremists from among the Tajik armed opposition located there to prevent by force the repatriation of Tajik refugees from Afghanistan. The refugees willing to return home are subjected to threats and acts of terror are also threatened against representatives of international peacekeeping organisations in the Afghan port of Shirkhan on the border with Tajikistan. On Wednesday, 8 June, the compound of the mission from the U.N. supreme commission for refugees and a car were damaged by the explosion of a mine planted by the militants. Also on Wednesday, Russian border guards found and defused and explosive device on board a barge which was bringing 242 Tajik refugees home from the Afghan port, ITAR-TASS was told by Chairman of the Tajik Parliament's working group for the repatriation of refugees from Kunduz Takhir Akhmedov. Akhmedov stressed that during a meeting with the deputy security chief of the province, Mr. Majidkhan, Tajik officials made it clear that they want the local Afghan authorities to detain and punish those guilty of the acts of terror, and ensure security of more than 200,000 Tajik refugees who are now in transit camps near Shirkhan and of employees of international missions. Akhmedov said an official representative of the Kunduz military authorities assured the Tajik authorities that relevant measures would be taken to suppress acts of provocation. As concerns the process of repatriation of Tajik refugees from Afghanistan, Takhir Akhmedov said that despite attempts by Tajik armed opposition in Afghanistan at preventing the return by force, the process is becoming irreversible. One thousand and fifty hundred refugees returned from Afghanistan to Tajikistan in the past two days alone. The total number of people who have returned home has exceeded 30,000.
