FBIS3-40570 "jpnea004___94016" JPRS-NEA-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia PAKISTAN 28 January 1994 POLITICAL International Affairs Indian Presence in UN Security Council Opposed 94AS0118C Karachi JASARAT in Urdu 13 Dec 93 p 3 94AS0118C Karachi JASARAT Language: Urdu Article Type:CSO [Editorial: "Prime Minister's Rightful Stand"] [Text] India is trying to become a permanent member of the Security Council. Perhaps some major powers appear to be supporting India on this issue. India and its supporting nations believe that it should get this seat because it is a large country and has substantial military resources. India will be able to get the veto right if it becomes a permanent member of the Security Council. At present, the five permanent members--the United States of America, Russia, China, Great Britain, and France--have this right. There are not one or two, but several examples of how the major powers have abused the veto right at will. Whenever the Security Council approved a disciplinary action against Israel, the United States made it ineffective using its veto power. The Soviet Union also showed similar inclination in the past. It also used the veto without paying attention to justice and fairness. Therefore, making India a member of the Security Council and giving it the veto right would be hurting the prestige of this international organization. Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto is justified and right in her stand that India should not be allowed to become a member of the Security Council. Benazir Bhutto openly told in a press conference in Turkey's capital Ankara last Saturday that Pakistani people are strongly opposed to India's becoming a permanent member of the UN Security Council since it has been continuously ignoring the resolutions about Kashmir. Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's objection has considerable weight. A government that has been neglecting UN resolutions and refusing self-government to Kashmiris cannot be given membership to the Security Council. Additionally, India's attitude toward Pakistan and other countries in this region has never been good. It has always tried to take advantage of its being a large country. If India still is made a permanent member of the Security Council, it will increase its atrocities in Kashmir and its negative activities in this region will also increase. The United States and other countries know India's character very well. The proposal to make India a permanent Security Council member is just to make India a likely opponent of China in Asia. Still, this proposal should be opposed with full force.
