FBIS3-32914 "drlat032_i_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 Nicaragua Rebels Demand Presence of Cuadra, Obando y Bravo at Talks PA1602020194 Managua LA PRENSA in Spanish 14 Feb 94 p 16 PA1602020194 Managua LA PRENSA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Roberto Orozco B. and Roger Suarez M.] [Text] The 3-80 Northern Front [FN 3-80] is demanding the presence of poet Pablo Antonio Cuadra [LA PRENSA director] and Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, or one of his representatives, in the demobilization talks to be held with the government, "Chacalin" [Salvador Talavera], who leads the armed men, told LA PRENSA today. A meeting has been scheduled for today between FN 3-80 members and CIAV [International Support and Verification Commission]-OAS representatives. The meeting site and time will be agreed upon this morning. Certain media versions are indicating the peace talks could be held in El Naranjo, Nueva Segovia Department. The rebel leader know as "Martin Negro" [not further identified] has said they will present a nine-point document to be broached during the upcoming talks with the government. He disclosed discreetly that among the petitions are the withdrawal of Army forces, the presence of Pablo Antonio Cuadra and Cardinal Obando y Bravo in the talks, and the delimitation of areas that could serve as enclaves. Sergio Caramagna, CIAV-OAS chief in Managua, has said the presence of Army troops near the facility in which the negotiations are to be held could hinder the talks. There is a tense calm particularly in the northern part of the country due to the deployment of Army troops since last weekend after an armed group led by "El Gato" [Francisco Rivera] ambushed a Land Cruiser belonging to Marcial Sevilla Garcia, a coffee producer. Police Officers Raul Palacio Navarrete, Rene Antonio Garcia, Holman Zelaya, and Denis Gutierrez were also riding in the vehicle. One of the police officers died on 11 February, and Marcial Sevilla died the night of 13 February at Manolo Morales Aviles Hospital. An FN 3-80 version says the police officers opened fire first against "El Gato's" men, who were in a house in the hamlet of Buena Vista, Somoto Municipality. Despite what occurred, the FN 3-80 leaders appeared willing to negotiate their disarmament, citing their personal security as the main condition.
