FBIS3-59806 "jpnea001__l94004" JPRS-NEA-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 6 January 1994 NEAR EAST ISRAEL PLO Sources on Solving Settler Question 94P50064A Jerusalem THE JERUSALEM POST in English 10 Dec 92 p 7--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94P50064A Jerusalem THE JERUSALEM POST Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Steve Rodan: "The Settler Question"] [Text] Israel and the PLO might be fighting tooth-and-nail over the details of the interim agreement for Palestinian self-rule. But both sides quietly agree that the fate of the 130,000 settlers is the chief issue in the talks on the permanent status of the territories. Publicly, the PLO says all the settlements have to go. In November, the PLO organ, FILASTIN AL-THAWRAH, outlined the organization's view that whatever came with the Israelis must leave with them. It is a position that embraces the Jewish neighborhoods built after the Six-Day War. Jamil Zakut, a Gaza deportee and member of the Palestinian delegation to the talks on implementing the interim accord, agrees. "These settlements were the product of military occupation," he says. "There is no way we can accept a military entity inside a Palestinian state." Privately, Israeli and PLO officials say there can be a compromise. A senior minister says he has been given assurances that Jewish settlers in Judaea, Samaria, and Gaza can remain as Palestinian citizens. He says virtually nobody in the government wants to physically remove the settlers. But senior PLO sources make it clear that even if the settlers are allowed to stay, life will not be easy for them. First, they say, 'Arafat will not agree to such a large number of Jews living in areas they consider strategic, such as the Jordan Valley, and the ridge from Ramallah to the north to Hebron in the south. "We cannot digest such a large number of foreigners," one PLO source says. Some PLO officials already have a solution. After they insist on a reduction in the number of Jewish residents in the territories, the Palestinians will insist on "changing the demography of the settlements themselves," as one official put it. What does that mean? Take Efrat, the PLO official says, with more than 600 families. The PLO might allow Efrat to remain, but would take control over all its land and construct housing for Arabs. Apartments sold or abandoned by Jews would be filled with Palestinians. The Jews would no longer be a majority in their own community. "No matter which way you look at it," the PLO official says, "we're not going to let them be Israeli citizens in a Palestinian state."
