FBIS4-49452 "drchi088_p_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-088 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 Central-South Region Bank Official on Shenzhen's Monetary Situation Bank Official on Shenzhen's Monetary Situation HK0505132994 Hong Kong ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE in Chinese 0551 GMT 14 Apr 94 HK0505132994 Hong Kong ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE Chinese BFN [Text] Shenzhen, 14 Apr (ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE) -- A responsible official of the Shenzhen Special Economic Region [SER] Branch of the People's Bank of China [PBC] recently revealed that the monetary situation in Shenzhen was stern, and that solutions had to be found so as to overcome difficulties. The stern monetary situation was reflected primarily in three facts: First, it was very difficult to achieve the task of increasing bank deposits this year in Shenzhen. In the first two months of 1994, bank deposits of all types decreased sharply. Although there was a rapid rebound in March, the net increase in the first quarter was only 2.2 billion yuan, against the year's target of increasing deposits by 18 billion yuan. This means that deposits will have to increase by 1.8 billion yuan every month for the rest of the year, but Shenzhen has never recorded such a rate of increase. Second, there was a marked outflow of funds from Shenzhen to other domestic areas because some large enterprises in Shenzhen now are expanding their operations into other domestic areas, and their deposits in Shenzhen are decreasing. Third, the Shenzhen stock market has remained at a low level for a long time, and the reform of the foreign exchange management system and the opening of all localities in the country has made it hard to attract Renminbi funds into Shenzhen. The bank official said that the PBC branch is trying actively and by every possible means to overcome these difficulties. The bank has laid down monetary control targets for various financial institutions. Beginning in May, the whole city will begin to operate according to the risk control model. This is an item in the in-depth reform of the banking institutions, and it is expected that the new mechanism will bring greater vigor to the banks. Major breakthroughs will be made in the construction of the financial market in Shenzhen. The foreign exchange transfer center will be linked with the nationwide network. Efforts will be made to create conditions for putting the foreign exchange brokerage center and the gold trading center into operation at an earlier date. The construction of these markets will enhance Shenzhen's finance and fund-raising functions.
