FBIS4-63420 "drsov099_b_94035" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 23 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military, Nuclear & Space Issues Defense Officials on Dangers of Reduced Budget Defense Officials on Dangers of Reduced Budget LD2105142194 LD2105142194 BFN [Editorial Report] Moscow Mayak Radio Network in Russian at 1830 GMT on 20 May, in an item from the "Slavyanka" program of the Russian Defense Ministry, carries a report on the controversy over the defense expenditure projected in Russia's federal budget. It includes undated interviews with Sergey Yushenkov, Russian State Duma defense committee chairman, and Russian Deputy Defense Minister Andrey Kokoshin. On the subject of a reduced defense budget, Yushenkov says the following: "A situation is emerging whereby the reduction of expenditure on defense is already, if you like, crossing a definite physiological boundary beyond which disintegration begins. In principle, it is no longer possible to reduce defense expenditure, because all of this could assume a catastrophic appearance. "In this connection, I'll just cite one instance linked to a recent event: the explosion of the stores on the turf. This was a direct consequence of the Defense Ministry being neither properly funded nor sufficiently equipped to maintain, store, and guard these munitions. Sixty-five trillion rubles is the minimum figure." On the effect underfunding is having on Russia's technological defense capability, Kokoshin says: "Our misfortune and our greatness is that traditionally everything we have that is most valuable has been concentrated in the defense complex. If we lose that now, we will find ourselves hurled back 10 years. We wouldn't recover from that for a very long time. History won't forgive us if we lose that now." The Mayak reporter then reports that Yushenkov suspects the cuts are not based on economic considerations alone, saying: "In the opinion of Sergey Yushenkov, it cannot be ruled out that certain forces have an interest in seeing a sharp cut in defense outlay. In this way they are counting on aggravating the social tension in the armed forces and using it for their political aims."
