FBIS3-47544 "dreas010__a94009" FBIS-EAS-94-010-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 January 1994 ANNEX January Ambassador to U.S. Urges Better Economic Relations OW1301133694 Tokyo SANKEI SHIMBUN in Japanese 11 Jan 94 Evening Edition p 3--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1301133694 Tokyo SANKEI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [JIJI report] [Text] New York, 10 Jan -- At a seminar held at a hotel in New York City on 10 January under the auspices of JIJI, Takakazu Kuriyama, Japanese ambassador to the United States, said that Japan needs to introduce economic measures soon to successfully conclude the Japan-U.S. comprehensive economic talks. Moreover, he stressed that Japan and the United States should return their economic relations to a stable foundation by overcoming a sense of mutual distrust over such issues as an introduction of objective criteria and by holding constructive discussions within several weeks (prior to the Japanese-U.S. summit talks scheduled to be held in February). On overall Japan-U.S. relations, the ambassador explained that both countries are focusing their attention only on economic competition and that light is not being shed on cooperation that both countries are carrying out in various areas, including aid to Russia, the peace process in Cambodia, and environmental issues. He said that tension exists between the two countries because they are unable to maintain a balance in their relations. He also pointed out that an important task is how to create a balance in their "competitive and cooperative" ties. The ambassador then pointed out that a growing number of people in the United States no longer "feel that Japan poses a threat" and that they are becoming optimistic about Japan-U.S. relations thanks to noticeable changes in which the "United States regained confidence but Japan lost confidence" following the U.S. economic recovery in the past six months under the Clinton administration. He explained his belief that Japan-U.S. relations have started to change. Moreover, Ambassador Kuriyama said that Japan is also to blame for the economic tension that exists between Japan and the United States. He added that he has no choice but to admit that Japan's insufficient structural reform during the time when the yen was strong created a big gap between purchasing power parity and the market exchange rate.
