FBIS3-7916 "dreeu041_b_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 BULGARIA BSP Deputies Protest Charges AU0203072294 Sofia PRESSLUZHBA KURIER in Bulgarian No. 38, 23 Feb 94 pp 5, 6 AU0203072294 Sofia PRESSLUZHBA KURIER Language: Bulgarian Article Type:BFN ["Statement by Parliamentary Union for Social Democracy on the position adopted by the Group of 39, issued by the Press Center of the Bulgarian Socialist Party"; date not given] [Text] The Press Center of the Bulgarian Socialist Party [BSP] and the Parliamentary Union for Social Democracy [PSSD] is authorized to issue the following statement: At present the Group of 39 [deputies of the former Grand National Assembly who refused to sign the new Constitution in 1991] is attempting, through the agency of the chairman of the National Assembly, to cast on the BSP the guilt for its own grave crimes as regards the democratic changes in Bulgaria. It was the extremist actions of the Union of Democratic Forces (SDS) following the Varna meeting of the Group of 39 two years ago that led to the blocking of the agrarian reform, the repoliticization of the judiciary, the escalation of political persecution, and the transformation of property restitution into total restoration of the old state of affairs. Then the SDS used slanders and insinuations against the BSP as alibis in the eyes of Bulgaria and the world. Today, however, nothing can conceal the brazen sabotage of the state's power that is being carried out by the highly paid bureaucrats foisted on the state by the SDS. This latest hysterical propaganda campaign against the BSP cannot distract attention from the grave situation within the blue [SDS] coalition. The intrigues that each person in the SDS is pursuing against all the rest, including through election barriers, lists of deputies, and bargaining in the lobbies, are today a public secret. They cannot be camouflaged by the ostensible anticommunism displayed by guilty dabblers in politics. It is high time that the SDS stopped engrossing society in its own political degradation, as it leaves the problems that it has itself created for others to solve. The cheap demagogy of the SDS deputies will not relieve them of their responsibility for Bulgaria's collapse.
