FBIS3-29029 "dreas031__s94031" FBIS-EAS-94-031-S Document Type:Daily Report 14 February 1994 SUPPLEMENT Thailand: Government Praises U.S. Decision `New Page' in SRV-U.S. Relations BK0602122794 Bangkok THAI RAT in Thai 5 Feb 94 p 2 BK0602122794 Bangkok THAI RAT Language: Thai Article Type:BFN ["World Window" column by Thetthat] [Excerpts] If everything went as planned, by now, on Friday in Washington D.C. (Saturday in Thailand), President Bill Clinton must already have announced a major decision to lift the trade sanctions imposed for 30 years on Vietnam, its adversary. The decision of the U.S. leader will turn a new page in the history of relations between the United States and Vietnam, now free of conditions from the Indochina war. [passage omitted] Those benefiting from the removal of the trade sanctions are none other than private American companies which, from now on, will be able to reap profits from Vietnam in full after allowing Japan to gain huge interests for so long. The American business sector believed that the sanctions caused more damage to the United States than to Vietnam. It deprived the U.S. private sector of huge "business opportunities" during the 30 years of the sanctions. [passage omitted] In the eyes of American businessmen, Vietnam is no longer the enemy who killed more than 50,000 American GIs during the war. Vietnam of the "new era" for them is a country with high economic potential and the possibility of becoming another "new tiger in Asia." More importantly, Vietnam can serve as a "base" in the economic power play as a balance against China and Japan. [passage omitted] However, experts on this matter do not think the United States will restore diplomatic relations with Vietnam as easily as it decided to lift the trade sanctions (which stood for economic commitments). For the United States, the question of diplomatic relations with Hanoi must certainly be linked with the question of human rights, democracy development, and other conditions. Thus, it will take a long time before the two countries can establish full diplomatic relations. As for President Clinton, he has once again demonstrated political `courage' despite the fact that he risked being opposed by war veterans. Yet the risk is worthwhile because he has gotten full support from the business and political sectors, especially from the rival Republican Party. With all the pros and cons taken into account, it can be said that the whole of the United States stands to gain from this action.
