FBIS4-60869 "drsov084_s_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-084 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 Georgia UN Mission To Oversee Return of Refugees UN Mission To Oversee Return of Refugees MK3004104094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 30 Apr 94 p 3 MK3004104094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Yuriy Simonyan report in the "Georgia" column: "Refugees Will Be Returning to Abkhazia Under UN Supervision. The Latest Session of the Quadripartite Commission"] [Text] The second session of the quadripartite commission on the return of refugees and deported persons to Abkhazia was held in the Lazurnaya hotel in Sochi for two days. The commission includes representatives of Georgian and Abkhaz sides, the Russian Federation Foreign Affairs Ministry, and the Russian Federal Migration Service, as well as the office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. The commission's first working meeting, which took place on 8 and 9 April, prepared a protocol in which the sides presented the main principles of their upcoming activities, but the document was signed only at the second meeting. The sides agreed that registration of refugees will be effected by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees mission, in collaboration with the regional authorities. It was decided to create an expert group that will work out questionnaires. The refugees will fill out these papers under the supervision of High Commissioner representatives. All the data about those willing to return to Abkhazia will be entered into the computer and stay at the disposal and under the control of the UN mission. The protocol stresses that all personal particulars may not be revealed. The meeting heard a report by the UN mission on the results of its trip to areas of western Georgia and Galskiy Rayon in Abkhazia. Expert groups were set up on legal matters, information support, and planning. A draft procedure for the registration of those who wish to return was considered. A statement was adopted, stressing that the absence of peacekeeping forces in the zone of conflict hinders the return of the refugees. True, the sides' positions on this issue differ somewhat. The Abkhaz side continues to insist that peacekeeping forces should be introduced not on the entire territory but only along the line of confrontation between Georgian and Abkhaz forces, which passes along the Inguri river. Leonid Lakerbaya, first deputy chairman of the Abkhazia Council of Ministers, believes that only after this can the return of the refugees begin. The head of the Abkhaz delegation confirmed that the republic's Abkhaz population should be prepared for this process. The session defined the agenda for the next meeting on 11 May.
