FBIS4-2094 "drchi066_h_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-066 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 West Europe Engineering Company To Modernize PRC Anshan Steelworks Engineering Company To Modernize PRC Anshan Steelworks BR0504150294 Antwerp DE FINANCIEEL-EKONOMISCHE TIJD in Dutch 2-5 Apr 94 p 9 BR0504150294 Antwerp DE FINANCIEEL-EKONOMISCHE TIJD Dutch BFN [Article by Yvonne Van Der Heijden: "Arbed Subsidiary Paul Wurth To Modernize Chinese Anshan Steelworks"] [Excerpt] Beijing -- Plans by the Luxembourg-based engineering company Paul Wurth to help modernize the largest and oldest iron and steel plant in China have entered their final stage now that the Luxembourg Government has given its guarantee for the project, which is worth billions. The last remaining loose ends will be tied up this month. Paul Wurth is one of the last remaining European companies to specialize in blast furnace technology. The Luxembourg-based Arbed subsidiary will supply the Anshan iron and steel plant in the northeastern province of Liaoning with the technology it requires to grow into a modern, efficient steel company. The aim of the modernization is to boost annual steel production at the mammoth Chinese company, which employs 200,000 people, to 10 million tonnes. Last year, the Chinese company produced 7 million tonnes. The visit to China last month by an economic mission from Luxembourg, presided over by Luxembourg's Crown Prince Henri, and comprising representatives from approximately 20 companies, led by Luxembourg Minister for Economic Affairs Robert Goebbels, gave the contract a push in the right direction. Minister Goebbels was given provisional approval for the project by Gan Ziyu [name as published], vice-chairman of the State Planning Committee. "Luxembourg has already undertaken a large number of projects in China, but this one would be the most comprehensive undertaken to date," said the (Luxembourg) minister, highlighting the significance of the plans of Arbed subsidiary Paul Wurth. Technology The technological modernization of China's largest and oldest steel plant fits in with the government's policy of boosting steel production significantly by the year 2000. It intends to do this by restructuring the ownership situation of state companies or importing high-quality technology. [passage omitted]
