FBIS3-9848 "dreeu061__a94003" FBIS-EEU-94-061-A Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 ANNEX Albania Denmark's Foreign Minister Petersen Visits Meets With Serreqi AU2903073094 Tirana ATA in English 0826 GMT 28 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2903073094 Tirana ATA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tirana, March 28 (ATA) -- The foreign minister of Albania, Alfred Serreqi, met yesterday with his Danish counterpart, Niels Helveg Petersen. Albanian-Danish talks mainly focused on the development of the bilateral relations and the situation in our region. Mr. Serreqi informed the Danish foreign minister of the need of the Albanian economy for foreign investments, the facilities created by Albanian new legislation and urged him to lift the double taxation. "We are for a wide bilateral cooperation especially at this important moment of the reform and at the difficult geopolitical situation in the Balkan region," Mr. Serreqi said. "It is our privilege to contribute to your small democratic country in this difficult situation," the Danish foreign minister, Petersen, told Mr. Serreqi. Mr. Petersen emphasized that "We should try to find out the fields for a fruitful bilateral cooperation." The two foreign ministers agreed to start the cooperation between Albania and Denmark in the agriculture, tourism and culture. As Mr. Petersen said, Denmark agrees to start and big projects with the aim of assisting Albania. The Albanian party presented its views about the recent events in the region and it especially appreciated the agreement between the Croatians and Muslims reached in Washington. The Kosova question was one of the main topics of the talks in which the Albanian party reiterated its approach in defence of the rights of the Albanian population in this area. Mr. Petersen condemned the violation of the human rights in Kosova and said that the presence of the international observers there is indispensable. Mr. Petersen said that a solution for the Kosova problem requires a greater internationalization of this important question. In regard to the Albanians living in The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and their rights, Mr. Petersen said that in some previous meetings they had presented to the Macedonian party the concern of the Albanian Government concerning this question.
