FBIS3-11065 "drlat052_m_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 Brazil IMF Accord Termed `Political Victory' for Cardoso PY1603160794 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 15 Mar 94 Economic Section p B5 PY1603160794 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Reali Junior] [Text] Paris -- The International Monetary Fund (IMF) considers negotiations with the Brazilian Government to be practically over, and it is only waiting for the arrival in Washington of Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso to sign an agreement this week. The agreement will also permit the conclusion of negotiations over payment of the total $35 billion debt owed to private banks. In addition, the conclusion of the longest and most difficult negotiations between the IMF and a Latin American country constitutes a green light from the IMF to open within the next few months a new phase in negotiations with the Paris Club. In Paris yesterday -- according to sources at the French Treasury, which is responsible for management of the Paris Club -- there was no doubt whatsoever as to the final success of the negotiations. The IMF directorate had already informally passed the information on to its European members. Cardoso last week received a phone call from IMF Managing Director Michel Candessus, who gave assurances of the successful conclusion to the negotiations. The agreement, according to the same sources, also has strong political connotations, as has been disclosed in Europe -- Paris and London -- because the international financial community does not want to raise any obstacles to the second stage of the Cardoso plan, or even to the possible presidential candidacy of the finance minister. This is not the first time that organs like the IMF and the Paris Club have adopted a position of this nature. They recently favored the Russian economic reforms of President Boris Yeltsin, who was politically threatened by Communists. The second stage of the Cardoso plan was a major economic instrument in obtaining this favorable result, but the candidacy of Cardoso was also a major political factor. Since the plan was presented -- and even if some of the measures to fight inflation and the public deficit were not as drastic as might have been expected -- the prevailing trend has been to look for a solution leading to the rapid implementation of the program, evading possible obstacles that might jeopardize the minister's political position. This was prompted by concern over the probable victory of PT [Workers Party] candidate Luis Inacio Lula da Silva and a possible default on the foreign debt. These sectors are alarmed about the position taken by the PT. The agreement with the IMF, therefore, is a major political victory for Cardoso, because it was obtained on the eve of his possibly stepping down to run for president. International financial circles expect that he will be replaced by someone who is well known and who is devoted to resolving domestic problems.
