FBIS3-28044 "dreas023_c_94020" FBIS-EAS-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 North Korea Mexican Paper Writes on WPK `Independent Policy' SK0202045194 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0442 GMT 2 Feb 94 SK0202045194 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Pyongyang, February 1 (KCNA) -- The professor of the Puebla State University of Mexico, Miguel Alba Vega, recently dedicated an article titled "Independent Policy of WPK [Workers' Party of Korea]" to the paper CAMBIO. The independent policy of the Workers' Party of Korea for the accomplishment of the socialist cause is expressed in working out all lines of the revolution and construction in the interest of its people and in conformity with the realities of its country. The article said, and went on: However good the experiences of other countries may be, President Kim Il-song never introduces them if they are not suitable to the realities of his country and the interest of his people. Korea firmly maintained the line of building a self-supporting national economy when the revisionists forced it to enter an economic league, advertising about profitableness. It is thanks to the wise leadership of the president that the WPK has had no a slightest deviation in its nearly 50-year-long guidance to the revolution and construction. The independent policy of the WPK is also expressed in solving all problems arising in the revolution and construction on the principle of self-reliance. The president, believing in the people and depending on them, led the anti-Japanese revolutionary struggle and the fatherland liberation war against the U.S. imperialists to victory as well as the construction of a new country after the liberation, the post-war rehabilitation and construction and the socialist revolution to victory. The WPK's independent policy is surely guaranteed by the principle of chuche in ideology, independence in politics, self-sustenance in economy and self-reliance in defence. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea has now turned into a socialist country steadily developing on its own foot, not being subordinate or dependent. This is the result of the independent policy with which the Korean people value independence and dignity more than their lives and allow nobody to trample down national independence.
