FBIS3-32658 "drlat030_h_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 Honduras President Reina Cited on Journalistic Limitations PA1002155994 Tegucigalpa EL PERIODICO DE HONDURAS in Spanish 4 Feb 94 p4 PA1002155994 Tegucigalpa EL PERIODICO DE HONDURAS Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Francisco Valeriano Giron] [Text] Tegucigalpa -- The fifth floor of the Presidential House is reserved for the president of the Republic. "If that is going to be a marketplace, we are going to remove the money changers from the temple," President Carlos Roberto Reina has said. Visibly cross, the president has reacted to questions from reporters who asked him about the behavior of certain Government House officials and the limitations that have been imposed on normal journalistic activities. He asked for respect for the dignity of the presidential office, saying he will guarantee freedom of speech and the conditions necessary for journalists to obtain news. "If there is some regulation someone does not like, we will explain and discuss it," he has said. Reina defended Lucio Izaguirre, his private secretary. He resented the way Izaguirre has been criticized, saying it was denigrating and rude. It has been reported that Izaguirre is the official who has clashed with the press as a result of unfortunate statements. He has also not established any type of direct relationship with the reporters who cover the Presidential House. Reina said the moral revolution has many enemies. They are the corrupt individuals "who want to confuse public opinion," he said. He accused "certain journalists" of wanting to plant doubts about the moral revolution, saying extreme measures cannot be taken only six days after taking office. He has asked reporters to help him stop those doubts, adding: "If the press does not help me, the moralization objectives might be sullied." Very angry, Reina told one of the reporters it is false the doors to information in the Government House have been closed. "It is not true, it is not true," he stated emphatically. "That is what they have said to tarnish the moral revolution," he said.
