FBIS4-1275 "drafr080_a_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Burundi Reportage on Situation After Failed Coup Attempt Reportage on Situation After Failed Coup Attempt Minister Links Paratroopers to Plot AB2504154594 Dakar PANA in English 1457 GMT 25 Apr 94 AB2504154594 Dakar PANA English BFN [Text] Bujumbura, 25 Apr (PANA) -- A small section of the Parachute Battalion of the Burundi Army were the plotters of the failed coup d'etat late Sunday [24 April], the minister of human rights said Monday in Bujumbura. The minister, Issa Ngendakumana, who is the government's spokesman, told the PAN-AFRICAN NEWS AGENCY in the Burundi capital that two trucks filled with parachutists had gone to several barracks to persuade other soldiers to join the plot. But the director of communication at the Ministry of National Defense, Commander Sinarinzi, said that five junior officers were leaders of the plot and that just one truck with five parachutists aboard had attempted to carry out the coup. The second truck, he said, was abandoned by its driver who immediately reported the plot to the Special Investigation Brigade. Sinarinzi said that the five arrests had been made and that the mutineers were being interrogated. This is the third coup attempt in Burundi in nine months. The first was on 10 July 1993, on the eve of President Melchior Ndadaye's inauguration. Ndadaye, the first democratically elected president in the country, was killed in the second attempt on 21 October. His successor, Cyprien Ntaryamira, died on 6 April in a suspicious plane crash. Sunday's fioled coup coincided with the ultimatum had been largely ignored. The same source said that 10 residents of Ruhero, a posh central area of Bujumbura, surrendered their firearm licenses to local authorities. However, firing continues in the northern part of the capital killing and injuring soldiers and civilians. Musaga, a relatively quiet suburb in the south of Bujumbura, was again the scene of violent ethnic clashes Sunday. Four people were wounded, police and local residents said. Armed gangs attacked a military detachment based in the northeastern province of Karuzi Sunday, severly wounding two soldiers, the governor of the region, Mbonyumugenzi Frederic, said.
