FBIS3-50849 "drlat006_b_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 Antigua and Barbuda Jamaica Electoral Advisory Committee Chairman Resigns FL0801161394 Bridgetown CANA in English 1332 GMT 8 Jan 93 FL0801161394 Bridgetown CANA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Kingston, Jamaica, 8 Jan, CANA -- Chairman of Jamaica's electoral advisory committee, Peter John Thwaites, has resigned. Thwaites was apparently angry about the failure so far to appoint a director of elections. A terse statement from Thwaites said the committee was "unable to find a candidate for the post of director of elections acceptable to all members...." Thwaites, an insurance executive, was reported to be upset at the refusal of ruling People's National Party (PNP) representatives on the EAC to approve the application of Major Anthony Robinson, head of the Jamaica Manufacturers Association (JMA), for the job of director of elections. The PNP is said to have objected to Robinson because he once served as an assistant to former commerce minister Douglas Vaz during the opposition Jamaica Labour Party (JLP) administration of the 1980's. Robinson in more recent times has been one of the more vocal critics of the government's economic policy. The JMA head has repeatedly ridiculed the P.J. Patterson government's high interest rate policies, meant to encourage savings and curb inflation, but which has also dampened investment and discouraged manufacturers. Both the PNP and JLP are said to have supported the application of another military man, Major Winston Sutherland. But the High Command of the Jamaican Army has apparently refused to accommodate the application for Sutherland's release. Jamaica has been without a director of elections since the middle of last year when Noel Lee was dropped at the insistence of the JLP. The JLP accused Lee of inefficiency in the run-up to and during the March 30 elections last year which was flawed by administrative mix- ups as well as fraud and thuggery in some mainly urban constituencies. In a bid to attract high-profile applicants for the job, the EAC has offered a salary said to be close to a million Jamaican dollars per year (one Jamaica dollar = just over 3.10 U.S. cents). Both the PNP and JLP expressed regret Friday at Thwaites' resignation. The PNP said he had been a "positive force" on the committee, while the JLP described him as "energetic and forthright." The governor general, meanwhile, says he intends to meet with Thwaites, apparently in a bid to influence a change of mind.
