FBIS3-15457 "drsov044_b_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues `White Paper' on Oct Events To Be Published LD0503155294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1323 GMT 5 Mar 94 LD0503155294 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Anna Melnikova] [Text] Moscow March 5 TASS -- The Information Department of the Russian president's administration which was established by the presidential decree on Friday, is planning to publish a "white paper" on the October 1993 events in Moscow, Petr Filippov, head of the department, told ITAR-TASS in an exclusive interview. According to Petr Filippov, "the main purpose of the department is to provide news media with objective and reliable materials on policies of the president, the government of the Russian Federation, and the most important socio-economic and political problems of reforming Russian society, and the measures taken for their settlement." At the same time, the head of the Information Department stressed, "the department will in no way be a new department for propaganda of the cpsu central committee." Petr Filippov was one of the organizers of establishing this department. Basing his views on the experience of the Czech Republic and other countries, he believes that the course of economic reforms advances faster in society in those cases when the population and news media receive full information on their implementation. According to the head of the Information Department, now three problems cause the greatest concern. "First, the situation in agriculture connected with reforming unprofitable collective and state farms, and transforming an attitude towards ownership. Second, the problem of non-payments. The third, the problems of forming democracy in Russia, observing the Constitution and developing federalism," Petr Filippov pointed out. Touching on the organization of the department's work, the department head said that working in this office will be mainly the same experts who worked with him in the analytical center on social policy. The staff of the department will be about 50 people.
