FBIS3-53982 "drnes014_o_94005" FBIS-NES-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 SYRIA Paper Rejects Proposed Israeli Plebiscite on Golan JN2001085794 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0545 GMT 20 Jan 94 JN2001085794 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [From the press review] [Text] Under the headline "The New Israeli Maneuver," TISHRIN writes: The secrets behind the Israeli proposal, which carries the fingerprints of Yitzhaq Rabin, to hold a plebiscite on the future of the Golan Heights are gradually coming to light. The proposal aims at allowing Israel to usurp part of the Golan Heights. This is totally rejected by Syria. The paper explains that Syria though President al-Asad before and during the [Geneva] summit stressed that the Golan Heights will never be a subject of bargaining and that peace hinges on the return of the entire Syrian territory. The paper stresses that Syria is not at all interested in the plebiscite and that the Israelis have no right to hold a plebiscite in an occupied Syrian territory. Such a measure marks a flagrant encroachment on international law and the charters and resolutions of the United Nations. Israel also has no right to use the law of the jungle to annul the facts of history and geography and the principles of international law. Regardless of how long it lasts, occupation will never annul Syria's sovereignty over its territory and the identity of the Golan Heights. The paper explains that Israel is resorting to further intransigence and maneuvering by proposing the plebiscite. The paper notes that the Golan Heights belong to the Syrian people and not to the Zionist settlers. They are an inseparable part of Syria and, in all cases, the Golan Heights are not negotiable, and not a single Syrian will accept to relinquish an inch of them. TISHRIN concludes by saying: The world welcomed the outcome of the Geneva summit and agreed on the positive, constructive Syrian role and Syria's complete response to the requirements of peace. Israel, in the meantime, is working on sabotaging what was achieved and at hindering the efforts in order to return the region to despair and bitterness. Only Israel should be blamed for this.
