FBIS3-35410 "drnes037_j_94008" FBIS-NES-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA YSP Official Links Reform Grouping to Assassinations JN2402113394 Amman AL-AHALI in Arabic 24 Feb 94 p 4 JN2402113394 Amman AL-AHALI Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [By Ramadan al-Rawashidah and Muhammad Farhan] [Excerpts] Political parties participating in the Yemeni coalition government, and Yemeni party figures signed the pledge and accord document in Amman on 20 February under the sponsorship of his Majesty King Husayn. Hundreds of Yemeni and Arab political figures came to Amman to participate in the signing ceremony and to witness it. AL-AHALI covered the event and interviewed Salim Salih Muhammad, member of the Yemeni Presidential Council and assistant secretary general of the Yemeni Socilaist Party [YSP]. [passage omitted] On the series of assassinations of YSP officials, Salim Salih Muhammad said the party that carried out the assassinations is the Jihad organization, an organization sponsored by the Yemeni Reform Grouping. Some of these elements returned from Afghanistan and were identified. They were identified only in the areas where we are present, he said. We supplied all the information needed concerning their activities and they were arrested. Others are still at large in Sanaa and the tribal areas. Some tribes and shaykhs are protecting them, not to mention some influential armed forces officers. Muhammad added: That's why the first point of the document dealt with addressing the security situation, and arresting the culprits and bringing them to trial. He said: We do not pass judgment in advance. We leave this to the courts to decide. Muhammad added that the security issue is now the major concern of the people. One week ago, oil companies and embassies gave us information on terrorist operations to take place in the southern areas, particularly attacks against oil facilities. Salim Salih Muhammad admitted that some documents show that this scheme and those responsible for it are connected to Usamah Bin-Ladin, a Saudi national who is now in Sudan. Usamah Bin-Ladin is known for his support for fundamentalist movements, particularly those returning from Afghanistan. Muhammad added: I told the U.S. ambassador that you nurtured these terrorists and used them at a certain time to confront the liberation movements, nationalist regimes, and the socialist bloc. Now they have turned against you. Muhammad said: Our stand in the YSP on terrorism is firm. We are against it, against exporting it, and against all the forms it may take, whether ideological or any other form. [passage omitted]
