FBIS3-61395 "jpusr007___94053" FBIS-USR-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 31 January 1994 BALTIC STATES LITHUANIA Gylys Letter Seeks Closer Cooperation With U.S. 944K0578B Vilnius EKHO LITVY in Russian 5 Jan 94 p 1 944K0578B Vilnius EKHO LITVY Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Report by Department of Information and the Press of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania--ELTA: "Letter by P. Gylys to the U.S. Secretary of State"] [Text] Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Povilas Gylys has sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher. Lithuania, reads the letter, is particularly interested in close cooperation and assistance from the United States in the area of national security and defense and the reinforcement of economic reforms and democratic institutions. Despite the fact that the last Russian soldier has left Lithuania, we still find ourselves in a security vacuum, the letter reads. The presence of the army of a foreign state in Latvia and Estonia is a factor of instability in the entire region. The large Russian Army concentration in Kaliningrad Oblast gives rise to particular concern. Lithuania would like to invite the attention of the international community to the need to demilitarize this region. The letter notes that the Russian notion of "neighboring foreign countries" is unacceptable to Lithuania. The fact that Russia's foreign policy may become more nationalistic and aggressive with regard to the Baltic states following the parliamentary elections also causes concern. The minister noted that Lithuania, in its striving to blend into Western political, economic, and security structures, considers NATO its future security guarantor. Lithuania, in which there is no foreign army and no problem of ethnic minorities, strives to reinforce cooperation with NATO. We welcome the "partnership," hoping that this will become a stimulus for cooperation "from partnership to membership." Foreign investment is an important factor in the development of the economy of our country. U.S. investment is extremely important to Lithuania in this context. Our country intends to sign several treaties with the United States, including the treaty "On Incentives and Protection for Investment." Toward the end of the letter, the minister offered W. Christopher and his family holiday wishes.
