FBIS4-65749 "drweu099_p_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-099 Daily Report 21 May 1994 GREECE Greek-Albanian Relations Tied to Human Rights Greek-Albanian Relations Tied to Human Rights NC2105160094 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA in Greek 21 May 94 p 8 NC2105160094 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA Greek BFN [From the "Views" column: "A Just State..."] [Text] It is at the very least contradictory for Tirana to seek improvement of its relations with Greece and the international community while its stance toward the Greek minority hardens. The latest incident was the persecution of the Greek minority leadership under serious charges, which may even involve the death penalty. A basic prerequisite for the improvement of Greek-Albanian relations is the protection of the Greek minority's rights in Albania. The rights of the minority, basic human rights, are not being protected as, in many cases, the current [Albanian President Sali] Berisha regime behaves as that of the former president Enver Hoxha did. It has been announced that the six Omonoia members, who were recently arrested, will stand trial and face the most serious charges under Hoxha's regime penal code, which provides for the death sentence. The goal is most obvious: The persecution of Omonoia's leadership is aimed at terrorizing Greek Albanians and making them continue their return to Greece. The method of terrorization by persecuting leading members of the minority is well known, but Albania is supposedly moving toward a democratic system. Mere talk about democracy is not enough when a just state is not being established in Albania, a state that will fully respect human rights. With its actions, Tirana must show that it is developing into a just state that abandons arbitrariness. Yesterday, the Government spokesman said that the Greek side, in its efforts to improve Greek-Albanian relations, has as a top priority "respect for the rights of the Greek Albanians." Berisha's regime must evaluate Greece's friendly intentions, but also realize that no Greek concessions can be made on this issue. The Greek side must also make this clearer. Bilateral relations cannot be improved or promoted by provoking, persecuting, and terrorizing the Greek minority.
