FBIS3-15391 "drsov044_v_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Lithuania Service Blamed in Failure To Detain Russian MK0503124094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 5 Mar 94 p 5 MK0503124094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report based on BNS (expansion unknown) materials under the "Inquiry" rubric: "A Traitor Has Sneaked Into the Lithuanian Security Service. Prosecutor's Office Promises To Expose Him"] [Text] The Lithuanian Prosecutor's Office plans to conduct "a thorough investigation" to find out who was responsible for the failure of the operation to detain Vitaliy Yegorov, former Soviet serviceman, who was charged with anti-state activity in Klaipeda during the August 1991 coup attempt. At the time, Colonel Yegorov was chief of the military-political department of the USSR Coast Guard Division deployed in the city. The Lithuanian Prosecutor's Office has evidence proving that it was at his initiative that the Soviet military in Klaipeda announced their assumption of authority and demanded that State of Emergency Committee edicts be adhered to during the August coup plot. This is why Yegorov has long been wanted and a warrant to arrest him has been issued. It was planned to detain the suspect last Friday in his apartment in Klaipeda, where his wife and children live, but to all appearances he was warned in advance about the upcoming action and fled. "This is an outright sellout by a staffer of the National Security Service," Kiastutis Biatingis, chief prosecutor from the department for the investigation of state crimes, said in an interview for the RESPUBLIKA newspaper. "It is possible that Yegorov was detained on Friday, but he may have been released later. He may also have been warned in advance about the upcoming operation. To all appearances, someone did that deliberately." According to Biatingis, the Lithuanian National Security Service was the sole agency tasked with carrying out the operation to detain Vitaliy Yegorov. He said that he would officially demand that security service staffers who failed to perform their duties be discharged. A shadow of suspicion also falls on National Security Service chief Jurgis Jurgialis himself. Lithuanian General Prosecutor Arturas Paulauskas said that in the last few days before the operation, Jurgialis had called him a number of times and argued insistently that the former Soviet serviceman should not be detained because this action would look politically dubious. As a result, Mr. Jurgialis has been missing at his work place since 28 February. According to his secretary, he has the flu.
