FBIS4-59798 "drnes096_o_94001" FBIS-NES-94-096 Daily Report 15 May 1994 Syria Terrorism Charge on Eve of U.S. Visit Questioned Terrorism Charge on Eve of U.S. Visit Questioned PM1705103394 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 15 May 94 p 4 PM1705103394 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Arabic BFN [Report by Salwa al-Ustuwani in Damascus: "Syria Strongly Criticizes Inclusion of Its Name in the Terrorism List"] [Excerpts] U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher is due in Damascus this evening and will go from there to Jerusalem in an attempt to bridge the Syrian and Israeli views on the question of a peace agreement. On the eve of Christopher's arrival, Syria yesterday vehemently criticized the U.S. State Department's statement on terrorism and the inclusion of Syria's name in that statement. It saw it as incomprehensible and unjustified conduct on the eve of the U.S. official's visit to the region and the start of a new round of talks on peace. [passage omitted] Referring to the U.S. statement on terrorism, responsible Syrian sources told AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT that it was a violation of diplomatic and political tradition, unless Washington was no longer in control of its own decisions regarding its own purely national interests. They added that that statement defied logic and was arbitrary in its classification, based on a warped and fanatical political premise which could only be Israeli. The sources added that anyone who examined the timing of the statement would feel that Israel was not uninvolved in it, or rather that it co-wrote or was even its sole author because it wanted to create a political problem for the U.S. Administration -- which is what it achieved. The sources said that the seriousness of the statement lay in the fact that it was issued on the eve of Christopher's visit to the region to resume his tour and dialogues on peace, with Damascus as a main or rather the main party in any dialogue or breakthrough in the peace process. The sources wondered how the United States could hold a dialogue with "terrorist" Syria, the pivot and the main party in the process. Was it generally logical to talk to a terrorist about peace? Did that not represent a dilemma for the United States, and was the U.S. Administration not being openly blackmailed into itself openly blackmailing Syria for concessions in the peace process in Israel's favor? The Syrian press also strongly attacked the U.S. State Department's statement on terrorism. [passage omitted]
