FBIS3-50310 "dreeu018__a94009" FBIS-EEU-94-018-A Document Type:Daily Report 27 January 1994 ANNEX Hungary Jeszenszky Writes to Moravcik on Minority Issue AU2501202694 Budapest MTI in English 1640 GMT 25 Jan 94 AU2501202694 Budapest MTI Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Budapest, 25 January (MTI) -- In the wake of Hungarian-Slovak disputes in recent weeks, Hungarian Foreign Minister Geza Jeszenszky wrote to his Slovak counterpart Jozef Moravcik today, foreign affairs spokesman Janos Herman told a press conference. In a letter, Jeszenszky expresses surprise at the Slovak Foreign Ministry and Moravcik personally criticizing an interview he gave Polish weekly POLYTIKA. In the interview, Jeszenszky said some of Hungary's neighbours had failed to totally observe recommendations in the Copenhagen declaration and in Council of Europe (CE) papers. These documents guarantee national minorities' individual and collective rights to set up their own educational, cultural, and church institutions, and to play an active role in public affairs, including forming local or autonomous administrative districts. Under Council of Europe recommendations, all members of an ethnic community have the right to use their family and given names in their mother tongue, and that right has to be recognized by the authorities. In districts with large minorities, these communities have the right to use their mother tongue in public administration and courts, and put up signs and other information in their mother tongue. Hungary's foreign minister found it difficult to say that official Slovak practice follows European Union [EU] ethnic minority guidelines. South Slovak representatives in a recent Komarno conference urged new types of councils following "regional traditions," and with more local involvement. Jeszenszky feels Slovakia would help its own interests by fulfilling legitimate wishes of Hungarians in Slovakia: Helping stability and improving Hungarian-Slovak links, enabling both countries to take a common Central European position abroad. The foreign minister saw common interest in reuniting citizens by reopening border posts closed since the Second World War. "Hungary, as Jozef Moravcik well knows, is ready to confirm the well-known fact that it recognizes the two countries' joint border," Jeszenszky wrote, saying numerous other unsolved problems were holding up the basic agreement, not any border question. Herman added that Hungary has Maastricht-like borders in mind, saying there was no border dispute. The Hungarian foreign minister's visit to Slovakia is still on the agenda, he said.
