FBIS3-38051 "drsov039cc_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS Defense Ministers Meeting Ends LD2502141894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1326 GMT 25 Feb 94 LD2502141894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Mikhail Shevtsov] [Text] Moscow, 25 Feb -- A two-day sitting of the Council of CIS Defense Ministers ended today. The representatives of the military departments of 11 Commonwealth states took part along with the Moldovan delegation. Representatives of the Russian foreign ministry, Federal Assembly, State Duma, and border guard command also took part. Deputy Defense Minister Boris Gromov, who presided over the meeting, told an ITAR-TASS correspondent that he was fully satisfied with the results of the sitting of the Council of Defense Ministers. "All the issues included in the agenda were examined with positive results," Boris Gromov said. A clause on the Council of Defense Ministers of Commonwealth states and on an organizational staff structure for the headquarters coordinating military cooperation between CIS states has also been agreed and prepared for signing by CIS heads of states. It is proposed that the Headquarters will have a staff of 244 made up of representatives of the military departments of the states of the Commonwealth. The meeting of the Council of Defense Minisers also initialled an important draft decision on measures to stabilize the situation on the Tajik-Afghan border. As Boris Gromov noted, the participants in the meeting agreed on the need for the full implementation of the measures adopted earlier on allocating peacekeeping forces to Tajikistan. The ITAR-TASS correspondent has learned that the draft decision on Tajikistan will be discussed on 18 March at a joint sitting of the Council of Defense Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Commonwealth. It is proposed that it should be signed at the meeting of the heads of state of the CIS scheduled for 31 March. Decisions were also signed at the meeting on measures to prepare for the celebration of the 50th anniversary of victory in the Great Fatherland War and for holding in May-June 1995 the first spartakiad of the Armed Forces of the Commonwealth to be held since the disintegration of the USSR. The spartakiad will include 19 types of sport and will be held in various states of the Commonwealth under the slogan "For the Strengthening of Friendship between the Armed Forces of the CIS."
