FBIS4-16199 "drsov072_d_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 Regional Affairs Amur Commission Dissolved for Rigging Results Amur Commission Dissolved for Rigging Results MK1304113094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 13 Apr 94 p 3 MK1304113094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Russian BFN [Yekaterina Achalova report: "Central Electoral Commission Holds Meeting. Referendum Results in Amur Oblast To Be Determined One More Time"] [Text] It became clear after yesterday's meeting of the Central Electoral Commission that a certain revision of the December constitutional referendum results in the near future is inevitable. The meeting, which was chaired by Nikolay Ryabov, decided to dissolve the district commission in Amur Oblast for falsifying the referendum protocols. An investigation has shown that electoral commission officials in Amur Oblast acted on a large scale. Erasures and corrections in the "For" and "Against" columns have been found in 21 protocols, and it has been established for certain that in 11 of them the results of the voting were falsified. Central Electoral Commission officials refused to tell KOMMERSANT-DAILY in which columns of the protocols the number of votes was deliberately increased or reduced. The very fact that it was passed over in silence, however, tells a lot. Having discussed the situation in Amur Oblast, the Central Electoral Commission decided to dissolve the local district commission. A new commission will be set up in its stead to count once again the number of votes cast at the referendum. The Central Electoral Commission meeting also discussed the judicial practice of considering complaints against irregularities that occurred in the course of the Federal Assembly elections. The commission thinks in particular that the case involving Vladimir Zhirinovskiy's personal seat, which he won in the Shchelkovskiy district, was "a watershed." It should be recalled that the district court deemed the elections to be invalid, but the oblast court revoked the ruling. The Central Electoral Commission was satisfied with the outcome, because it alone can declare elections invalid. Having considered the results of regional elections, which have given administration officials one-third of regional parliament seats, the Central Electoral Commission concluded that the separation of powers is still proceeding poorly in Russia.
