FBIS3-19312 "drweu051__a94009" FBIS-WEU-94-051-A Document Type:Daily Report 16 March 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Andreatta Blames Financiers for Impeding Privatizations BR1403160194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 1721 GMT 12 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1403160194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Andreatta Blames High Finance for Privatisation Hold-Ups"] [Text] Bologna, 12 Mar (ANSA) -- High finance has been instrumental in holding up Italy's ambitious but slow-moving privatisation process, Foreign Minister Beniamino Andreatta, a respected economist, said Saturday [12 March]. At a meeting of European business managers here, the foreign minister said "for the past twelve months I have been asking for consultants to be named to get the privatisations of STET [Turin Telephone Finance Company], ENEL [National Electric Power Board] and the petrol sector off the ground." "Well," said Andreatta, who served as budget minister in the government of Giuliano Amato which gave a push to the privatisation process, "these nominations have been frozen for twelve months, in a subtle game in which the great potentates of high finance have played their part." "I am not claiming," he went on, "that there is some kind of feud between some politicians and high finance. Personally I am convinced that we need to keep checks on the influence of high finance.... In the past few months I have seen thousands of objections raised by high finance to a process that must be done well, following the example set in Britain and France." The foreign minister voiced worries that some areas of large industry are suggesting that partnerships should be limited to those with industry in France. "But I do not think that deals between two countries with rather interventionist tendencies would be the best thing for our privatisation process." The possibility of the privatisation process being wound down by the winners of the March 27-28 general elections was played down by Andreatta who forecast a governing alliance which differed considerably from the coalitions as they head into the vote. "And in this reorganisation, I think that intermediate force will prevail in the left-wing, right-wing and centrist line-ups, allowing a continuation with the action set in motion by the Amato government and (the current) government of (Carlo Azeglio) Ciampi, privatisations included," he said.
