FBIS3-16628 "drsov053_a_94016" FBIS-SOV-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Official Secrecy Over Yeltsin Spain Visit `Ridiculous' PM1703162394 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 18 Mar 94 p 3 PM1703162394 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Vladimir Vernikov report: "Kremlin and Smolensk Square Keep a Secret Known to Spanish Journalists and Doctors"] [Text] Madrid -- If we are to believe the Russian president's press spokesman, as reported by the newspaper EL PAIS, Boris Yeltsin is not going to undergo a medical examination at the Barcelona clinic where he had a spinal operation in 1990 following a bad plane landing. Although, in the same newspaper's words, a brief stay in Barcelona is envisaged by the program for the president's upcoming official visit to Spain. But what visit are we talking about, since there has been no official announcement in the Russian press? And so naturally he cannot be going to Barcelona, where, according to the Western press, our president is to be examined for pain in the area of the disk he had operated on. So why is it that the Spanish newspapers are not only citing the dates of the visit -- 11-13 April -- and the list of documents to be signed in Madrid but are also discussing them, whereas the Russian Foreign Ministry and the presidential press service are keeping silent about the matter, confining themselves to denials on detail while not acknowledging the actual fact of the visit and its purposes? The information about a Boris Yeltsin visit is not repudiated but rather confirmed by official Spanish Government spokesmen, who are preparing for the visit in earnest. Surely Moscow has not reverted to the say-nothing tactics of old, when people would learn of a visit by the latest general secretary at the moment he was taking off or even the following day? The Russian Embassy in Spain has also been placed in a stupid and absurd position: Politicians and journalists are calling, asking questions, and demanding interviews, but our diplomats, being disciplined people, since they have not received orders from Moscow, are "giving evasive answers" while inwardly feeling uncomfortable at the need to lie to respected people. In fact they all are perfectly well aware of both the precise date and the program of the visit -- they themselves agreed it with the Spanish authorities, and the "advance party" called upon to support the visit is already in Moscow. But since there have been no orders from the chiefs, there is no visit and "I cannot tell anyone anything." Nowadays this game of secrecy is ridiculous, there is barely any sense in it and it provides plenty of opportunity for false rumors. For instance, EL PAIS writes that one of the purposes of the visit is the Russian president's desire to "make a deeper study on the spot of the essence of the so-called Moncloa Pact," which facilitated the peaceful transition from Francoism to democracy. Or, for instance, it is reported, citing the Barcelona doctor who operated on Boris Yeltsin, that he has now received a call from Moscow and has been warned that he will soon be seeing his former patient. Especially as the doctor has already been brought to Moscow in the president's aircraft for a consultation. Who then is to be believed: the doctor or the president's press spokesman?
