FBIS4-16761 "drsov076_b_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-076 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Groups Give Views on Civic Accord Agreement Groups Give Views on Civic Accord Agreement LD1904142394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1401 GMT 19 Apr 94 LD1904142394 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Lyudmila Aleksandrova] [Text] Moscow April 19 TASS -- Russian political parties and public organisations assess quite differently the draft agreement on civic concord, submitted for approval by the Russian president. Their assessments range from support in principle (although not without reservations) to unequivocal unacceptance. The Russian Party of Free Labour (RPFL) has on the whole supported the appeal of the public chamber under the Russian president. However, as noted in its recently released statement, "the proposed form of civic concord in Russia envisages few mutual political guarantees by the agreement's signatories, ensuring its achievement". The party believes that "the governing structures demand more guarantees from public movements, without ensuring social-political stability by reciprocal readiness to make concessions and compromises". The document, the RPFL believes, does not clearly fix the concrete responsibility of governing structures for possible deviations from the initialled agreement. The All-Russia "Business Roundtable" Association has supported the principles on which the draft on the civic concord agreement is based "in spite of some disturbing theses", and has urged all the political parties and movements to actively help work out mechanisms for its implementation. The Association of Private Farmers and Agricultural Cooperatives of Russia believes that the president and the government should assume a commitment in the agreement to steadfastly expand the land reform. The "New Russian School", a foundation which rallies teachers, higher and secondary school instructors, workers of juvenile and cultural-educational establishments, has announced its support to the draft agreement. The Club of "Realists", a moderate centrist organisation, headed by Yuriy Petrov, chairman of the State Investment Corporation, has released a statement objecting to "an illusion of concord or specially concocted myth about concord". The members of the club believe that everything in this agreement "testifies either to the naivety of its authors or to their desire to use this text merely as a tactical weapon to combat everybody who dares not share these or other aspects of the policy pursued by the administration and the government". At the best, the document will play no role at all, and at the worst (and this is most probable) will increase the existing social confrontation, the authors of the statement claim. They have advanced other principles on which, in their opinion, the civic concord agreement should be based.
