FBIS4-30351 "dreas123_a_94029" FBIS-EAS-94-123 Daily Report 25 Jun 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan SDPJ Reacts to Hata Resignation Announcement SDPJ Reacts to Hata Resignation Announcement OW2506151994 Tokyo NHK General Television Network in Japanese 0315 GMT 25 Jun 94 OW2506151994 Tokyo NHK General Television Network Japanese BFN [Announcer-read report: from "NHK News" program] [Text] The opposition Social Democratic Party of Japan [SDPJ] held an extraordinary meeting of the Central Executive Committee this morning to discuss how to deal with a no-confidence motion against the Hata cabinet which has been submitted by the opposition Liberal Democratic Party [LDP] to the Diet. During the meeting, a group of legislators led by Chairman Murayama asserted that the SDPJ should submit its own no-confidence motion against the Hata cabinet in line with a party decision that if the Hata cabinet refuses to resign en masse, the SDPJ will demand the dissolution of the House of Representatives and the holding of general elections, while a group of legislators led by Secretary General Kubo claimed that the SDPJ should vote against the no-confidence motion or abstain from the vote, noting the importance of the SDPJ maintaining its relationship with the coalition government. In this way, the two groups split over handling the coalition government and as a result, the SDPJ was unable to shape a consensus at the meeting. SDPJ legislators held a meeting shortly after Prime Minister Hata announced that his cabinet would resign en masse. During the meeting, Secretary General Kubo said: As a result, the Hata cabinet will voluntarily resign en masse as the SDPJ has demanded. I intend to do my best to form a new coalition government. His remarks indicate that the climate has now been created wherein the SDPJ can resume talks with the ruling coalition parties about the SDPJ's return to the coalition government. Chairman Murayama, however, said: Each political party and each parliamentary group will make moves, and it is important for the SDPJ to adopt perfect policies. I will do everything I can to meet the party's expectations of me. In this way, Chairman Murayama did not refer to the SDPJ's return to the ruling coalition. Democracy, the largest group in the SDPJ, has decided to urge the SDPJ leadership to return the party to the ruling coalition after concluding that the conditions for the SDPJ to return to the ruling coalition have been met. Chairman Murayama will soon hold a news conference in the Diet building to make clear the SDPJ's policy on the formation of the next government.
