FBIS4-14864 "drsov065_b_94015" FBIS-SOV-94-065 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Fedorov Discusses Economic Situation Fedorov Discusses Economic Situation LD0504113994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1044 GMT 5 Apr 94 LD0504113994 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Vyacheslav Bantin] [Text] Tokyo April 5 TASS -- One dollar will be exchanged for approximately 10,000 rubles by the end in the year in Russia, and the pace of inflation will heighten considerably unless the Russian Government takes appropriate measures, Boris Fedorov, chairman of the parliamentary subcommittee on the monetary policy and the activity of the Central Bank of Russia, former Russian finance minister, told ITAR-TASS. Today he left Japan where he was staying for several days at the invitation of the Japanese foreign minister in the composition of the "Union of December 12" group of deputies. Fedorov said that due to the lowering of the rate of inflation in Russia to 9.8 per cent in February and 8 per cent in March, the Russian Government now has a unique chance to bring inflation under control and complete successful efforts of many months for financial stabilisation. The Cabinet of Ministers now has an opportunity to capitalise on the emergent results on the policy pursued by the previous government", Fedorov said. "However, the Chernomyrdin government has not taken in the three and a half months a single step that could be described as that of a reformer cabinet, and this gives rise to concern". If the present government continues to adhere to this stand, the roll back form the economic milestones reached will become inevitable in the weeks ahead", Fedorov believes. He said that the initial sign of this will be the granting of large subsidies to state-owned enterprises and the allocation of approximately 3,000 billion rubles to agricultural enterprises planned for April. This step will thwart the opportunity of making in Russia the most painless financial stabilisation in world history, the opportunity which is real now, Fedorov said. Fedorov expressed the opinion that the Chernomyrdin government may remain in office no longer than autumn of this year unless it switches from a passive policy to an active course at reform. "If the cabinet does not take real actions by autumn, the government will be at least reshuffled", the former Russian finance minister said. He expressed the readiness to enter a cabinet again if the necessary powers are granted.
