FBIS4-68160 "jptot021__l94026" JPRS-TOT-94-021-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 16 May 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA PALESTINIAN AFFAIRS Hamas Official on PFLP-GC, Palestinian Police Hamas Official on PFLP-GC, Palestinian Police JN1605104294 Amman AL-MAJD in Arabic 16 May 94 pp 1, 11 JN1605104294 Amman AL-MAJD Arabic BFN [Excerpts] Dr. Musa Abu-Marzuq, the chief of Hamas' Political Bureau, has reaffirmed that resisting the occupation is a strategic option for Hamas until the occupation is defeated and all Palestinian lands are liberated, primarily Jerusalem, the capital of Palestine and the land of the prophet's ascension to heavens and of all holy sites. [passage omitted] Answering a question about the relationship between Hamas and the alliance of the 10 factions, Abu-Marzuq said: We have a good relationship despite recent reports casting doubt on this relationship, which will remain pivotal for us. Abu-Marzuq further stressed that Hamas seeks to develop this relationship so the alliance can undertake its important jihad role to defeat the Oslo and Cairo accords, as an indispensable step before resuming the plan of liberation. Abu-Marzuq, who had just heard about the unjust Zionist bombing of the [Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine] General Command positions in al-Na'imah, expressed his sympathy and solidarity with the heroes of the General Command, saying: We complement each other in the same trench and course. [passage omitted] On the fate of the 10 factions that oppose the settlement if a Syrian-Israeli agreement is reached, Abu-Marzuq said he rules out the possibility of such agreement in the short run, considering the solid Syrian position. He stressed, however, that the major organizational body of Hamas is inside the occupied territories. Therefore, it remains free from influence by any Palestinian or Arab agreements. Commenting on the entry of the Palestinian police force into Gaza and Jericho, Abu-Marzuq said: These forces are from the sons of the Palestinian people and some of them fought heroic battles for liberation. Therefore, we will welcome their presence among the people there as long as they are protecting the people's security. This position will change if these forces change their attitude and turn into political forces to suppress strugglers and opponents from various national and Islamic political currents and persuasions.
