FBIS4-25944 "drchi116_h_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-116 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 West Europe XINHUA Kills Item on Song Jian Meeting French Delegation XINHUA Kills Item on Song Jian Meeting French Delegation Replacement Version OW1606012694 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1504 GMT 15 Jun 94 OW1606012694 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [By RENMIN RIBAO reporter Jia Xiping (6328 6007 1627) and XINHUA reporter Han Zhenjun (7281 2182 6511)] [Text] Beijing, 16 Jun (XINHUA) -- State Councillor Song Jian met a visiting French space aviation delegation in Beijing today. During the meeting, Song Jian said: China and France have a long history of cooperation in science and technology. The French space aviation delegation's visit is of great significance to promoting exchanges and cooperation in space technology between the two countries. Song Jian said: In the past, China and France cooperated successfully in the basic sciences and high technology. For instance, the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station is a crystallization of cooperation between scientific and technological personnel in the two countries. The joint survey of the Himalayas by geological prospectors from the two countries has basically determined the cause of the Himalayas' protrusion, winning acclaim from the international geological scientific circles. France's achievements in space aviation, atomic energy, and modern communications technology have riveted the world's attention. China is willing to conduct friendly cooperation with France in these areas. During the meeting, Song Jian also briefed the delegation on the State Aerospace Bureau's [organization name as received; current name China Aerospace Industry Corporation] functions. He said: China's commercial space aviation is under the State Aerospace Bureau's management. On behalf of the Chinese Government, the bureau signs intergovernmental aerospace agreements and makes arrangements for participation in international organizations, international conferences, and government-to-government scientific and technological exchanges and cooperation. The French space aviation delegation is led by Louis [name as received], director of the French Aerospatiale. It includes officials from the major French space companies. The delegation will participate in activities pegged to "Sino-French Space Industry Week" in Beijing and Shanghai.
