FBIS4-54924 "dreeu088_h_94017" FBIS-EEU-94-088 Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 HUNGARY Canadian Offers To Invest in Department Store Canadian Offers To Invest in Department Store 94CH0219B Budapest NEPSZABADSAG in Hungarian 26 Mar 94 p 1 94CH0219B Budapest NEPSZABADSAG Hungarian CSO [Unattributed article: "Sarlos Claims Centrum"] [Text] Canadian businessman Andrew Sarlos will arrive in Hungary next week and, from what we have heard, he intends to raise the 5-billion-forint [Ft] capital of the Centrum Department Store Company by more than Ft2 billion. The present visit by Sarlos, who represents a group of Canadian investors, could have a special significance because an agreement is expected to be reached within a few weeks between the State Property Agency and the department store chain. As is well known, the mbo [management buy-out] and mrp [worker share program] organization is going to buy 51 percent of the shares in the value of Ft2.5 billion. The investors had several alternatives to come up with the necessary amount. Of these, the leadership of the Centrum mrp-mbo organization accepted a version which was familiar to many people: They will take out a business loan in the amount of Ft1.3 billion from the Bank of Commerce, and they intend to pay for the remaining Ft1.2 billion with compensation vouchers and cash. According to the present state of affairs, cash in the amount of Ft420 million was collected, and the employees intend to buy shares for compensation vouchers in the value of Ft756 million. The employees can receive dividends only after the debt is repaid, which, in an extreme case, can take as long as 18 years, we learned from Gyula Galla, trade union secretary of the Centrum Department Store Company. Since Hungarian law at the present does not allow the payment of dividends as long as the business has outstanding debts, Centrum will not be able to pay dividends until it has paid back its loans. This means that there is a chance that the approximately 4,000 employees who will obtain property through privatization will have no access to profit from the company's operation for 18 years. At the same time, they cannot sell the company's shares as long as there is a debt. Galla emphasized that they do not plan to downsize in the long run.
