FBIS3-54686 "drsov001_r_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 Azerbaijan Sanctions Against Armenia Urged NC3112170293 Baku Radio Baku International Service in Azeri 1300 GMT 31 Dec 93 NC3112170293 Baku Radio Baku International Service Language: Azeri Article Type:BFN ["Text" of statement by the Azerbaijan Ministry of Foreign Affairs; date not given] [Text] Armenia's armed aggression against Azerbaijan continues to bring misfortunes to the Republic's people. The recent intensification of the aggression is yet another confirmation of Armenia's [words indistinct]. Armenia is making an effort to occupy new areas in Azerbaijan in total disregard of the peaceful initiatives made by several international organizations and foreign countries. Massing reinforcements and heavy military hardware, the Armenian Armed Forces intensely shelled Azerbaijan's Kazakhskiy, Tauzskiy, and Akstafa Rayons and the Nakhichevan Autonomous Republic's Sadarak Rayon with rocket launchers and artillery units during the past few days. The wave of shelling began on 26 December. More than 100 Grad rockets and (?artillery shells) fell on Azerbaijan's peaceful border towns and several quarters in Kazakh City. Consequently, many peaceful people have been killed and several schools, medical centers, and means of transportation have been destroyed. The Armenian Armed Forces, supported with armored vehicles, have prepared to launch an attack from the previously occupied Agderinskiy, Agdamskiy, and Fizulinskiy Rayons. Regardless of the losses they have suffered in their attacks earlier, they have not abandoned their attempts. In addition to the acts of violence, our republic is also being subjected to a ferocious propaganda campaign, which is being waged not only by Armenia's media organs but also by the parliament of that republic. The objective behind their unfounded statements and reports is to camouflage Armenia's policy of aggression against Azerbaijan and mislead the world on the situation. The Azerbaijan Ministry of Foreign Affairs is convinced that Armenia will be completely responsible for the consequences of the intensified aggression against Azerbaijan. The aggression will lead to new losses and create additional misfortunes for the peoples of the two countries. Azerbaijan urges the United Nations and international organizations to condemn Armenia's aggression and impose political and economic sanctions against that republic.
