FBIS3-28717 "dreas028_i_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 Cambodia Article Praises Capture of KR Stronghold BK0902053094 Phnom Penh National Radio of Cambodia Network in Cambodian 1300 GMT 8 Feb 94 BK0902053094 Phnom Penh National Radio of Cambodia Network in Cambodian 1300 GMT 8 Feb 94 Language: Cambodian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed "Article": "The First Step Toward National Unification"] [Text] The recent capture of the Anlung Veng base by the Khmer Royal Armed Forces of the Kingdom of Cambodia was a great victory for the entire nation. This victory means the beginning of efforts to flush out the radical Khmer Rouge from the seceded area in one part of the country which the Khmer Rouge have claimed as their stronghold. While the Khmer Rouge have not been able to defend their high command, this is a good sign in the future for the royal government because the latter has decided not to fight on the negotiating table anymore but instead do the fighting on the battlefield. This issue is clear when the Khmer Rouge started to make (?insistent) and unreasonable demands which the royal government cannot accept in its role as leader of the nation and of the country. In its role as the leader, the current government cannot bow to the stubborn outcast group. The royal government has to carry out its duty to safeguard the nation and the country's interest. It is about time to start using strong measures. This time around the royal government has performed well right from the beginning. This is praiseworthy. The royal government has not only captured and controlled Anlung Veng but has also made plans to seize other areas controlled by the Khmer Rouge. The capture of Anlung Veng is serious pressure on the Khmer Rouge who have been affirming that they have sufficient forces and weapons to defend their strongholds in the country. This is also proof confirming the royal government's capability to run the country. With efforts of the army to unite the nation, the situation is developing well and clearly for the future. The vigorous and energetic step and the preparations made with high technical standards could be the turning point for the resumption of talks between the Khmer Rouge and the royal government. Anlung Veng no longer has any leverage in talks to force the Khmer Rouge to comply with the royal government's conditions. Because of this occasion, long-awaited by everyone, one should be glad with all national leaders who have adopted such active and firm actions.
