FBIS3-33261 "drlat035_i_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 Nicaragua Rebels Announce New List of Demands PA1902222494 Managua LA PRENSA in Spanish 18 Feb 94 p 16 PA1902222494 Managua LA PRENSA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Roberto Orozco B.] [Text] The 3-80 Northern Front, in a nine-point list released yesterday, demands from the government the chief of police posts in most of the municipalities and department capitals in Nueva Segovia and Jinotega Departments. The government has not reacted to these demands, which according to the 3-80 Northern Front are requested as a guarantee for personal security for the rearmed rebels. Nevertheless, both sides will meet on Monday in Ciudad Antigua, Nueva Segovia Department, to start negotiations that will permit the guerrillas to demobilize. The 3-80 Northern Front Command Council headed by Jose Angel Talavera, known as Commander "Chacal," demands that once demobilized the group be assigned the chief of police posts in the municipalities of Quilali, El Jicaro, Murra, San Juan de Rio Coco, Yali, Pantasmas, Ciudad Antigua, La Concordia, San Rafael del Norte, El Cua, Mancotal, and Bocay. The list of demands delivered to the government two days ago contain other secondary demands, such as the demilitarization of northern Nicaragua once the 3-80 Northern Front disarmament process has moved ahead, leaving only 60 soldiers in the above mentioned municipalities, except Murra. They also ask for the creation of new settlements for development based in Quilali, a disarmament schedule for the 3-80 Northern Front, and a special fund for the area's economic reactivation and road rebuilding. Included in the points are the creation of a commission represented by the 3-80 Northern Front, the EPS [Sandinist People's Army] General Staff, CIAV [International Commission of Support and Verification]-OAS, and Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo Verification, including Esteli Bishop Monsignor Juan Abelardo Mata. The 3-80 Northern Front, according to Commander "Esteban," who is second in command, dropped its previous political demands, such as the dismissal of General Humberto Ortega and Presidency Minister Antonio Lacayo, because the 3-80 Northern Front will restate these demands once they join the civilian struggle. Yesterday Gen. Humberto Ortega said that the EPS has not set a hard and fast term for the 3-80 Northern Front to demobilize. "We are not placing them up against the wall, but we hope the talks do not take too long otherwise everything may turn sour," Ortega said. According to Ortega, the EPS will maintain the truce and will allow the necessary conditions for the 3-80 Northern Front and the government to meet on Monday. The meeting will be attended by Colonel Javier Carrion, second in command in the EPS General Staff. Ortega said that the Army is redeploying its troops to wherever intermediate organizations (CIAV-OAS, Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo Verification) suggest. The military leader agrees with demilitarizing northern Nicaragua and said as peace is achieved "there will be no need for the EPS to maintain its troops in these areas. We are willing to maintain a minimum of soldiers once the 3-80 Northern Front disarms. We will keep enough troops to support the police in maintaining order," Ortega said.
