FBIS4-2588 "drchi070_f_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-070 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 Near East & South Asia Diplomat Discusses Iraq, Arms Sales To Pakistan, Korea Diplomat Discusses Iraq, Arms Sales To Pakistan, Korea NC0804145194 Cairo MENA in Arabic 1313 GMT 8 Apr 94 NC0804145194 Cairo MENA Arabic BFN [Excerpts] Cairo, 8 Apr (MENA)--Chinese Ambassador in Cairo Yang Fuchang has said his country's government and people welcome President Husni Mubarak's forthcoming visit to Beijing. In an interview with MENA, he said President Mubarak is an old friend of China and that this visit will be his sixth trip to China. He noted that every time he visits China, President Mubarak gives new momentum to the good traditional bilateral relations. [passage omitted] The Chinese ambassador stressed the need to honor Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 on the Middle East and hoped that the Jerusalem issue will be resolved through negotiations. On lifting the economic sanctions on Iraq, he explained that they were imposed under particular circumstances but that if we now look at the situation objectively, we will find that Iraq has responded to the Council's recent resolutions. So, he said, sanctions on the humanitarian level must be lifted, primarily to secure food and medicine for the Iraqi people and, as the implementation of the resolutions continues, other sanctions can be lifted, something that is currently being discussed at the Security Council. On China's arms sales to Pakistan, he said the purchase and sale of arms is something normal in relations between states. The United States, France, and other big powers also sell arms. He added: Our selling arms to Pakistan does not mean we support one party at the expense of another. And it does not mean there is intervention in other countries' internal affairs, so the situation in the region is not aggravated. Commenting on the Korean issue, the Chinese ambassador said his country believes that the best way to solve the problem is through negotiations between the United States and Korea, between Korea and the International Atomic Energy Agency, and between the two Koreas. He said China stresses that the Korean Peninsula should be free of nuclear weapons and it believes the imposition of sanctions does not help to solve problems but rather complicates them. [passage omitted]
