FBIS3-44955 "drchi007_w_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong PWC on Officials Retaining Posts After 1997 HK0801080094 Hong Kong THE STANDARD in English 8 Jan 94 p 1 HK0801080094 Hong Kong THE STANDARD Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Rain Ren in Beijing and Michael Smith] [Text] China's advisory body on transitional matters--the Preliminary Working Committee (PWC)--has given the strongest indication yet that district board and municipal council members may be able to retain their posts after 1997. The PWC's government and administration sub-group, which will determine the function and the formation of Hong Kong's post- handover government, resolved yesterday to allow members of local government bodies to ride the through train beyond 1997. Sources said there was growing opposition within PWC ranks to China's threat to dissolve membership of municipal councils and district boards established under Governor Chris Patten's electoral reforms. But the chances of legislators hanging on to their seats after the transfer of sovereignty remained slim. Group leader Xiao Weiyun said a more flexible approach was possible to district board and municipal councils which were not considered to embrace political power. Group member and professor at the Chinese University Lau Siu-kai said: "Although the three tiers of government should end with the end of the British administration, the two-tier bodies should survive... given that they have no political power and their job mainly concerns people's livelihood." He added the move would benefit a smooth transition and boost public confidence. It would also encourage existing members to continue to run for elections. The group also issued a statement yesterday setting out the legal principles behind China's decision to disband Hong Kong's three tiers of government. The statement said that under the principle of the Joint Declaration, government bodies formed under British rule would end on 30 June 1997. "Obviously, the existing laws which set four years as the term of office for the three-tier bodies will therefore be invalid," it says. It goes on to say that the status, function and formation of the three-tier bodies under the Special Administrative Region (SAR) would be entirely different from those under British rule.
