FBIS4-33875 "drlat113_c_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-113 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 MEXICO EZLN Denies Ties With PROCUP, Labor Party EZLN Denies Ties With PROCUP, Labor Party PA1006165594 Mexico City LA JORNADA in Spanish 7 Jun 94 p 19 PA1006165594 Mexico City LA JORNADA Spanish BFN [Communique issued by the Mexican Zapatist National Liberation Army's, EZLN, Clandestine Indian Revolutionary Committee-General Command, CCRI-CG, in Chiapas on 3 June] [Text] To the people of Mexico, the people and governments of the world, and brothers: The EZLN's CCRI-CG addresses you to declare the following: 1) We have learned that persons who are active in the so-called organization Revolutionary Workers Clandestine People's Union party (PROCUP) have gone to someplace in the Americas to declare that PROCUP has ties with the EZLN and that the EZLN is PROCUP's "armed wing." These persons have been collecting funds, claiming that "they are for the EZLN." 2) The EZLN declares it has no relationship or any tie to PROCUP. The EZLN never has had any contact with PROCUP, it is not part of its structure, nor does it have anything to do with it. The economic contributions received by PROCUP are not in any way for the EZLN. 3) In several Chiapas municipalities, activists of the so-called Labor Party [PT] attempt to convince the peasants to vote for the PT in the coming August elections, arguing that it has contacts with the EZLN and that "there is an agreement with subcommander Marcos," to support the PL in August. 4) The EZLN declares that subcommander Marcos and members of the CCRI-CO have no relations nor any pact with the so-called PL, nor have they ever met with PL leaders. 5) We urge the different organizations not to make use of the EZLN's name to benefit their interests and not to lie with regard to their alleged relations, which they know that they do not have with us. 6) We call on the Mexican people and the peoples of the world not to be deceived. When the EZLN makes contacts or agreements with any organization, it makes this known in a public communique, as it has done with the CEOIC [State Council of Indian and Peasant Organizations] and with the CONAC-LN [expansion unknown]. Democracy! Freedom! Justice! Respectfully, the CCRI-CG. General headquarters, southeast Mexican mountains, Chiapas, Mexico, June 1994.
