FBIS3-36954 "drsov028_e_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Border Cooperation Agreement Signed With Poland WS0902211494 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network in Ukrainian 1500 GMT 9 Feb 94 WS0902211494 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN [Report by Plaksyuk from Lvov] [Text] Today in Lvov, a declaration was signed by members of the Joint Polish-Ukrainian Commission for Border Cooperation. Zamosc Vice Voivoda Bohdan Kowalko, leader and coordinator of the commission, delivered a speech. [Begin Kowalko recording, in Polish fading into Ukrainian translation] The agreements which were signed demonstrate the striving of the two parties to achieve better mutual understanding and foster cooperation between two good, old neighbors. All the participants in the negotiations could speak out on the issue and could propose ways of resolving disputable issues on a mutually advantageous basis. We have reached a consensus on these issues, at least for the coming two years. [end recording] The declaration reads: The parties to the declaration find it to be a stable form of cooperation between the local Ukrainian and Polish administration of the border regions. Cooperation on border issues should include the active participation of representatives of these border regions in the formulation of state policy in the sphere of border cooperation and the promotion of cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises, between local and regional trade-industrial chambers, etc. In addition, the 1994-95 program of work on the Joint Polish-Ukrainian Commission for Border Cooperation was drafted. Next, participants in the meeting issued a statement in which they address the Polish and Ukrainian Governments and hold out hopes for the rapid resolution of the issue of putting the Khyrov-Kroscienko customs checkpoint into operation and the speeding up of construction of an international railway and motor vehicle checkpoint at Yagodin-Dorohusk. The operation of these checkpoints will enable citizens of the bordering mountainous regions [words indistinct] to develop bilateral cooperation.
