FBIS4-29709 "dreas119_c_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 North Korea Hata's Remarks on Nuclear Capability Decried Hata's Remarks on Nuclear Capability Decried SK2006051094 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0501 GMT 20 Jun 94 SK2006051094 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["Confession of Nuclear Criminal" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, June 20 (KCNA) -- Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata told reporters at the Diet on June 17 that "Japan surely has the capacity to possess nuclear weapons," a report from Tokyo says. In this connection, the chief secretary of the cabinet, Kumagai, revised the remarks of Hata at a press conference in the evening, saying that "the prime minister did not use a proper expression." Upset by the reaction within the government, Hata hurriedly called reporters together that evening and "withdrew" his remarks, saying "Did I say so really? I do not remember that." Although Hata cancelled his remarks, he cannot conceal the nuclear design of Japan he had revealed of his own accord. His remarks that Japan has the capacity to possess nuclear weapons were a confession of the nuclear ambition of Japan and admission of the moves to convert Japan into a nuclear power, the moves which have gone beyond the danger line. In fact, the world knows Japan is capable of possessing nuclear weapons. Japan, however, had categorically denied it till Hata admitted it. As a result, Japan's veil of "three non-nuclear principles" has been thrown off, and it has been made crystal clear that the Japanese Government's argument that "Japan's use of atomic energy is limited to peaceful purposes" is a sheer lie to mislead public opinion. It is disgusting that this nuclear criminal is zealously conducting the anti-DPRK campaign in conspiracy with international reactionaries, raising a hue and cry over the "nuclear issue" of the DPRK which has neither the will nor the capacity to develop nuclear weapons. Japan must refrain from rash acts, clearly mindful that its moves to become a nuclear power will bring nothing good to it and will cause irrevocable catastrophic consequences.
