FBIS4-2837 "drchi072_v_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-072 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 TAIWAN U.S. May Downgrade Country From `Priority Watch List' U.S. May Downgrade Country From `Priority Watch List' OW1404092294 Taipei CNA in English 0808 GMT 14 Apr 94 OW1404092294 Taipei CNA English BFN [By M. J. Tzou and Sofia Wu] [Text] Marrakesh, Morocco, April 13 (CNA) -- The United States will likely downgrade Taiwan from its "priority watch list" to ordinary "watch list," reducing the threat of trade sanctions against Taiwan for failing to eliminate commercial piracy, US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said here Wednesday [13 April]. Kantor made the statement while meeting with Taiwan's Economic Affairs Minister P. K. Chiang to discuss bilateral trade issues. The two are here to attend a ministerial meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Kantor told Chiang he is fully aware of Taiwan's efforts to improve intellectual property rights (IPR) protection. "I understand Taiwan has made progress in IPR protection," he added. "We also know Taiwan manufacturers are organizing an IPR foundation to fight against domestic and foreign infringements of their copyrights, trademarks or patents," Kantor said. "So we are considering placing Taiwan on the less serious `watch list' instead of the `priority watch list,'" Kantor noted. The US trade representative placed Taiwan on the "priority watch list" last April for possible trade sanctions under its "super 301" provision. It will decide whether to remove Taiwan from the list late this month. Chiang told Kantor that Taiwan is determined to wipe out commercial piracy and has taken measures to improve IPR protection during the past year, including revising laws to increase penalties for offenders and launching massive crackdowns on IPR violations. "We hope America can take note of our efforts and remove Taiwan from its super 301 watch list," Chiang added. Chiang and Kantor also exchanged views on tariff reductions, market opening and wildlife conservation issues during their 40-minute talk. Kantor reaffirmed US support for Taiwan's early entry to GATT, but asked Taiwan to accelerate trade liberalization and lower tariff rates in accordance with GATT regulations.
