FBIS3-37640 "drsov035_t_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia Laar Sees Privatization as Priority Task WS2102161194 Tallinn BNS in English 1651 GMT 20 Feb 94 WS2102161194 Tallinn BNS Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Baltic Business Weekly" feature] [Text] The privatization of large enterprises is the main task the Estonian Government has to cope with this year, Prime Minister Mart Laar said at a meeting with foreign journalists in Tallinn. Laar described two different ways of privatization that the country was now going to use. First, the state companies that are making a negative profit will be sold by auction, like in the previous stages. He added that it were the prospective guaranteed investments by the potential buyer rather than the auction price itself that was decisive in deciding to whom to sell. In the case of successful state businesses, 49 percent of the shares are to be sold to Estonian residents for their privatization vouchers, while 51 percent will go to investors. Estonia also faces a growingly important task to increase the pace of development in the regions now remaining outside the active business areas, which so far mainly comprise the country's capital, Tallinn, and its closest surroundings. Laar said changes were needed in the situation when 90 percent of foreign investments are coming to Tallinn. The prime minister also said that the period following last fall's local elections had provided hope for a normalization of the situation in the northeastern region. The former, confrontation-bound local government in the region earlier scared off potential investors from the area, but now an inflow of money can be expected in the large companies of the region, Laar said. Immediate plans include selling the Kreenholmi Manufaktuur textile giant in Narva to foreign investors, reportedly -- Swedish. As the third-important task for his government, Laar mentioned creating a legislative basis for business development.
