FBIS4-39902 "drsov113_a_94013" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev on Joining Partnership, Naples Summit Kozyrev on Joining Partnership, Naples Summit LD1006224194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 2137 GMT 10 Jun 94 LD1006224194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Dmitriy Gorokhov] [Text] Moscow, 11 June -- Russia would like to come to an agreement with NATO on forms of partnership before the meeting between President Boris Yeltsin and the leaders of the seven leading Western states, which is to be held in Naples next month. Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev said this on Friday [10 June] evening. Speaking to journalists on board his plane to Moscow from Istanbul, where he had attended a session of the North Atlantic Cooperation Council, Kozyrev called on the parties "to finish their ideological disputes more quickly and get down to business." He had noted sympathy in this regard in his talks with U.S. State Secretary Warren Christopher, among others. As President Boris Yeltsin said on Friday, Kozyrev noted, we are talking about the signing of a framework document and of the NATO- Russia program. Incidentally, the minister added, in the communique following the NATO council session, which has just taken place, Russia's viewpoint is taken into account. It talks about a program that will reflect the Russian Federation's specific role and weight. Russia will sign both the framework agreement and a substantive and much more thorough program for partnership as soon as the documents setting down the relevant agreements are ready. This should be done quickly, before the meeting in Naples, the minister said. The minister was asked whether it was probable that the agreement between Russia and the European Union would be signed at the forthcoming meeting of European Union leaders on the island of Kerkira (Corfu), in which it is expected Boris Yeltsin may take part. "I think that this probability is constantly growing," Kozyrev stated. "The remaining matters are technical ones connected with the translation of the text of the accords into the languages of the countries involved in the agreement." According to the head of Russia's diplomacy the possibility of completing the necessary preparatory work in a short space of time was confirmed too during his conversation in Istanbul with Karolos Papoulias, the foreign minister of Greece, which is the current chairman of the European Union.
