FBIS3-53551 "drnes011_j_94018" FBIS-NES-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Tension Grows Along North-South Border Area GPC Regrets YSP's `Fabrications' JN1701083494 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0430 GMT 17 Jan 94 JN1701083494 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] A responsible source within the General Committee of the General People's Congress [GPC] has stated the following: We regret the statement issued by the Yemeni Socialist Party [YSP] Political Bureau in Aden on 15 January 1994. This statement contained false allegations and fabrications against the GPC. We will reply to these fabrications later in detail. However, the serious fabrications about some military moves by some northern governorates in the direction of previously divided regions is what should be explained today. As usual, the YSP Political Bureau's recent statement reversed facts in a desperate attempt to cover up its mobilization of armed forces in previously divided outskirts. This is because it has nothing to say after the facts became clear to the public at home and abroad. The YSP should have acted otherwise by withdrawing the troops it had massed at previously divided positions in the governorates of Shabwa, Abyan, and Lahd, instead of accusing others of doing the same thing, despite its certainty and knowledge that these accusations are not true. The GPC, which is eager to maintain unity and safeguard the security of the people and the homeland, would not even think about moving troops or mobilizing fighters. This is because it feels it has responsibility toward all sons of Yemen throughout the country, and not only in certain governorates to the exclusion of others. It also feels itself responsible for the safety of the entire homeland, and not just certain parts. The source asserted that the committee formed by the House of Representatives should embark on a fact-finding mission. Also, the military committee should take note of how things are proceeding and also do some fact-finding. Moreover, the expanded national dialogue committee should be aware of what is taking place on the ground.
