FBIS4-11883 "drnes064_j_94008" FBIS-NES-94-064 Daily Report 3 Apr 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Oman Yemen's Salih, al-Bid Hold Talks With Sultan Yemen's Salih, al-Bid Hold Talks With Sultan JN0304201194 Muscat Radio Oman Network in Arabic 1900 GMT 3 Apr 94 JN0304201194 Muscat Radio Oman Network Arabic BFN [Excerpts] At al-Hisn Palace in Salalah this evening, His Majesty Sultan Qabus Bin-Sa'id held a round of talks with Lieutenant General 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih, chairman of the Presidential Council in Yemen, and his deputy 'Ali Salim al-Bid. They discussed recent developments in Yemen against the backdrop of the Yemeni differences and Oman's role in bridging the Yemeni parties' views with the object of working out appropriate solutions that could ensure the unity and stability of the Yemeni Republic and bring about prosperity and advancement to its people. The talks also addressed the developing ties between Oman and the Yemeni Republic and bilateral cooperation in the best interests of the two sides and the region. His Majesty Sultan Qabus and Lt. Gen. 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih had earlier met separately at al-Hisn Palace to discuss bilateral cooperation. They also considered Yemeni developments and what Oman could do to help bridge the views of the sides to the Yemeni dispute so as to ensure Yemen's unity and security and regional stability. The talks also touched on issues of shared interest, as well as Arab and Islamic concerns. [passage omitted] His Majesty Sultan Qabus Bin-Sa'id this evening also convened a round of talks with 'Ali Salim al-Bid, vice chairman of the Yemeni Presidential Council. They reviewed Yemeni developments, the efforts being exerted to contain the Yemeni crisis, and other issues of shared interest. [passage omitted] Al-Bid arrived in Oman this evening for a visit lasting [words indistinct]. Upon his arrival, al-Bid said he was glad to be visiting sisterly Oman for consultations with Sultan Qabus on all issues of interest to the two sides, as well as Yemeni developments following the signing of the accord document. In this regard, he said, His Majesty Sultan Qabus has a key and important role to play. His majesty's government, he added, has exerted considerable efforts that all the Yemenis appreciate and recognize. In my talks with his majesty the sultan, we will address all these issues, al-Bid concluded. [passage omitted]
