FBIS4-36601 "drnes112_s_94002" FBIS-NES-94-112 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 Iran Jannati Accuses Saudis of `Blackmail' Jannati Accuses Saudis of `Blackmail' LD1006110394 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0930 GMT 10 Jun 94 LD1006110394 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Text] In his Friday prayers sermons in Tehran today, Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, the acting Friday prayers leader of Tehran, stressed: The Saudis act in harmony with America, and their inability to stage and manage the magnificent hajj rites has now become abundantly clear. The acting Friday prayers leader of Tehran referred to King Fahd's remarks on 'Id al-Qurban [Feast of the Immolation--20 May 1994], saying: By exploiting the resolvable differences between Iran and the United Arab Emirates concerning the Abu Musa Island, the Saudis seek to blackmail us. Although they constantly state that hajj is not a stage for political issues, nonetheless Fahd, in his speech on 'Id al-Qurban, tried to achieve the political objectives of the Saudi Government. Ayatollah Jannati then referred to the Enjoining Good, Prohibiting Vice Week, which is to start on 11 June and called for the media to pay serious attention to this principle so as to clarify and explain it to the public. He emphasized the need for everyone to be sensitive toward this principle, and said: In the fight against vice, one must not stop at peripheral issues; instead, efforts must be made to resolutely confront the fundamental vices that constitute the root of corruption. In this way, major sources of corruption must be pursued and dealt with. In another part of his remarks, the acting Friday prayers leader of Tehran alluded to the government's recent call to retailers to place price tags on their goods. He said: We hope that this step may constitute a good method for confronting those responsible for high prices. He also referred to the occasion of Muharram [first month in lunar calendar] and said that extensive mourning ceremonies should be staged in the best possible way during this period. He added: Just as the eminent leader of the revolution has said, during this month, one must refrain from superstitious acts.
