FBIS4-60351 "drnes100_s_94008" FBIS-NES-94-100 Daily Report 16 May 1994 Iran Editors Refuse To Meet U.S. Counterparts Editors Refuse To Meet U.S. Counterparts Dialogue Effort Viewed NC2105122394 Tehran JOMHURI-YE ESLAMI in Persian 16 May 94 p 2 NC2105122394 Tehran JOMHURI-YE ESLAMI Persian BFN [Unattributed commentary: "Wrong Reasoning"] [Text] Following the reciprocal visits paid by Iranian journalists to several countries, namely Germany, Kuwait, and Lebanon, some foreign policy and cultural officials came to believe that they can seize this opportunity to establish a dialogue between Iranian and American journalists as well, and thus find a way to open the door of dialogue between the two countries! Arranging the visit of 13 chief editors from American publications to the Islamic Republic of Iran, which is said to have taken place with the coordination of our country's representation at the United Nations and the director general for foreign mass media affairs at the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance, was apparently based on this same assumption. Fortunately none of the chief editors of the Iranian newspapers accepted the invitation to meet with the American chief editors, and the plan failed. The conclusions that can be drawn from this failure are noteworthy. First of all, the Iranian chief editors' refusal to meet with the American chief editors shows that a strong anti-American atmosphere still exists in Iranian press circles, and the Americans should realize that they are hated by all the social strata in Iran. Secondly, in the past two days since the press raised this issue, many people from various walks of life have called to strongly criticize those who made the preparations for the American chief editors' visit to the Islamic Republic of Iran and to thank the Iranian chief editors for refusing to participate in this dialogue. This means that the Iranian nation's strong hatred for America continues. Thirdly, if there are those in various parts of the system of the Islamic Republic with a "wrong reasoning" who think that through such attempts, they can open a door to dialogue with America, they are very mistaken and will be confronted with the people's rage and negative responses. At any rate, public opinion now expects the related sources to follow up the issue and to clarify the situation.
