FBIS3-32320 "drlat025_b_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 Dominican Republic Haiti U.S. Envoy's Talks With Legislators Noted FL0402132594 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole in French 1700 GMT 3 Feb 94 FL0402132594 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole Language: French Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] American Ambassador William Lacy Swing is visiting the Senate of the Republic. The ambassador was received by the current president of the Senate, Firmin Jean-Louis. Edner Jean reports live: [Jean] The meeting between the two men lasted about an hour. This meeting allowed Ambassador William Lacy Swing and President Firmin Jean-Louis to proceed to an assessment of the country's general situation and to the inventory of the perspectives of a solution to the crisis. Both parties expressed their common concern about the degradation of the social, economic, and political atmosphere as well as their real willingness to proceed quickly toward the resolution of the crisis. This visit by the United States ambassador in Port-au-Prince was mainly a gesture of support for Firmin Jean-Louis who is threatened with being discharged by some senators of the Alliance for Parliamentary Cohesion with the firm and determined support of those elected in the contested 18 January vote. On 2 February the resolution asking for the discharge of Firmin Jean-Louis almost made it to a vote. The ambassador insisted at length on the importance that his government gives to the legislative agenda within the scope of the Governors Island and New York accords. Furthermore, he pointed out the key role that the parliament must play in the search for a solution to the crisis and in the building of democracy in Haiti. [passage omitted]. The ambassador also answered journalists' questions regarding the conflict between the United States and France on a total blockade against Haiti. The ambassador reaffirmed that the United-States and the three other countries -- the friends of Haiti -- maintain a common position and demand once more the return of democracy in Haiti. [passage omitted]. The presence of Mr. Kosak [not further identified], who has just arrived from the United States, should be noted. He participated to some extent in the talks between Mr. Firmin Jean-Louis and American Ambassador William Lacy Swing. Right now, the ambassador is talking with the president of the Lower Chamber, Deputy Frantz Robert Monde.
