FBIS4-61386 "drsov088_g_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-088 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Hryb Discusses Assistance With Europarliament Members Hryb Discusses Assistance With Europarliament Members WS0505141594 Minsk VO SLAVU RODINY in Russian 28 Apr 94 p 1 WS0505141594 Minsk VO SLAVU RODINY Russian BFN [Report attributed to BELINFORM: "We Look At the West Without Suspicion"] [Text] We were moving to the European Union very slowly. Belarus could have become a member of this international organization as early as two years ago. This opinion was expressed by Belarusian Supreme Soviet Chairman Mechyslaw Hryb, upon his return from Strasbourg, where he met with Europarliament members. The legislative speaker held a press conference devoted to the results of the visit. Mr. Hryb said that during the meetings with the Europarliament members, the Belarusian delegation participated in a discussion about issues related to the development of political and economic links between our Republic and member states of the European Union. Examined were forms of technical assistance for Belarus dedicated to disarmament and liquidation of Chernobyl accident consequences. In the words of the speaker, negotiations were difficult on recognizing Belarus as a Republic with a transition economy, which could provide our country with certain economic privileges. It is a pity, Mechyslaw Hryb noted, that many participants in the meetings had one-sided information and only a vague notion about Belarus. This resulted in their lack of trust in us, creating obstacles in the way of foreign investments. To strengthen ties with Europarliament members and provide them with more information, it was decided to send a Belarusian ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary to this international organization. Mechyslaw Hryb said that the Belarusian delegation members also participated in a forum (Crance-Montana) devoted to current political and economic issues that was held in Bucharest. The forum was attended by more than 1,000 participants from 45 countries. The Belarusian delegation head delivered a report on economic development at the plenary meeting. Mechyslaw Hryb also met with Romanian President Ion Illiescu.
