FBIS3-56739 "drsov012_b_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Implications of Fedorov's Resignation Reviewed MK1901121094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 19 Jan 94 p 2 MK1901121094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Ivan Zasurskiy report under the "Results" rubric with the general headline: "Ruble Falls Following Gaydar. Yeltsin Proved To Have Not Been Ready for Gaydar's, Fedorov's Resignations, Although Both Could Have Easily Been Predicted"] [Text] Now that Boris Fedorov has left the Russian Cabinet of Ministers, the only ideological figure still in the government is Anatoliy Chubays. His fate is unlikely to be subject to change before check privatization is completed next summer. Both Yegor Gaydar and Boris Fedorov managed to leave the government nearly gracefully. This should not be misunderstood, though: Yegor Gaydar made a wrong move last September, and Boris Fedorov, an ideologist of pragmatism in economic policy turned "stubborn" monetarist, proved unable to tackle inflation. Moreover, the excessive strengthening of the ruble, which has undermined the domestic industry's export capacities, does him no credit either. This factor could be an example for the former minister's address in an American university on the occasion of the complete and final defeat of inflation in Russia, but at this stage it makes almost no sense at all. Boris Fedorov's political clout, which was heavily undermined in the provinces (by delayed wages and nonpayments for production delivered under state orders), will apparently be boosted by the significant fall of the ruble's exchange rate. This fall, however, should not be perceived as a clear sign of Russia's "Ukrainization." Furthermore, it cannot be ruled out that after Gaydar's resignation was accepted, the Finance Ministry was interested in having the ruble follow the reformer. Unfortunately, according to the pendulum theory, the government is indeed doomed to a certain increase in expenditures once a less prominent bureaucrat takes Fedorov's place. What is curious is that Boris Fedorov, like Yegor Gaydar, did not have an actual reason for resigning, so he presented an ultimatum that could not be fulfilled and even went from a relatively strong faction, "Russia's Choice" (whose representative could expect to become a government member following Gaydar's departure at least as a compensation), to a relatively weak one, as if he were deliberately trying to make sure that his terms would not be taken seriously.
