FBIS3-31243 "dreeu032_i_94015" FBIS-EEU-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Abdic Struggles To Retain Support in Bihac Area AU1502195694 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 1800 GMT 15 Feb 94 AU1502195694 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Report by Mirza Sadikovic] [Excerpt] Yet another chetnik offensive, this time in the Bihac region, has failed to yield results. The traitor Fikret Abdic has many problems maintaining his authority in the Kladusa region. [Sadikovic] The preoccupation of Bihac region residents and members of the 5th Corps of the Army of Bosnia-Herzegovina with internal clashes and the agreed support of Fikret Abdic, were obviously the reason Radovan Karadzic launched his strongest offensive so far to finally finish off the Bihac pocket, the Muslim enclave not in physical contact with Sarajevo. Four brigades and a few additional chetnik units were supposed to capture the Grmecko-Srbljanski plateau and Grabez in the first stage, and in the second reach the right bank of the Una river. At the same time, Fikret Abdic's so-called forces were supposed to enter Cazin, link up with the Grmecko-Srbljanski plateau and then enter Bihac itself with the help of the Croatian Defense Council, which allegedly controls the plateau. However, this did not happen. The heros of the 5th Corps have been resisting the chetniks for 10 days. Chetniks did not make much progress from the Grabez wasteland. Kladusa's Babo [Fikret Abdic] also spoiled the game. He did not carry out any of his promises. The conscience of the residents of Velika Kladusa came to the fore. They expressed allegiance to Bosnia-Herzegovina and the 5th Corps. Abdic now has the problem of how to keep back hundreds, even thousands of those who want to go to Bihac. He appealed for help in the fight against the 5th Corps, forgetting that it was actually the local people who make up the 5th Corps. Neither Milosevic nor Tudjman are listening to him any longer. He has yet to settle accounts with Karadzic. [passage omitted]
