FBIS3-9787 "dreeu061__a94027" FBIS-EEU-94-061-A Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 ANNEX Poland Minister Says Mass Privatization on Schedule LD2903165494 Warsaw PAP in English 1517 GMT 29 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY LD2903165494 Warsaw PAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Warsaw, March 29 -- Privatization Minister Wieslaw Kaczmarek told a press conference on Tuesday that the Mass Privatization Programme (PPP) is implemented according to schedule. Some 470 enterprises have expressed their readiness to take part in the programme, 110 of them decided join the PPP just recently. The list with the names of the enterprises will be presented to the government economic committee for opinion in the near future. There are plans to set up about 12 national investments funds which will manage the property of enterprises taking part in the programme. "The programme is open and if there are enterprises (wishing to join the programme, ed.) we will set up successive funds," Kaczmarek said. The minister said that a ranking list of consortia applying to manage up the national investment funds will be ready at the beginning of April. A special selection commission received 33 offers. Head of the commission, Krzysztof Rutkowski said that following the evaluation of technical offers, which is in its final stage, the commission will move on to the opening of price offers. He said that technical offers included a number of very interesting solutions creating greater chances for the success of the PPP. The commission will also have a list of some 240 candidates for members of the funds' supervisory boards at the start of May. Rutkowski said the commission received 6,860 application. From that group, the commission will select 500 candidates who will be summoned for interviews. Finally, the commission will decide on the final list and an additional list of some 50 candidates for chairmen of the boards. The funds are expected to be registered at the end of July or at the start of August. The distribution of shares certificates is planned for the first months of next year. According to polls some 9 million people accept the programme and are willing to buy such certificates. The shares will be quoted at the Warsaw stock exchange not earlier than in the second half of next year.
