FBIS4-44799 "jpest013__l94018" JPRS-EST-94-013-L JPRS Science & Technology Europe/International Economic Competitiveness 4 March 1994 WEST EUROPE CORPORATE STRATEGIES Germany: Siemens Nixdorf To Reduce Personnel, Number of Germany: Siemens Nixdorf To Reduce Personnel, Number of Support Centers 94WS0282B Paris INFORMATIQUE in French 4 Mar 94 p 31--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94WS0282B Paris INFORMATIQUE French CSO [Article signed Bd. A.: "Siemens Nixdorf Increases Its Productivity"] [Text] The more you have the more you want, and sometimes you discover business reengineering during a reorganization, as Siemens Nixdorf [SNI] just proved. In 1990, the German manufacturer set out to find remedies to the crisis of its customer support activity. Actually, the contractual maintenance volume of SNI IT Service was stagnating, and operating costs kept rising. This activity could be expected to start losing money by 1995. In a first stage, Gerhard Radtke, the division manager, then decided to launch a reorganization designed to reduce Munich headquarter staff by half. A team of 10 managing executives--including the data-processing manager--was set up. Very soon, the group reached the conclusion that the entire division had to be reorganized. With the help of McKinsey consultants, the number of support centers in Europe was reduced from 30 to four, and the hierarchy was simplified. One half of the headquarter staff--essentially technical specialists--were sent to regional support centers, and the information flow was reorganized. As far as hardware is concerned, all field technicians were given a notebook computer enabling them to order the parts they needed and to access customers' records. This organization led SNI IT Service to subcontract the spare part logistics to an express shipping specialist. "In this reorganization operation, Udo Franz, the information system manager, played a major part," Gerhard Radtke noted. An important place in the set up, which he explains by the career of this managing executive, who rose from operational responsibilities in the field to headquarters before becoming data-processing manager. This business reengineering is not just a defensive move to face a crisis. It also means to be offensive since, confident that it is now more competitive, SNI IT Service decided to launch into the maintenance of other manufacturers' systems. According to Gerhard Radtke, business reengineering enabled SNI IT Service to increase productivity per technician by 40 percent in two years.
