FBIS3-40030 "drweu038_j_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY CCD Rules Out Bossi, Fini as Prime Minister BR2502124494 Rome LA REPUBBLICA in Italian 25 Feb 94 p 11 BR2502124494 Rome LA REPUBBLICA Language: Italian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Mastella Flunks Bossi and Fini"] [Text] Rome -- Things are stirring also within the liberal-democratic alignment, which is preparing to "designate" a prime minister to lead the next government. According to Clemente Mastella, leader of the Christian Democratic Center [CCD], among the moderates' leaders only [Forza Italia leader] Berlusconi is qualified to aspire to the premiership. In an interview with the MILANO FINANZA daily, Mastella stated: "There is no chance of [League Secretary] Bossi becoming prime minister. He has no national standing, he is too much of a local leader to become prime minister." Mastella said that, if conditions were appropriate after the elections, he "would not be against Berlusconi" becoming prime minister. The CCD leader did not believe that [Italian Social Movement (MSI) leader] Gianfranco Fini -- Forza Italia's other ally in the south -- would make a good prime minister either. The MSI leader, Mastella said, "must still come to terms with his past. He may succeed in becoming the government's right wing, but not the coalition's leader." Replying to those who criticized the composition of the CCD's electoral lists for including member of the old political establishment, the former DC member said: "There are people with a long political experience among our allies too. Anyway, I see no great lists being put forward by Forza Italia or by the other forces. There are no Napoleons or Leonardos among them." Mastella criticized the League and athe National Alliance [AN] for having (rhetorically) invited President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro to resign after the elections. "The fact that there will be a new parliament does not matter. Otherwise, apart from Scalfaro," Mastella remarked, "we should also throw away all the laws passed by this parliament."
