FBIS3-2018 "drchi043_a_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 March 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Spokesman Reassures on `Fair Play' in Trade With UK HK0303140494 Hong Kong AFP in English 1051 GMT 3 Mar 94 HK0303140494 Hong Kong AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 3 (AFP)--China, which has warned that the row over Hong Kong will hurt Britain's interests in the mainland market, gave reassurances Thursday that it conducted its trade on the basis of "fair play." "We welcome foreign companies coming to compete on the basis of fair play in the Chinese market," foreign ministry spokesman Shen Guofang told a weekly news briefing when asked about the threat to discriminate against British companies. "We always handle international trade in the spirit of principles of fair competition, equality, and mutual benefit and in the light of established international practices," said Shen. European Union (EU) Commissioner Leon Brittan said here Tuesday that he had received "unequivocal" assurances from China that it would not take discriminatory action against any EU state on political grounds. The assurances followed Chinese Foreign Trade Minister Wu Yi's reiteration the previous day of Beijing's stance that Britain's "unfriendly and uncooperative" behaviour on Hong Kong would inevitably damage Sino-British trade ties. The comment followed last month's escalation of the row between London and Beijing in the wake of the adoption by Hong Kong's legislature of part one of a bill broadening the franchise in the final elections before the colony reverts to China in 1997. On the Hong Kong administration's announcement Wednesday that, even after the proposed transfer of funds to help pay for a 20.3 billion U.S. dollar airport, it would leave behind some 120 billion HK dollars (15.4 billion US) in reserves in 1997, Shen said only that China should not be left with a huge economic burden. "We must not leave an excessively heavy economic burden to the people of Hong Kong and the government of the future Hong Kong Special Administrative Region," said Shen, despite the fact that the level of reserves was nearly five times the amount London has guaranteed. The financing of the airport is another bone of contention between Britain and China, with Beijing constantly raising concerns that it may become an excessive drain on the territory's funds.
