FBIS4-57625 "drlat099_j_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-099 Daily Report 21 May 1994 Panama PRD Deputy on U.S. Charges of Forged Products in Free Zone PRD Deputy on U.S. Charges of Forged Products in Free Zone PA2205040494 Panama City LA ESTRELLA DE PANAMA in Spanish 21 May 94 p 28 PA2205040494 Panama City LA ESTRELLA DE PANAMA Spanish BFN [Report by Esteban Huertas G.] [Text] The United States "is interested in protecting its products, and this is why "it is accusing Panama of being a mecca for forgeries of well-known brands in the Colon Free Zone," according to Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD) Deputy Elias Castillo, chairman of the Education, Culture, and Sports Committee. [quotation marks as published] Castillo indicated that the problem stems from "the lack of seriousness on the part of the authorities and businessmen" who directly or indirectly are allowing counterfeiting in the Free Zone. "To prevent these kinds of problems, the Education Comittee has drafted a bill, which was approved in a first debate and submitted for the approval of the full Legislative Assembly," Castillo noted. Referring to the sale of forgeries of well-known products taking place in the Free Zone, the PRD deputy indicated, "the authorities have to convey their seriousness to the manager in order that he can project this Free Zone policy," and, in turn, disprove the charges made by the top U.S. commerce representative. He added that the U.S. charges against Panama "show the U.S. Government and Embassy desperately want Panama to approve the copyright law as soon as possible," which punishes the forging of well-known products. The law against forgeries and other related intellectual property rights infringements contains approximately 120 articles, which the Education Committee reviewed with officials of the Commerce and Industries and Education Ministries. LA ESTRELLA DE PANAMA unsuccessfully tried by every means possible to interview Luz Celeste de Davis, director of the Industrial Registry Office of the Commerce and Industries Ministry, on the charges made by the U.S. authorities.
