FBIS4-48159 "drafr093_e_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-093 Daily Report 11 May 1994 WEST AFRICA Mali Government, Tuaregs Begin `Secret' Discussions Government, Tuaregs Begin `Secret' Discussions EA1205194394 London BBC World Service in English 1705 GMT 11 May 94 EA1205194394 London BBC World Service English BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] There are reports of top secret discussions being held in Algeria between the Malian Government and the Tuareg rebels. It seems that there have been problems over an earlier agreement between the two sides signed in the Malian capital, Bamako, two years ago. Not all Tuaregs, it seems, agree to that earlier peace deal which was between the Malian Government and the Azaouad rebel movement. The current discussions in Algeria are aimed at resolving problems of integrating former Tuareg rebels into a unified Malian Army. From Algiers, Mohammed Areski Hima faxed this report. The exact location of the meeting between the Azaouad rebel movement and the Government of Mali has been kept secret. Discussions between the two sides began yesterday under a total news blackout. The breakdown of earlier discussions held at Tamanrasset in mid-April has prompted both sides to maintain secrecy this time. The Tamanrasset meeting was designed to try to salvage a peace agreement signed in 1992 in Bamako. This peace deal ran into problems over the integration of Azaouad fighters into the Malian Army. The Azaouad movement originally wanted some 2,300 Tuaregs reintegrated, but the Malian Government was expecting to accommodate only 1,000. Since the peace deal was signed, only 600 Tuareg fighters have been accepted into the Army and the Malian Government says that it does not have sufficient funds for any more. The Tuareg groups are also said to be unhappy about government funding for social projects in the regions of Timbuktu, Kidal, and Gao. Azaouad faces the problem of what happens to its fighters if they are left outside the national army. Such groups could create insecurity by devoting themselves to acts of banditry in the Azaouad Region in northern Mali. Even now, disaffected groups of rebels who disapprove of the 1992 peace deal are said to be in rebellion against Azaouad.
