FBIS3-8413 "dreeu046__a94028" FBIS-EEU-94-046-A Document Type:Daily Report 9 March 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Coalition Seeks Support for Early Elections AU0703161494 Prague CTK in English 1334 GMT 7 Mar 94 AU0703161494 Prague CTK Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Bratislava, March 7 (CTK) -- The government coalition of the Movement for a Democratic Slovakia (HZDS) and the Slovak National Party (SNS) is seeking the support of parliamentary parties for early elections being held in June and for stabilization of the government, Premier Vladimir Meciar said on Monday [7 March]. The HZDS has informed its coalition partner, the SNS, of its talks with the opposition Democratic Left Party (SDL) to be held this evening, Meciar said. He declined, however, to give details on the content of the forthcoming talks, arguing that it was to be only "the first official meeting." The SNS considers calling early elections as soon as possible to be a pre-condition for stabilizing the situation in Slovakia, SNS Chairman Jan Slota said. On the SDL negative stand concerning its participation in a coalition with Slota, Slota said that "the party is the party and Slota is Slota." He said that "the Slovak part of the SDL" was aware of the necessity for early elections to be held in June due above all to economic reasons. "It is clear who in the SDL's deputies' group is of what nationality," Slota said regarding the opposition left party. Meciar said that coalition talks to be held Tuesday would concern the staffing of the foreign ministry and privatization ministry. After the dismissal of Jozef Moravcik as foreign minister President Kovac refused to appoint Jozef Prokes, SNS honorary chairman and deputy premier, as a new foreign minister. Kovac demanded that the post of the minister of the administration of national property and its privatization be also filled. Meciar had been charged with managing the ministry earlier when the president refused to name Ivan Lexa, the state secretary in the Privatization Ministry and Meciar's close co-worker, the new privatization minister.
