FBIS4-8765 "dreeu074_i_94038" FBIS-EEU-94-074 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Events in Gorazde -- 18 April Events in Gorazde -- 18 April Gorazde `Floating in Blood' AU1804111894 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 1000 GMT 18 Apr 94 AU1804111894 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by Mustafa Kurotovic from Gorazde] [Text] The chetniks have launched an even fiercer offensive on this town. The chetniks showered Gorazde with hundreds of artillery projectiles this morning. The war hospital in the city center is also being targeted. Here is the latest report from Gorazde: [Kurtovic] According to the information of the East Bosnian Operations Group of the Army of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina and the information organs of the Gorazde Security Center, the chetniks have launched a fierce offensive aimed at taking Gorazde as a whole. The cries of the tens of thousands of people moving in the central part of the town, who wait for shells and snipers and who give their lives for the sovereignty of Bosnia-Herzegovina, are in vain. Between 0800 and 1100 alone, thousands of shells landed on the war hospital, civilian houses, Luke, Bare, [words indistinct]. In these suburbs, the situation is such that it is impossible to transfer the wounded (?to) the war hospital. The dead in this town are no longer counted by anyone because Gorazde has been left to its own defenders, its heroes. Gorazde will endure before the eyes of all international institutions. To the Security Council -- you should be ashamed of yourself for the thousands of causalities in this town. What is the purpose of your existence as the largest international organization in saving victims. Gentlemen, all appeals from this town have been in vain. Only our correspondents are still reporting, warning you again about the extremely critical and dramatic situation in Gorazde. Gentlemen, help the residents of Gorazde, which is floating in blood, which is being drawn in the pain of the hundreds of wounded and killed. Help this town while there are still live people in it. This is Mustafa Kurtovic reporting for Bosnia-Herzegovina Radio and Television from the Press Center of the Gorazde District.
