FBIS4-23918 "drafr118_c_94023" FBIS-AFR-94-118 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA King Urged To Respond to Rumors of Split King Urged To Respond to Rumors of Split MB1906140194 Durban ILANGA in Zulu 16-18 Jun 94 p 4 MB1906140194 Durban ILANGA Zulu BFN [Unattributed editorial] [Text] This grave matter of a split reportedly being orchestrated by some people between his majesty and the [traditional] prime minister of the Zulu nation, the prince of Phindangene, is a great tragedy for the entire nation. Several times the prime minister has voiced his concern as a Zulu about this issue that he finds so distressful. Whenever such things happen the Zulu nation reads between the lines that something is brewing within the royal house. We know that the prince would not shed tears over nothing. We also believe it is because of the bitter distress he feels about what might befall the Zulu nation if this conspiracy succeeds. We want to put it plainly that the majority of Zulus are greatly distressed by these alarming reports concerning renewed attempts to put a wedge between the prince and his majesty. The big question people are asking is, since the prince has time and again stated that he is unhappy about the machinations of some to cause a split between him and the king, what is his majesty saying about all these reports, and how does it all affect him? The people of KwaZulu now know the adverse effects that might result from a misunderstanding or a split between the king and the prince of Phindangene. The people of KwaZulu now know that if the campaign to cause a split between a them succeeds, the royal house and the Zulu monarchy will be immeasurably damaged, and the very authority of the office of the king will be greatly compromised and endangered. This is what preoccupies the Zulu nation on buses, trains, taxis, at markets, shops, church gatherings, and even at wedding celebrations. People are saying they want his majesty to come out in the open because his continued silence over these reports is causing confusion in his people about where their king stands on a matter that is causing them such grief.
