FBIS4-65523 "drweu097__a94044" FBIS-WEU-94-097-A Daily Report 19 May 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Skinheads Hold National Meeting; Officials React Skinheads Hold National Meeting; Officials React BR1605135194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 2103 GMT 15 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1605135194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "Fascist Skinheads Hold First National Demo"] [Text] (ANSA) Vicenza, May 15 -- Extreme right-wing skinheads with arms raised in the Fascist salute and wearing black leather jackets marched through the streets of this northern town Sunday [15 May] in their first national demonstration. Police estimated the number of demonstrators at "several hundred." Led by Piero Puschiavo, who is under investigation here for attempting to re-organize the banned Fascist Party of Benito Mussolini, the skinheads shouted slogans and displayed signs against the republic and the mass media. Puschiavo, who heads an organization calling itself the Veneto Skinheads Front, founded in Rome in 1991, at a rally following the march praised Fascist ideals and compared Fascists killed during World War II to those who died fighting against Mussolini and Hitler. An 80-strong police force watched over the event and prevented clashes between the skinheads and anti-Fascist counterdemonstrators. In local reactions, Vicenza deputy mayor Sergio Carta said "the event was at the very least inopportune in a city where an inquiry into this phenomenon is still open." "It is singular that as soon as a centre-right government is installed, extremist positions automatically come to light," he went on, adding that "I have the impression that there is an attempt to soften or anaesthetise certain memories of this country and Europe as a whole, and I am worried by the absence of a civic reaction, because indifference brings the risk of violence prevailing." The Veneto leader of the opposition Democratic Party of the Left sent Italian President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro a telegramme expressing "the keenest concern over the signal given by the Vicenza neo-Nazi march, and the way it was underestimated by the authorities." "I remind those who say that these are isolated phenomena that in Germany these groups are the subject of abundant legislation aimed at suppressing them," he added. The chairman of Venice's Jewish Community, Sandro Romanelli, sent a message to President Scalfaro, Premier Berlusconi, and the Speakers of both Houses of Parliament, expressing his concern over the Vicenza rally. A communique said the Jewish Community of Venice "calls on the Public Powers to exercise their due role and apply the law, and invites public opinion and all conscientious citizens to stand a democratic, antifascist guard, that our country may be spared useless violence at such a delicate moment in political life." National police chief Vincenzo Parisi issued a communique this evening saying that he had issued instructions that no such marches or rallies will henceforth be allowed, in the interests of public order.
