FBIS4-58960 "drnes090_j_94015" FBIS-NES-94-090 Daily Report 9 May 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Al-Bid Interviewed on Fighting, Vows To `Hold Out' Al-Bid Interviewed on Fighting, Vows To `Hold Out' NC1005074594 London MBC Television in Arabic 2100 GMT 9 May 94 NC1005074594 London MBC Television Arabic BFN [Telephone interview with Vice President 'Ali Salim al-Bid, in Aden, by MBC correspondent Ahmad Manjuna on 9 May -- recorded] [Text] [Manjuna] Can Yemen endure the ongoing fighting developing into a protracted war of attrition? [Al-Bid] We want to implement the Pledge and Accord Document. 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih and his forces reject this. Failing to implement the document, they resorted to war to impose another course on the Yemeni people. We will all abide by the document around which the overwhelming majority of the Yemeni people rally. Even those who have been forcibly sent to the war by 'Abdallah Salih are now fighting with low morale because they are not convinced about what they are doing. They do not know what they are doing. What are their objectives when they advance toward particular areas in the southern provinces? [Manjuna] Brother 'Ali: How can you describe the military situation? And how can you hold out? [Al-Bid] We will hold out. But we are convinced that whoever triumphs in this war will still be a loser. But what can we do? As long as this war is imposed on us we will defend ourselves and we will adhere to the course we have chosen. We have chosen the road of unity, democracy, civil rule, and equality. We also chose the Pledge and Accord Document on the basis of national unanimity. We will adhere to this document and we will fight to ensure that it is implemented. [Manjuna] Despite the signing of the Pledge and Accord Document, the government in Sanaa accuses the southerners of secession and mutiny. On what grounds does the government in Sanaa base its accusations? [Al-Bid] This is their understanding of issues and it shows their miscalculations. We opted for unity. We dissolved our regime here in the south and we took our units from here to Sanaa. Regrettably, they were besieged and attacked in Sanaa. We did not do all this. The Yemeni people know this. History will be the judge.
