FBIS3-33230 "drlat035_t_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 Venezuela Banco Latino Intervention Board Installed PA2102225994 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network in Spanish 1550 GMT 21 Feb 94 PA2102225994 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From "The News" newscast] [Text] The Banco Latino Intervention Board was installed today. Gustavo Roosen will preside over the commission until 22 March, when President Rafael Caldera will appoint a new intervention official. Edgar Dao, president of Banco del Caribe; Celso Dominguez, vice president of Banco Mercantil; (Jack Vera), president of (Fidenes); and German Garcia, manager of the Venezuelan Bank of Credit, will accompany Roosen on the board. Regarding the specific problems the institution is facing, Gustavo Roosen stated that it would be better to reactivate the financial institution and get it working again, instead of liquidating it altogether. Julio Santodomingo, the intervention board's outgoing president, said the body's achievements were satisfactory when compared to similar intervention efforts with other banks. Roger Urbina, the outgoing bank superintendent at the General Bank Superintendency, described other such investigations forwarded by the Executive Branch in recent years. He said that the measures taken in the Banco Latino case are no stronger or weaker than those in any other case. [Begin Urbina recording] During the last few days I have repeatedly said that the General Bank Superintendency moved in accordance with the law. It abided by the laws ruling such interventions when it examined and acted against Banco Latino. The examination process was identical to all other bank examinations carried out on other financial institutions. If this process can be called weak or lenient, then all such examinations are lenient. If it is strong, then they are all strong. There are no exceptions to the rule, much less with Banco Latino. [end recording]
