FBIS3-8791 "dreeu051_d_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 SLOVAKIA Government Paper Echoes Sentiment AU1503164394 Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 14 Mar 94 p 1 AU1503164394 Bratislava REPUBLIKA Language: Slovak Article Type:BFN [Commentary by Chief Editor Jan Smolec: "Step Down, Too, Mr. President!"] [Text] When assessing the political situation in the wake of the no-confidence vote in Slovak Prime Minister Vladimir Meciar in his interview for Slovak Television on Saturday [12 March], President Michal Kovac told television viewers: "We are in a democratic state, and a decision made by the majority is thus valid." He asserted, furthermore, that "this certainly does not mean any black mark against parliament in the eyes of our public." If the deputies and the president himself were convinced about the correctness of this decision, they should have explained it in person to the voters who had assembled in front of parliament and the Primacialny Palace [temporary seat of Slovak president]. Let me remind the president of the majority principle also regarding the assessment of his activity by deputies for the Movement for a Democratic Slovakia [HZDS] to the former CSFR Federal Assembly. He actively cooperated with these deputies for half a year, when dividing the federation. In a statement adopted on Saturday [12 March], the great majority of these deputies said that the Slovak president had destabilized the political scene, initiated a parliamentary crisis, and evidently exceeded the framework of his constitutional powers. Such action by a president is without precedent in the history of European parliamentarianism. Supported by mandates received from their voters, HZDS deputies to the former Federal Assembly appealed to the president's conscience to consider his remaining in the post of president. How will the president react to the decision of this majority? A government without top political leaders is to be formed in the days to come. Let us apply that principle consistently. Also to the president.
