FBIS3-47909 "dreas014_c_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 North Korea Request To Send Mourners Noted SK2001050294 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0441 GMT 20 Jan 94 SK2001050294 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Decision To Send Mourners' Group to Seoul on Death of Rev. Mun Ik-hwan Notified to South Side" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, January 20 (KCNA) -- The North side headquarters of the National Alliance for the Country's Reunification (Pomminnyon) today notified the South side that it decided to send a mourners' group to Seoul on the death of the Rev. Mun Ik-hwan, a pro-reunification patriot. This was disclosed in a telephone message sent today by Paek In-chun, chairman of the North side headquarters of Pomminnyon, to Yi Yong-tok, "minister of the Unification Board" of South Korea. The message said: The late Rev. Mun Ik-hwan enjoyed the love and respect of the nation as a reputed pro-reunification patriot for his many years' patriotic activities for the democratisation of society and the reunification of the country against the interference of outside forces. Particularly, he visited Pyongyang at the risk of his life in 1989 and was received by respected President Kim Il-song, and went back after discussing the reunification question of the country with the North sides officials concerned with reunification, thus not only instilling the conviction of national reunification into the South Korean people but leaving unforgettable impressions to the people in the northern half of Korea. It was to be regretted that when the Rev. Mun Ik-hwan was put under illegal detention after his visit to Pyongyang, we could not pay a consolatory visit to him owing to the obstructive moves of the military authorities of your side. Love and sympathy of our people for him are getting stronger today when he passed away without seeing the day of reunification for which he longed so ardently in his lifetime. We inform you that we decided to send a mourners' group to Seoul in order to convey the most profound sorrow of our people for the deceased. I propose to have a contact between working officials of both sides at the conference room of the Neutral Nations Supervisory Commission at Panmunjom at 10:00 on January 21 (Friday) to discuss practical matters concerning the visit of our group to Seoul. I express the hope that your side will take a corresponding measure as our side plans to send two liaison officials of the North-South liaison office.
