FBIS3-9465 "dreeu058_h_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 HUNGARY Belgian Prime Minister Makes Official Visit NATO, EU Membership Discussed BR2403152494 Antwerp DE FINANCIEEL-EKONOMISCHE TIJD in Dutch 24 Mar 94 p 5 BR2403152494 Antwerp DE FINANCIEEL-EKONOMISCHE TIJD Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Article signed LDV: "Hungary Not Put Off by European Union Crisis. Membership Request on 1 April"] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] NATO After meeting with his Hungarian counterpart, Prime Minister Dehaene emphasized that Hungary's integration is a gradual process. This does not only apply to EU membership but also to NATO membership. The Partnership for Peace is a first step in that direction. During his official contacts, however, the Belgian prime minister found out that the Hungarian socialists are not so keen on joining NATO. The socialists argue that they are not at all sure that the population wants such a membership. In Hungary there has been quite a noise about NATO Air Force General Kehoe's statement that NATO's AWACS airplanes operating in Hungarian airspace were directly involved in the shooting down of four Serbian military airplanes by U.S. airplanes at the end of last month. On 11 February Prime Minister Boross had ruled that the AWACS airplanes would not be allowed to use the Hungarian airspace if NATO was going to launch air strikes against Bosnian Serb positions around Sarajevo. The prime minister justified this unexpected decision by referring, among other things, to the difficult situation of the 430,000 or so ethnic Hungarians living in the Province of Vojvodina, which is part of Serbia. The problem of the minorities was also one of the issues Prime Minister Dehaene brought up in Budapest during his meeting with the relevant state secretaries. On 7 July 1993 the Hungarian parliament passed a law on national and ethnic minorities. According to Dehaene, the law on minorities contains clauses which are not applicable to Hungary and is mainly intended as a signal to the neighboring countries, including Serbia and Montenegro.
