FBIS3-34325 "drnes025_s_94003" FBIS-NES-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 Iran Khamene'i Warns Against `Plots of Satanic Powers' LD0602141694 Tehran IRNA in English 1359 GMT 6 Feb 94 LD0602141694 Tehran IRNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tehran, Feb 6, IRNA -- The leader of the Islamic revolution, Ayatollah 'Ali Khamene'i, on Sunday [6 February] warned against plots of satanic powers to physically eliminate those Iranian ulema who are efficient and helpful for the country, Islam and Muslims. The supreme leader cited the February 2 aborted attempt on the life of President Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani during a speech at the shrine of the founder of the Islamic Republic, the late Imam Khomeyni as the latest example of such plots. "They attempted to strip Muslim ummah of one of the prominent, efficient and devotee personalities of the Islamic Republic, our beloved president...but thanks God this time they were frustrated as in many of their previous plots and treasons," the leader said. Ayatollah Khamene'i made the remarks in his speech to a large group of ulema, Friday prayer leaders and professors and students of theological schools. The supreme leader termed the Islamic revolution as a great storm which thwarted treacherous conspiracies and ambitious plans of the U.S. and its lackeys in Iran, helped spread Islam and attracted other nations to spirituality. "This paid the way for the collapse of the eastern empire and of Marxist rule in the world," he said. Ayatollah Khamene'i also lauded the founder of the Islamic Republic, the late Imam Khomeyni, for laying the foundation of an Islamic system of government in a world estranged from spiritual values. "But the reality is that there are many people who have neither realized nor felt the greatness of these two phenomena -- imam and the revolution. We should try to make this great truth tangible in the life of Muslims both in Iran and throughout the world," he said. Elsewhere in his speech, the leader pointed out that piety, faith and knowledge is the key to all problems. Ayatollah Khamene'i cautioned that hypocritical and blasphemous powers of the world, now fearful of the vigilance of Muslims, have closed their ranks to get rid of the increasing influence of Islam. "What is now happening in the four corners of the world such as Bosnia-Herzegovina, Palestine, Lebanon, Algeria and Kashmir betrays the deep enmity of the oppressors with Islam and the Islamic Republic," the leader concluded.
