FBIS3-47856 "dreas011_d_94010" FBIS-EAS-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 South Korea IAEA-DPRK Working Contact Postponed SK1501063394 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network in Korean 0517 GMT 15 Jan 94 SK1501063394 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [Text] The third working-level contact between the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA] and North Korea, which was expected to take place over this weekend, is postponed until next week because there was no reply from Pyongyang authorities. Correspondent Cha Man-sun reports from Vienna. [Begin Cha recording] (Feriscos,) director of the inspection bureau of the IAEA, revealed that in a telephone contact, (Yun U-chin), counselor at the North Korean Embassy in Vienna and the working-level delegate of the North Korean side, said that he has not received a reply from Pyongyang to the IAEA's telegram, and therefore, holding the third working-level contact is difficult this weekend. Concerning this, the IAEA inspection-related officials show that their position is to wait for the North Korean reply by taking a little more time. But they hope that the third working contact can be held next week. Meanwhile, it was learned that the list for checking seven nuclear facilities which IAEA presented to North Korea on 10 January was prepared based on the Nuclear Safeguards Accord which became effective on 10 April between the IAEA and North Korea, and the list calls for compliance with the accord. Article 74 of this accord stipulates that independent measurement of nuclear materials, including examination of diaries of operation of nuclear facilities, and mobilization of all technological inspection measures, are possible, and Article 75 prescribed that North Korea must cooperate in extracting additional (?testing) materials. North Korea accepted overall inspections in 1992 in compliance with the Nuclear Safeguards Accord. However, North Korea, which is withholding its withdrawal from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, shows its position of regarding this accord as invalid. Therefore, the reply from North Korea will attract public attention in the future. [end recording]
