FBIS3-45746 "drchi015_k_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Li Ruihuan Discusses Integrating Theory With Practice OW2201164094 Beijing XINHUA in English 1535 GMT 22 Jan 94 OW2201164094 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 22 (XINHUA) -- Chinese leader Li Ruihuan said here today it is necessary to integrate theory with practice, pay attention to investigating into new problems and sum up new experience in studying the theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics. Li, who is a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, made these remarks at a ceremony this afternoon to mark the completion of a theoretical course attended by leading members of some non-communist parties and All- China Federation of Industry and Commerce as well as some personages without any party affiliation. Noting that building socialism with Chinese characteristics has become the most important common ground of the Chinese people, Li said that only by recognizing and adhering to the common ground can the united front have its soul and keep consolidating and expanding. He acknowledged that Deng Xiaoping's exposition on the united front during the new period is an important component part of the theory on building socialism with Chinese characteristics and it is significance to guiding the Communist Party to do still better the work concerning the united front in the new period. Li stressed that to study the theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics is aimed at grasping the powerful weapon to solve the real problems that crop up in reform, opening up and modernization drive. He said that to study the new situation and sum up new experience under the guidance of the theory is needed by the present work and also constitutes an important way of applying the theory to reality. At present, Li said, the Chinese people is working hard to establish a socialist market economy, which is a big system engineering project. During the process, he added, it is essential to delve into the emerging problems and promptly sum up the experience under the guidance of the theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics. The ceremony was presided over by Hu Jintao, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and president of the Central Party School. Leading members of the country's non-communist parties and some personages without party affiliation were present at the ceremony.
