FBIS4-68196 "jptot021__l94062" JPRS-TOT-94-021-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 4 April 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Terrorist Fears Halt Sundridge Airfield Reopening Terrorist Fears Halt Sundridge Airfield Reopening 94WR0143A London THE TIMES in English 4 Apr 94 p 7 94WR0143A London THE TIMES English CSO [Text] The Foreign Office has opposed the reopening of one of Britain's most historic airfields because of fears that it could be used for a terrorist attack on the Foreign Secretary's official country home. The airstrip at Combe Bank Farm in Sundridge, Kent, which has the country's earliest surviving hangars, is two miles from Douglas Hurd's country home at Chevening. Sevenoaks Council was due to decide last Wednesday on the application from Timothy Barr-Smith, a farmer, but at the last minute the Foreign Office letter was received. It opposed the plan "on the grounds that Chevening House is the residence of a cabinet minister who, as a potential terrorist target, is subject to a high-security requirement. The close proximity of low-flying aircraft ... and the lack of air-traffic control, constitute an unacceptable risk in our view." Planners were expected to recommend that the proposal be approved, but it has now been deferred. Mr. Barr-Smith submitted his plan for the airfield last October, emphasising its historic past as the site of some of the earliest adventures in aviation. Biplanes and triplanes were tested there in the 1910s. English Heritage supported the scheme because it would ensure the survival of the hangars, which had been used as hay stores. They were listed as buildings of grade two architectural and historical importance in 1988. Mr. Barr-Smith was reluctant yesterday to discuss the intervention by the Foreign Office. "Publicity at this stage would not help my cause," he said. Lee Prebble, chief development control officer of Sevenoaks Council, said the recommendation for planning permission had been withdrawn because of the Foreign Office letter and concern about crime, and a noise objection.
