FBIS3-42546 "jpusp001___94002" JPRS-USP-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia: Space 16 February 1994 SPACE SCIENCES Regression Approach to Calculated Absolute Calibration of Satellite-Borne IR Radiometers 947Q0072 Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK FIZIKA ATMOSFERY I OKEANA in Russian Vol 29, No 5, Sep-Oct 93 pp 634-638 947Q0072 Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK FIZIKA ATMOSFERY I OKEANA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by V. P. Kozlov, Yu. M. Timofeyev, A. V. Polyakov, St. Petersburg State University; UDC 551.510.5] [Abstract] Most satellite IR radiometers used for remote sensing of the atmosphere and the underlying layer have systems of onboard absolute calibration of measurements of outgoing radiation. For various reasons, however, the instruments must be calibrated independently for the different periods of their operation. As a rule, such calibration consists of calculations of the absolute values of the intensity of outgoing radiation on the basis of the use of modern radiation models of the atmosphere, information on the physical and optical state of the atmosphere and the underlying layer in the areas of calibration, and the spectral characteristics of the radiometers. There are inherent difficulties in objectively assessing the accuracy of such calibration and in factoring various kinds of information into the calibration algorithms. The researchers here use the statistical regression method in the calibration, guaranteeing the smallest rms error of prediction and making it easy to consider arbitrary sets of controlled variables and arbitrary measurement modes. An adequate radiation model for statistical modeling of emission variations is used for given variations of parameters of an optical-meteorological model of the atmosphere. The radiation model (an integral equation of thermal emission transfer) is linearized in the vicinity of some standard atmospheric state satisfying the average climatic or seasonal conditions for a given region. References 7: 3 Russian, 4 Western.
