FBIS4-43260 "drweu115_n_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-115 Daily Report 18 May 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland Researcher: Meager Safety Net for Middle Class Researcher: Meager Safety Net for Middle Class 94P20870A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Swedish 18 May 94 p 4 94P20870A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Swedish CSO [Finnish News Service report: "The New Poor Ever Increasing"] [Text] Up to 200,000 households may at times be thrown into the ranks of the new poor, asserts researcher Pentti Ronkko. Families in the tens of thousands already have such severe economic problems that they are unable to handle the situation. The present cost-of-living measures and the official relative poverty levels are inadequate when it comes to identifying those hit by the new poverty. Ronkko's article on redistribution of incomes is included in the book Unfortunate Social Position and Change in the Welfare State, which is edited by Professors Mattik Heikkila and Kari Vahatalo. The book is part of the Finnish Academy's research program on the weaker population groups in Finland. Ronkko thinks that the structural defects in the welfare state have set up an impoverization process within the middle class. The decisionmakers and the state machinery have become isolated from daily lives of their fellow citizens. Taxation, income transfers, and the associated budget cuts have not been targeted adequately, he states. Ronkko writes that the welfare state's safety net is still operating relatively well regarding the traditional low-income groups and other vulnerable elements, even though several budget cut decisions have also reached to impact them. On the other hand, the safety net has completely collapsed for the heavily indebted middle class. Vahatalo, for his part, writes that long-term unemployment is not the only factor that has undermined the welfare state. In particular, the housing policy has contributed to the undermining, since it has never been carried out in a goal-directed fashion, he asserts. Instead, market forces have taken over in determining policy. Vahatalo also points out that the position of students has markedly worsened in recent times. They no longer dare to take out student loans because of the high interest rates and insecurity about the future job market. Vahatalo warns that this defective educational support system may lead again to the situation that parents' economic background will determine who can continue his studies and who cannot. Poverty also threatens to again become an inherited phenomenon. During the good years for the economy, we were able to get rid of this trend, but -- according to researcher Raimo Parikka, we are now on the way to going back to the old pattern.
