FBIS3-16523 "drsov052_v_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 Lithuania KGB Said Involved in Creating Two Companies WS1703093394 Vilnius TIESA in Lithuanian 9 Mar 94 No. 46 p 2 WS1703093394 Vilnius TIESA Language: Lithuanian Article Type:BFN [Report by Aldona Svirbutaviciute: "Investigator for Special Cases -- Against the Wind?"] [Text] Yesterday, K. Milkeraitis, investigator for particularly important cases at the Prosecutor General's Office Investigating Department, made a public statement in the Seimas [parliament]. The essence of his statement state hindrances in investigating the criminal case on the appropriation of state property and the activities of foreign special services. The key reason that forced investigator K. Milkeraitis to appeal to the public was the attempt to impair the investigation and help the culprits evade criminal responsibility. According to the investigator, the collected material leaves no doubt that the companies "Litcommerz GmbH" (Commercial Director A. Klimaitis [accused of working for the KGB] ) and "Baltica-Union" (President A. Bakaitis) were set up with the aim of appropriating state property. "Both economic entities were organized by the Soviet KGB, while transforming them into commercial enterprises. Employees of this foreign special service came to work under their cover enjoying the status of the `active reserve'," reads K. Milkeraitis' statement. According to Seimas Deputy A. Endriukaitis, the fact that the case may disclose the interests of the ruling [Labor Democratic] party is responsible for attempts to discontinue it. K. Milkeraitis held a press conference because on 8 March he had to pass this case over to the leadership of the Prosecutor General's Office together with documentation and even material evidence. What if the latter does not exist? Asked by TIESA whether he had pondered over his future as a prosecutor for special cases after this press conference, K. Milkeraitis replied: "I have not thought about my future. Today, I must submit the case, composed of 15 files, with all evidence to the leadership. The investigation is still continuing. True, it was suspended during my illness. It has been resumed but only until a fixed date." According to the investigator, the term "political and criminal" would be too mild for this case.
