FBIS4-19864 "drweu079_j_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-079 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Concern Raised Over Call for Revision of Osimo Treaty Concern Raised Over Call for Revision of Osimo Treaty AU2504100694 Vienna DER STANDARD in German 25 Apr 94 p 2 AU2504100694 Vienna DER STANDARD German BFN [APA report: "Neofascists' Call for Osimo Revision Alarms SVP"] [Text] Bolzano/Rome/Vienna -- The demands of Italy's neo-fascists for a revision of the Osimo Treaty, which sets down the Italian-Slovene border, has given rise to great concern in South Tirol. Siegfried Brugger, chairman of the South Tirolean People's Party (SVP), said during the weekend that the behavior of the neo-fascists gives "reason for concern, particularly in South Tirol and in Europe." The rightist "Union for South Tirol" has already come out in favor of "preparing a revision of the unjust border at the Brenner." Next Thursday [28 April], the SVP leaders will meet with Foreign Minister Alois Mock in Vienna to discuss potential steps to be taken by the "protective power" Austria. Mock has come out in favor of watching the development in Italy with great attention. The SVP sees South Tirol's autonomy increasingly threatened as a result of statements from circles of the Italian rightist alliance. According to a report by the Rome daily LA REPUBBLICA, in summer 1991, shortly after the crumbling of Yugoslavia, neo-fascist leader Gianfranco Fini sounded out potential Serb reaction in Belgrade to Italy's efforts for a revision of the Osimo Treaty and a return of Istria to Italy. Renowned Serbian politicians more or less gave Fini the go-ahead at that time. After a talk with President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro in the course of the consultations about the forming of a new government, Fini stressed that the point is "a revision of the treaties of Osimo, not of the borders." The new Italian Government is to strive for corresponding negotiations with the governments in Zagreb and Ljubljana, Fini said. The party's foreign policy spokesman, Mirko Tremaglia, and another prominent politician, Roberto Menia, have justified the demand for a new negotiation of the treaties of Osimo by saying that these treaties were concluded in 1975 with the state of Yugoslavia, which no longer exists. In their view, Slovenia and Croatia are not automatically Yugoslavia's legal successors.
