FBIS3-26991 "drchi033_f_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 Near East & South Asia XINHUA Reports Palestinian Leadership Meets in Tunis OW1502192994 Beijing XINHUA in English 1852 GMT 15 Feb 94 OW1502192994 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tunis, February 15 (XINHUA) -- Palestinian President Yasir 'Arafat has chaired a series of meetings of the Central Committee of Fatah movement and the PLO Executive Committee during the last few days, reliable Palestinian sources said here today. The meetings discussed the Cairo deal and the latest developments of the Palestinian-Israeli peace talks. Arafat and Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres signed a partial agreement in Cairo last Wednesday [6 February], which deals with the implementation of the September 13 PLO-Israeli peace accord. The sources told XINHUA here today that the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) Executive Committee held a meeting last Sunday, with PLO Chairman 'Arafat presiding. A number of committee members were absent. 'Arafat explained the Cairo deal at the meeting. Abu-'Alaa' [Ahmad Quray'], head of the Economic Department of the PLO, made a speech on the economic talks between the PLO and Israel, pointing out obstacles in these talks. No agreement was reached on finance, trade or customs so far, he said. As for the meetings of the Central Committee of Fatah movement -- PLO's major group, the sources said that differences on the Cairo deal are still standing, pointing out that some members called for amendment to some articles. These amendments, the sources say, must be compatible with the rights and aspirations of the Palestinian people. The Palestinian sources stressed that President 'Arafat convinced his aides that what was signed in Cairo was a draft agreement, but not a final agreement. The draft is amendable and negotiable and it prepares for the signing of a final agreement on the implementation of Israel's pullout from Gaza and Jericho, 'Arafat said.
