FBIS3-3153 "drchi052_v_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 TAIWAN Foreign Minister Views Gorbachev Visit, Russian Arms Sales OW1703035994 Taipei China Broadcasting Corporation News Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 16 Mar 94 OW1703035994 Taipei China Broadcasting Corporation News Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Report by Liu Yu-mei; from the "Hookup" program] [Text] Foreign Minister Chien Fu yesterday [16 March] said that former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has played a very important role in the history of development of human society in the 20th Century and is a cross-century historical figure. He is convinced that the current visit to Taiwan by Gorbachev will be able to promote exchanges and understanding between China [Republic of China] and Russia. In addition, in light of newspaper reports on Russia's largest opposition party hoping to invite President Li to visit Russia in April, Minister Chien Fu said yesterday that President Li could not accept the invitation to visit Russia due to the short notice and the stand of the Russian opposition party. The following is a report by Liu Yu-mei: [Begin recording] [Liu Yu-mei] According to newspaper reports, Chairman Zhirinovskiy of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia, which is Russia's largest opposition party, has openly invited President Li to visit Russia to attend its party convention scheduled to begin on 2 April. Foreign Minister Qian Fu answered a question yesterday morning raised by a legislator at the Legislative Yuan on whether President Li would go to Russia as invited. He said he did not see any invitation document from Russia and only learned the information from newspapers. He said: However, judging from the situation, a head of state cannot make preparations to go abroad in just two weeks. We should also consider whether the Liberal Democratic Party, as an opposition party, can provide all facilities for a visit by a head of state. Therefore, President Li could not possibly go to Russia as invited in early April. As for Zhirinovskiy's revelation that the Russian Government may adjust its policy of selling airplanes to China [Republic of China], Chien Fu, in answering an interpellation by legislator (Yin Yao-peng), said Russia has developed a phobia of communists [k'ung kung cheng] and that it is also impossible for Russia to sell weapons to our country. [Chien Fu] The Russian Government has developed a high degree of phobia [k'ung chu cheng] with regard to Communist China [chung kung]. Asking Russia to sell weapons to us at present is almost impossible. It is almost impossible. It seems to me the so-called invitation may be (?just a report) [words indistinct]. It is unlikely to have much positive (?meaning). Therefore, I do not want to spend too much [words indistinct]. [Liu Yu-mei] As for the visit by former Soviet leader Gorbachev and his wife next Sunday, Chien Fu praised Gorbachev as a historical figure. His opening and reform policy has promoted the democratization of the Soviet Union. Through his visit to China [Republic of China] and meeting with President Li to exchange opinions and make contacts with various circles of the country, he can further understand Taiwan's experiences in development. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will do its best to coordinate Gorbachev's activities during his visit. This is a report by China Broadcasting Corporation reporter Liu Yu-mei at the Legislative Yuan. [end recording]
