FBIS3-4885 "dreas041__a94016" FBIS-EAS-94-041-A Document Type:Daily Report 2 March 1994 ANNEX Japan Posts Ministry To Support Digital HDTV Plans OW0103222594 Tokyo SANKEI SHIMBUN in Japanese 28 Feb 94 Morning Edition p 1--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0103222594 Tokyo SANKEI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] It was learned on 27 February that the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications [MOPT] plans to inaugurate in fiscal year 1994 a "digital broadcasting technology development office" under the Broadcasting Bureau's Engineering Division. In a recent news conference, Broadcasting Bureau Director General Akimasa Egawa said that the MOPT would not develop a digital high-definition television (HDTV) system to replace an analog system for the time being. Nevertheless, with the setting up of the digital technology development office, the ministry will become fully prepared for developing a digital system. During a news conference on 22 February, Egawa said: "Most countries in the world are pursuing the research and development of digital HDTV systems." He stressed the need for MOPT's policy switch and called for replacing NHK's analog multiple sub-Nyquist sampling encoding system with a digital system. His remarks, however, created a great stir. Because his comments brought protests from NHK and the Electronic Industries Association of Japan (EIAJ), which is selling analog TV sets, Egawa called another news conference the next day and said: "Because of my lack of explanations, I have caused a misunderstanding. For the time being, the MOPT will continue supporting the NHK system." With this, the confusion was unsnarled. However, Egawa also said in the news conference that "digital technology directed toward the 21st century is necessary," thus not denying the development of a digital system in the future. According to the MOPT, the plan to set up the digital technology development office was actively promoted by Egawa, and the setting up of the office was decided on after a request for changing the formation of the MOPT, which the ministry had submitted together with a fiscal year 1994 budget request, was approved.
