FBIS4-7779 "dreeu066_i_94010" FBIS-EEU-94-066 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Presidency Views Situation Presidency Views Situation AU0504194894 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 1700 GMT 5 Apr 94 AU0504194894 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Text] The Presidency of Bosnia-Herzegovina devoted today's session almost completely to the military situation in Gorazde. Military and political measures have started and are continuing with a view to stopping the offensive on Gorazde. Last night, Alija Izetbegovic, president of the Presidency of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, had a telephone conversation with Victor Jackovich, U.S. ambassador to Bosnia-Herzegovina, who is in Washington at the moment, and U.S. special envoy Charles Redman. Contact has been established with U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who will inform U.S. President Bill Clinton about the (?Serbian)-Montenegrin offensive at Gorazde. Contact has been established with Akashi, special envoy of the UN secretary general, as well as with General Rose, UNPROFOR [UN Protection Forces] commander in Bosnia-Herzegovina. They were invited to come to Sarajevo. Gen. Rose is expected to come today and Akashi is expected to come tomorrow. At the demand of Bosnia-Herzegovina, consultations of the members of the Security Council were held last night. It is worrying that reports by some UN observers present the situation in Gorazde in an entirely different light. According to them, the situation is not serious and even less critical. Considering this, the head of our mission to the United Nations was told to demand an urgent Security Council session and call attention to a possible manipulation of the Council by some of its officials, something that may be very dangerous for further development of the situation in Gorazde. It will be demanded for Gen. Rose to visit Gorazde without delay and establish the real situation on the spot. It was decided that Presidency President Alija Izetbegovic send letters to chiefs of a number of states in which he will acquaint them with the fact that the attacked region was proclaimed a security zone under UN protection by Resolution 824 of the Security Council. In the opinion of the Presidency of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, the offensive on Gorazde, as well as some political games obviously linked with that offensive, may represent a form of pressure on our side to renounce its just and principled demands to be given back occupied territories. In any case, the attack on Gorazde and Bihac, as well as the continued ethnic cleansing in the Bosnian Krajina, are seriously endangering the peace process that has been started in the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina. The Presidency is warning the public that all these sad facts in the field show that the war unfortunately is not over. The Presidency has been doing and will do everything in its power with a view to reaching a just peace as soon as possible. However, these efforts are obviously not met with good will by the opposite side that has started this war in the first place. Therefore, both our Army and our citizens must be ready for any contingency.
