FBIS4-43115 "drweu113_e_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-113 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Euroelections: Voters Desert Conservative Cause Euroelections: Voters Desert Conservative Cause LD1306051394 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 0444 GMT 13 Jun 94 LD1306051394 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By Chris Moncrieff and Sian Clare, PRESS ASSOCIATION political staff] [Text] Labour swept into the Tory heartlands with dramatic victories right across the country in the European election results declared overnight. But the Tory vote -- pitiful though it was -- held up just sufficiently to earn John Major a reprieve from a leadership challenge in the autumn -- or at least he hopes so. Even so voters deserted the Tory cause in droves, and citadel after citadel fell to Labour in what was the worst Conservative performance in a nation-wide poll this century. The Liberal Democrats won a breakthrough by securing their first two Euro-seats ever, but their overall performance nation-wide was unimpressive compared with the triumphant march of Labour. Now John Major, who edges back from the brink of possible personal disaster, will face massive demands for a wholesale Cabinet reshuffle in which John Patten, the Eduction Secretary, would almost certainly be one of the casualties. Conservative Party managers gained little comfort today from their claim throughout that they had won the argument during the campaign. The stark fact is that the Tories have lost 13 seats so far in the 73 results declared overnight, one of the casualties being Sir Christopher Prout, the party's leader in the European Parliament. And Tory MP Hugh Dykes, chairman of the European Movement, pronounced the result a "monumental disaster," accusing Conservative Central Office of letting Tory candidates down and blaming them fair and square for the "debacle." Meanwhile, a jubilant Margaret Beckett, the Opposition leader, said the Tories had been overtaken by a "political earthquake" which would have put Labour into power in the House of Commons with a massive three-figure overall majority. However, it seems as if John Major lives to fight another day, even though maverick Tory Tony Marlow renewed his demand that he should quit office and make way for a stronger leader.
