FBIS4-48653 "drafr100_c_94024" FBIS-AFR-94-100 Daily Report 20 May 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA COSATU Head Warns Workers Against High Expectations COSATU Head Warns Workers Against High Expectations MB2105073694 Johannesburg NEW NATION in English 20 May 94 p 13 MB2105073694 Johannesburg NEW NATION English BFN [Article by Amrit Manga] [Text] As South African workers wake from the celebrations over the democratic victory in last month's elections, COSATU [Congress of South African Trade Unions] general secretary Sam Shilowa has sounded a note of caution that could dampen some of the euphoria. This week, he told the 57th congress of the Canadian Union confederation, CSN: "While we are happy, we are also uncertain." Shilowa was referring to the challenges that lie ahead in meeting the expectations of workers, many of which have been raised by the ANC's electoral victory. "We are gripped with fear, fear of whether our democracy will succeed, fear of being forgotten by the international community, fear of being unable to fulfill our members' expectations," he told the union meeting in Montreal. Their expectations, Shilowa said, were for more jobs, houses, better living conditions, better wages, improved labour legislation, electricity and water. Although Shilowa did not say so, these are expectations workers have of the ANC-led government of national unity. They make up the core of the Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP) and will cost at least R [Rand] 80-billion on the basis of the ANC's latest estimates. While a significant part of these costs will be met by revenue generated inside the country, there is little doubt that foreign aid will also play a role. Shilowa was direct in his assessment of just how long it will take for some of the expectations built up around the RDP to be met. "All of these can't be achieved overnight. It will take time. It needs resources, it needs the support of our members." Shilowa also used the opportunity to justify COSATU's role in the liberation struggle. "Many people have condemned us for being a political union. We do not apologise. If calling for a better life for all is political, so be it," he said. "If opposing wasteful government expenditure is political, so be it," Shilowa added. An underlying warning in the COSATU general secretary's message appeared to be that his federation would not become complacent under the new conditions but that it would continue to speak out against wasteful expenditure and mismanagement in government.
