FBIS4-42069 "drweu104_h_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-104 Daily Report 28 May 1994 GERMANY Kinkel Opposes Russian Wish for CSCE Dominance Kinkel Opposes Russian Wish for CSCE Dominance AU2805184394 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU in German 28 May 94 p 2 AU2805184394 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU German BFN ["C.G."-signed report: "Kinkel: CSCE Not To Be Put Above NATO"] [Excerpt] Bonn, 27 May -- Following Russian Defense Minister Grachev's statements in Brussels, the Federal Government has pointed out the limits of the West's concessions to Moscow. Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel said on Friday [27 May]: "Russia's wish to put the CSCE above other European security institutions is not shared by us." He said that although the CSCE is of great importance, "there cannot be" a ranking, with the CSCE coming first, the North Atlantic Cooperation Council second, followed by NATO in third place. Moscow cannot be granted a right of veto either. Kinkel said: "Security in Europe cannot dispense with NATO as a defense alliance in the foreseeable future." This is also in the interest of the Central and East Europe states, Kinkel said. However, Kinkel welcomed Russia's willingness to accept NATO's offer to join the Partnership for Peace program. It is important that Russia wants to join the program as an equal partner. The partnership opens up the opportunity for comprehensive military cooperation to secure peace and stability in Europe. Like the other partners, Russia can itself decide on the extent and quality of its contributions. Kinkel said: "I expect Russia to sign the Partnership for Peace framework document as soon as possible." In addition, talks and cooperation between NATO and Russia are desirable: "NATO and nuclear power Russia have to enter into a strategic dialogue, such as the one that the United States and Russia have had for years." Mutual consultations, although excluding a Russian right of veto, are in the interest of all parties concerned, Kinkel said. [passage omitted]
