FBIS4-39922 "drsov113_a_94034" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS State of Iranian-Saudi Relations Viewed State of Iranian-Saudi Relations Viewed PM1306092794 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 10 Jun 94 p 3 PM1306092794 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Russian BFN [Ravil Mustafin article: "Persian Gulf: New Exacerbation of Iranian-Saudi Relations"] [Excerpts] It has become a bad tradition that relations between Iran and Saudi Arabia, those two leading forces in the region today, become exacerbated with the onset of the season of pilgrimage to the places in Mecca and Medina which are holy to every Muslim. A majority of observers link -- quite reasonably -- the cyclical growth of tension in this already unquiet corner of the globe with Tehran's attempts to politicize religious ceremonies for its own political and propaganda purposes. [passage omitted] We should not expect a lowering of the level of rivalry caused by the two countries' desire to occupy the leading position both in the region and throughout the Islamic world. Tehran, which aspires to the role of the expresser of the interests of all Muslims, will hardly resign itself to the fact that Riyadh, the "imperialists' accomplice," retains the title of custodian of Islam's main holy places. The contradictions between Tehran and Riyadh also concern a wide range of international problems, including the Near East settlement. Iran continues to deny the possibility of reaching agreement with Israel and advocates its destruction. Under these conditions Moscow's position with regard to Tehran and Riyadh appears delicate, to put it mildly. On the one hand, Saudi Arabia is one of the greatest states of the Arab world, in which it objectively plays an increasingly weighty role by virtue of its financial, economic, and geostrategic potential and resources. True, cooperation between our countries has not enjoyed the necessary development, and the arms market is in the hands of Western companies -- above all, U.S. ones -- and will most likely be entirely geared to them for the next five to 10 years. On the other hand there is Iran, which borders on the southern underbelly of the CIS and with which traditional ties have long existed. In this situation there is no alternative but, at best, to urge the sides not to work toward something sinful, i.e. an altercation involving weapons.
