FBIS3-55766 "drsov008_f_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 National Affairs Security Chiefs on Cooperation, Fighting Terrorism WS1101144894 Kiev UT-1 Television Network in Ukrainian 1650 GMT 10 Jan 94 WS1101144894 Kiev UT-1 Television Network Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN [Interview with Security Service Chief Yevhen Marchuk and State Protection Service Chief Mykhaylo Hayduk by unidentified reporter; place and date not given; from "Without a Protocol" program -- recorded] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] [Marchuk] The Ukrainian Security Service has been actively cooperating with the State Protection Service. One of the primary goals of the Security Service is fighting terrorism. To fight terrorism we must interact with the State Protection Service. I want to point out that the Security Service performs a wide range of tasks that exceed the framework of functions of the State Protection Department. Speaking of the problem of fighting terrorism as a pyramid, the State Protection Service is at the very top, while the Ukrainian Security Service deals with more fundamental, concealed aspects of the same problems. Thus, we disclose persons threatening terrorist acts against political leaders, the state leadership, or people's deputies at all levels from the village to the Supreme Council. When this work enters its completion stage we interact with the State Protection Service. I want to emphasize that for both services the political views of threatened individuals make absolutely no difference. In 1993, the Security Service has investigated more than 120 cases of threats to statesmen and deputies at all levels, presidential representatives, and the president himself. Some 90 cases were disclosed, including threats of terrorist acts against Vyacheslav Chornovil, Deputies Ostroushchenko and Izmalkov, and former Defense Minister Morozov. Thus, you see that we pay no attention to the political views of these people, and this problem has no political connotation for the Security Service. By the way, we also disclosed threats against Russian President Yeltsin and Moldovan President Snegur, as well as a terrorist act against a foreign embassy in Moscow, prepared by foreign citizens on Ukrainian territory. I want to point out that this is an international problem. [Reporter] I believe that the experience of foreign countries might be useful to us. These countries encountered a lot more problems of this kind. There have been a lot of terrorist acts in the United States, India, and so on. Do you have any contacts with appropriate services from other states? [Hayduk] The State Protection Department is working on improving its activities and studying the foreign experience. For example, a conference was held in Hungary in November 1993, attended by representatives of 32 states, including Ukraine and Russia. The conference discussed the issues of fighting terrorism and granting security to political leaders. We also held a three-week seminar in Kiev with U.S. special services on the coordination of efforts and the joint resolution of legal issues, conducted practical classes on the physical and psychological fitness of functionaries. By the way, under an agreement with Yevhen Marchuk, a department will be opened at the Kiev Security Service Institute in 1994 for training specialists for our department.
