FBIS4-60620 "drnes103dd_94002" FBIS-NES-94-103 Daily Report 26 May 1994 Palestinian Affairs 'Arafat Reportedly Drafting State Constitution 'Arafat Reportedly Drafting State Constitution TA2605184794 Jerusalem New Channel 2 Television Network in Hebrew 1700 GMT 26 May 94 TA2605184794 Jerusalem New Channel 2 Television Network Hebrew BFN [Interview with French jurist (Jean Marc Vareau) by Eldad Beck in Paris; date not given -- recorded, in French with Hebrew subtitles; translated from the Hebrew] [Text] PLO Chief Yasir 'Arafat has launched an effort to arrange the drafting of a Palestinian constitution. The Channel 2 news department has learned that to that end, he conveyed a draft document for the perusal of a French lawyer. According to the document, Jerusalem is the capital of an independent Palestine. Our Paris-based correspondent Eldad Beck heard the details of the constitution from the French jurist: [Begin recording] [(Vareau)] He assured me that he would honor human rights; that the provisional constitution would ensure the separation of powers, the independence of legal institutions; that it will not be an Islamic state; that there would be genuine equality between men and women, between Muslims and non-Muslims; that Christians and Israelis would enjoy freedom of worship and education. At that point, to prove to me that it would be a state of law, he handed me something that had just been prepared -- a proposal for a transitional constitution to be used before the state is fully sovereign. [Beck] Then 'Arafat plainly told you that this text would be the Palestinian state's constitution? [(Vareau)] We agreed that since they have physical authority over a defined territory, since they rightfully control a legitimate police force, and since they have the right to pass their own laws, they are practically a sovereign state. That text plainly indicates that Jerusalem is the capital of Palestine, but the Palestinian government that will be elected, that will be appointed before parliament is convened, will be able to decide on a capital in another location in Palestine. Thus Jerusalem will be a constitutional demand, while the actual capital will be either Gaza or Jericho. [end recording] [An announcer-read report later in the newscast adds: "In reaction to the report about 'Arafat's plan to draft a constitution for the Palestinian state, Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin said a few minutes ago: `It is all talk, just like the radio program.'"]
