FBIS3-29055 "dreas031_d_94011" FBIS-EAS-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 South Korea Vice Foreign Minister Meets U.S. Congressmen SK1502030294 Seoul YONHAP in English 0214 GMT 15 Feb 94 SK1502030294 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, Feb. 15 (YONHAP) -- U.S. lawmakers on Tuesday denied any commercial motives in plans to deploy Patriot missiles in South Korea, urging Seoul to look at the political meaning of the deployment and the heightened war deterrence. A group of six U.S. representatives, led by John Murtha, chairman of the Defense Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, met with South Korean Vice Foreign Minister Hong Sun-yong to discuss the effectiveness of sanctions against North Korea and security on the Korean peninsula, ministry officials said. The talks touched on how far Japan and China would go in case the UN Security Council imposed sanctions against North Korea, whether the Tokyo government would be able to halt the money flow from pro-Pyongyang Korean residents into North Korea and whether Beijing would stop supplying crude oil to its ally. Vice Minister Hong said he expects Beijing to recognize the international mood and meet South Korea's expectations. Apparently trying to allay criticism here that Washington is taking advantage of the current tension to sell arms to Seoul, the congressmen dismissed any commercial interest in the matter, the officials said. The Clinton administration's plans to deploy Patriot missiles at American bases in South Korea, the lawmakers said, are aimed at countering North Korean missiles that can reach as far as Japan. The Patriot deployment should be understood for its "political symbolism," the congressmen were quoted as saying, and the missiles' presence would greatly improve deterrence against North Korean aggression. The legislators left Tuesday morning, ending a three-day visit to Seoul that included meetings with the defense minister and presidential aide for diplomacy and national security.
