FBIS3-21196 "jpjst010__l94019" JPRS-JST-94-010L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 8 March 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness Japan's Deficit in Technology Trade Worsened in 1992 94FE0047E Tokyo NIHON KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 21 Sep 93 p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0047E Tokyo NIHON KOGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] Going Backwards ``There are people who are taking research institutes backwards; we think this is a very awful thing.'' President of Japan Infralogic, first in the world to develop fuzzy reasoning processors, Masayoshi Tokai looks back to the time spent working at AT&T Bell Labs in the United States for almost four years from 1982. With the thought that ``as said by those researchers, we go backwards when people break down. Therefore, going backwards is movement without energy and is no match for gravity'' (Tokai), this is practiced. This is an amusing anecdote, but the problem is that researchers which are also said to be such apparently eccentric people naturally find receptive soil in the United States wherein such creative ideas are born. Facing Income Balance In addition to the technical power and R&D level of each country, looking at the technology trade balance which is becoming an important indicator, the quantity of Japan's 1992 technology exports was ¥386.5 billion and technology imports were ¥910.1 billion (according to the Bank of Japan international income and outgo statistical monthly report) and were very much in the red. The United States has overwhelmingly excessive exports with technology exports of ¥2.562 trillion and technology imports of ¥631.2 billion. In 1970, the technology exports of the United States at that time were already ¥834.7 billion and, looking just at the export funds, Japan's current level has not even surpassed the 1970 level of the United States. When seen by type of industry, the areas of Japanese construction and steel already have an excess of exports and the income and outgo ratio for electronics and transportation machinery is almost balanced. Even in the field of machinery with an excess of imports, the ``technology trade balance is still in the red. However in this, there is technology already exceeding cooperation. This does not end at the relationship of the contract.'' (Hideo Nishikawa, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Technology Department, Technology Control Director). Moreover, ``Income and outgo are even and either becomes an excess of exports'' (Takemitsu Hoashi, Komatsu Business Research Department Director); accordingly, this is movement toward a fairly balanced state. Movement in Japan's Balance of Technology Trade Tokai makes the analysis that ``technology has three aspects: ideas, making products (realization), and production. One alone is useless. At this point in time, the ideas are mostly from the United States, but Japan is already succeeding with the remaining two.'' If the three required elements of technology are ideas, making products, and production, technical innovation does not happen without creativity for each. The pursuit of creativity for insufficient ideas is natural for Japan in the future, and the degeneration of the two elements for which we already have creative power must be avoided. (New Technology Establishment News Group) Next published on 28 September Scenario In the year 20XX, Japan's technology balance of trade will have an excess of exports for the first time. This is twenty years after the economic sector such as the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren) founded four ``applied basic technology research institutes'' in separate production areas with joint contributions to plan for the strengthening of basic research fields. The basic technologies for biology, new metals, and environmental preservation developed here being successively industrialized and production patent registration increasing drastically in each enterprise was analyzed by the Agency of Industrial Science and Technology as a major reason. Up to the 1990's, Japan's technology trade had an overwhelming excess of imports and the United States and Europe criticized Japan as a free rider. Those voices are no longer heard. It is widely known that the medicines and biotechnology developed in the respective ``applied basic technology research institutes'' are regenerating the U.S. industry and contributing to U.S. development. Additionally, the workers and researchers in these research institutes also include many foreigners, especially persons from the United States and the people of the world have come to be aware that this is one international organization rather than a Japanese institution. In the year following Japan's balance of technology trade becoming an excess of exports, in the General Assembly of the United Nations, Japan which is a permanent member of the Security Council proposed the foundation of such research organizations in developing nations and this was unanimously passed. This was an attempt to predict the future of R&D areas.
