FBIS3-52673 "drnes004__a94013" FBIS-NES-94-004-A Document Type:Daily Report 6 January 1994 ANNEX Israel Jewish Neighborhood in East Jerusalem Approved TA0401095394 Jerusalem THE JERUSALEM POST in English 4 Jan 94 p 3--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY TA0401095394 Jerusalem THE JERUSALEM POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Bill Hutman] [Text] The Jerusalem municipal planning committee yesterday approved the first stage in the construction of a Jewish housing project near the Bet Orot Yeshiva on the Mount of Olives. The committee voted 7-3 to allow Bet Orot to place a dozen mobile homes on land adjoining the yeshiva, in the Arab neighborhood of al-Tur. The decision came after Mayor Ehud Olmert voiced his support for the controversial project. Deputy Mayor Shmu'el Me'ir (NRP) [National Religious Party] said approval of the project reflects the new city council's plans to increase the Jewish presence in eastern Jerusalem, committee sources said. Me'ir said the mobile homes would be followed by conventional housing, a position also voiced by Bet Orot officials in the past. Approval was given against the recommendations of the city's planning department, which argued the land was earmarked for an Arab school. In an opinion presented to the committee before the vote, the department maintained the lot had to be rezoned for the plan to be approved, committee sources said. Committee head Uri Lupoliansky presented a letter stating the department promised to find another site for the Arab school, signed by Jerusalem education department head Nisim Solomon. But the planning department said no reasonable alternative site exists for the Arab school. Me'ir insisted he knows of four alternatives sites, but declined to give their locations, sparking sharp criticism from Councilor Yisra'el Shulderman (One Jerusalem). Despite heated exchanges, the plan was easily passed by the municipal coalition, joined by My Jerusalem's Yehoram Ga'on. The one Meretz and two One Jerusalem members voted against the plan.
