FBIS3-24964 "drafr024_d_94013" FBIS-AFR-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Namibia Government To Introduce, Implement Land Reform Laws MB0302145894 Windhoek NEW ERA in English 20-26 Jan 94 p 2 MB0302145894 Windhoek NEW ERA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Government will this year introduce and implement land reform legislation. It will also begin the spade work for the Presidential and National Assembly elections. This was announced by President Sam Nujoma at a State House news conference on Wednesday. Many Namibians have complained about the availability of land and the disproportionate distribution of available arable land. A Land Conference was held in Windhoek in 1991, to find solutions to the land hunger. The President vowed to pursue closer cooperation in conflict resolution to ensure stability for the common interests of the region. "Although our country enjoys relative peace and stability, we cannot be indifferent to the sufferings of others," President Nujoma told the press conference. Nujoma reviewed development progress in the past year and said the government would continue to consolidate and strengthen the foundations of political, economic and social development. He declared that education would take priority in his government until the day he died. "We have now embarked upon an irreversible path towards national building, a step that has led to sound investment opportunity and socio-economic upliftment of our people." President Nujoma highlighted successes in road infrastructural development, oil and gas exploration, fisheries and regional cooperation. He welcomed the reintegration of Walvis Bay, stating that the port town would become a major centre for regional cooperation and would give great impetus to the growth of the Namibian economy. At independence, the government initiated the formidable task of turning Namibia's transport network towards a much more favourable east-west direction. Five major road projects have been implemented and some of the new links are to be completed within the next three years. On petroleum exploration and production, remarkable progress has also been achieved. Realising that the petroleum industry is a hazardous one, the government has established an emergency plan. It is developing oil and gas regulations regarding health, safety and the protection of the environment, during exploration and production activities. Pre-feasibility studies for Epupa hydro-electric scheme have been completed and the feasibility study phase is to commence soon. President Nujoma expressed satisfaction with the growth of the fishing industry, which he described as the second largest industrial employer. The President noted that industrialists had made substantial foreign exchange earnings the past year and there would be no deterioration in the country's balance of payments. He said he foresaw greater investment and job opportunities being created by all these developments.
