FBIS4-29302 "dreas117_k_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-117 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 Laos `Very Successful' Than Shwe Visit Noted `Very Successful' Than Shwe Visit Noted BK1506033794 Vientiane Vitthayou Hengsat Radio Network in Lao 1200 GMT 13 Jun 94 BK1506033794 Vientiane Vitthayou Hengsat Radio Network Lao BFN [Interview with Somsavat Lengsavat, foreign affairs minister of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, at Hokham Presidential Palace in Vientiane on 13 June on success of the five-day visit to Laos by Than Shwe, chairman of the State Law and Order Restoration Council of the Union of Myanmar, -- recorded] [Text] The visit to our country by His Excellency [H.E.] General Than Shwe, chairman of the State Law and Order Restoration Council of the Union of Myanmar [Burma], is a great honor for our country, as it was the first country he visited on his overseas trip. During his four days here, in addition to holding official talks with H.E. President Nouhak Phoumsavan, H.E. Gen. Than Shwe also called on H.E. Khamtai Siphandon, chairman of the party Central Committee. During the talks, the two leaders exchanged views on the situation in their respective country, thus enabling each other to understand more deeply the changes that are taking place. The most important event of the visit was the signing of three agreements by the two sides as reported earlier, namely the agreement on the international boundary; the agreement on the establisment of a joint commission for economic, scientific, and technical cooperation; and the agreement on tourism cooperation. I believe that the three agreements are politically and economically significant because they have laid down a basis for the strengthening of relations between our two countries in the future. Therefore, it can be said that the visit was very successful and the two sides are very satisfied with its outcome. Before we came here, H.E. Chairman Than Shwe and H.E. President Nouhak Phoumsavan also met and had a chat with each other, reaffirming the success of this visit.
