FBIS4-34551 "drlat119_p_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 Ecuador Conaie: Government Hired Paramilitary Groups Conaie: Government Hired Paramilitary Groups PA2106025694 Quito Voz de los Andes in Spanish 2300 GMT 20 Jun 94 PA2106025694 Quito Voz de los Andes Spanish BFN [From the "Voz Andes" newscast] [Text] The Conaie [Confederation of Indian Nationalities of Ecuador] continues to paralyze the mountain provinces of the mountain range. The shortage of basic staples is apparent there. Conaie representative (Nina Pacari) said that her organization has nothing to do with abuses and violence committed on the streets. She maintains that paramilitary groups hired by the regime, the Social Christian Party, and the Republican Unity Party, burned peasant organization headquarters and killed Indians. [Begin (Pacari) recording, in progress] ...the entire country, especially between the Andean region and Cotopaxi Province, and the Amazonian areas of the Provinces of Pastaza and Napo are completely paralyzed. The country's Indian and peasant movement has intensified its actions to protest against this agricultural law. We want to denounce repression in several provinces, deaths and injuries, and, especially, attacks on the headquarters of our provincial organizations. We blame the national government for this because it is behind the evil actions of paramilitary groups against our companeros and leaders nationwide. We must point out that paramilitary groups killed companero (Marcos Marabanda) in Tungurahua Province, where a pickup truck fired indiscriminately and sped away. Also, Radio Centro was fired on by paramilitary groups that fled. [end recording] Conaie will continue its actions until the regime repeals the agricultural law. (Pacari) pointed out that it is preferable for the country to lose hundreds of millions of Sucres now as a result of the paralysis than to lose the entire agricultural sector, because of a law that brings absolutely no benefits for Indians and peasants.
