FBIS3-53124 "drnes008dd_94005" FBIS-NES-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 Palestinian Affairs Ghawshah: Dialogue `Doomed to Failure' JN1201100194 Amman AL-ASWAQ in Arabic 12 Jan 94 pp 1, 16 JN1201100194 Amman AL-ASWAQ Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by 'Abd-al-Rahman al-Khatib] [Text] Ibrahim Ghawshah, official spokesman of the Hamas Movement, has said that the first meeting of the central command of the Alliance of Palestinian Forces [APF] will be held in Damascus on 19 January 1994. The APF was officially set up last week after its factions agreed on its political and organizational program. Ghawshah rejected the argument that Hamas has conceded its demand for a 40 percent share of the alliance's central establishments. In answer to a question by AL-ASWAQ, he said: We, in Hamas, have declared from the beginning that we are committed to the formula of the 10 factions, considering this formula as the minimum acceptable by the Palestinian forces opposed to a settlement with the Zionist entity. Ghawshah added: The formula that was approved is more advanced than that of the 10 factions although it is less than the one we were hoping for. In view of the insistence of some brothers in some factions on this formula, we decided to approve this formula after some members admitted that it is a phased formula, and that representation according to the size of each faction is necessary, but at later stages. Ghawshah stressed that the reconstruction of the PLO establishments on democratic bases will take into consideration the size and strength of each faction after agreeing on the yardsticks for deciding size and strength. Asked about the Hamas position on the Fatah Movement calls for a comprehensive national dialogue, which Dr. Haydar 'Abd-al-Shafi was assigned to conduct, Ghawshah said: After reading the results of Dr. 'Abd-al-Shafi's recent visit to Tunis, one feels the pessimism regarding the negative results achieved by his delegation. According to our estimates, these results had been expected. Ghawshah added: The pragmatic Tunis leadership tried two months ago to send [Fatah Central Committee member] Hani al-Hasan to conduct a dialogue with the Palestinian opposition forces, but he did not succeed. Now Yasir 'Arafat is trying to send Dr. 'Abd-al-Shafi to carry out the same role played by Hani al-Hasan, particularly after the setting up of the APF. Ghawshah urged Dr. 'Abd-al-Shafi not to embark on his mission, which is doomed to failure after his call for democratic reform fell on deaf ears. He urged 'Abd-al-Shafi to take the side of the popular Palestinian fold, now represented by the APF, which has clearly declared its forthcoming political tasks. Ghawshah added that meeting with 'Abd-al-Shafi and conducting dialogue with him depends on the approval of the 10 factions.
