FBIS4-61079 "drsov086_b_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-086 Daily Report 3 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Draft Law To Restrict Media Coverage of State Bodies Draft Law To Restrict Media Coverage of State Bodies LD0305201294 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1600 GMT 3 May 94 LD0305201294 Moscow Russian Television Network Russian BFN [Video report by unidentified correspondent -- from the "Vesti" newscast] [Text] [Announcer] The State Duma and the Russian Government are preparing a federal law that would regulate coverage of the activities of the state power bodies by the state media. [Correspondent] The draft has been prepared under the guidance of Mikhail Poltoranin, chairman of the Duma committee on information policy. The Duma intends to adopt the federal law by the second half of May. The draft of the law stipulates what kind of information about the activities of the president, the Constitutional Court, the government, and the parliament must be included by state radio and television companies in their daily information programs. A detailed list is concluded by a phrase referring to other facts about the activity of federal bodies of state power that could be of public interest. This means that the obligatory list could be expanded indefinitely. Let us have another look. Reports about the work of the president, the parliament, the government, and its presidium must be presented as a separate block, and only at the beginning of a bulletin. The size of these blocks is also strictly stipulated. Information programs are not to comment on the work of the president, parliament, or government. Journalists are also told when and whom they must interview at the Federal Assembly. Not obeying the new law may be treated as a criminal offense. So, if the new law is adopted, state radio and television will not be simply deprived of comments: Vesti and other programs will contain only what all branches of state power with their countless press services will see fit to disclose about themselves. However, any citizen of free Russia will be able to hear analysis and comments on decisions taken by the authorities from programs produced by private radio and television stations, or, as in the good old days, from Radio Freedom or the BBC. In this case, journalists from the Russian radio and television will have to congratulate themselves and the public with a new victory for freedom of information in a state bureaucracy version.
