FBIS4-32723 "dreeu125__a94043" FBIS-EEU-94-125-A Daily Report 26 Jun 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Government, Opposition Leaders Hold Debate Government, Opposition Leaders Hold Debate AU2706132394 Prague CTK in English 1552 GMT 26 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2706132394 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Bratislava, June 26 (CTK) -- Slovak Premier Jozef Moravcik, in a televised debate of leaders of the government and opposition parties today, said that upon taking power in March his cabinet inherited an 8-billion Slovak crown (some $260 million) hole in the budget to which it had to react with economizing and raising taxes. Moravcik accused Meciar of slowing down economic transformation. He said his government would speed up privatization while using equally the coupon method and other methods. He added that the envisaged 4 billion Slovak crown profit from privatization would be invested in the construction industry to revive the economy. Moravcik pointed to a "historic chance" to settle relations with Hungary which requires the solution of the problems of ethnic minorities in Slovakia. Meciar said that Moravcik's government came to power not through democratic elections but through a parliamentary putsch. He said Moravcik's cabinet returned to a restrictive economic policy because of the previous non-qualified management although the basis for economic growth had been already prepared by his cabinet. "It will take at least one year to correct these mistakes," Meciar said. He said he considered it "catastrophic" that social reforms had been stopped, adding that the prepared tax raise would limit a market space, lead to a fall in production and a decrease in consumption with a consequent social impact. Chairman of the opposition Slovak National Party (SNS) Jan Slota, Meciar's close co-worker, rejected the accusations of extremism, arguing that the SNS "was only defending the interests of a nation state," while "extremist Hungarian parties have embedded a split of the state in their programs." "Three Hungarian -- chauvinistic and irredentist -- parties are too much of a luxury for Slovakia," he said. He warned against the plans of Moravcik's government to launch the second wave of coupon privatization, saying that three-quarters of state property privatized during the first wave ended in the hands of funds and the impoverished population was currently selling their coupon booklets below price to those "who do not have honest plans with this republic." Peter Weiss, chairman of the Democratic Left Party (SDL), said that Meciar was responsible for the current state of the Slovak economy and society.
