FBIS4-34347 "drlat118_b_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 Haiti Public Urged To Back Police, Report Foreigners Public Urged To Back Police, Report Foreigners FL1706171594 FL1706171594 BFN [Editorial Report] Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole in French at 1045 GMT on 17 June carries its regularly scheduled newscast, which includes the following reports: Government Urges Public To Help Police "The government in Port-au-Prince has asked everyone living in the cities and in the provinces to remain alert to the current team's orders and to collaborate with the local police forces and to be ready, if the case arises, to lend them a hand in fulfilling the exceptional duties that the latest acceleration of the crisis has imposed." Ministry Release on Housing Foreigners "The Information and Coordination Ministry has reissued an Interior Ministry press release reminding hotels, boarding houses, and people housing foreigners that under Article 60/61 of the 26 December 1978 law, they are required to notify the Immigration and Emigration Service as well as the Police Bureau within 24 hours of the arrival of a customer, resident, or foreign tenant." Front Official Chambelain Returns "Louis Jodel Chambelain has returned to the fold. Chambelain, who temporarily distanced himself from his political base, seems to have recovered his position within the Revolutionary Front for the Promotion and Progress of Haiti. Chambelain renewed his support for the Jonassaint government after several untimely statements." Radio Metropole then airs the following recorded remarks by Chambelain: "We respond to the appointment today as we did in Crete-a-Pierrot, Breda, and the Citadelle Henri. How can we forget 11 October 1993, the lucky day when all of our cohorts demonstrated a chivalrous spirit and, in unison along the Port-au-Prince shoreline, protested the opposition and its self-interested generosity under the cover of humanitarian aid. How can we forget those deeply moving pages in history on which the story is written of burning tires burning our alive brothers? The pills of yesterday are too hard to swallow. No! We will not change."
