FBIS3-1594 "drchi039_f_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 Near East & South Asia XINHUA Views Qian Qichen's Bangladesh Visit Views Bilateral Relations OW2702054794 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1448 GMT 26 Feb 94 OW2702054794 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By reporter Pan Xiaozhu (3382 1420 3796)] [Text] Dhaka, 26 Feb (XINHUA) -- Qian Qichen, vice premier of China's State Council and concurrently foreign minister, called on Bangladesh Prime Minister Khaleda Zia at the Bangladesh prime minister office this afternoon. They expressed their satisfaction at the smooth development of friendly and cooperative relations between the two countries. Zia stated: The Bangladesh Government attaches importance to developing friendly and cooperative relations with China, and the Bangladesh people thank China for the aid provided to them. Zia said she was pleased to note the progress and rapid economic development China achieved in reform and opening up in recent years. She added: "Bangladesh hopes to draw on China's experience in economic reform for its own economic development process, and to further strengthen friendly and cooperative relations between the two nations." Qian Qichen responded: There is a long history of Sino-Bangladesh friendship, and there has been new developments in relations between the two nations in recent years. China is satisfied with these relations. The Chinese Government has consistently attached importance to developing friendly and cooperative relations with Bangladesh. Qian Qichen said he held very good talks with Foreign Minister Rahman during the current visit. He believed the visit would definitely further promote comprehensive development of friendly and cooperative relations between the two nations in various fields. Qian Qichen congratulated Prime Minister Zia on Bangladesh's steady development under her leadership. Zia gave a briefing on South Asian regional cooperation, expressing her hope that China would support such cooperation. Qian Qichen said: Regional cooperation was initiated by the late Bangladesh President Ziaur Rahman. China is pleased to see new development in South Asian regional cooperation in recent years. China hopes the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation will play an active role in solving South Asian problems in economic development as well as problems existing among these nations. Qian Qichen conveyed Premier Li Peng's regards to Prime Minister Zia and extended Li Peng's invitation to visit China. Zia gladly accepted the invitation and asked Qian Qichen to convey to Premier Li Peng her greetings and invitation to visit Bangladesh.
