FBIS3-25700 "drafr038_d_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola President Denies Military Issues Discussed in Paris MB2402203594 Luanda Radio Nacional Network in Portuguese 1900 GMT 24 Feb 94 MB2402203594 Luanda Radio Nacional Network Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] The president of the Republic, Jose Eduardo dos Santos, is in France. On the second day of his visit, the Angolan head of state held to a tight agenda. Tomorrow, he will meet French President Francis Mitterrand. After meeting French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur today, Eduardo dos Santos said he has not gone to France to get weapons but to discuss peace and economics. Our Paris correspondent reports: President Jose Eduardo Santos will shortly speak at an official dinner hosted by the French Foreign Ministry. The speech, which will be followed with great attention by French Government officials, is likely to deal with the Angolan Government's economic program, and the dramatic situation faced by millions of Angolans as a result of the unjust war waged by Jonas Savimbi's organization. This afternoon, the Angolan head of state had a working session with the French prime minister. At the end of the meeting, President Jose Eduardo dos Santos said: [Begin Santos recording, in French fading into Portuguese translation] We have reviewed bilateral cooperation, notably economic cooperation. We briefed the French prime minister about the ongoing Lusaka peace talks between government and UNITA [National Union for the Total Independence of Angola] delegations. We informed the French prime minister about the economic recovery program the Angolan Government plans to introduce. We have not come to Paris to ask for military aid from the French Government. We have not discussed military issues, but rather matters relating to peace and politics. As for the peace talks, we have gone to Lusaka to find a solution to the Angolan problem. [end recording] Also this afternoon, the Angolan head of state met government and party officials. Tomorrow, he is scheduled to hold further meetings, notably with President Mitterrand. Afterward, the two leaders will lunch together. A news conference is scheduled for 1730 tomorrow, during which Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos will discuss his visit to France.
