FBIS3-29352 "dreas033_d_94009" FBIS-EAS-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 South Korea U.S. Reportedly Asks DPRK To Resume N-S Talks SK1702002994 Seoul YONHAP in English 0018 GMT 17 Feb 94 SK1702002994 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, Feb. 16 (YONHAP) -- The U.S. State Department has sent a letter to the North Korean Foreign Ministry urging Pyongyang to resume dialogue with South Korea as soon as possible, it was reported Wednesday. The letter, addressed to Kang Sok-chu, first vice foreign minister, also called for a third round of high-level talks between the United States and North Korea, informed sources said. They said the letter was handed to Ho Chong, North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations, when the two countries had a working-level contact in New York Tuesday, shortly after North Korea said it would accept inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). No further details on the letter were immediately available, but other sources said it was written by Robert Gallucci, assistant secretary of state for political and military affairs. He asked Kang to prepare for the third round of U.S.-North Korean talks at an early date, they said. Meanwhile, South Korea and the United States plan to announce suspension of the joint military exercise "Team Spirit," after a team of IAEA inspectors arrives in Pyongyang and North Korea resumes dialogue with South Korea. At the same time, Washington will announce an exact timetable for the third round of high-level talks with Pyongyang, the sources said. Diplomatic sources in Washington and New York said an IAEA inspection team will arrive in North Korea early next week at the latest to check all seven reported nuclear facilities while an inter-Korean contact will also be made. Therefore, chances are high that South Korea will announce suspension of the Team Spirit exercise next week, they said. As for the third round of high-level U.S.-North Korean talks, they may be held in mid-march after the IAEA team completes its inspection and South and North Korea exchange special envoys. But the date for the U.S.-North Korean talks may be announced as soon as the IAEA inspection gets under way, they said. The sources said everything will go smoothly once North Korea expresses its intention to resume dialogue with South Korea, indicating that problems related to inter-Korean talks are the crucial factor in resolving the North Korean nuclear issue.
