FBIS4-25540 "drchi113_a_94012" FBIS-CHI-94-113 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General TA KUNG PAO Says Tension on Korea `Manmade' TA KUNG PAO Says Tension on Korea `Manmade' HK1306101094 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO in Chinese 13 Jun 94 p 3 HK1306101094 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO Chinese BFN ["Political Talk" column by Shih Chun-yu (2457 0689 3768): "Manmade Tension on Korean Peninsula"] [Text] Japanese Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa arrived in Beijing yesterday on another shuttle-diplomacy visit concerning the Korean issue. Several days ago, high-ranking officials of Japan, South Korea, the DPRK, and the United States visited each other's countries to discuss the question of nuclear inspections. The United States and Japan Dispute Sanctions The day before yesterday, foreign ministry officials of the United States, Japan, and South Korea held talks in Seoul to discuss the imposition of economic sanctions on the DPRK. Their conclusion was that sanctions should be imposed gradually. This is different from the U.S. earlier strong position. According to Japanese papers, Japan has disputed the question with the United States and favors the immediate adoption of such harsh measures as cutting off remittances sent from Koreans in Japan. In the coming weeks, the United States reportedly is to seek UN Security Council approval of "moderate" sanctions, including the suspension of scientific, technological, and cultural exchanges, as well as of UN aid. All this generally will mean nothing to the DPRK, which has met with U.S. sanctions ever since the Korean War. Moreover, coupled with its foreign policy, the DPRK is comparatively isolated diplomatically and is accustomed to self-reliance and maintaining a closed door. It will not take such insignificant sanctions seriously at all. U.S. Visitor's Message After returning from Pyongyang, Harrison, a Korean-issue expert of the U.S. Carnegie Organization, had this impression: Korean leaders take the sanctions very lightly. Judging from past experience, international sanctions have not played a very large role in Third World countries, examples being Iraq, Serbia, and Haiti. The sanctions will be even less effective for the DPRK. Another noteworthy message Harrison brought back is that Kim Il-song is reported to have told him that he is willing to freeze the DPRK's nuclear program in exchange for U.S. diplomatic recognition. This does not sound unreliable. The DPRK has shown signs of opening its door in recent years. Although the door gap is not large, air from the outside has kept coming in. Pyongyang repeatedly has expressed to the United States its wish to bury the hatchet and establish ties. This is a great trend in the wake of the Cold War. The United States, fettered by old concepts and thinking that the DPRK is one of the few remaining communist countries, wants to exert pressure to make it collapse. Thus it has made an unsolvable question out of an otherwise insignificant matter. It even does not hesitate to adopt a brink-of-war policy. Both Seoul and Pyongyang Are Calm One phenomenon should be enlightening: While the United States is exaggerating the matter as being so serious that a Korean war might break out at any minute, both Seoul and Pyongyang are calm. A BBC correspondent reported from Seoul that residents had not the slightest fear and that there was no panic purchase in supermarkets, which are the "barometer of fear." Harrison and another British reporter said that life in Pyongyang is normal. Residents in Japan are even less affected. The tension is manmade. U.S. President Clinton's Asia policy has been criticized extensively for wishing, on the one hand, to improve relations with this region, with its speedily developing economies, while on the other hand, acting as a bully in an overbearing manner or "acting as an international housekeeper, if not a bully" (Assistant Secretary of State Lord's words). Now that the United States has changed its policy on the granting of MFN status to China, its attitude toward Japan, India, and Singapore has changed too. Some media have maintained that one day, U.S. policy for Asia will change and become pragmatic. Whether or not this is true remains subject to further observation.
