FBIS4-47668 "drafr084_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Government, UNITA Reach Accord on Election Principles Government, UNITA Reach Accord on Election Principles MB2904202694 Luanda Radio Nacional Network in Portuguese 1900 GMT 29 Apr 94 MB2904202694 Luanda Radio Nacional Network Portuguese BFN [Text] At a plenary session in Lusaka, Zambia, today, delegations from the government and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] reached an agreement on specific principles for the conclusion of the second round of presidential elections. The second round of presidential elections will take place under the terms established by the National Assembly. Our reporter in Lusaka Alves Antonio closely followed the event. [Begin Antonio recording] Good evening! At a plenary session today negotiating teams from the government and UNITA finally approved the eight points of the specific principles for the conclusion of presidential elections. The second round of presidential elections will take place on a date set by the National Assembly, after a declaration by the United Nations that conditions stipulated by law have been created. Other conditions required for the implementation of this process include security guarantees, free movement of people and goods, and people's freedom throughout the national territory. Sources close to the talks told Luanda Radio that it was not easy to approve the document [words indistinct] open and constructive discussions from the negotiating teams from the government and UNITA, even experienced periods of despair. Also regarding the conclusion of the second round of presidential elections, the negotiating teams from the government and UNITA now have, until 3 May, the task of preparing documents dealing with modalities for the implementation of this process. Meanwhile, a source close to the talks once again stressed the sense of responsibility demonstrated by the government negotiating team, which has been acting with flexibility and, above all, with prudence. [end recording]
