FBIS4-3915 "drchi080_n_94013" FBIS-CHI-94-080 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 Economic & Agricultural Amendments To Ease Capital Gains Tax Concerns Amendments To Ease Capital Gains Tax Concerns HK2404070294 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA SUNDAY MORNING POST (SUNDAY MONEY) in English 24 Apr 94 p 8] HK2404070294 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA SUNDAY MORNING POST (SUNDAY MONEY) English BFN ["China Focus" column by Eugene Yang, managing director of Standard Chartered Securities: "Amendments Will Ease Concerns Over New Tax"] [Text] According to a senior official from the Chinese Tax Bureau, details of the controversial capital gains tax on property will be off1cially announced in the near future. The capital gains tax was first introduced in the middle of December last year as a part of China's tax reform package and was expected to become effective on January 1. However, it met with strong opposition from both local and Hong Kong property developers as the new tax will substantially erode profitability on property developments. After a few months of lobbying from Hong Kong developers, the State Council is believed to have made the following improvements to the original proposal: -- Projects signed before January 1 with 20 per cent of total investments already put in will be exempted from the capital gains tax. -- All projects (commercial or residential) with less than 20 per cent appreciation in value will be exempted. To encourage the construction of low-cost residential units for domestic end users, low-cost mass residential projects which appreciate in value by less than 40 per cent will also be exempted. -- Sales of existing residential property and the acquisition of new property for the purpose of upgrading accommodation conditions will be exempted or entitled to a refund. The above amendments to the initial capital gains tax should ease concerns about the erosion of profits for major property counters in the mainland market. In addition, companies that have postponed the completion of their property projects while waiting for the official announcement of the new tax law will speed up the completion of these projects. Shenzhen Special Economic Zone Real Estate, a major developer of commercial and residential property in prime locations in Shenzhen, is trading at 7.6 times 1994 earnings and is at a 40 per cent discount to its net asset value. Gintian, a conglomerate with substantial property interests, is trading at an extremely attractive 4.1 forward price-earnings ratio, while Vanke, which focuses on construction of low-cost mass residential property, is only trading on a prospective earnings multiple of 8.4.
