FBIS3-10138 "drlat041_m_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 Brazil Lula on Military Role in Public Works Projects 94SM0232B Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 1 Feb 94 p 1-8 94SM0232B Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO Language: Portuguese Article Type:CSO [Article by Abnor Gondim: "Army Can Build Roads, Says Lula"] [Text] Santarem--Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the PT's [Workers Party's] potential candidate for president, said during a meeting with civic groups at the Federal University of Para in Santarem, Para, yesterday that the Army could replace construction firms on such public works projects as road construction. According to him, it is necessary to give the military more work to do so they will stop concerning themselves with other things. Lula said he also believed that the military could fulfill an important mission in the field of public health in areas such as the Amazon Region. Lula also said that if he is elected, the result after five years of his administration will be that "no child of school age will be out of school, no one will go to bed without having had three meals that day, and we will carry out agrarian reform, no matter who gets hurt and no matter who cries about it." Lula refused to support establishment of the State of Tapajos at a meeting with Santarem businessmen at that city's yacht club. He said it was necessary to be cautious when considering the establishment of new states in our country in order not to repeat the mistakes that were made in connection with the States of Roraima and Amapa. The PT's potential candidate said that physicians belonging to the Citizenship Caravan along the Amazon River, such as Antonio Fontelles (PSB [Brazilian Socialist Party], Para), could not do anything to save a terminally ill child in the municipality of Juruti on the border between Para and Amazonas. According to Lula, there was no hospital in the municipality, and the doctors could not do anything. The meeting by the PT National Executive Committee that was scheduled for today has been postponed until next week. Until then, there will be no ruling on the appeal by the party's bloc in Congress against a decision by the party's officers banning participation by the deputies in constitutional revision.
