FBIS4-27724 "dreas108_i_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-108 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 Cambodia FUNCINPEC General Reportedly Killed FUNCINPEC General Reportedly Killed BK0306131594 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia in Cambodian 2330 GMT 2 Jun 94 BK0306131594 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia Cambodian BFN [Excerpt] It was reported that Nhoek Bunchhai, the self-appointed general, the highest ranking commander of the FUNCINPEC [National United Front for an Independent, Neutral, Peaceful, and Cooperative Cambodia] group, and Prince Ranariddh's most able man, died in Samraong District of Oddar Meanchey Province on 31 May. What was the cause of Nhoek Bunchhai's death, which members of the group have tried hard to hide? The people who often travel in and out of Samraong District said that there are two stories concerning Nhoek Bunchhai's death. 1. As Nhoek Bunchhai went from Samraong to inspect the battlefield at Tonle Sar on Route 69, his armored personnel carrier ran over a land mine near Tonle Sar. He was killed in the explosion. 2. When Nhoek Bunchhai was on his way to inspect the battlefield along Route 69 west of Samraong, some forcibly recruited Para [former non-communist forces] soldiers from Prince Ranariddh's group lobbed a grenade into his armored car. Nhoek Bunchhai was then killed at the same time as five other colonels were killed or wounded. These Para soldiers lobbed the grenade because, on the one hand, they were angry with Nhoek Bunchhai and other commanders who had sent their subordinates to forcibly recruit them and send them out to fight on the battlefield while they were busily striving to grow rice to be ready for the coming rainy season. This has caused them and their families to face famine and untold misery. Moreover, when these soldiers were sent to the battlefield, their commanders took liberties with their wives and children at home. To the Para soldiers, this is a matter of life and death. [passage omitted].
