FBIS4-33447 "drlat109_a_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-109 Daily Report 6 Jun 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Minister on Need for Research Funds, Support Minister on Need for Research Funds, Support FL0606153894 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 0900 GMT 6 Jun 94 FL0606153894 Havana Radio Rebelde Network Spanish BFN [Report by Demetrio Villa Urrutia from Cartagena for the "Doing Radio" newscast] [Excerpts] The 10-person Cuban delegation that will handle the Ibero- American summit on 14-15 June arrived in Cartagena 48 hours ago. [passage omitted] The first official activity before the Ibero-American summit concluded this weekend; it was the scientific conference on sustainable development. Our chief representative was Dr. Rosa Elena Simeon Negrin, minister of science, technology, and environment. The conference mainly sought to review the formation of human resources, financing, and the ways to prepare Latin America for the area's integration. Precisely the issues of integration, economy, and trade will be the main issues to be discussed in this fourth version of the Ibero-American summit. [passage omited] Shortly before her departure, Comrade Rosa Elena Simeon made some statements to the Cuban media delegation, which is here to assess the event and its topics. Here is a small fragment of Comrade Rosa Elena Simeon's statement: [Begin Simeon recording] Emphasis has been placed on something throughout the debate and the three roundtables: Research work must be guaranteed sustained financing. What do we call sustained financing per se? We mean it must have continuity. That is the experience in our country, which today invests $25 per inhabitant. The revolution has made an extraordinary effort in the formation of human resources throughout the history of the revolution and today we can enjoy the results. You cannot invest in the research sector and then fail to give it continuity. That investment is not recovered in the short term. This entails medium term and long term investments. [end recording]
