FBIS3-14496 "drnes060dd_94003" FBIS-NES-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 Palestinian Affairs Aide Urges Linking End to Embargo, Clinton Remark PM2903101294 London AL-QUDS AL-'ARABI in Arabic 28 Mar 94 p 4 PM2903101294 London AL-QUDS AL-'ARABI Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Palestinian Spokesman Urges Arab States To Lift Embargo Imposed on Iraq and Libya, in Retaliation for Washington's Position"] [Text] Amman, AL-QUDS AL-'ARABI -- A Palestinian spokesman has urged the Arab states to lift the embargo imposed on Iraq and Libya in retaliation to statements made recently by U.S. President Bill Clinton on Jerusalem. PLO Executive Committee member Taysir Khalid said that Clinton's statements to leaders of U.S. Jewish organizations on Jerusalem "are in conflict with Security Council resolutions, which consider Israel's annexation of holy Jerusalem null and void. They also conflict with the previous U.S. Administrations' positions." He added that the Palestinian-Israeli Declaration of Principles agreement "does not allow the U.S. Administration to disdain the resolutions of international legitimacy concerning Jerusalem, because the agreement does not revoke or weaken these resolutions, which are binding on the U.S. Administration and the Israeli Government," as he said. Members of U.S. Jewish organizations quoted the president as saying that he "strongly supports the view that Jerusalem -- its east part, occupied in 1967, and west part, occupied in 1948 -- should remain `unified' and the capital of the Hebrew state." He pledged that his administration would resist any attempt to consider the east part of the city, which has an Arab character, to be part of the occupied Arab territories. This is what Washington refused to approve of in Security Council Resolution 904 condemning the Israeli massacre of al-Ibrahimi Mosque worshipers. Khalid, who is also member of the Political Bureau of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, which is opposed to the declaration of principles agreement and the peace negotiations with Israel, urged the "influential leaderships in the PLO and the Arab states concerned with the negotiations to suspend the bilateral negotiations and the multilateral committees until the Israeli Government and the U.S. Administration announce their respect for the resolutions of international legitimacy related to the Arab Palestinian-Israeli conflict and their commitment to the negotiation process on the basis of these resolutions."
