FBIS3-42529 "jpusp001___94029" JPRS-USP-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia: Space 16 February 1994 SPACE POLICY, ADMINISTRATION Russian Space Policy Said To Repeat Past Mistakes 947Q0068A Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI in Russian No 52, 29 Dec 93 p B12 947Q0068A Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Aleksandr Borodulin: "Space Expenditures Enter the Budget as a Separate Item. Oriented on Large-Scale Prestigious Manned Flights, Russian Cosmonautics May Repeat the Errors of the Soviets"] [Text] The government of the Russian Federation, in approving the federal space program for the period up to 2000, allowed the RSA (Russian Space Agency) to make advance payment for purchase of standard space complexes in an amount of 30% of their cost (as is the practice in the defense industry). The Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance in preparing the 1994 budget were told to put all space expenditures in a separate item. The RSA will receive 167 billion rubles of appropriations for research, development, testing and engineering work, 16 billion for the maintenance of surface services, 10 billion for capital construction and 81.8 billion for the purchase of standard- produced equipment. And in 1993 (in actuality antedated) the branch was allocated 164.8 billion rubles. In essence this money represents the state debt for research, development, testing and engineering work already done and for purchased equipment, compensation for expenditures for the maintenance of cosmodromes, etc. A resolution of the Council of Ministers provides for preferred conversion credits for only 16 branch enterprises. Budgeted funding can only ameliorate, but not fundamentally improve the difficult financial situation of the RSA. The RSA is accordingly laying great hopes on cooperation with NASA and the ESA (European Space Agency). The agreement signed in December by Viktor Chernomyrdin and Albert Gore, jvice president of the United States, provides for the launching of the Russian-American orbital complex Alpha (in addition to work on the androgenous docking units and the joint manned flights in 1994-1997, which will cost 100 million dollars annually, etc.). In the words of Vladimir Pivnyuk, a government space expert, the American project for the launching of the Freedom orbital stations experienced a failure -- the Bill Clinton administration has sharply reduced the appropriations, although 10 billion dollars had already been invested in the project. A similar situation arose with our Mir 2 space station, all work on which was frozen due to an insufficiency of funding. The total value of the contracts under the Alpha project is 2 billion dollars, of which it is proposed that 400 million be allocated to the Russian side. The RSA has already received 1 million dollars from the Americans for the matching of interfaces (this program is part of stage I of work on the Alpha, also including joint flights in the Shuttle, construction of the Spektr and Priroda biomedical modules and putting them into orbit). In the second stage work will begin on assembly of the station, and in stage III -- its outfitting with special equipment. Yuriy Koptev, general director of the RSA, feels that work on the Alpha project in cooperation with NASA will be twice as cheap for our country than finalizing the Mir on our own efforts. These computations skirt a fundamental question -- is it necessary at all for Russia to participate in this project? In the opinion of many leading scientists (in particular, Academician Roald Sagdeyev has written about this more than once, about 97% of the research and practical information is from unmanned automatic vehicles; the contribution of manned flights to science is small and the contribution to the economy is virtually nil. Most likely Russia, recovering from the sharp criticism of purely prestigious space expeditions into orbit, will again return to this direction. The motives are understandable -- Russia wants to retain the personnel and technology of a powerful complex, and finally, the status of a great space power. But tactical advantages may be defeated by a strategic miscalculation which the USSR allowed many years ago -- concentrating its efforts on the race for the greatest duration of manned flights and the chalking up of records of little significance for science and the economy and disregarding the generous budgetary infusions the branch ignored commercial cosmonautics.
