FBIS3-13155 "drnes047_l_94007" FBIS-NES-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 ISRAEL U.S. Legal Moves on Kakh, Kahana Hay Viewed TA0603115194 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT in Hebrew 6 Mar 94 p 7 TA0603115194 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Report by Hayim Shibi from Washington] [Excerpts] The Clinton administration is close to deciding to place the Kakh and Kahana Hay movements on the list of terror organizations. [passage omitted] If indeed the U.S. Justice Department decides to place Kakh and Kahana Hay on the list of terror organizations -- the very membership in which constitutes a criminal act -- this would be the first time in U.S. history that Jewish organizations will be on that list, along with Arab terror organizations. This might create a situation in which Israel Defense Forces reserve officers who, according to Kahana Hay leaders, conduct training camps for the organization members in the United States, might be listed as members of a terror organization and become a target of a criminal investigation by the FBI. Mike Gozovsky, the Kahana Hay Movement spokesman, told our correspondent that the organization includes 8,000 members who pay annual membership fees of $36 each. A fund-raising dinner the movement organized in New York recently, was attended by some 500 people who paid $125 each. Another serious problem that might arise if the organizations are listed with other terror organizations, would be that raising funds for them would be banned. Israeli sources in Washington view with concern the administration acceptance of the Palestinian request to hold up "fund-raising campaigns for extremists" in Israel. It is feared that a broad legal definition would create a dangerous precedent which will create difficulties for a wide range of fund- raising campaigns in the future. It should be noted that the Judaea, Samaria, and Gaza Settlements Council, the City of Ari'el, and a series of Israeli public institutions have a regular fund-raising organ based in the United States. Americans also make donations to the belt neighborhoods around Jerusalem.
