FBIS3-1052 "drafr053_c_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Democratic Party Election Strategy Detailed MB1803072894 Johannesburg SAPA in English 2330 GMT 17 Mar 94 MB1803072894 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Dirk van Zyl] [Text] Cape Town March 17 SAPA -- From being written off by opinion polls and many analysts as complete no-hopers a few weeks ago, the Democratic Party [DP] has received something of a morale- booster with sorties into the Boland and Southern Cape in the past five days. DP leader Dr Zach de Beer and Western Cape premiership candidate Hennie Bester led the charge. The party faced the perception in these areas that the April elections contest was between the African National Congress [ANC] and the National Party [NP] only. Mr Bester and his team of strategists devised a simple first-phase approach: Make the DP visible. Dr de Beer, Mr Bester and other leaders boarded kombis [minibuses] and bakkies [pickup trucks] and slowly drove through countless suburbs, towns and hamlets with loudspeakers blaring "vote for the DP, the party of peace" and the party jingle "one nation, one future, one South Africa; DP will fight for your rights". Pamphlets were dished out as widely as possible along the way and informal and formal meetings and gatherings were addressed. On the whole the DP received a friendly -- if at times bemused -- reception, with its central peace and human rights message reciprocally acknowledged with two-fingered peace salutes. The occasional bystander flashed an "up yours" and mouthed an accompanying expletive, and in the JCC squatter camp at Mossel Bay a man was restrained from throwing a stone at the procession. But in the final analysis, at least the party was "there" in hitherto largely virgin territory. An ANC worker in George said the DP had blown away the previous well-ordered ANC/NP scenario. As a bonus, the DP received good television, radio and press coverage. Outeniqua MP Chris April summed up the organisational dilemma by saying that under the previous constituency-based, winner-takes- all electoral system, the DP and its progressive predecessors were largely confined to privileged urban enclaves where there was no pressing need to build up organisational structures. Now, under proportional representation, every vote counted equally, even that of the solitary democrat in the tiniest hamlet. But the organisational infrastructure is lacking and begs the question whether the next phase of the strategy can be effectively implemented before April 26. The second phase is for party representatives and canvassers to move from street to street and door to door with more personalised messages and pamphlets. Coupled with this is the DP's comparative paucity of funds. A top DP strategist sums it up best: "All we can really do is make as much noise as possible and hope for the best."
