FBIS4-50711 "drchi098_p_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-098 Daily Report 19 May 1994 Central-South Region Shenzhen Eases Restrictions on Property Rights Certificates Shenzhen Eases Restrictions on Property Rights Certificates HK1905144294 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in English 1256 GMT 19 May 94 HK1905144294 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE English BFN [Text] Shenzhen, May 19 (CNS) -- Shenzhen is now gradually relaxing restrictions on the issuing of certificates of property rights for the real estate business. Many regulations considered obstacles to the real estate development in the past were recently eliminated in a bid to further invigorate the real estate market here. Progress was rather slow in the issuing of the certificates since the municipality began such practice in 1989. The number of certificates issued each year was some 15,000 on average. As conditions set for the certificates were so complicated, a lot of estate owners found it difficult to have a certificate in any easy way. It turned out that property rights to real estate were actually possessed by estate owners but far from being recognized because they had no valid certificate issued by the authorities. Real estate under such circumstances was not allowed for trading nor for mortgage while it was also not allowed to be given out as a gift nor to be exchanged. The real estate market therefore received ill effects on further development. The Shenzhen Bureau of Land made a breakthrough recently by working out a number of measures which are in line with the actual needs. Regulations issued by the bureau stated that owners of estate who were not given a real estate certificate mainly because of due tax unpaid by a particular real estate agency could be issued with such certificates if they had paid the tax. Transfer and mortgage are possible for unfinished flat providing that the real estate certificate has been sealed with a stamp. A substitute certificate is possible for owners of estate who are eager to have their estate transferred, mortgaged or leased but their estate have not yet been registered with the authorities by the real estate agency. Owners of estate are qualified for an official real estate certificate if the real estate agency completed the initial procedure of registration even though charges on added value of land have not yet been settled. Owners of estate who lost their documents or relevant papers can also be given a real estate certificate if they meet requirements and conduct necessary procedures.
