FBIS4-36610 "drnes113_c_94015" FBIS-NES-94-113 Daily Report 5 Jun 1994 Egypt U.S. Position on Israeli Actions Criticized U.S. Position on Israeli Actions Criticized NC1006094194 Cairo AL-AHRAM in Arabic 5 Jun 94 p 8 NC1006094194 Cairo AL-AHRAM Arabic BFN ["Closeup" column by Salamah Ahmad Salamah: "Israel's Long Arm"] [Text] Those who think that Israel's long arm of aggression will not seek to attain its goals under peace are receiving indications to the contrary that what Israel fails to attain by tricks it, will try to attain through terrorism and aggression. The latest Israeli aerial attack on south Lebanon, which killed 45 civilians as they slept, is proof that Israel at peace is not much different from Israel at war. It was Israel that abducted Lebanese leader Mustafa al-Dirani on the pretext of interrogating him to learn the fate of an Israeli pilot who was kidnapped in 1986. When some Hizballah members retaliated with certain trivial and heedless operations, not against the Israeli forces but against Israel's agents in the security strip established by Israel in south Lebanon, Israel used these incidents as a pretext to launch a bestial operation against what it called Hizballah bases in south Lebanon. This barbaric aggressive behavior was not condemned by the United States. The aircraft that launched the aggression are U.S.-made. There are also indications that the United States did not oppose the abduction operation to get Lebanese Shiite leader Mustafa al-Dirani. U.S. newspapers published reports that the CIA requested that he be handed over secretly to interrogate him to obtain information about the death of a U.S. hostage in 1989. This means that the United States, which fights terrorism, does not mind taking part in it if there are some good results. The Israeli aggression against Lebanon makes one believe that the U.S. peace efforts to resume the negotiations between Syria and Israel have reached a deadlock because of lack of desire on the part of the Rabin government to enter serious negotiations to achieve a total Israeli withdrawal from the Golan. For no sooner had Christopher returned to Washington and declared that he would not return to the region late in June as scheduled to resume his efforts, than Israel found that the atmosphere was ripe to deal several strikes here and there. Rabin seems to want to regain some respect in opposition rightist circles and face the wrath of the settlers whose fierceness was curtailed by certain measures taken within the framework of the Gaza-Jericho agreement. Thus, the "peace efforts" seem like a successful public relations campaign in favor of Israel, enabling it to continue its occupation of Syrian and Lebanese territories and exhausting Arab water, as a recent UN report noted, and obtaining arms from the United States and the West in return for that fragile agreement with the Palestinians.
