FBIS4-23033 "jpust009___94084" JPRS-UST-94-009 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 18 April 1994 LIFE SCIENCES LASER AND NONIONIZING RADIATION Bioanalytical Applications of Firefly Luciferase: Review Bioanalytical Applications of Firefly Luciferase: Review 947C0095A Moscow PRIKLADNAYA BIOKHIMIYA I MIKROBIOLOGIYA in Russian Vol. 29 No. 2, Mar-Apr 93 pp 180-192 947C0095A Moscow PRIKLADNAYA BIOKHIMIYA I MIKROBIOLOGIYA Russian CSO [Article by N.N. Ugarova, Moscow State University; UDC 577.158.54:579.8.04] [Abstract] The unique properties of firefly luciferase--an enzyme which catalyzes luciferin's organic substrate oxidation by atmospheric oxygen in the presence of adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATF) and magnesium ions--which is almost absolutely specific to both luciferin and ATP prompted an examination of the underlying principles of bioluminescent microanalysis using firefly luciferase. Numerous published data and the outcome of the author's own lab research into the use of luciferase in microbiology, clinical biochemistry, and proximate analysis of the materials' antibiotic sensitivity and resistance to biologically-induced corrosion are outlined. The principal characteristics of two ATP-reagents (microlum and immolum), the measurement ranges of enzyme and metabolite trace amounts using firefly luciferase, the ATP, PNM, and gemine content in various biological materials, and the microflora sensitivity to the effect of antibiotics are summarized. The light signal at various ATP concentrations for the immolum agent, calibration curves for detecting the ADP nucleotide, calibration curves for detecting biomass in various cultures, ATP concentration curves in measurements of the microflora sensitivity to antibiotics, and the calibration curve for detecting the _b_-galactosidade by the bioluminescent method are plotted. New approaches to using luciferase for detecting marker enzymes in enzymatic immunoassay analysis and nonradioactive detection of DNA samples are considered. Basic research and the development of enzyme stabilization and immobilization methods as well as the development of analytical procedures of luciferase applications open up new opportunities for bioluminescent methods in analytical and clinical biochemistry labs and in environmental and microbiological monitoring. Figures 9; tables 4; references 14: 11 Russian, 3 Western.
