FBIS4-11163 "drlat079_a_94020" FBIS-LAT-94-079 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Speaks at Eastern Army Fish Farm Opening Speaks at Eastern Army Fish Farm Opening FL2304142394 Havana Tele Rebelde and Cuba Vision Networks in Spanish 0000 GMT 23 Apr 94 FL2304142394 Havana Tele Rebelde and Cuba Vision Networks Spanish BFN [Statements by Army General Raul Castro Ruz during the inauguration of the Eastern Army's fish farming center in Las Tunas Province; date not given -- recorded] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] [Unidentified announcer] After hearing a detailed report by Colonel Jose Ramon Jimenez, head of the General Staff of the Defense Council in Las Tunas, on the characteristics of the project, Army General Raul Castro, minister of the Revolutionary Armed Forces, toured areas of the new installation. He was accompanied by Commander of the Revolution Juan Almeida Bosque and Division General Ramon Espinosa Martin, head of the Eastern Army. After completing his tour of the facilities, the second secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Cuba highlighted the significance of the development of fish farming in our country and its contribution to the nutrition of the people. [Castro] On a water tank not far from here, there is a sign that reads: Under our conditions of the special period, beans are as valuable as cannon. This is a statement I once made and later rectified by saying: At this moment, beans are more valuable than cannon. Today, as many of you saw, I used a marker to add to the sign: and fish farming, which is the most inexpensive way of obtaining a magnificent source of protein for our people and our Armed Forces. I hope the Eastern Army, as in other activities, will be the vanguard in fish farming and in fraternal emulation among Army units. [Unidentified announcer] Gen. Raul Castro once again took advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the Eastern Army on the occasion of its 33d anniversary. [Castro] Here in Las Tunas, in this very regiment, and with the inauguration of this important fish farming center, on my behalf and on behalf of my companions Commander of the Revolution Juan Almeida Bosque, Ramon Espinosa, head of the Eastern Army, and of the commander in chief, once again I congratulate the Eastern Army. [passage omitted]
