FBIS4-64348 "drweu085_h_94021" FBIS-WEU-94-085 Daily Report 1 May 1994 GERMANY Kanther Rejects Debate Kanther Rejects Debate AU0105201394 Mainz ZDF Television Network in German 1710 GMT 1 May 94 AU0105201394 Mainz ZDF Television Network German BFN [Interview with Interior Minister Manfred Kanther by Klaus-Peter Siegloch on 1 May; in the Mainz studio -- recorded] [Text] [Siegloch] This ruling [by the Constitutional Court about making the use of small amounts of hashish and marijuana not punishable by law] has been criticized by a particularly great number of politicians from the Christian Democratic Union/Christian Social Union. So far, you have not said anything. Do you agree with it? [Kanther] One should comment on a ruling as soon as one has read it in its entirety. I note that this debate is going on without anybody having read it in its entirety, because the most important item of the ruling is the confirmation that the use of all drugs, including cannabis products, is punishable by law. The motions brought by administrative courts against that have been rejected by the Federal Constitutional Court. Then there is the statement, which has not yet been detailed, that in individual cases, where the possession of small amounts of drugs is involved, punishment can be ignored. This is nothing new, this is already legal practice now. This has led to a political debate about the question of releasing hashish for general consumption. I think this debate is disastrous. Hashish must not be generally available. The Federal Government is completely clear on that. I will certainly not say today the opposite of what I said last week. The inhibition thresholds for drug consumption, in particular among young people, must not be lowered but must be kept high. [Siegloch] Mr. Kanther, this is your political view. However, the ruling -- or at least that part which has been published so far -- sounds as if this offense remains punishable but is no longer prosecuted. This gives the message to the public that now practically anyone can use hashish, one just must not deal with hashish. [Kanther] I think that this message is dangerous. I do not criticize an individual ruling by the Constitutional Court here. I say that this is not the policy of the Federal Government. The Federal Government's policy is quite clear -- making any kind of trafficking and possession of any kind of drugs punishable by law, while knowing that, given the frequency of drug abuse, it is impossible to punish every single case, and, in particular in the case of possession for one's own consumption, punishment need not be imposed because there are other forms of education and help and social or educational influence on the addicts. All this -- this social and educational aspect -- is undisputed. However, in the end the possession and dealing with drugs must remain punishable.
