FBIS4-28166 "dreas110_d_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-110 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 South Korea Minister Suggests `Quick', `Gradual' Sanctions Minister Suggests `Quick', `Gradual' Sanctions SK0806075694 Seoul YONHAP in English 0750 GMT 8 Jun 94 SK0806075694 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] Seoul, June 8 (YONHAP) -- National Unification Minister Yi Hong-ku said Wednesday that international sanctions against North Korea should be effective and quick but gradual. Speaking to reporters over lunch, Yi predicted it would take two to four weeks for the UN Security Council to adopt a resolution calling for sanctions against North Korea. By "gradual" sanctions, he meant that during each phase the door should remain open for negotiation depending on North Korea's response. No uncertainty will cloud the government's policy toward the North Korean nuclear issue, he said. "The move to slap sanctions on the North this time is to honor the words that the North would hardly avoid sanctions if it continued refueling its 5-megawatt reactor in Yongbyon without the presence of international inspectors," he added. Meanwhile, Ku Pon-tae, chief policy-maker at the National Unification Board, stressed the nuclear issue should not be left for neighboring countries and the international community to resolve. Speaking at a policy discussion meeting of the ruling Democratic Liberal Party's central standing committee earlier in the day, Ku noted that external pressure will understandably be put on North Korea to pay the price if it yielded to the sanctions of the International Atomic energy agency or the world community. He added that in parallel with international sanctions, inter-Korean efforts should be made to settle the nuclear question. Asked about the possibility of the United States taking sanctions on its own, he replied that Washington has so far favored initial sanctions under a UN Security Council resolution. After these initial sanctions, the next step would be taken based on North Korea's response, he observed. Ku predicted that escalating sanctions would have a tremendous impact on South Korea's economy. In order to make sanctions effective, the South must be prepared for all eventualities, including a counteraction by the North.
