FBIS4-29824 "dreas120_m_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-120 Daily Report 22 Jun 1994 Thailand Plot Against Nepalese Crown Prince Denied Plot Against Nepalese Crown Prince Denied BK2206072994 Bangkok BANGKOK POST in English 22 Jun 94 p 3 BK2206072994 Bangkok BANGKOK POST English BFN [Text] A second Pakistani wanted by police for questioning in connection with the suspected plot to harm the Nepalese Crown Prince has offered to turn himself in, a Special Branch police source said yesterday. The source said the fugitive, identified as Mohamad Javet, had telephoned the Special Branch to say he was ready to surrender. The source said Mr Javet insisted he was innocent of any involvement in a plot against Crown Prince Dipendra bir Bikram Shah Dev. The Nepalese Embassy in Bangkok also issued a statement last night saying the arrest of the other suspect, Shakil Ammad, had no link whatsoever with the Nepalese Crown Prince or his visit to AIT [Asian Institute of Technology]. It said the news item was "misleading". The 22-year-old Crown Prince arrived in Thailand on Sunday to attend a four-day geography course at the Asian Institute of Technology before beginning an official visit from June 24-27. Mr Ammad, who is currently being held in police custody, claimed he knew Mr Javet for only one day, said the police source. He said Mr Ammad claimed he wanted to study at the AIT and his entry to the campus was aided by Mr Javet. Special Branch commissioner Narongwit Thaithong said yesterday he had contacted the Pakistani and Nepalese embassies in Bangkok to check the background of Mr Ammad. He said the minister counsellor at the Nepalese Embassy, Mr Pushkaraj Bhandari, met him yesterday and was present during the questioning of Mr Ammad. The minister counsellor also pledged support for the police investigation, he said. The vice consul of the Pakistani Embassy, Riez Seqi, was also present during the questioning. Pol Lt-Gen Narongwit said an initial report yet to be verified stated Mr Ammad's elder brother was a former student at AIT and is now working as an engineer in Pakistan.
