FBIS3-40048 "drweu038_q_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 TURKEY General Views Country's Military Objectives NC2402184894 Istanbul SABAH in Turkish 19 Feb 94 p 17 NC2402184894 Istanbul SABAH Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Ugur Sefkat report: "Gures: We Can Intervene in a Regional Crisis"] [Text] Ankara--General Dogan Gures, chief of the General Staff, has said that the military strength of various countries cannot be regarded as the only threat to Turkey's security, as has been the case in the past. He noted that the political, economic, and social instability in those countries and the border disputes, struggles for power and influence, and acts of terrorism in the region also threaten Turkey's security. In a statement to the DEFENSE AND AVIATION MAGAZINE, Gen. Gures asserted that intervening in a regional crisis is one of the Turkish Armed Forces' main strategic objectives. He said: "In addition to the crisis situations in the region, the Turkish Armed Forces have to be prepared to intervene in crisis situations in the world, which pose a threat to peace and in which human rights are violated. Of course, that is subject to the political decisions made by the Turkish Government. Meanwhile, preparations are being made in light of the lesson we learned from the Gulf crisis, the developments linked to the Turkish Armed Forces' strategy from the 1990's to the following decade, and the concepts of military structure and use of military strength. Our military strategy has been updated in accordance with the principles of maintaining a deterrent military strength, establishing superior maneuvering capability, intervening in crisis situations, establishing advance defense capabilities, maintaining a high level of preparedness until stability is established in the region, establishing collective security, acquiring modern arms within the limits of the Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe, and organizing well-trained units that will be capable of effectively using modern arms against any aggressor. We have to maintain a reliable and deterrent military force in our region in which a crisis situation may create multiple threats." Regarding Turkey's security, Gen. Gures said: "Turkey's short-term, medium-term, and long-term security depends on the maintenance of NATO's importance; Turkey becoming a member of the Western European Union; and the establishment of close relations with friendly and allied countries, including countries beyond the Atlantic Ocean."
