FBIS4-63399 "drsov099_b_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 21 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Rutskoy Addresses Free Russia People's Party Rutskoy Addresses Free Russia People's Party LD2105110694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1029 GMT 21 May 94 LD2105110694 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Lyudmila Alexandrova] [Text] Moscow May 21 TASS -- Former Vice-President Aleksandr Rutskoy who was amnestied by the new Russian parliament some time after the abortive state coup in Moscow last October, delivered on Saturday an opening speech at the second congress of the Free Russia People's Party (FRPP) which he heads. He called on the party to take its bearings, spurning down "time-serving positions and timidity" and to become a core for a broad popular patriotic movement which will take power. He blasted the mass media, spreading, according to Rutskoy, "provocative rumours" about his possible withdrawal from the party's chairmanship and his differences with party members. "The party should decide who will be its leader to remove contradictions and rumours, he continued. Rutskoy also insisted that the FRPP should determine its clear-cut position which, according to the former vice-president, should concentrate on striving for early presidential elections and replacing "the anti-popular police regime". "A political party occupying a time-serving position, cannot lead the popular masses," Rutskoy added. Acting at future elections as a single whole, patriotic forces will win the victory, he claimed. According to the FRPP chairman, the aims of a mass patriotic movement will include national cultural and spiritual revival of Russia, "restoration of great Russia within the borders of the Soviet Union, establishment of law and order in the country and creation of a socially oriented economic system. The congress is attended by 149 delegates from 60 regional organisations. The forum will debate several documents, including a programme-setting statement and several resolutions. Besides, as chairman of the FRPP board Vassily Lipitskiy put it, the party will possibly change its name. It regards itself a social democratic organisation, and some party members suggest that these words should be introduced into its name.
