FBIS3-28617 "dreas027_c_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 North Korea NODONG SINMUN Criticizes Japan's Ozawa SK0902102394 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1015 GMT 9 Feb 94 SK0902102394 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Ozawa's Utterances Betraying Heinous Intention of Japanese Reactionaries" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, February 9 (KCNA) -- Ichiro Ozawa, representative of the Japan Renewal Party, in an interview with Fuji Television on February 6 raved that the DPRK might take "a military action" and Japan must examine "a countermeasure" to cope with "the event of contingency" on the Korean peninsula, slandering the system of the DPRK. Commenting on this, NODONG SINMUN in a commentary today brands the utterances of Ozawa as a dangerous aggressive blast that betrays the heinous intention of the Japanese reactionaries to play the role of a shock brigade of the imperialists in isolating and stifling our socialism. The analyst says: Ozawa tried to create an atmosphere of terror with the outcries over "a military action" of the DPRK. This may be termed "a shock propaganda" designed to channel public opinion to a support to the conversion of Japan into a military power and its nuclear armament. No matter how loudly Ozawa may cry over "threat" from the DPRK, it can convince none of the people who have an unbiased view of things. The world considers that Japan, with its huge stockpile of plutonium, can become a nuclear power in a short time, if it decides to. Having paved the way for troop dispatch overseas, Japan is going to embark upon reinvasion in Asia, taking Korea as the first target. Ozawa's call for examining "a countermeasure" to cope with "the event of contingency" on the Korean peninsula revealed the intention of Japan to round off the preparations for aggression on Korea and move up the date of military action. The Korean people will never allow anyone to infringe upon the dignity and sovereignty of our Republic and hurl mud at our system. The Japanese reactionaries must act with discretion, mindful that the conversion of Japan into a military power, its nuclear armament and a war of aggression would lead them to destruction.
