FBIS3-20191 "drweu060_h_94015" FBIS-WEU-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 GERMANY Reaction Called `Hypocritical' AU2803155494 Berlin NEUES DEUTSCHLAND in German 25 Mar 94 p 1 AU2803155494 Berlin NEUES DEUTSCHLAND Language: German Article Type:BFN [Kurt Stenger commentary: "Hypocritical"] [Text] The hysteria in Bonn because of the "abuse of hospitality" by Kurds, who blocked the highways, is hypocritical. Has anyone ever been that angry about the war of the Turkish Army -- and here one must really speak of a war -- against the Kurdish people, which also affects relatives of our "guests"? Of course not, because today Bonn is the most important ally of Ankara, where one likes to speak of the (not only) historic "German-Turkish comradeship-in-arms." Without the gifts of weapons from the West, the war would long have become too expensive for Turkey. Even more important is the political support, which Bonn gives the NATO state. The banning of Kurdish associations in 1993 was seen in Ankara as the "go-ahead" for a new military offensive. And not only that: Democratic rules are not even observed for the sake of appearances anymore. Bothersome newspapers are banned, elected deputies of the "Democracy party" -- the only force that could mediate between Ankara and the Kurds -- are arrested straight out of parliament. Turkey is a military dictatorship, which keeps a civilian government for representation toward the outside world. The human rights violations -- 900 devastated villages, hundreds of thousands of refugees, murders by death squadrons -- are documented. Even though Bonn broaches the subjects during official visits to keep the public in Germany quiet, that is all. However, only pressure from abroad could bring about a political solution to the conflict. In particular, Germany, with its considerable possibilities for exerting influence on the government in Ankara, would be predestined for that. However, Kohl, Kanther, and Kinkel are obviously not even remotely thinking of that. They continue to rely on confrontation with the Kurds in Germany.
