FBIS4-23057 "jpust009___94021" JPRS-UST-94-009 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 18 April 1994 PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS Problem of Radiation Pulsations in Solid State Lasers Problem of Radiation Pulsations in Solid State Lasers 947J0018 St. Petersburg ZHURNAL TEKHNICHESKOY FIZIKI in Russian Vol. 63 No. 8, Aug 93 (manuscript received 23 Jun 92) pp 89-98 947J0018 St. Petersburg ZHURNAL TEKHNICHESKOY FIZIKI Russian CSO [Article by V. V. Antsiferov, Vekua Physicotechnical Institute] [Abstract] Experimental results are presented from studies of spectral and temporal characteristics of chromium and neodymium ion laser radiation in various media. The author obtained the results in a number of experiments using one experimental setup and identical conditions. This was done to eliminate the effect of technical perturbations of the resonator. The qualitative difference in the behavior of the free generation of chromium and neodymium ions suggests a physical mechanism which causes nonattenuating radiation pulsations in lasers using ions with an external working shell linked with the spallation of the working levels of the ions in their own radiation field. It is unambiguously found that chromium ion lasers, in contrast to neodymium ion lasers, have a distinct physical mechanism which causes nonattenuating pulsation of radiation intensity. Any mechanism associated with spatial interaction of modes in the active medium is ruled out. The difference in the lasers is ascribed to the great difference in the structure of the ions' working levels. The electric field of the laser radiation which arises in the active medium will affect only chromium ions, leading to further spallation of the working levels due to the dynamic Stark effect. When the field in the active medium is spatially inhomogeneous, a standing wave is formed whose spatial structure is altered during generation. The Stark effect leads to modulation of intensity over time and nonattenuating pulsations in intensity. When the spatial inhomogeneity of the field in the active medium is smoothed, this intensity modulation disappears. This conclusion was verified experimentally using titanium lasers. It may also be concluded that free generation of all rare earth ions in various media should occur in quasi-stationary mode without the need to smooth the spatial inhomogeneity of the field in the active medium. Figures 6; references 44, 33 Russian, 11 Western.
