FBIS3-17745 "drsov060_f_94013" FBIS-SOV-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 UKRAINE National Affairs Republic Election Results Detailed PM2903104994 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 29 Mar 94 p 1 PM2903104994 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Mariya Starozhitskaya of UNIAN, specially for IZVESTIYA: "Elections to Ukrainian Parliament Successful. Main Contenders for Presidential Post Have Become Deputies"] [Text] Kiev -- Ukraine has made its choice. The elections were invalid in only three electoral districts out of 450. There was a record result -- a 92-percent turnout -- in Ivano-Frankovsk Oblast, and there was a 70-percent turnout in the western oblasts in general. Over 60 percent of voters turned up at the polling places in Donetsk, Kharkov, Zaporozhye, and Odessa Oblasts. From what Peter Emery, head of a CSCE delegation, who had been on duty at one of Kiev's polling places, said, "the elections were sufficiently honest and democratic." As for the second round -- and, according to predictions, no more than 70 candidates will get into parliament at the first attempt -- Ivan Plyushch, head of the current Supreme Council, promised that this will be held no later than 10 April, and that the Central Electoral Commission may possibly schedule a repeat vote for next Sunday. Incidentally, according to an INTERFAX report, Plyushch himself has already become a deputy, having collected over 60 percent of the votes in his district. Rukh leader Vyacheslav Chornovil had the same lead. Among the candidates [former Ukrainian Premier] Leonid Kuchma obtained the greatest number of votes -- over 91 percent of those who voted (there was a 96-percent turnout in Novgorod-Severskiy district). I. Yukhnovskiy, V. Pinzenik, S. Khmara, L. Tanyuk, and V. Lanovoy became deputies at the first attempt. For their part, Acting Prime Minister Yu. Zvyahilskyy, Supreme Council Deputy Chairman V. Durdinets, and Socialist Party Head A. Moroz will continue their fight in the second round. According to Chornovil, none of the political forces will win the current elections -- the nonparty nomenklatura will make its presence felt. "I am beginning to believe in the existence of Kravchuk's legendary list," the Rukh leader said. "In practically every district there are representatives of the party in power: All the vice prime ministers, many ministers, presidential representatives, and heads of local administrations have been running in the elections, and even the democrats `affiliated to power' are fighting the opposition democrats in the districts."
