FBIS3-19492 "drweu052__a94006" FBIS-WEU-94-052-A Document Type:Daily Report 17 March 1993 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs Swiss Seek Resolution of Alpine Transport Issue BR1503154994 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1220 GMT 15 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1503154994 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed NN/BN: "Second Day of the Pan-European Conference on Transport -- the European Union Urges Quick Response From Switzerland"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Heraklion, 15 Mar (ATS) -- Federal Counselor Adolf Ogi had talks with European Commissioner for Transport Abel Matutes Tuesday morning [15 March]. On the second day of the conference of EU transport ministers in Crete, they examined the consequences of the Alpine project's approval for the European transport sector and the negotiations mandate between the European Union (EU) and Switzerland. "We have a scheduling problem," Abel Matutes said at the end of the talks. "We have raised some technical questions to assess to what extent the Alpine project is compatible with the transport agreements. If we receive quick answers to those questions, we will do our best to ensure that negotiations begin at the European Council meeting on transport on 18 April," he added. In the afternoon, Adolf Ogi is to meet with his Austrian and German counterparts, Messrs Viktor Klima and Matthias Wissman, respectively. The day before, he had a long conversation with French Minister Bernard Bosson. While agreeing to the sovereignty of the Swiss decision, Mr. Bosson held very strongly to the French position. "Today, 90 percent of all the trucks that cross Switzerland are carried by rail. The Swiss want to protect themselves against the remaining 10 percent; this is causing problems for France since the protection of some [states] means expenditure for other [states]," he stated. No Retaliatory Measures Even though Mr. Bosson ruled out retaliatory measures against Switzerland, he underlined the "incomprehension arising from the 20 February vote. Banning trucks at home while allowing trucks in other countries is too much," he said. "There is heavy traffic between the north and the south and our respective citizens want no more trucks. How can we settle this issue together," Mr. Bosson asked, while insisting on the need for European leaders to tackle this common problem together. Mr. Ogi for his part remains optimistic. "The transport policy must develop into an ecological and modern policy. It will take a long time to achieve this, and we have to persuade our partners. In fact, our message is being heard slowly but surely," the federal counselor said.
