FBIS3-10689 "drlat048cc_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 NAFTA Peruvian Union Opposes Joining NAFTA PY0903165794 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1802 GMT 8 Mar 94 PY0903165794 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Santiago, 8 Mar (EFE) -- The most important labor federation in Chile announced today its opposition to Chile's entry into NAFTA, the members of which are the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Manuel Bustos, president of the United Labor Federation (CUT), said it would be more advantageous for Chile to sign a bilateral agreement with the United States, as joining NAFTA would imply "the transfer to Chile of all the deficiencies of that agreement." The Chilean labor leader said that entrepreneurial interests prevail in NAFTA, which is structured in such a way that all sanctions for violations of workers' rights "are impossible to implement." In the past weeks Chile has been mentioned by U.S. officials as the leading candidate for joining NAFTA. The CUT president made these remarks in accompanying representatives of the U.S. labor organizations AFL-CIO to a meeting with Chilean President-elect Eduardo Frei, who will be inaugurated on Friday. The Chilean labor leader said that Frei told them he intends to create a tripartite commission, made up of representatives of workers, entrepreneurs, and the government, to discuss the possibility of joining NAFTA. The representatives of the AFL-CIO, which has a membership of 17 million workers, said they do not support Chile's entry into NAFTA because they believe the agreement has inadequate social protection clauses. AFL-CIO executive director William Doherty, who heads this organization's delegation to the inauguration, said his country's workers were hurt by NAFTA because of the low cost of Mexican labor and Canadian advanced technology. The U.S. leader said negotiations between Mexico, Canada, and the United States over NAFTA did not take into account the social situation of the three countries, adding that the discussion only involved "multinationals interested in protecting the capital."
