FBIS4-3606 "drchi078_w_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-078 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Patten Says `Red Carpet Ready' To Welcome Lu Ping Patten Says `Red Carpet Ready' To Welcome Lu Ping HK2204071494 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 22 Apr 94 p 6 HK2204071494 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST English BFN [By Louis Won] [Text] Governor Chris Patten says there is a "red carpet ready to roll down the steps of Government House" to welcome senior Chinese official Lu Ping. He said during Legislative Council question time that it would be a matter of "considerable satisfaction" for the whole community if Mr Lu were to come to Hong Kong. "I think we would throw our hats in the air...my door remains always open and there is a red carpet ready to roll down the steps of Government House," he said. Mr Lu, director of the State Council's Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, is said to have arranged a visit to the territory to attend meetings of the China-appointed Preliminary Working Committee (PWC). However, it is unlikely he will meet Mr Patten because of the row over political reform. The Governor was less generous to the PWC, saying he would welcome it holding meetings in Hong Kong, just as he welcomed those of the International Lions and the International Rotary Club. But he said all he could offer would be his "thoughts and prayers" that it would give "advice in the interests of Hong Kong" to the Chinese Government. "It would be totally wrong of me to offer anything else and I'm sure if I were to do so, I'd have my wrist very promptly slapped by the NCNA (New China News Agency). Mr Patten said it was his job to facilitate the meetings of the "existing and very important" channels of communication between the present and future sovereign powers of Hong Kong, including the Sino-British Joint Liaison Group, the Land Commission and the Airport Committee. "While I welcome anybody who comes to meet in Hong Kong, it is not for me to facilitate meetings that lie outside the usual relationships between the sovereign powers and Hong Kong. "So, I welcome meetings by the International Lions and I welcome meetings by the International Rotary and I welcome meetings by the Chamber of Commerce and I welcome the meeting of the PWC, but I am not actually responsible for them," he said.
