FBIS4-21733 "jptot014__l94033" JPRS-TOT-94-014-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 24 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA PERU Government Reduces Antiterrorist Budget Up to Forty Percent Government Reduces Antiterrorist Budget Up to Forty Percent PY3003201594 Lima EL COMERCIO in Spanish 24 Mar 94 p A14 PY3003201594 Lima EL COMERCIO Spanish BFN [Text] The National Counterterrorism Directorate (Dincote) budget has been considerably reduced in the last few months. As a result, the operational and intelligence services conducted by this specialized unit in its fight against the Shining Path and the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA) have decreased considerably. The various sources consulted have asserted that, compared with previous years, the budget has been reduced 30 to 40 percent. It also has been reported that the number of trips to the provinces usually taken by Dincote members have been reduced to only extremely necessary ones, such as when the presence of 2d Counterterrorism Intelligence Division (Divicote-2) personnel was requested in Trujillo. This operation ended with the arrest of six important MRTA leaders. Aside from this, no trips have been taken to the interior. Until 1993, personnel from different Divicotes and even the so-called ``Delta'' Group frequently traveled to the interior. Their trips yielded good results and several members of regional MRTA directorates, who also belonged to the MRTA national board, were arrested. Budget cutbacks also are affecting the serious and patient intelligence work (basically pursuits) by Dincote detectives. They said: ``Now the chiefs recommend that we do not spend more than the indispensable expenses. Nonetheless, if we don't risk some expenses, we won't be able to succeed. If we had followed orders, we would not have arrested Abimael Guzman and his leaders. Sometimes we have to grope in the dark until we are able to obtain important information.'' It also has been reported that, so far, almost 30 high-ranking officials have been appointed to the National Intelligence Service (SIN), including those comprising Divicote-1 or the Special Intelligence Groups (GEIN) that captured Abimael Guzman. They have explained that only now, with the presence of these specialized detectives, is SIN really conducting intelligence work and supplying appropriate information to the operational units that conduct the required raids.
