FBIS4-17499 "drsov079_a_94018" FBIS-SOV-94-079 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Grachev Dissatisfied With Black Sea Fleet Talks Grachev Dissatisfied With Black Sea Fleet Talks LD2204160194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1457 GMT 22 Apr 94 LD2204160194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS special correspondent Mikhail Shevtsov] [Text] Sevastopol, 22 Apr -- The Russian military delegation has refused to sign any agreements based on the results of the talks in Sevastopol on a stage by stage settlement of the Black Sea Fleet issue. A member of the delegation told the ITAR-TASS correspondent that this is due to an unconstructive stance adopted by the Ukrainian side on questions relating to the basing of the fleets. In his words, Russia said it will not agree to the Russian Black Sea Fleet being deployed in Crimea merely on a temporary basis, or to the proposal that the headquarters of both the Russian Black Sea Fleet and of the Ukrainian naval forces being located in Sevastopol. It is impossible that the headquarters of the fleets belonging to two states should be based in one and the same town, Army General Pavel Grachev, Russian defense minister, said at a news conference in Sevastopol after the two sides had completed their dialogue. He said he is dissatisfied with the results of the talks, where the participants came to an agreement only with regard to the division of the Fleet. However, according to Pavel Grachev, the process of dividing it up cannot start without the question of basing being settled. The Russian minister considers that Sevastopol should be Russia's principal base, where no less than 70 percent of its fleet should be deployed. In addition to Sevastopol, the Black Sea Fleet is to be located in Balaklava, Feodosia, Kerch, and Donuzlava. Pavel Grachev rejected the proposals of the Ukrainian side on the Russian and Ukrainian fleets sharing the same bases in Sevastopol. Pavel Grachev flew to Moscow this afternoon without meeting Army General Vitaliy Radetskyy, the defense minster of Ukraine.
