FBIS3-15768 "drsov047_r_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 Azerbaijan Leaders To Meet To Discuss Peace Plan NC0903202994 Baku TURAN in English 1813 GMT 9 Mar 94 NC0903202994 Baku TURAN Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Baku, March 9 (TURAN)--Informed sources from the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs told TURAN that a meeting of the heads of the governments of Azerbaijan and Armenia and the representatives of the Armenian Community in Nagorno-Karabakh is expected to take place during the second half of March in Moscow. The meeting will provide a concrete step towards the adoption of a peace settlement plan of the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict. According to the plan, after a ceasefire and withdrawal of troops from both front lines, the Armenian troops must free all occupied territories outside of Upper [Nagorno] Karabakh, except Lachinskiy district. Following that, direct talks must commence between Baku and Khankendi (Stepanakert) over the status of Upper Karabakh. It has been suggested to Azerbaijan that a treaty be signed with Upper Karabakh that would give the status of autonomous republic to the region with Azerbaijan. In addition, the creation of a demilitarized zone around Upper Karabakh has also been suggested. This plan also provides for the maintenance of the Lachin corridor as a means of communication between Armenia and Upper Karabakh. The fate of Shushinskiy district of Upper Karabakh and the question about the Azeri population returning has not come up in the settlement proposal. These questions are to be discussed at a later date. It has been conveyed that Moscow is pushing for a quick implementation of the plan. TURAN news agency was informed that this plan was discussed in the meeting between the Deputy of Foreign Affairs of Russia, Anatoliy Adamishin, and the Speaker of the Azerbaijani Parliament, Rasul Guliyev. Russia's envoy Vladimir Kazimirov and Russia's Ambassador to Azerbaijan, Valter Shoniya, also took part in the meeting.
