FBIS4-51526 "dreas084_n_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-084 Daily Report 1 May 1994 Vietnam Le Duc Anh Begins Official Visit to Iran Le Duc Anh Begins Official Visit to Iran Holds Talks With Rafsanjani BK0105151894 Hanoi VNA in English 1438 GMT 1 May 94 BK0105151894 Hanoi VNA English BFN [Text] Hanoi VNA May 1 -- Talks were held in Tehran today between President Le Duc Anh and Iranian President A.A. Hashemi- Rafsanjani. Present at the talks on the Vietnamese side were Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam, Head of the President's Office Nguyen Viet Dung, Minister of Commerce Le Van Triet, Minister of Agriculture and Food Industry Nguyen Cong Tan, Vietnamese Ambassador to India-cum-Iran Nguyen Chi Vu, General Director of the General Department of Oil and Gas Ho Si Thang and on the Iranian side, Foreign Minister Velayati, Head of President's Office Marashi [name as received], Minister of Commerce ol-Eshaq, Minister of Agriculture Kalantari, Iranian Ambassador to Vietnam Mirza-Taheri and others. During the talks, President Hashemi-Rafsanjani welcomed again the Iran visit of President Le Duc Anh and his party as an important opportunity for discussion and exchange views aimed at further promoting the cooperation between the two countries. For his part, President Le Duc Anh conveyed to Islamic leader A. Khamene'i, the Iranian president and other leaders and people best regards from Vietnamese leaders and people. The two side informed each other of their economic and social situation and exchanged views on the issues in the region and in the world of common concern. Vietnam highly values the position of Iran in the Middle East and the Persian Gulf region and appreciates the Iran's active contributions to peace, stability, security and cooperation in the region. The two sides were of the same views that as members of the Non-Aligned Movement, Vietnam and Iran have a number of similar points and have favourable conditions to strengthen and develop the bilateral relation and cooperation of mutual benefits. The two sides agreed to set up a joint committee for economic cooperation between the two countries in order to study concrete measures for strengthening their bilateral cooperations in the fields of trade, economy, oil industry, science and technology. President Le Duc Anh invited the Iranian president to pay an official friendship visit to Vietnam. The invitation was accepted with pleasure. On May 1, President Le Duc Anh and his party paid a floral tribute to the Islamic leader A. Khomeyni and visited some cultural establishments in Tehran.
