FBIS4-44652 "jpest011__l94037" JPRS-EST-94-011-L JPRS Science & Technology Europe 3 June 1994 WEST EUROPE MICROELECTRONICS UK Launches Electronics Competitiveness Initiative UK Launches Electronics Competitiveness Initiative BR2503103694 London Hermes Database in English 23 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2503103694 London Hermes Database English BFN [Press release from the UK Department of Trade and Industry: "Tim Sainsbury Launches New 3 Million Pounds Electronics Initiative"] [Text] Electronics will be the world's largest industrial sector by the year 2000. And, today, Industry Minister Tim Sainsbury launched a new initiative to help make sure that the British electronics sector stays ahead of the competition. The UK has the fourth largest electronics industry in the world. With a turnover of £30 billion the sector accounts for 15 percent of Britain's visible exports. Microelectronics in Business will promote wider use of Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) -- with the help of £3 million funding from the DTI [Department of Trade and Industry]. Launching the initiative at a Federation of the Electronics Industry lunch, Mr Sainsbury said: `Electronics is not just a growing industry in itself; it makes a critical contribution to all other sectors of industry and commerce. Process control, analytical instrumentation, medical healthcare and information technology are all the result of the application of electronics research and technology. `So the efficiency and competitiveness of the UK electronics sector is of crucial importance to the rest of industry. `Microelectronics in Business will promote the use of ASICs, which can improve product performance and contribute to major reductions in size, weight and manufacturing costs; highly important selling points in today's increasingly competitive markets. `The programme will improve awareness and inform about business opportunities through a series of regional seminars and workshops. `And it will provide the essential technical training through several regional support centres. The first two centres in Bournemouth and Bolton are already open for business. `The DTI has also taken other initiatives to help the electronics industry. `The department's new Electronics and Electrical Engineering division has been talking to companies and trade associations to understand better how we can help. `Last year Michael Heseltine announced a new Benchmarking Challenge for Trade Associations. Two of the successful applicants in the first round are in the electronics sector. The Printed Circuit Interconnection Federation is benchmarking best practice in manufacturing productivity while The Semiconductor Business Association is looking at best practice in the relationship between suppliers, designers and customers of ASICs. `We have continued to support the Japan Electronics Business Association which helps British electronic component suppliers sell more effectively to Japanese firms manufacturing in the UK. `On the export side, European task forces have been established with the DTI. Two, covering electronic components and public sector security have existed for some time. A new one will cover the increasingly important area of contract assembly -- and tackle the German market. `All of these initiatives demonstrate the Government's recognition of the growing importance of the industry. We are committed to an active dialogue and partnership with manufacturing industry to help them win in world markets.'
