FBIS4-67355 "jpten011___94016" JPRS-TEN-94-011 JPRS Environmental Issues 12 April 1994 EAST ASIA TAIWAN Representative to U.S. Responds to Wildlife Sanctions Representative to U.S. Responds to Wildlife Sanctions OW1204075794 Taipei CNA in English 0655 GMT 12 Apr 94 OW1204075794 Taipei CNA English BFN [Article by T.C. Hu] [Text] Washington, April 11 (CNA) -- Representative Ding Mou-shih of the Coordination Council for North American Affairs Monday [11 April] expressed deep regret at the U.S. decision to impose trade sanctions against Taiwan for its alleged trade in endangered species parts and products. "It is deeply regrettable that the United States has decided to rush ahead with sanctions against (Taiwan), despite the recommendation by the Standing Committee of the United Nations Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (to postpone sanctions)," Ding, head of Taiwan's non-official representative in the U.S. said in a statement. He said that Taiwan has made aggressive efforts to eradicate the trade in endangered species, adding that "we are concerned that sanctions will cause an unnecessary negative reaction on the part of our people." Ding added that the Executive Yuan has approved amendments to Taiwan's wildlife conservation law that significantly increase punishments for those convicted of trafficking in endangered species, and that these amendments are expected to be passed by the Legislative Yuan soon. Taiwan has been conducting an island-wide crackdown on establishments suspected of selling rhino horn and tiger parts, he said. Of the 519 shops that have been investigated so far, six were found to be selling products containing rhino horn powder and 22 were found to be selling tiger products, he added. Ding reiterated Taiwan's commitment to eradicating the trade in endangered species, and said he believes that dialogue and cooperation rather than sanctions are the best means of achieving progress toward the elimination of endangered species trade.
