FBIS3-51242 "drlat011_j_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Panama Judicial Police Head on Seizing Weapons From U.S. Citizens PA1501023094 Panama City LA PRENSA in Spanish 14 Jan 94 p 3 PA1501023094 Panama City LA PRENSA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Lastenia Murillo Munoz and Jose Otero] [Text] Jaime Abad, director of the Judicial Technical Police (PTJ), said yesterday that the institution he heads is legally and constitutionally empowered to seize weapons from U.S. citizens outside of their working hours. "Regardless of whether (the weapon) is a high-caliber weapon, civilians are prohibited from having high-caliber weapons in residences," the official said. Oswaldo Fernandez, director of the National Police, charged on 12 January it is "illegal" for U.S. soldiers or any citizen to have high-caliber weapons in their homes. The PTJ director expressed concern in the wake of the killing and suicide that took place at the Campo Lindbergh housing area on 8 January where a U.S. soldier shot and killed his wife with a rifle and later committed suicide by shooting himself in the head. Foreign Minister Jose Raul Mulino said that if he gets a formal request from the police director, he will speak with Ambassador Deane Hinton to request that the Southern Command issue regulations to its troops on the possession of weapons. The PTJ chief explained that once a weapon is seized and an individual is detained, he is then subject to proceedings according to the Canal Treaties. The liaison agents are then contacted. Quincleiton Mora, division chief of the Arms Permit Division of the PTJ, said it is completely illegal for U.S. military personnel based in Panama to carry firearms outside their respective work stations. The PTJ official explained that the existing regulation on the issue of firearms prohibits foreign military personnel from carrying high-caliber weapons outside their work stations. Mora said his office is not granting arms permits to U.S. soldiers in the country and "especially not if it involves weapons that can cause much destruction." Mora said that during the electoral period the sale, exportation, and issue of firearms will be suspended to avert dangerous situations.
