FBIS3-39675 "drweu035__a94006" FBIS-WEU-94-035-A Document Type:Daily Report 22 February 1994 ANNEX Benelux Countries Netherlands Kooijmans Wants Sarajevo Under UN Control BR2202103194 The Hague ANP in Dutch 0001 GMT 22 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2202103194 The Hague ANP Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Article signed GGD: "Kooijmans Wants Sarajevo Under UN Control"; as released by The Hague ANP Database] [Text] Hilversum/Paris, 22 Feb (ANP) -- Netherlands Foreign Minister Pieter Kooijmans is in favor of placing Sarajevo under UN control as quickly as possible. The government spokesman declared Monday evening [21 February] on NOS [Netherlands Broadcasting Foundation] television that the withdrawal of heavy weapons around the Bosnian capital had brought a decent settlement within reach. Kooijmans said that following the positive outcome of the NATO ultimatum, the international community must not sit back and relax. "There must be a follow-up," said the minister, pointing to the proposals laid out in the original peace plan for Bosnia-Herzegovina. Both Sarajevo (United Nations) and Mostar (European Union) should have to be placed under multinational control over a two-year period. "During this time, it must be possible to reach a solution for these two cities," estimated Kooijmans. The Netherlands minister does not believe that opting for UN control would mean agreeing actually to carve up the Bosnian capital. Kooijmans pointed out that Sarajevo was not a divided city two years ago before civil war broke out, but rather a city where different population groups lived separately in their own quarters of the city. In his opinion, UN supervision must serve precisely to prevent the division of the city. "The United Nations must ensure that there can be freedom of movement throughout the whole of Sarajevo." Moreover, Kooijmans believes the United Nations should also guarantee free access to Sarajevo for people and products during the administrative takeover. (In a televised speech given Monday evening in Paris, French President Francois Mitterrand had also called for Sarajevo to be placed under UN authority -- ANP editor's note). (According to Western diplomatic sources, the members of the UN Security Council are considering a resolution to this effect. In addition, there is talk of establishing three "safe areas," namely the cities of Mostar, Vitez, and Maglaj -- ANP editor's note).
