FBIS4-54300 "dreas103__a94034" FBIS-EAS-94-103-A Daily Report 15 May 1994 ANNEX Japan Possible Changes Seen in Economic Ministries Possible Changes Seen in Economic Ministries OW2505111394 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN in Japanese 15 May 94 Morning Edition p 7 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2505111394 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Text] The ministries and agencies in Kasumigaseki that oversee the country's economic activities have begun to examine their personnel structure in preparation for the coming reassignment of senior officials which will take place in June. In the midst of the mounting and pressing issues such as taxation system reform, repair of the U.S.-Japan economic relationship, and restoration of better business, the emphasis of this reshuffle is how it can compensate for the uncertainty associated with the Hata administration's minority government. Moreover, in light of the strong American criticism against the Japanese bureaucracy that charges that the "bureaucrats manage Japan," personnel affairs this time are receiving international attention as well. (The year the official discussed joined the ministry is indicated in parentheses). Ministry of International Trade and Industry [MITI] The prospect is becoming stronger that Administrative Vice Minister Hideaki Kumano (1960) is to remain in his position. In connection with the issue of the de facto dismissal of Masahisa Naito, former Industrial Policy Bureau director, by former MITI Minister Hiroshi Kumagai, many former ministry officials hold the opinion that the "vice minister should be replaced and there should be a clear cut departure from the past with new people and a new spirit." But the expectation is strong in the administration that the combination of Finance Vice Minister Jiro Saito and Vice Minister Kumano should steer through the pending issues. Also within the ministry, the mood is gaining strength that they should bring the system under control with him [Kumano] remaining in place. If the vice minister stays on, it is expected that Sozaburo Okamatsu (1960), MITI deputy vice minister; Yoshihiro Sakamoto (1962), International Trade Policy Bureau director; and others will stay on in their respective positions. It is likely that Wataru Aso (1963), Patent Office director general, and Hideki Osada (1963), Small and Medium Enterprise Agency director general, will retire. Finance Ministry The continuation in office of Administrative Vice Minister Saito (1959) is certain. Budget Bureau Director Kyosuke Shinozawa (1960), Tax Bureau Director Tadasu Ogawa (1962), and Secretariat Director Takeshi Komura (1963) are also expected to stay on and to try to realize tax system reform. And the "international pair," Yukinori Nakahira (1963), deputy vice minister for financial affairs, and Takatoshi Kato (1964), International Finance Bureau director, are also highly likely to remain in office. Eisuke Hamamoto (1961), National Tax Administration Agency director general, will retire; and the unofficial designation has been made for Nobuyuki Teramura (1961), Banking Bureau director, to succeed him. Yoshimasa Nishimura (1963), Institute of Fiscal and Monetary Policy director, is the leading candidate for the position of Banking Bureau director. Sohei Hidaka (1963), Securities Bureau director, is expected to retire; and Koji Tanami (1964), deputy vice minister of Policy Coordination, among others, is rumored to succeed him. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Deputy Vice Minister Jiro Shiwaku (1959), who had postponed his retirement, which was quite an unusual case, has now retired with the April signing of the new multilateral trade negotiation (Uruguay Round) marking his departure from the stage, and other senior officials' personnel affairs have nearly been resolved. The focal points have been the personnel assignments for directors of the Forestry and Fisheries Agencies. The names of Hajime Irisawa (1963), Agricultural Structure Improvement Bureau director, and Michio Shimada (1964), Statistics and Information Department director, are mentioned. Construction Ministry The focal point is the resignation or remaining in office of Shigeo Mochizuki (1959), administrative vice minister. If he retires, Haruyoshi Fujii (1962), vice minister of engineering affairs, will be promoted; and for the new vice minister of engineering, Takashi Toyoda (1962), River Bureau director, is the leading candidate. If the Administrative vice minister remains in place, then Engineering Affairs Vice Minister Fujii is expected to remain in his current post . Transportation Ministry The continuation of Michio Matsuo (1960), administrative vice minister is certain; the focal point is the successor for Tsuguo Iyama (1961), Maritime Safety Agency director general, whose retirement is expected. The names of Railway Bureau Director Yu Hatano (1963) and Civil Aviation Bureau Director Yasutoshi Tsuchisaka (1963) are mentioned, but there is a good possibility that Mr. Tsuchisaka will remain in his post because the discussion on Narita Airport expansion is approaching its final stages. Post and Telecommunications Ministry The retirement of Administrative Vice Minister Futoshi Shirai (1959) and the promotion of Telecommunications Bureau Director Haruki Matsuno (1960) to fill the position have become certain. The leading candidate to become Telecommunications Bureau director is Communications Policy Bureau Director Mitsuo Igarashi (1963) and to become Communications Policy Bureau director is Councilor Koji Tani (1964). Economic Planning Agency A partial reshuffle of senior officials was made in January, so the regular reassignments in the summer will be kept small. Administrative Vice Minister Tsutomu Tanaka is likely to remain in post. In that case, Coordination Bureau Director Atsushi Kobayashi (1961), the leading candidate to be the next Administrative vice minister, and most other main senior officials are expected to stay on in their present posts. The characteristic of this year's personnel moves in the ministries and agencies overseeing national economic affairs is the prospect that the current administrative vice ministers in the major ministries, such as the Finance Ministry, will remain in their posts. In the background, the bureaucrats' strong self-conceit is seen, to the effect that the Hata Cabinet's government foundation is weak, so the bureaucracy has to take the lead in management of important issues. Both in Japan and overseas, critical voices against the bureaucrats are getting stronger, claiming that the existence of the bureaucrats weakens the government's ability to determine policy. But the stagnation of personnel affairs, symbolized by the current [administrative] vice ministers remaining in office, contains the possibility that it will lead to a strengthened voice for the bureaucrats. This time around the only economic-related ministry in which the prospect of the [administrative] vice minister's retirement is certain is the Post and Telecommunications Ministry. All of the ministries and agencies are trying to strengthen the structure by retaining the status quo for personnel. The reason the bureaucracy offers for the retention of the current vice ministers is that the pressing issues can only be steered forward under a strong line-up. By last June, the Finance Ministry had already lined-up the people for reform of the taxation system with Vice Minister Saito at the center. And this year's decision for the vice minister to remain in office can be said to be a "done-deal." Early this year, Vice Minister Saito was the target of criticism against bureaucrats when he displayed strong-arm tactics with the national welfare tax concept. But he will try to achieve reform of the taxation system, while retaining the existing policy line and structure. MITI will try to improve the U.S.-Japanese relationship through the retention of Vice Minister Kumano and other major directors. But there is a danger that the U.S. might become suspicious that the Japanese bureaucratic organization has become tougher. So this could become a main element among the obstacles in the negotiations. The politicians receive the baptism of elections. But the bureaucrats' personnel moves lack such a check. This is all the more reason that highly transparent personnel moves, which keep the people's criticism in mind, should be sought. When personnel affairs are stagnant, there is the danger of the bureaucrats making their own decisions in the process of deciding policy and of criticism against bureaucrats in and out of Japan getting stronger.
