FBIS3-34370 "drnes026_k_94003" FBIS-NES-94-026 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Feb 1994 IRAQ Clinton's `Heretical Approach' Toward `Siege' Noted JN0502193694 Baghdad BABIL in Arabic 2 Feb 94 p 1 JN0502193694 Baghdad BABIL Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Article by Hani Wahib: "How Civilized Is Hesitant Clinton?"] [Text] At a time when statements by good people around the world call for lifting the unjust siege imposed against Iraq, and when there was a positive change in the positions of the majority of Security Council permanent members toward lifting the siege, hesitant Clinton, in his report to the Congress, followed a heretical approach in what he said about the long time needed to be sure of the soundness of future monitoring implementation. He also lied about what he called Iraq's commitment to democracy and respect for human rights, and he cawed like a crow about civility. The Arab saying that something is so sad that it is funny is true because hesitant Clinton continues to slaughter people--elderly, women, and children--in Somalia while he wails about human rights and announces a withdrawal from Somalia. He wails about civility while it was he who hit the houses of seemingly safe people in Baghdad with missiles, and killed men, children, and women from 26-27 June 1993 when there was no military confrontation between Iraq and the U.S. When hesitant Clinton tries in vain to prolong the unjust siege on Iraq through empty logic and baseless pretexts, he demonstrates his bankruptcy and his deviation from the will of the international community and law. Iraq has implemented Resolution 715 on future monitoring and Part C of Resolution 687. This requires the implementation of Paragraph 22 of Resolution 687--the immediate lifting the oil embargo on Iraq and the total lifting of the siege. There is nothing in the Security Council that refers to the "trial period." Hesitant Clinton's talk about democracy and human rights is mere nonsense. Statements by Special Commission Chairman Ekeus, and others, who are not Iraqis, refer to Iraq's legal right to have the siege lifted. Iraq's steadfastness, the determination of its leader Saddam Husayn, and our efforts to bolster the jihad and construction march, are the means to lift the siege against hesitant Clinton's will and despite the falsity of his talk.
