FBIS3-28931 "dreas030_a_94026" FBIS-EAS-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Ozawa Predicts Emergence of New Hosokawa Party OW1402011194 Tokyo KYODO in English 0054 GMT 14 Feb 94 OW1402011194 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Feb. 14 KYODO -- Shinseito co-leader Ichiro Ozawa wants ruling coalition parties to merge into a new party to be led by Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa to win in the next general election for the House of Representatives, the mass-circulation daily YOMIURI SHIMBUN reported Monday [14 February]. Ozawa, a powerful figure in the coalition government, said in an interview with the paper that the "(ruling parties) have no choice but to compete in (the next lower house) election as a single party." He was quoted as saying that such a merger is necessary to win against the primary opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in the next lower house polls to be held under a new electoral system, which combines single-seat constituencies and proportional representation seats. Ozawa said the ruling parties will not form a government with the LDP after the election, the report said. The politician predicted that political realignment, including a merger of the ruling parties, would progress rapidly after the current Diet session officially approves a package on the new electoral system later this month, the daily said. The package was passed in the Diet last month but because of time constraints no date was set for implementation. The current Diet session is slated to revise the bills. Ozawa was quoted as saying that the new party would group people who think Hosokawa should be kept as the leader and who believe Japan should enact a basic security law defining Japan as a peaceful nation with the United Nations as its lead. Ozawa also said the new party would stress a policy of free competition with relaxed regulations as much as possible, the paper said. "This idea will surely have many supporters," he said in the report. Last summer, Ozawa defected from the LDP which surrendered its 38-year grip on power to the current coalition in August 1993.
