FBIS3-24489 "jpust006___94020" JPRS-UST-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 09 March 1994 ELECTRONICS The Effect of Photoabsorption Convection on the rate of cw CO-Laser-Induced Chemical Vapor Deposition of Amorphous Hydrogenated Silicon [.sup]2[/] 947K0035G Moscow KVANTOVAYA ELEKTRONIKA in Russian Vol 20, No 9, Sep 93 pp 925-932 947K0035G Moscow KVANTOVAYA ELEKTRONIKA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by A. A. Deryugin, G. V. Mishakov; UDC 621.373.826] [Abstract] The rate of sedimentation as a function of geometrical parameters, such as the beam diameter and distance between the beam axis and substrate, was examined for the conditions of laser-chemical deposition of silicon from a mixture of monosilane with argon under the effect of continuous CO[.sup]2[/] laser. Procedures are described for measurements of the deposition rate. To minimize the edge effect of the heater measurements, depending on the distance between the beam and the substrate the measurements were made at the same beam section. The chemical kinetics in this case is primarily determined by the gas temperature, therefore, to a great extent, the problem of the rate and the deposition conditions can be solved by examining the distribution of gas temperature in the reactor volume, depending on the parameters of the experiment. The direct measurements of the gas temperature near the laser beam were compared with the results of numerical computations of the temperature fields in the cavity, produce by an electric heater of the substrate as well as by the gas absorption of the laser radiation. Based on the experimental results and data in the literature, it can be concluded that a developed photoabsorption convection is being developed under the examined conditions, which significantly changes the temperature field in the cavity. It is apparent that for construction of an adequate theoretical model of laser-chemical deposition, the convection must be taken into the account under the examined conditions. Figures 13, references 22: 15 Russian, 7 Western.
