FBIS4-36327 "drnes110_d_94001" FBIS-NES-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 Libya U.S. Accusations on Nuclear Activities Rejected U.S. Accusations on Nuclear Activities Rejected LD0706143194 Tripoli Great Jamahiriyah Radio Network in Arabic 1230 GMT 7 Jun 94 LD0706143194 Tripoli Great Jamahiriyah Radio Network Arabic BFN [Statement issued by the Secretariat of the General People's Committee for Foreign Liaison and International Cooperation; date not given] [Text] The U.S. assistant secretary of state has been quoted expressing his country's concern over the nuclear activities of a number of states, among which he mentioned the Great Jamahiriyah. The Secretariat of the General People's Committee for Foreign Liaison and International Cooperation would like to remind the American official of the remarks made by the Directer of the International Atomic Energy Agency while visiting the Great Jamahiriyah at the head of a team of the agency's experts in January 1993 confirming what we have repeatedly announced and affirmed about Libya's noninterest in possessing weapons of mass destruction This prompted it to sign the nuclear nonproliferation treaty and to participate in all conferences seeking to ban the use or the threat to use weapons of mass destruction. What has been said by the assistant secretary of state irrefutably confirms that nobody is able to believe the claims of the United States and this therefore erodes its credibility before the peoples of the world. Instead of warning the Great Jamahiriyah, this official should have referred to his country's measures against the Zionist entity which refuses to sign the nuclear nonproliferation treaty. Moreover, western sources friendly to that entity confirm its possession of nuclear warheads. Instead of warning it, the United States is supplying it with means to enable it to intimidate the states of the region by the threat of using those weapons against them. The tone of warning and intimidation is no longer useful against the Great Jamahiriyah. American officials spare no opportunity to include its name whenever they circulate false and unfounded accusations.
