FBIS4-10400 "drlat070_c_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-070 Daily Report 4 Apr 1994 MEXICO Marcos: Talks With Peace Commissioner Postponed Marcos: Talks With Peace Commissioner Postponed PA0804150294 Monterrey EL NORTE (Foreign Edition) in Spanish 4 Apr 94 p 1a PA0804150294 Monterrey EL NORTE (Foreign Edition) Spanish BFN [Report by Miguel Perez and Jesusa Cervantes] [Text] San Cristobal de las Casas -- Subcommander Marcos has said the second stage of negotiations between the Zapatist National Liberation Army [EZLN] and Peace Commissioner Manuel Camacho Solis, which was supposed to begin here yesterday, was postponed following Luis Donaldo Colosio's assassination. The EZLN leader did not give a date for restarting the dialogue, nor has the government. Sources that asked not to be identified have said Peace Commissioner Camacho Solis will arrive in San Cristobal de las Casas on 5 April. The source added part of the team and Camacho Solis could arrive on the first commercial flight to Tuxtla Gutierrez on 5 April. The commissioner suspended his message on restarting talks he was to give the media on 23 March, because Colosio was assassinated that day. No one knows the content of Camacho Solis' new message, because the one he was to deliver two weeks ago concerned restarting negotiations with the self-styled EZLN. According to reports from Marcos, the second stage of talks should have begun yesterday in what has become known as the Peace Cathedral here in San Cristobal de las Casas. The announcement the peace commissioner will make will also be influenced by the decision of the Clandestine Indian Revolutionary Committee-General Command to suspend consultations with the EZLN over an alleged withdrawal of Mexican Army troops from their territories. Up to yesterday there was no communique from Marcos to report the resumption of talks between the armed group on Camacho Solis' proposals. Mexican Army troops enjoyed a fourth day off thanks to a decision by the 31st Military Zone based in Tuxtla Gutierrez granting rest and relaxation to soldiers who had spent the most time in the front.
