FBIS3-51040 "drlat008__a94001" FBIS-LAT-94-008-A Document Type:Daily Report 12 January 1994 ANNEX Argentina Menem Urges Accelerated Falklands Minesweeping Negotiations PY0701122594 Buenos Aires LA NACION in Spanish 6 Jan 94 p 5--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY0701122594 Buenos Aires LA NACION Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Ovidio Bellando] [Text] Foreign Minister Guido Di Tella yesterday received precise instructions from the head of state to speed up the negotiations linked to an offer made to the United Kingdom to clear the mines planted by Argentina in the Malvinas Islands in 1982. The head of state issued these instructions during a meeting of the national cabinet, during which the foreign minister reported on the repercussions of the Argentine proposal in the London and Malvinas Islands media. During the meeting President Carlos Menem also instructed the ministers to promote social and economic programs in their areas, on which we are reporting separately. Di Tella described as highly positive the opinions published in the newspapers THE INDEPENDENT, THE GUARDIAN, and THE DAILY TELEGRAPH, which mentioned the scoop published on 4 January by LA NACION on the proposal to clear the mines. It was leaked that the foreign minister explained that the offer is a consequence of a position championed at the United Nations, which favored not only the discontinuation of planting antipersonnel mines (so called to differentiate them from antitank mines), but the discontinuation of their manufacture as well. The foreign minister also explained that according to Malvinas Islands sources, it has been estimated that the task of clearing the 30,000 mines will cost 5 million pounds (about $8 million). Although conventional arms are involved, the United Nations believes this situation affects civilian communities, because the sides that engaged in the war are not removing the mines. As an example, diplomatic sources pointed out that these kinds of explosions frequently occur in Central America, crippling peasants. The foreign minister allegedly reported that he had received from London a suggestion that the task be carried out by a Commonwealth country in order to avoid the islanders' resistance. It would thus not be unlikely that Canadians or Australians would participate in this task.
