FBIS4-1114 "drafr078_b_94002" FBIS-AFR-94-078 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 EAST AFRICA Somalia Mogadishu Airport Reopened After Talks Mogadishu Airport Reopened After Talks AB2104174994 Paris AFP in English 1655 GMT 21 Apr 94 AB2104174994 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Nairobi, April 21 (AFP) -- The UN-controlled airport in Mogadishu reopened Thursday [21 April] after fighting between the city's warring clans died down following talks between UN officials and clan leaders, a UN official said. UN Operations in Somalia (UNOSOM) spokesman George Bennett told AFP by phone from the Somali capital that following the talks an official ceasefire was expected to come into effect only on Friday. He said sporadic gunfire during the day had died down completely and the airport reopened by mid-day. Arrangements for an April 25 meeting of warring clans as agreed in Nairobi would go on as planned, he added. Fighting erupted between the Habr Gedir and Hawadle clans on Wednesday, with both sides battling for territory around the airport. Two UN soldiers, a Malaysian and a Nepali, were wounded in crossfire. The fighting prevented UN staff from moving around the city and forced them to retreat to the main UN compound in south Mogadishu, while staffers living outside it were temporarily moved inside. Several flights out of Mogadishu were also cancelled as fighters from the Habr Gedir clan of warlord Mohamed Farah Aidid battled the Hawadle with mortars and rocket-propelled grenades, according to the UN spokesman. The Habr Gedir have a long-standing dispute with the Hawadle over employment at the airport, controlled by the Hawadle until the first US Marines landed there in December 1992. Fighting between them has killed about nine Somalis and wounded another 40 over the past five days. Two Nepalis peacekeepers were killed in crossfire and a Gambian employee of the UN refugee agency died when gunmen opened fire on a UN plane in southwestern Somalia on Monday. More than 80 UN soldiers and several civilian UN officials have been killed since the UNOSOM was launched in May last year.
