FBIS3-11206 "drlat053_c_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 MEXICO EZLN Issues Communiques on Dialogue, Legal Adviser Says Government Lying PA1803044094 Mexico City LA JORNADA in Spanish 17 Mar 94 p 6 PA1803044094 Mexico City LA JORNADA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Communique issued by the Indian Revolutionary Clandestine Committee-General Command of the Zapatist National Liberation Army in Mexico City on 15 March] [Text] 15 March 1994 To the Mexican people, the world's peoples and governments, the national and international media, brothers: The Indian Revolutionary Clandestine Committee-General Command [CCRI-CG] of the EZLN [Zapatist National Liberation Army] addresses all of you with respect and honor. First -- The Federal Government, which usurped the people's will yesterday, is again lying about the dialogue in San Cristobal de las Casas, Chiapas. The bad government claims that "agreements" were reached when there was only dialogue. The powerful usurped the truth, and they are trying to deceive the people by saying that peace is only a matter of a signature. Second -- There are attempts to forget the main reasons that provoked our uprising by replacing the truth of a dialogue with the lie of an "agreement." The CCRI-CG of the EZLN has made no deal with the Federal Government and has negotiated nothing other than the way in which the dialogue is taking place. Moreover, it has not reached any agreement with the bad government that has been lying for so long. Third -- The CCRI-CG of the EZLN points out that concluding the first phase of the dialogue with lies is the best way to make peace fail. We cannot trust a government that lies, even to make proposals. If the supreme government wishes to present the San Cristobal document as "agreements," then let the list of EZLN demands be the "agreement" and let democracy be guaranteed in the upcoming elections with the resignation of the federal executive. Fourth -- The CCRI-CG of the EZLN respectfully urges the honest national and international media not to play into the crooked game of the usurper and to report, truthfully and objectively, what is happening in the current phase of the dialogue. Liberty! Justice! Democracy! Respectfully yours from the Mexican Southeast. [Signed] CCRI-CG of the EZLN [Dated] Mexico City, March 1994
