FBIS3-59597 "jpest003___94001" JPRS-EST-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 26 January 1994 WEST EUROPE COMPUTERS European Affairs: JESSI Program Produces Marketable CAD Systems BR0612151293 Paris ELECTRONIQUE INTERNATIONAL HEBDO in French 2 Dec 93 p 13 BR0612151293 Paris ELECTRONIQUE INTERNATIONAL HEBDO Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed S.D.: "Computer-Aided Design: JESSI Program Produces Tangible Results"] [Text] Many computer-aided design (CAD) tools developed within the scope of the Joint European Submicron Silicon Initiative (JESSI) are already being commercialized, mostly by European companies. During the presentation of JESSI's mid-term results at the "Componic" fair, J.-P. Tual (Bull) provided a status report of the electronic CAD subprogram. "All targets have been met," he concluded, stressing that JESSI-developed CAD tools "have reached industrial quality and are actually being commercialized." The CAD subprogram has four major goals: To develop CAD tools for specific applications which meet industry's requirements and for which no commercial systems are available; to foster the development of a European CAD industry by strengthening the (scarce) existing potential and by developing new market segments; to supply methods and tools for libraries development and modeling; and to promote the use of standards (VHDL [very-high-speed hardware description language], EDIF [Electronic Data Interchange Format], Frameworks) and European participation in standards development. The CAD subprogram operates according to the following major principles: no exotic tools, but tools that are compatible with commercially available ones; libraries that can be used for the development of various CAD systems; and the effective dissemination of tools developed under the program. With this, Tual emphasized, European manufacturers seek to counter "the U.S. tools syndrome, according to which only the Americans produce good tools." Some 20 `Major' Tools Already on the Market Further expanding on the results to date, Tual mentioned CAD tools developed for specific telecommunications applications, some of which are being commercialized by the companies Racal-Redac (card design tools) and by Anacad (mixed analog-digital design tools). In the area of automotive applications, he mentioned the commercialization of retiming tools by Philips and of a synthesis tool for field-programmable gate arrays (FPGA) by the Grenoble company Innovative Synthesis Technologies. Various JESSI-developed tools are also being marketed by other companies, including SNI [Siemens Nixdorf] and the French Aster Ingenierie [Aster Engineering] company, which is offering a testing tool obtained through a technology transfer from Bull. Another Bull technology (a formal testing tool) is being marketed via a partnership with the U.S. company Compass. Mentor/EDC, another U.S. company, is marketing a DSP (digital signal processor) developed under JESSI. Tual stressed that the industrialization and commercialization of JESSI-developed CAD tools is expected to gain even more momentum during the second half of the program, which will be completed in late 1996.
