FBIS3-30514 "dreeu024_d_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 SLOVAKIA Meciar Views Relations With President Kovac AU0402151094 Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 3 Feb 94 p 3 AU0402151094 Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA Language: Slovak Article Type:BFN [Statement by Slovak Prime Minister Vladimir Meciar; place and date not given: "The Prime Minister About Relations with the President" -- reprinted from an undated issue of EXTRA SLOVENSKO weekly in the "Who, What, Where -- Said, Wrote" column] [Text] On the whole, I can say that we, with Mr. President [Michal Kovac], have working relations, and I do not believe that we have different political objectives. I am afraid that the president is not the only person responsible for the tense atmosphere. Do you want an example? We used to share a box in the Slovak National Theater and it did not bother anyone. Suddenly, however, some people came from the Chancellery of the President of the Slovak Republic maintaining that the prime minister and the parliament chairman [Ivan Gasparovic] have no place in the box. (By the way, I used it only on the occasion of the funeral of Roman Zelenay because I simply do not have time for such perfunctory actions). Eventually, they came up with the idea that the box would have three doors. It was not technically feasible. Thus, they arrived at the idea that the president must have a higher chair. I replied with a recommendation that they do not raise the president's chair, but rather saw off the legs of the chairs for Gasparovic and myself.... The staff of the Chancellery of the President determines the flow and content of information reaching his person. The later the president realizes this, the worse for him. A more fortunate solution for the president would be the employment of nonpartisan, neutral experts. I will not give any details regarding the reason for the current state of the president-prime-ministerial relations at this time, although they are obvious not only to me, but also to the president and the parliament chairman. We are in complete agreement with Mr. Gasparovic.
