FBIS4-33134 "drlat106_o_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-106 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 Colombia Defense Minister Maintains Position Defense Minister Maintains Position PA0206020494 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Network in Spanish 0000 GMT 2 Jun 94 PA0206020494 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Network Spanish BFN [Report by Isabella Recio from the "Seven O'Clock Newscast"] [Text] Christine Shelly, spokeswoman for the U.S. State Department's Bureau of International Narcotics Matters, has announced that a final decision is not expected before next week regarding U.S.-Colombian cooperation on information provided by U.S. radar installations in Leticia and Araracuara. Defense Minister Rafael Pardo and Air Force Commander Major General Alfonso Abondano commented on this topic today at a military ceremony. During the ceremony to commemorate the 87th anniversary of the Cadets Military Academy, in addition to the traditional speeches and parades, there was time to discuss the U.S. radar dispute. Amid a downpour that resembled the storm now brewing in the country following the Pentagon's orders to suspend the operation of the two radar installations, Pardo discounted the U.S. position on whether or not unidentified planes should be shot down. [Begin Pardo recording] The thing we oppose is that this decision was made unilaterally, despite the fact that this cooperation program has been in place for three years and that it has been a multilateral program. [end recording] According to the defense minister, Colombia will continue to shoot down unidentified drug planes, and this policy will not change. [Begin Pardo recording] Colombia has assumed this position following a thorough, 18-month legal review. We are very much convinced that our interpretation is correct, and we sincerely believe we have nothing to change in this regard. [end recording] Meanwhile, the Colombian Air Force says the chances of a U.S. military plane being shot down are remote. [Begin Abondano recording] We identify all planes visually before our pilots are authorized to shoot. [end recording]
