FBIS4-24149 "drafr122_c_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-122 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Economist: Growth Unlikely To Reach 3 Percent Economist: Growth Unlikely To Reach 3 Percent MB2406130394 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1108 GMT 24 Jun 94 MB2406130394 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [By Sean Feely] [Text] Johannesburg June 24 SAPA -- The economy is unlikely to achieve a three per cent growth rate this year because of the five per cent transition levy announced in the budget, Standard Bank chief economist Nico Cyzpionka said Friday [24 June] in Johannesburg. "The levy is going to undermine private consumption expenditure and will also have a negative impact on savings," he told a SA Chamber of Business [SACOB] seminar on the budget. Standard Bank was therefore downscaling its projection of three per cent growth this year to a 2.5 per cent increase in real gross domestic product. However, the outlook for the agricultural sector remained encouraging and due to the statistical calculation of GDP [Gross Domestic Product] the non-agricultural sector only had to increase by 0.5 per cent to achieve a three per cent growth rate. Mr Cyzpionka said the budget, presented to Parliament on Wednesday by Finance Minister Derek Keys, was a credible effort to balance socio-economic development and fiscal discipline. "It's not an add-on budget. They (the government) want to cut in order to spend elsewhere," he said. "Foreign investors were looking for a budget like this, but they're going to see how the domestic market reacts." He said the raising of the R2.5-billion [rand] to fund the Reconstruction and Development Programme [RDP] was admirable but warned the government could only perhaps squeeze departments on one further occassion. The government plans to spend R40-billion on the RDP over the next five years and Mr Cyzpionka expressed concern those funds would be difficult to find. "You can snip-off from ordinary expenditure once, maybe twice, but not beyond that," he said. "The RDP expenditures are only feasible if economic activity increases and consequently lifts government revenue." However, the budget was inflation neutral, avoiding an increase in value-added tax and easing manufacturing input costs due to the scrapping of the import surcharge on capital and intermediate goods. Mr Cyzpionka said the budget may even push inflation down and once the Reserve Bank had likely shored up the reserve position in october, the Central Bank could cut its key rate by one per cent.
