FBIS3-259 "drafr043_c_94023" FBIS-AFR-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Major Gaps Seen in Police Election Strategy MB0303144394 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English 3 Mar 94 p 1 MB0303144394 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Kathryn Strachan] [Text] The SAP [South African Police] strategy for policing the election was an unprofessional plan with major gaps, EC and Independent Electoral Commission security adviser Mike Brogden said yesterday. Speaking at Wits [Witwatersrand] University's Centre for the Study of Violence, Brogden said that once the administrative staff had been subtracted from the SAP's manpower of 140,000, it left fewer than 70,000 effective police officers. This amounted to a totally inadequate number of two to three officers to each polling station on the three voting days. The SAP planned to call all police officers from their usual duties, leaving these tasks to inadequately trained reserve policemen during this volatile period. Brogden questioned the quality of policing and policemen's knowledge of electoral procedure. Another criticism was the lack of contingency plans if things failed to go smoothly. The plan was also very centralised, which was an obstacle given the time taken to relay a message from Pretoria to peripheral areas. There were no plans to coordinate with emergency services. Nadia Levine, a researcher from the centre's policing project, highlighted the plan's vagueness and the lack of detail about its implementation. She said it failed to focus on the various problems the different regions would experience. SAP spokesman Brig Francois Cronje countered criticism of the plan being too centralised, saying the SAP's 10 regions had a high degree of independence. For this reason the plan was intended to be only a guideline, and the regions would be able to develop their own plans according to circumstances on the ground. He said reservists would be used only in trouble-free areas. Contingency plans were in place, but could not be disclosed. SAPA reports that President F.W. de Klerk told Parliament yesterday that government had a contingency plan to counteract violence or any threat to the election but it would not be made public. "I will ensure that the election is free and fair." The law would be brought into effect and the security forces applied against any effort to deny voters their rights. The TEC [Transitional Executive Council] would also be brought into play. SADF [South African Defense Force] spokesman Maj Merle Meyer said troops would be deployed to assist. Some citizen force members were also being called up to replace soldiers seconded to the National Peacekeeping Force.
