FBIS3-61428 "jpust001___94026" JPRS-UST-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 6 January 1994 TELECOMMUNICATIONS An Effectiveness Criterion for a Method of Echo-Suppression and a Hybrid Echo-Suppressor Configuration 937K0274A Moscow ELEKTROSVYAZ in Russian No 3 Mar 93 (manuscript submitted 26 May 92) pp 21-24 937K0274A Moscow ELEKTROSVYAZ Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Part I of two-part article by S. V. Kunegin under the rubric ``Switching, Telephony''; UDC 621.391.664.12] [Abstract] A new approach to the elimination of interfering echo signals in long-distance telephone channels is presented based on a combination of traditionally separate echo-suppression techniques. The use of both echo rejection and echo compensation models within the same equipment is desireable to take advantage of the relative technical simplicity of the former and the superior signal-handling capabilities of the latter. Optimization of the internal characteristics, i. e., suppression methods, of echo suppressors has application to dynamic, stochastic, discrete and both controlled and uncontrolled systems. The effectiveness criterion for the suppression method is composed of three subindicators: technical difficulty of echo-suppression (in terms of complexity of computation); signal quality (expressed in user rating units); functional reliability (determined by the expanse of the functional conditions). Echo rejection and compensation methods are evaluated by the use of computerized simulation or modeling. Algorithms are worked out for input, output and primary control signals using a recognition device, threshold limiting device and a delay line. Block diagrams detail signal processing stages in the echo-rejection model, the echo-compensation model and the echo-path simulation model. Use of a summing circuit in the latter allows an analysis of the effect of various types of additive interference for modeling of echo-suppressor breakdown conditions. Modeling of external additive noise effects is achieved by means of generators employing smoothed noise distribution, Gaussian noise distribution, harmonic interference and pulsed interference. Results of the evaluation of all methods, including the combined method of echo suppression, are to be examined in the second part of the article. Figures 3; references 13: 12 Russian.
