FBIS4-43053 "drweu113_h_94014" FBIS-WEU-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 GERMANY Commentary Criticizes `Appalling' SPD Campaign Commentary Criticizes `Appalling' SPD Campaign AU1006154594 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG in German 10 Jun 94 p 4 AU1006154594 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG German BFN [Commentary by "pra": "Machine Pushing German Interests Through?"] [Text] Something appalling has happened in the European election campaign: The Social Democratic Party of Germany [SPD] has turned into the Christian Social Union [CSU]. The SPD has conducted the election campaign that one could have actually expected of the CSU after Bavarian Minister President Edmund Stoiber's attacks on Europe. No other party, except for the Republikaner, talked so much of "German interests" as the Social Democrats. In their election campaign, they turned Europe into a machine pushing German interests through. Who remembers the election campaign that the SPD conducted five years ago? At that time, it tried to arouse enthusiasm for Europe. In 1994 it tried to warm itself at the national fire. The SPD is to blame for the strengthening of German national trends. It wanted to occupy the topics of the political opponents; it has thoroughly failed. In the polls its strange election slogans are related to the Christian Democratic Union [CDU]/CSU or the Republikaner -- a just punishment. The SPD motto "security instead of fear" currently sounds like the invocation of social democratic views. The Greens (that is, the party that brought a charge against Maastricht in Karlsruhe) showed the SPD what a pro-European election campaign can look like in these days. Chancellor Kohl's election campaign concept has worked: He was able to reprimand the CDU for going too far and he prevented the CDU/CSU from tearing itself to pieces in the controversy over Maastricht. Kohl succeeded in pushing the planned European currency, which violently moved the nation one year ago, into the background -- he anticipated the Bundestag election campaign. Therefore, gamblers like Manfred Brunner were not able to play the part for which they had hoped.
