FBIS4-59469 "drnes094bb_94001" FBIS-NES-94-094 Daily Report 14 May 1994 Inter-Arab Affairs League Chief on Efforts To End Fighting in Yemen League Chief on Efforts To End Fighting in Yemen NC1405141094 Cairo MENA in Arabic 1220 GMT 14 May 94 NC1405141094 Cairo MENA Arabic BFN [Text] Cairo, 14 May (MENA) -- Arab League Secretary General Dr. 'Ismat 'Abd-al-Majid has called on Yemeni leaders to comply with Arab efforts to end the war and to return to the negotiating table. Speaking at a press conference today, Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid said that every Arab wants to see the fighting stopped as soon as possible. He described the situation in Yemen as "painful and serious." He said he spoke via telephone today with Muhmammad Sa'id Bayraqdar, member of the Arab League team currently in Sanaa, to discuss the team's efforts to end the deteriorating situation in Yemen. Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid noted that the team will meet later today with Yemeni President 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih to pass on a message from the Arab League secretary general. The message, he added, is part of the efforts to implement the recent Arab League decision to end the fighting in Yemen, to contain the deteriorating situation, and to start a dialogue among the warring parties. Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid said that it is unlikely that an Arab summit will be held at the present time to discuss the situation in Yemen. Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid noted that the Arab League welcomes any Yemeni proposals to end the fighting and bloodshed. He stressed that finding a solution for the Yemeni problem rests with the Yemenis themselves. He pointed out that Arab efforts are seeking to contain the crisis, reach an immediate cease-fire to halt the bloodshed, and bring the Yemeni parties back to the negotiating table to find a peaceful solution for the crisis. This, he added, is the task of the Arab League team now present in Sanaa. Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid noted the need to establish a mechanism for settling inter-Arab conflicts. He added: Serious attention must now be given to establishing this mechanism, which the Arab leaders included in the Arab League Charter in 1945, something that shows their wisdom and farsightedness.
