FBIS3-41806 "jptep001__l94044" JPRS-TEP-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 25 February 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Influenza Incidence 100 Percent Over 1992 94WE0077 London THE GUARDIAN in English 27 Oct 93 p 7 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94WE0077 London THE GUARDIAN Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Chris Mihill: "Doctors Forecast Bad Winter for Flu"] [Text] Britain may be in for a bad winter from the influenza virus and vulnerable groups such as the elderly and heart disease sufferers were yesterday urged by specialists to have themselves vaccinated. It is difficult to forecast the extent of influenza epidemics, but a leading researcher said early indicators pointed to a high level of cases. Last year was a mild winter for `flu, but an estimated 3,000 to 4,000 people still died. In the winter of 1989/90, considered to be an epidemic year, between 19,000 and 25,000 died. Dr. Douglas Fleming, director of the Birmingham research unit of the Royal College of General Practitioners, which monitors flu cases at GP surgeries throughout the country, said that in the past overall cases of respiratory illness, rather than just flu, had proved an accurate indicator of trends. So far this year such cases were running at 50 per 1,000 of the population, compared with half this number for the same time last year. "Forecasting is very difficult, but certainly at the moment respiratory infections are running at quite a high level. A number of strains of influenza have already been isolated. "The message is that flu is about. It is desirable for people at high risk to get themselves vaccinated." Speaking at a meeting in London organised by the Association for Influenza Monitoring and Surveillance, which is funded by vaccine manufacturers, Dr. Fleming said it was a misconception that flu was a trivial illness, and every year, apart from deaths, it put an enormous strain on hospital beds as elderly people living alone had to be brought in for treatment. Professor John Oxford, head of virology at the Royal London Hospital, said the current vaccine could provide around 70 percent protection against the three strains of influenza circulating this year. Even where people were not fully protected, they were likely to suffer fewer complications. He said protection would take place within five days of people receiving the vaccine, so although it was worthwhile getting vaccinated early, it was still not too late once an epidemic had started. Department of Health advice is that the elderly and those with long-term conditions such as chest complaints, heart disease or diabetes should be vaccinated, as should residents of nursing homes, old people's homes and other long-stay facilities, where rapid spread is likely. Guardian Newspapers Limited, October 27, 1993
