FBIS3-46278 "drchi018_n_94015" FBIS-CHI-94-018 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Jan 1994 Economic & Agricultural UNDP Coal Program Helps Nation's Exploitation OW2601133994 Beijing XINHUA in English 1330 GMT 26 Jan 94 OW2601133994 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 26 (XINHUA) -- A program for improving coal-use efficiency and the environment, jointly carried out by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the Chinese Government, has been progressing smoothly since its implementation in 1992. Yuan Shaofu, deputy director of China International Center for Economic and Technical Exchange (CICETE), which is in charge of implementation of the program, said that after more than a year of effort, the program has achieved prominent results in various aspects. He said that the aim of the program is to support the Chinese Government in exploiting coal resources efficiently by spreading or developing technologies and equipment concerning the production or use of coal. Research, design, manufacturing, transportation and some other aspects of the program can help raise the efficiency of coal exploitation, cut down on environmental pollution and promote the health and safety of the people. A key point of the program is to raise China's capability in using some critical technologies for coal production, he added. Yuan said the budget for the program is 17 million U.S. dollars, of which UNDP will put in eight million U.S. dollars, while the Chinese Government is responsible for nine million U.S. dollars. Specifically, the program involves recovery and utilization of chemicals from coking, circulating fluidized bed combustion technology, control of atmospheric pollution from coal combustion, exploration for deep coalbed methane as well as other aspects. Concerted efforts by UNDP and CICETE in the past year have resulted in varying degrees of progress in these aspects, Yuan said. China is the world's biggest coal producer. By the end of the century its annual coal output will reach 1.4 billion tons. Presently coal constitutes 74 percent of China's total energy output, while it makes up 76 percent of total energy consumption. Forecasts show that by the end of this century coal will still constitute 70 percent of China's total energy demand.
