FBIS3-21051 "jpest007___94048" JPRS-EST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 17 March 1994 WEST EUROPE ENERGY, ENVIRONMENT European Consortium To Develop Plastic Waste Sorting System BR2502091794 Burnham NEW MATERIALS INTERNATIONAL in English Feb 94 p5 BR2502091794 Burnham NEW MATERIALS INTERNATIONAL Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "High-Speed Sorter for Plastic Parts"] [Text] A consortium of European companies and research organisations has won a research contract worth nearly Ecu 1.5m from the Commission of the European Communities (CEC) to develop a system for the identification and separation of plastics in mixed waste. The consortium's proposal -- submitted under the CEC's Brite-Euram Industrial and Materials Technologies Programme -- was awarded an A1 (outstanding) assessment in competition with over 1,250 proposals. The proposed system has major implications for the efficiency and cost effectiveness of recycling plastics by detecting specially developed 'tracers' added in minute quantities to the various plastics used by the packaging, automotive and other industries. The tracers will be detected by an advanced device using the latest fluorosensor technology. One benefit of the system is that it is able not only to detect different generic plastics but also to segregate different grades of the same material. The potential for identifying and separating a wide range of different plastics types and grades is virtually unlimited. The system is unique in being able to identify plastics containing black and other strongly absorbing colours. It is also able to operate with materials which are surface contaminated, the system will also be able to identify and reject specific unwanted materials. A product of the contract will be a pilot sorting machine; this will be capable of making at least 100 identifications and of sorting plastics at speeds of at least 10 articles/s. Proving trials will take place at a waste management site. The consortium comprises: Pira International, UK -- lead contractor and project co-ordinator; Bayer AG, Germany -- will develop fluorescent tracers under its own patent; Cranfield University (RMCS), UK -- will develop a sensitive detection system using fluorosensor technology; Newell Engineering, UK -- will create handling systems for high speed segregation of plastics articles and construct a pilot sorting machine; APME, Technical and Environment Centre (formerly PWMI), Belgium -- responsible for proving the processability of the tracers and the conversion of plastic containing them into three dimensional articles; and Laboratoire National d'Essais France -- responsible for checking the stability of the tracer/polymer systems.
