FBIS4-37282 "drnes118_p_94001" FBIS-NES-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 SOUTH ASIA Afghanistan Deputy Foreign Minister on Hekmatyar Call for Talks Deputy Foreign Minister on Hekmatyar Call for Talks BK1806142994 Hong Kong AFP in English 1143 GMT 18 Jun 94 BK1806142994 Hong Kong AFP English BFN [Text] Kabul, June 18 (AFP) -- Afghan Prime Minister Golboddin Hekmatyar has called for preliminary peace talks, to coincide with a ceasefire and the reopening of blockaded national highways, a government official said Saturday. Shams, the deputy foreign minister, said Hekmatyar had agreed Friday to attend a special conference to decide the future leadership of Afghanistan, but had called for a preliminary peace meeting first. According to last year's Islamabad and Jalalabad peace accords, the terms of office of both Hekmatyar and his rival President Borhanoddin Rabbani expire on June 28. "We need to do something before this date in order to avoid a power vacuum," Shams noted. A senior pro-Rabbani commander, Ismael Khan, the governor of Herat Province, met with Hekmatyar outside Kabul on Thursday and invited the prime minister to attend a leaders' conference in Herat to explore ways of ending the ongoing power struggle, which has provoked steady fighting in Kabul since January 1. "The preliminary meeting is to decide among other things about this venue, but Hekmatyar has no objection to Herat," Shams told AFP, adding that he was to meet Hekmatyar later Saturday to finalise details of the proposed preliminary meeting. But with time running out fast, and with no announcement by Rabbani that he will step down at he end of the month, observers here said the odds were against either Hekmatyar's "preliminary" meeting or the proposed leaders' conference taking place. Meanwhile, Kabul was quiet Saturday after heavy fighting late Friday in the south and west of the capital. Hekmatyar's Hezb-e Eslami faction guerrillas based in south Kabul's Darulaman Palace said they were observing a ceasefire from Saturday but reported heavy fighting Friday night between Hezb and the Shiite Harakat-e Eslami faction, which is allied to Rabbani. To the west, near the now deserted Kabul University, the other Shiite faction, Hezb-e Wahdat, which is nominally allied to Hekmatyar, fought with pro-Rabbani troops overnight, according to residents. Heavy weapons' fire was traded for more than eight hours, but there were no immediate reports of casualties.
