FBIS3-38908 "drweu027_o_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 CYPRUS Government To Raise Issues at Proximity Talks NC0802222794 Nicosia I SIMERINI in Greek 8 Feb 94 p 1 NC0802222794 Nicosia I SIMERINI Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Report by Kostas Venizelos] [Text] The Cypriot Government has prepared a list of issues and questions to discuss at the proximity talks. The list includes issues of security and legal aspects that may create danger from the pseudostate's direct or indirect recognition. The United Nations has also submitted a list of issues in preparing the agenda for the talks that will begin late next week. According to reliable I SIMERINI information, the government will raise the following issues and questions: First: The simultaneous opening of Varosha and Nicosia Airport. The president will set a period of 18 months for the implementation of these measures. Second: There must be no occupation army around the Famagusta fenced-off area. This falls under the "security" aspect. Third: Access to the fenced-off area must be possible from the free areas. The Greek side wants a road through Dherinia but there is also talk of a passage through the British bases (in Ayios Nikolaos). This is also a security issue. Fourth: The issue of travel documents. The passports that the Turkish Cypriots will use when traveling from Nicosia Airport and how they will be stamped. Fifth: Who will have control of the sea area around Varosha? Sixth: How will the Cypriot Government transfer control of Nicosia Airport to the United Nations? Seventh: The Cypriot Government will not pay even one cent to repair the airport and Famagusta's neighborhoods that will be placed under UN control. The United Nations yesterday submitted their own list of issues. Gustave Feissel, the UN secretary general's alternate special representative in Cyprus, and UN Political Adviser John Paul Kavanagh yesterday met President Glavkos Kliridhis and Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktas. The key points, as they have described them, concern security issues raised by both sides, access to the fenced-off area, movement from and to Varosha, passports, stamps, authorities and how they will be transferred to the United Nations, who will have the right to land and take off at the airport (Turkish Cypriot Airlines), and timetables.
