FBIS3-8773 "dreeu050_c_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Tamara Radar Said Exported Illegally to U.S. AU1403172194 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES in Czech 11 Mar 94 pp 1-2 AU1403172194 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Article by Jaroslav Kmenta: "Oman Purchased the Tamara Radar System, but the Americans Are Assessing It"] [Text] Prague--The Tamara passive radar system, a Czech state-of-the-art air-defense product, was evidently exported illegally to the United States in 1991. This statement was made by an Army source, who, with reference to his position, does not wish to be named. He said that, according to the customs and commercial documents, Tamara should have been exported to Oman. However, it was not transported to the Arab sultanate but was exported from the Czech Republic to the United States via a Polish port, said the source. The U.S. Department of Defense was interested in Tamara. According to the experts, the Czech radar system can reveal even the "invisible" Stealth aircraft, whose development cost the Pentagon billions of dollars. The U.S. Department of Defense, therefore, decided to have a look at Tamara. However, Czechoslovakia would obviously not have sold Tamara to the Americans because U.S. research would have diminished the customers' interest in this product. Jaromir Novotny, director of the Defense Ministry's Foreign Relations Department, has confirmed that the Americans now own Tamara. The Trade and Industry Ministry has confirmed that, in 1991, a license was granted to Tesla Pardubice, the manufacturer of Tamara, to export the radar system to Oman. It is apparent from the documentation available that the Omani Defense Ministry had pledged to be its end user. Germany is the only Western country to have this state-of-the-art radar system in its arsenal; it acquired it after the dissolution of the GDR National People's Army. Communist Czechoslovakia had sold Tamara and its predecessor, Ramona, only to the Soviet Union and Syria. Josef Opocensky, the director of the Tesla Pardubice state enterprise, does not know anything about Tamara being exported to the United States and insists that it was sold to Oman.
