FBIS3-35473 "drnes038yy_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 February 1994 ARAB-ISRAELI TALKS Some Movement Reported at Paris Economic Talks TA2502092294 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in English 0500 GMT 25 Feb 94 TA2502092294 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] In the Paris talks on the economic aspects of the peaceful relationship between Israel and the Palestinians, there has been some movement following a night-long session. Finance Minister Avraham Shohat said earlier he would not agree to endanger Israel's economy by giving in to the latest Palestinian demands. On the background leading to the deadlock, which focuses on the issue of customs, this report from Michel Zlotowsky in the French capital: [Begin Zlotowsky recording] Sources close to the negotiators told Qol Yisra'el that everything that had been discussed during the five previous meetings now needs to be reassessed and rediscussed. We never said it would be fun and easy. It is difficult, it is complicated, and it will indeed take some time, said the sources. It is clear now after the first meeting yesterday that the Palestinians did not buy the Israeli idea of a customs envelope, meaning that Israel and Gaza-Jericho would constitute one bloc for customs-related issues. In fact, the Palestinians did not have second thoughts, but something happened between the fifth and sixth round compelling them to review their position. This something, according to observers here, may well be the economic agreements signed with Egypt, and mainly with Jordan. Following King Husayn's stern warnings last month, a Palestinian delegation led by Faruq Qaddumi went to Amman and signed within two days a set of agreements at the beginning of January. Now the Palestinians seem to be tied by those agreements, preventing them from (?constituting) this one market proposed by Israel. How to break this deadlock is precisely what is being discussed. [end recording] The talks are to resume next week. Finance Minister Shohat is returning home today.
