FBIS4-58593 "drnes087_j_94003" FBIS-NES-94-087 Daily Report 4 May 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Update on Events 4, 5 May; Fighting Reported in Dhamar Update on Events 4, 5 May; Fighting Reported in Dhamar Council of Ministers Meet JN0405195394 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1700 GMT 4 May 94 JN0405195394 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Text] The Council of Ministers held its periodic session this morning under Muhammad Sa'id al-Attar, deputy prime minister, the minister of industry, and head of the General Investment Authority. At the outset of the session, the council recited the opening verses of the Koran for the souls of the martyrs of the incidents in 'Imran, including First Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Hasan Makki's bodyguard. The council discussed the wicked attack on Dr. Hasan Makki. It stressed that the concerned quarters should follow the issue and arrest the rest of the perpetrators and those who cover for them and bring all of them to trial. Moreover, the council decided to offer full legal care for the families of the three heroic martyrs who were guarding Dr. Makki and to grant the families of those martyrs medals, rank, and appropriate compensation. The Council of Ministers also reviewed a report on the meeting held by the ministerial committee in charge of following up and facilitating the work of the Military Committee formed by the Council of Ministers and headed by the minister of defense. The Military Committee was delegated to draw a plan to move the military forces from what used to be called the border areas prior to unity between the north and the south in implementation of the first part of the accord document. It was supposed to present this plan during this session. The council agreed to continue with the previous [word indistinct] and to have the Military Committee present a detailed report on the results of its actions. The council also decided to amend the bill on weight loads presented by the Roads and Bridges General Authority. The council also reviewed a report by the Ministry of Health on the efforts exerted by the ministry to save and treat the victims of the regrettable incidents in 'Imran.
