FBIS4-23652 "drafr113_c_94007" FBIS-AFR-94-113 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA South African Press Review for 10 Jun South African Press Review for 10 Jun MB1006141694 MB1006141694 BFN [Editorial Report] BUSINESS DAY Civil Service Affirmative Action -- "The public service affirmative action programme announced on Wednesday by Minister Zola Skweyiya is a moderate plan," states the Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English on 10 June in a page-8 editorial. "With two related reservations that will need to be addressed, it looks like a careful attempt to build an appropriately balanced public service within a fiscally responsible framework." "The main criticism is Skweyiya's failure to acknowledge that the public service is simply too big." The second troublesome aspect is the decision "to introduce earnings parity in the former homelands. While the differentials had become a source of conflict, the new government may discover that taking the line of least resistance is not always the most appropriate response." The editorial does say, however, that in regard to the 1,000 new senior service posts "it is necessary that the racial and political imbalances at the top be remedied." In conclusion, the BUSINESS DAY warns that "the form the affirmative action programme takes is crucial. Competency cannot be sacrificed for the sake of achieving an acceptable racial balance." NEW NATION Cabinet Salary Perks Criticized -- "Frugality will have to be the watchword of the democratic government as it begins to settle into office," begins the Johannesburg NEW NATION in English on 10 June in a page-8 editorial. "Everything must be done to make sure that the purse strings of the state treasury are sufficeinetly taut and so ensure that we direct as much of our resources into the process of reconstruction and development. We make this point against the background of concern in the democratic movement around the size of cabinet ministers' pay packets." The editorial recognizes the need to give ministers an adequate salary, but much of the problem surrounding this issue is "the secrecy that shrouds the size" of ministerial salaries. Transparency is important, the editorial stresses. "Secrecy will only serve to fuel speculation on the exact scale of benefits cabinet ministers are being paid. And this will not do any good for the moral leadership, which is as important as political leadership." "Without the necessary moral leadership, trust will fritter away. And that will not make for stable government."
