FBIS4-14104 "drnes082yy_94006" FBIS-NES-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks Israeli Sources Assail Palestinian Procrastination Israeli Sources Assail Palestinian Procrastination TA2704113394 Tel Aviv DAVAR in Hebrew 27 Apr 94 p 2 TA2704113394 Tel Aviv DAVAR Hebrew BFN [Report by On Levi] [Text] Senior sources in the Israeli peace delegation yesterday sharply criticized the Palestinians for delaying the arrival of their representatives in the territories. These representatives are supposed to prepare the arrival of the Palestinian police and the transfer of civilian powers from the Civil Administration to the Palestinian autonomy authorities. The Israeli sources said that "the fact that the Palestinians are not sending their people to Gaza and Jericho prior to the signing of the agreement could harm their ability to assume responsibility for these areas after it is signed." The sources claim that this issue has been raised many times during the talks, but to date the Palestinians did nothing about it. According to Nabil Sha'th, head of the Palestinian delegation, some 6,000 Palestinian policemen will arrive in the autonomous areas 12 hours after the agreement is signed. Sources in the Palestinian delegation yesterday confirmed that the issue was raised many times. They expressed understanding for the Israeli concern, but added that it has still not been decided who will serve in what post and therefore they have difficulties in starting operations on the ground. The Palestinian sources added, however, that in the last few meetings it has been agreed that the Palestinian policemen will arrive in the autonomy a short time after the signing of the agreement. They will arrive with their arms and other military equipment and enter the Palestinian police bases. It was also decided that as long as the IDF does not transfer the responsibility to the Palestinian police, the policemen will travel unarmed in the autonomous areas in order to avoid mishaps.
