FBIS3-12441 "drnes040_o_94003" FBIS-NES-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 SYRIA Commentaries Examine Israel, Hebron Massacre Israel Linked to Lebanese Church Bombing JN2702145294 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1237 GMT 27 Feb 94 JN2702145294 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Station commentary] [Text] Gentlemen: The explosion during the Sunday mass at the Sayyidat al-Najat church in Juniyah today directly poses this question: Who is behind this treacherous act? Whose sinful hands have once again been extended in less than 48 hours to assassinate a new group of worshipers praying to God at the Juniyah church, exactly as their brothers were doing two days ago at the Ibrahimi Mosque in Hebron? Who are those involved in killing the worshipers inside the houses of worship? Who are those who skillfully dissociate themselves from responsibility and hold others responsible? Can anyone doubt the fact that there is a clear link between the Hebron massacre, perpetrated at the Ibrahimi Mosque during the dawn prayers, and the Sunday mass massacre at the Sayyidat al-Najat church in Juniyah? What objectives does this clear link between the two crimes conceal? The answers do not need much thought: It is the hands of rancor, extremism, and terrorism. These are the same hands that were created, planted, and sponsored by Israel in the region, giving rise to vehement rancor at the hands of ruthless and fanatic settlers. Thus, these settlers shed blood in a sacred place in Hebron. These hands today dealt a treacherous new and mean blow to the Juniyah church through cheap agents who sold themselves, their conscience and homeland, and the blood of their brothers to the enemy at a cheap price. No doubt, Israel is the party behind today's explosion in Juniyah. It seeks to achieve objectives that are known to everyone. Foremost among these objectives is to conceal the Hebron massacre and create an atmosphere of sedition and disturbance in Lebanon. Israel is the only party interested in fomenting such seditions, so they will spread not only in Lebanon but in the entire region, as well. Only in such an atmosphere can Israel conceal its crimes and its terrorism and exploit this situation in order to achieve its schemes designed to control Arab land and resources and this nation's destiny. However, today's explosion cannot conceal those who are behind such crimes. In fact, today's crime urges the international community and the world to assume a greater responsibility for confronting the chain of Israeli crimes and massacres and taking deterrent measures to curb Zionist terrorism. We reiterate that this terrorism threatens the situation in the whole region with explosion. Will the world contemplate this issue, make up its mind, and end Zionist terrorism and aggression before it is too late?
