FBIS4-31516 "dreeu112_a_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 ALBANIA Leader Denies `Party' Talks With Serbs Leader Denies `Party' Talks With Serbs AU0906205894 Tirana TVSH Television Network in Albanian 1800 GMT 9 Jun 94 AU0906205894 Tirana TVSH Television Network Albanian BFN [Interview with Socialist Party Deputy Chairman Servet Pellumbi by Timo Luto in Tirana; date not given -- recorded] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] [Luto] A meeting organized by the Bulgarian Socialist Party was held in Sofia, in which a Socialist Party [PS] delegation took part. What was this meeting about and who were the participants from the Socialist Party? [Pellumbi] Yes, I think this problem has been largely politicized by the mass media and has been presented as if a party meeting was held there between the PS representatives and representatives from the Serbian party. In fact, this was a scientific meeting where scholars from 13 countries participated. Two of our people took part: Luan Shahollari, a well-known economist, and Vasillaq Kureta, a philosopher and doctor of sciences who deals precisely with national and ethnic problems. In the framework of this seminar, or rather scientific international meeting, these comrades met with all the participants of this conference. They met with the Serbian representatives, but it was not a meeting between the two parties. Our friends that were sent to Sofia had no status or mandate to hold party talks with representatives of the Serbian Socialist Party. That is why this was not a party meeting, but it was a meeting just like the meeting with all the participants in this conference, discussing well-known problems that the Balkans is facing. As our friends have informed us, they presented to the Serbian representatives all our options on the national question and the Kosova issue by upholding the already well-known stances that the PS maintains but also predicted by other political forces, which are much or less the same. [passage omitted]
