FBIS4-38756 "drsov106_d_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-106 Daily Report 26 May 1994 Regional Affairs Decree on Steps to Stabilize Oblast Economy Decree on Steps to Stabilize Oblast Economy 944F0751A Novosibirsk SOVETSKAYA SIBIR in Russian 26 May 94 p 1 944F0751A Novosibirsk SOVETSKAYA SIBIR Russian CSO ["Decree No. 174 of the Novosibirsk Oblast Administration, Dated 16 May 1994, City of Novosibirsk": "On Measures To Stabilize the Financial State of the Oblast"] [Text] Under conditions of severe shortage of funds and sharp drop in the income portion of the budget (14.5 percent execution), the need to accomplish tasks of life sustenance for the oblast (provision of essential products, compensation payments to children, winter preparation measures), and with the aim of introducing a rigid economic regime: 1. The directors of funds (road, pension, insurance support for employment, social insurance, mandatory medical insurance, ecological) and the heads of committees and directorates of the administration shall: --present prior to 1 June 1994, to the deputy heads of the oblast administration in charge of these funds and directorates, information applicable as of 1 May 1994 regarding the assets available in fund accounts, special fund accounts, and special accounts of administration directorates, as well as estimates of the income and expenditures in funds and accounts of special-purpose financing for 1994; --present monthly reports to the Directorate of Finance and Tax Policy of the oblast administration on the movement of funds and special accounts of directorates, prior to the 10th of the next month. 2. Deputy heads of the oblast administration shall present data on funds remaining in accounts and verified estimates of income and expenditures to the Directorate of Finance and Tax Policy by 10 June 1994. 3. To establish that when the necessary information is not presented in timely, complete, or reliable fashion, measures of administrative responsibility are applied in accordance with existing legislation; 4. To present for ratification the statute on licensing certain varieties of activity and on establishing the licensing bureau. 5. That the Directorate of Finance and Tax Policy of the oblast administration (A.P. Stepanov) shall: --draft a decree on amending the procedure for taxation of enterprises engaged in small-scale retail trade; --establish strict control over the expenditure of budgetary assets and nonbudget funds of the oblast. 6. That the State Tax Inspectorate (V.A. Kamyshan) shall increase supervision of the timeliness and completeness of receipt of revenues into the oblast and local budgets. 7. I reserve for myself the right to administer all the financial assets of the oblast administration as well as fund assets that are temporarily free. [Signed] I.I. INDINOK Head of Administration
