FBIS3-16144 "drsov049_h_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Moldova Sets Up New TV, Radio Company AU1103191394 Bucharest Radio Romania Network in Romanian 1400 GMT 11 Mar 94 AU1103191394 Bucharest Radio Romania Network Language: Romanian Article Type:BFN [Cristian Nita dispatch from Chisinau] [Text] Mr. Mircea Snegur, president of the Republic of Moldova today signed a decree on setting up the state company Teleradio Moldova. Here is the text of the decree: In order to ensure the objective nature of information, to exclude the danger of a monopolizing of the radio and television by parties, social and political organizations, and their coalitions, and to ensure the efficient activity of the radio and television on the basis of democratic principles and to the benefit of the state and society, the president of the Republic of Moldova decrees: Article 1 The National Radio-Television of the Republic of Moldova is abolished. Article 2 The state company Teleradio Moldova is set up. Article 3 Those employees laid off from the National Radio- Television of the Republic of Moldova will be assigned to other jobs, in accordance with existing laws. Article 4 The state company Teleradio Moldova will be run by the chairman of the company and its activity will be coordinated by a Coordinating Council. Article 5 The management of the state company Teleradio Moldova will work out a draft set of rules for the company and will submit it for approval within a month. Article 6 Until the passing of the audiovisual law, the state company Teleradio Moldova is empowered to use the radio and television stations operating in the republic, while the Coordinating Council is empowered to coordinate their activity. Article 7 The appointment and dismissal of the chairman of the state company Teleradio Moldova and the approval of the composition of the Coordinating Council is made by decrees signed by the president of the Republic of Moldova, which will be subsequently confirmed by the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova. The hiring of employees for the state company Teleradio Moldova will be made on the basis of contracts. In accordance with existing laws, the employees of the state company Teleradio Moldova cannot belong to political parties or social or political organizations. Article 8 The government will finance the activity of the state company Teleradio Moldova from the republican budget and will take the necessary steps to ensure the company's technological updating. Article 9 The present decree takes effect on the date of its signing. The decree is signed by Mr. Mircea Snegur, president of the Republic of Moldova, and is dated 11 March 1994.
