FBIS4-62629 "drsov096_a_94017" FBIS-SOV-94-096 Daily Report 17 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Argentine Foreign Minister on Talks With Kozyrev Argentine Foreign Minister on Talks With Kozyrev LD1705141794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1303 GMT 17 May 94 LD1705141794 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Aleksandr Voropayev] [Text] Moscow may 17 TASS -- "You can be optimistic, because the reforms, which took the other countries several decades to accomplish, are proceeding at a much faster pace in your country," Argentine Minister for Foreign Affairs Guido di Tella, currently paying an official visit to the Russian capital, told ITAR-TASS. "Much is being written in the Western press about the catastrophic situation in Russia," he said. "However, I got quite a different impression. I am witnessing a country which is attaining its goals in spite of huge difficulties. The situation in Russia is difficult, indeed, but it should not be gauged by the same yardsticks as in Western Europe. They must be different for Russia. In my opinion, Russia is today enjoying great respect on the international arena," the minister stated. Touching on his talks with Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev, Guido di Tella described them as frank and friendly, conducive to the raising of mutual relations to a qualitatively new level. Assessing the present state of the Argentine-Russian relations, the minister said that they were unquestionably better than at any other past period, because "it is very difficult to be on friendly terms with communists". It is possible to promote friendly business relations with Russia today, "because we speak the same language, think in like terms, adhere to principles of tolerance and constructive relations". The minister believes that Russia has a great future. "Naturally," he said, "development never runs smoothly. There are always ups and downs." Noting that Russia was using different means to promote its reforms, the minister stressed that it was achieving successes in spite of all the existing difficulties. In his opinion, the only thing that Russia needed today was "some order in the country. It must not invent any new social systems".
