FBIS4-21236 "jptdd017__l94079" JPRS-TDD-94-017-L JPRS Narcotics 28 February 1994 WEST EUROPE DENMARK National, Local Drug Policies, Treatment Programs Being National, Local Drug Policies, Treatment Programs Being Reevaluated Vesterbro Residents Want More Programs for Addicts 94WD0269F Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 28 Feb 94 p 4 94WD0269F Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Danish CSO [Article by Lotte Mejlhede and Mikkel Thrane: ``Vesterbro Is Losing Its Patience''] [Text] ``Shoot them in the back or treat them'' was the discussion topic when citizens, drug addicts, police, and care providers from the Vesterbro section of Copenhagen met yesterday to talk about drug problems in their hard-hit part of town. The usual tolerance of the people of Vesterbro toward the numerous drug addicts with whom they share their streets, alleys, and even their stairways and back yards, is beginning to fall apart. As a result, the people are demanding more places of asylum for drug addicts, more outreach, more treatment centers, and more recreational facilities for the area's children, so that they do not turn to drugs. But the people of Vesterbro are also tired of having their neighborhood be a magnet for drug addicts from all other parts of town. The other sections of Copenhagen and the rest of the country must be obligated to make their own effort to stop exporting their drug addicts to Vesterbro, many people said. Although snow wrapped the neighborhood in a dense white haze, many people attended the hearing at the Vesterbro House of Culture. Leo Lorke from the police stressed the need for better cooperation among the many entities that are working with drug addicts. Ole Hansgaard and Niels Christense, representing the drug addicts of Vesterbro, called for greater tolerance. ``Even though we have a serious problem, we are not second-class people,'' they said. Physician Karsten Chr. Hansen called for better treatment for drug addicts. ``All too often, drug addicts have been singled out and given special treatment in a negative sense. If we are to make progress, drug addicts must be seen as people like us, with individual needs.'' The goal of the hearing was to create a dialog among the various sides, which it did. Now their demands are being sent to the politicians at Christiansborg [parliament building].
