FBIS3-20652 "jpcen002___94060" JPRS-CEN-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology China: Energy 23 February 1994 NUCLEAR POWER Two More Nuclear Plants Planned for Guangdong 40100039A Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 23 Feb 94 p 1 40100039A Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Zheng Caixiong] [Text] Guangzhou--Guangdong officials have revealed plans to build two more nuclear power plants. Zhu Senlin, the provincial governor, said yesterday that construction will soon begin on a nuclear power plant in Yangjiang and on the second phase of the newly-build Daya Bay reactor. He made the remarks at the ongoing Provincial People's Congress. The second phase of the Daya Bay plant is set to begin late this year. It includes installation of two units each with a capacity of 900,000 kilowatts. Situated five kilometers away from the main plant, the generators are expected to be in operation within five years. The plant in the coastal city of Yangjiang is expected to cost over 6 billion yuan ($689.6 million) and have four units with a combined capacity of 4 million kilowatts. Construction on the project is expected to begin in the next two years and it is expected to begin operation before 2000. When the three plants come on line, Guangdong will have a nuclear power installation capacity of 10 million kilowatts. The Guangdong provincial government has begun to raise funds for the two nuclear projects, which will cost several billions of dollars. Advanced equipment and technology imported from abroad will be used, Zhu said. "We also intend to build a fourth and the fifth nuclear power plant to sustain the province's economic boom, but we have to wait for the approval of the central government," the governor added. The electricity supply in Guangzhou is 30 percent short of demand. Guangdong's first nuclear power plant, the Daya Bay plant in Shenzhen Special Economic Zone, opened on February 6, when its first nuclear power generator started operation. The $4 billion plant has two nuclear power generating units with a capacity of 900,000 kilowatts each. Its second set of units will come on stream in the next four months. Developed by Guangdong and Hong Kong, the plant will generate 10 billion kilowatt hours every year. However, only 30 percent of the electricity will be supplied to the provincial power grid. The rest will be sold to Hong Kong to repay overseas loans totalling $3.6 billion. The Daya plant was designed by the French and uses reactors and other equipment imported from France and Britain. China's first nuclear station, Qinshan Nuclear Power Plant in East China's Zhejiang Province, began operation in 1991. The station, with a capacity of 300,000 kilowatts, was designed by China.
