FBIS4-40932 "drsov119_b_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-119 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues `Memorial,' Entrepreneurs on Crime Edict `Memorial,' Entrepreneurs on Crime Edict MK1806130994 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 18 Jun 94 p 2 MK1806130994 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Russian BFN ["NG" report under the "Repercussion" rubric: "Yeltsin's Edict Excites Emotions. `Memorial' and Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Make Statements"] [Text] In its statement, the "Memorial" human rights center believes that Russian President Boris Yeltsin's signing of an edict "On Urgent Measures to Protect the Population From Banditry and Other Forms of Organized Crime" puts in serious doubt the possibility of building a law-governed state in Russia. "Facing a serious threat to society and the state emanating from the rising tide of crime, the president and the executive branch have decided to sacrifice the principles of Law and Democracy," the document underlines. "At the same time, the Constitution, to whose letter and spirit the authorities only recently vowed to be true, is being violated in the crudest way. Also being ignored are international treaties and federal laws, in particular the Russian Federation Criminal Process Code. The authors of the edict have acknowledged their impotence to cope with crime within the limits of the law. The authorities in every country are tempted to achieve stability and order by using dictatorial and law-contravening methods. We do know from history that totalitarian regimes -- Soviet Russia, fascist Italy -- coped with crime. But at what price?" In the meantime, the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs [RUIE] states that "in its scale, cynicism, and impunity the terror thrust on society by criminal groups is gradually turning from an essentially criminal factor into a factor containing a real threat to the social foundations and state security. "There should be a clear realization of the fact that the situation is already slipping out of control; hence it calls for extraordinary measures. Otherwise, there will be a criminal degradation of society. The should be not so much good intentions as energetic, uncompromising actions to eradicate crime that has gotten out of control." The RUIE statement underscores that industrialists and entrepreneurs of Russia are prepared to support any resolute steps by the president, the Federal Assembly, and the government to impose law and order and to provide guarantees of personal security for the people of Russia.
