FBIS4-56212 "drlat084_a_94016" FBIS-LAT-94-084 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Commentary: U.S. Policy Blocks Economic Opening Commentary: U.S. Policy Blocks Economic Opening PA3004034794 Havana Radio Havana Cuba in Spanish 0000 GMT 28 Apr 94 PA3004034794 Havana Radio Havana Cuba Spanish BFN [Commentary by Roberto Morejon; from the "Evening Information Review" program] [Text] If the U.S. economic blockade were lifted, Cuban emigrants could invest in the island in prioritized areas, such as those devoted to promoting exports. When addressing the plenum of The Nation and the Emigrants Conference, Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage confirmed emigrants are not deprived of the right to invest in Cuba, although the specifics of that process are pending definition. Future facilities for Cuban-born entrepreneurs are part of the process of normalizing relations with the expatriate Cuban community, the first part of which involved holding the aforementioned conference in Havana last weekend. At that time, the Cuban Government launched a number of measures aimed at normalizing ties with emigrants, among them eliminating the requirement that those who leave the country legally wait five years before returning. Young emigrants will also be permitted to study at Cuban universities provided they defray the cost. Travelers will not be required to pay for a hotel room upon arriving on the island, and the Foreign Relations Ministry will create a special department to deal with the affairs of the expatriate Cuban community. Possible emigrant investment in Cuba in the near future complements the aforementioned measures and reveals the soundness of previous steps taken to reach the decision. Recently, a meeting between Cuban officials and Cuban-American owners and businessmen, known in the United States by its acronym OCA, was held in Havana to explore the possibility of joint ventures. A desire has been expressed by both sides, but that desire is stumbling upon the obstacles of the U.S. economic blockade, worsened by the implementation of the so-called Torricelli Law. The same emigrants, who met recently in this capital in The Nation and the Emigrants Conference, agreed on the need to lift the blockade because, in addition to threatening the very existence of 11 million Cubans, it blocks the normalization of ties between Cubans on and off the island. As stated by some of the participants at the Havana conference, the Cuban economic opening is being blocked by the stubborn isolationist policy of Washington.
