FBIS4-20776 "jpnea019___94038" JPRS-NEA-94-019 JPRS Near East & South Asia 5 March 1994 SOUTH ASIA INDIA Parliamentary Consensus on Kashmir Lauded Parliamentary Consensus on Kashmir Lauded 94AS0233E Madras THE HINDU (International Edition) in English 5 Mar 94 p 8 94AS0233E Madras THE HINDU (International Edition) English CSO [Article: "A Historic Resolution"] [Text] History was written into the proceedings of Parliament when the two Houses unanimously passed a resolution reiterating the people's resolve to resist any attempts to separate Jammu and Kashmir from the rest of the country and condemning strongly the continued abetment and encouragement Pakistan was extending to subversive and terrorist activities in the State. In a rare exhibition of unanimity, members of Parliament belonging to various parties and groups had unequivocally and in the strongest terms told Pakistan that any attempt from any quarter to interfere in the internal affairs of India would be met resolutely. Coming at a time when Pakistan is trying to internationalise the Kashmir issue knowing full well that it was violating the Shimla agreement both in word and spirit and resolution adopted by Parliament should convince the outside world that Pakistan's anti-India campaign was going to achieve little. The resolution also highlights the fact that sophisticated weapons were being supplied by Pakistan to the militants in Jammu and Kashmir and the main objective of the resolution was to expose this before the world. Pakistan must now understand that everyone in India knows for certain that it is the unconcealed sponsor of the armed struggle in Kashmir and all its efforts to grab the State by providing material help to the insurgents occasionally covering up its tracks if only to mislead the international community when it comes close to questioning the extent of involvement will come to nought. A few thousand mercenaries let loose by Pakistan can no doubt create havoc but to think that they can pin down a large Army and a determined people who are prepared to resist efforts to destabilise the State is nothing but foolish. Unfortunately the pro-Pakistani fighters have extended their area of operations to newer districts of Jammu and the administration which is engaged in tackling them has already registered some notable successes. While the rise in the armed capabilities of the more extreme groups is essentially due to the lavish Pakistani sponsorship, Islamabad is never tired of talking about the violation of human rights in the sensitive State in order to divert the attention of the world community from reality. The Armed Forces and the paramilitary outfits dealing with an unrelenting enemy which is responsible for swelling the ranks of the fanatical militants have been showing tremendous restraint even if there have been occasional aberrations but to say there has been a largescale violation of human rights in the Indian State of Jammu and Kashmir is a travesty of truth. That much was proved during the recent visit to the State of four European envoys who reported that militancy was getting support from across the border. India must also resort to an effective campaign against Pakistan which is indulging in an intensive diplomatic offensive coupled with the instigation of more violence in the Valley with the sole objective of bringing the Kashmir situation back to the world's attention. Of course, Pakistan's domestic compulsions are also involved in its efforts to whip up anti-Indian feelings. Some of the revelations made by repentant militants about being ill-treated in Pakistani training camps must have opened the eyes of those who took to arms in a fit of misguided zeal. Now that the national consensus on Kashmir is very clear it should be obvious to Pakistan that it is well nigh impossible to even seek to dictate the agenda by remote control. It is now for New Delhi to evolve a game plan on Kashmir that enables it to win the battle for the hearts and minds of the people and brings into being a truly democratic structure to replace what looks like an embittered and traumatised security apparatus.
