FBIS3-34658 "drnes030dd_94014" FBIS-NES-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 Palestinian Affairs PLO Leaders, Opposition Analyze Cairo Agreement Hamas Spokesman Denounces Accord JN1302094394 Amman AL-DUSTUR in Arabic 13 Feb 94 pp 28, 20 JN1302094394 Amman AL-DUSTUR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [By Tawfiq 'Abid] [Excerpts] Engineer Ibrahim Ghawshah, official spokesman for the Islamic Resistance Movement, Hamas, has stated that the Cairo agreement reflects Zionist control of all matters and clearly shows what happens when agreements are signed in the absence of a balance of power. That's why we were not surprised at the Zionist military quarters' support and the preliminary Palestinian reaction of frustration and denuncation. In an interview with AL-DUSTUR Ghawshah said: Anyone who reads the Cairo agreement will be angry and furious and will wonder how any Palestinian side could sign such an agreement? [passage omitted] Ghawshah said: This agreement, which was overshadowed by the negative reactions of even 'Arafat and his entourage, will make the Palestinian people, after recovering from their shock and bitterness, forcefully support their basic constants of holding onto the Palestinian land and liberation, no matter the cost or the arduous road. He added: It has become evident that the Zionist octopus, which clings to every inch of the occupied Palestinian soil, will give up this land only if a lethal blow is dealt to its head. [passage omitted] On the new mediations between Hamas and Israel, Engineer Ghawshah said: Rabin has failed to solve or emerge from the security dilemma because five months after the Gaza-Jericho agreement, and 'Arafat's instructions to halt the intifadah and his promise to punish those who do not respond to these instructions, intifadah and jihad operations continue to take place and to daily constitute a slap on the face of Rabin's government . Ghawshah said: The Rabin government sent many ranking military and influential people to hold a dialogue with some of the Hamas leaders who are in the Zionist jails. The reply of the imprisoned brothers was clear and categorical; the refusal to stop the intifadah and jihad operations. This is the stand by which Hamas abides, a stand rejecting any dialogue with the usurper Zionist enemy. All national and popular liberation movements abide by such a stand in their confrontation of occupation. [passage omitted]
