FBIS4-20276 "drweu083_o_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-083 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 CYPRUS Clark Ends Talks on Confidence-Building Measures Clark Ends Talks on Confidence-Building Measures Ozgur Urges Clark To Resume Talks NC2804195794 Nicosia BRTK Television Network in Turkish 1630 GMT 28 Apr 94 NC2804195794 Nicosia BRTK Television Network Turkish BFN ["Text" of statement by Ozker Ozgur, Turkish Cypriot minister of state and deputy prime minister and leader of the Republican Turkish Party, in Nicosia on 28 April -- recorded] [Text] The indirect talks on the package of confidence-building measures seem to have broken off. However, I do not wish to draw the conclusion that the talks have completely broken off. It is common knowledge that the confidence-building measures package is a whole package. The indirect talks focused on three or four main points, which were related to the question of access from south Cyprus to Maras [Varosha], the map of the area, the use of Nicosia International Airport by the airline companies, and the customs procedures. The question of access from south Cyprus to the closed area of Maras was brought up in the meeting that was held today. However, Joe Clark, the UN secretary general's special representative, did not wish to inform the Turkish Cypriot side of the Greek Cypriot side's approach and the UN officials' views on the other matters. I have already said that the package is a whole package. It has been described as the confidence-building measures package. In view of that, a middle way cannot be found if the views of the sides on the whole of the package are not brought to light. Selecting only one issue from the package and concentrating on it without focusing attention on the others will not move the sides anywhere. In other words, a mistake has been made in connection with the method that has been applied in the process. That mistake has to be quickly rectified. Therefore, Mr. Joe Clark must make an appropriate assessment on the situation at this point. He must seriously consider what he should do to resuscitate the negotiations process.
