FBIS4-17096 "drsov077_a_94020" FBIS-SOV-94-077 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Churkin Seen as Victim of `Inner Apparatus Intrigue' Churkin Seen as Victim of `Inner Apparatus Intrigue' MK2104101094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 21 Apr 94 p 1 MK2104101094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Vladimir Abarinov report in the "Power" column: "The Bosnian Crisis as a Cause for Apparatus Intrigue. The Security Council Has Resolved To Continue Negotiations With the Serbs"] [Text] The subject of a Bosnian settlement has suddenly taken on a scandalous turn. As SEGODNYA reported earlier, the day before yesterday the Russian Foreign Affairs Ministry prepared the text of a presidential statement, but the final text that emerged from the Kremlin office that day was a strongly watered-down version. It is not ruled out that this is a totally different text. At the same time, a Foreign Ministry spokesman denied "reports by some mass media outlets" about differences between Andrey Kozyrev and Vitaliy Churkin on the Bosnian problem. This statement is more than suspicious: At least we are not aware of any such reports. Yesterday morning a new denial followed, this time by Air Force Commander Yevgeniy Podkolzin. The general described as "speculation" reports that the Russian battalion can be withdrawn from Sarajevo. During the whole day there was a solid flow of denials and similar statements via various communications channels. Toward evening the presidential press service circulated a report about a session of the Russian Federation Security Council. The text says that the session, "in addition to the planned agenda," considered the "situation in Bosnia and the tragedy in Gorazde." It resolved: There is no tragedy. This is our comment on the phrase: "The possibility of a peace agreement on settling the conflict remains real." Judging by a number of signs, what is now happening Moscow is not just an attempt to prevent a large-scale use of force in Bosnia, but an inner apparatus intrigue whose victim could become the president's special envoy, Vitaliy Churkin.
