FBIS4-8632 "dreeu073_y_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-073 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal Ambassador to UN on Responsibility for Gorazde Ambassador to UN on Responsibility for Gorazde LD1504004794 Belgrade TANJUG in English 2351 GMT 14 Apr 94 LD1504004794 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN [Text] New York, April 14 (TANJUG) -- Yugoslav Ambassador to the U.N. Dragomir Djokic on Thursday warned U.N. Security Council President Colin Keating that a tolerant stand of the U.N. towards Bosnian Moslems leads to an esclation of the civil war in Bosnia-Herzegovina and that the world organization should be directly engaged in finding a peaceful solution to that the crisis in that former Yugoslav republic. It is important to do everything possible for the Moslems to stop attacking and that the peace process is restored, Djokic said. Djokic was received by Keating at his own request, since he wanted to inform the Security Council president about Yugoslavia's stands regarding the latest developments in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Djokic said that the Security Council should not have reacted so mildly to the Moslem attacks around Gorazde and elsewhere in Bosnia-Herzegovina and protested because it was tolerated that Moslem use U.N. Protected Areas to launch attacks on Serb positions, which was confirmed also by senior U.N. officials, including U.N. Secretary-General Butrus Butrus-Ghali himself. The Security Council, in the interest of its credibility, should take a strong stand towards all sides, and not constantly accuse one side and condone actions by another, Djokic said. Keating said that the Security Council was aware of the behavior but that the Serb response to the Moslem of the Moslem side hvvut that the Serb [words indistinct]. Provocations have been too strong [passage indistinct] Djokic said. The Security Council authorized the bombing of Bosnian Serb positions around Gorazde by NATO planes on Sunday and Monday, although Keating himself said earlier that the fighting around that Moslem enclave in eastern Bosnia-Herzegovina had been provoked by the Moslems. Gorazde, one of six U.N. Protected Areas in Bosnia-Herzegovina, should have been demilitarized last spring, but the latest Moslem offensive was launched from this town.
