FBIS3-31110 "dreeu031_i_94008" FBIS-EEU-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Serb General Comments on Defense Strategy AU1502112294 Belgrade POLITIKA in Serbo-Croatian 13 Feb 94 p 3 AU1502112294 Belgrade POLITIKA Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Report by R. Kovacevic: "Milovanovic: Air Strikes Would Not Pay Off"] [Text] Sarajevo, 12 Feb -- "Air strikes against Serbian positions will not pay off for the possible attackers," chief of staff of the Srpska republic army Major General Manojlo Milovanovic assessed today. Stressing that the military leadership had assessed the threat of NATO air strikes very seriously, and adding that NATO represented a very respectable force, he warned that the attacking squadrons would not be able to sustain the losses that the artillery units of the Srpska republic army would inflict on them during each sortie. General Milovanovic believes that of the 60 to 70 NATO planes that would "fly per sortie," at least every tenth plane would not return to base. The Srpska republic army command is aware that NATO pilots, who have been flying over Bosnia for months, have photographed every detail and every inch of the territory. In addition to this, they have been trained for various operations. However, the antiaircraft defense of the Srpska republic army also had to prepare appropriate counter measures and tactics, including permanent and reserve radar stations, some of which even "cover" the area of the Adriatic Sea and some neighboring countries. The antiaircraft units will also rely on the extremely sophisticated electronic innovations and products of the industry in the Srpska republic. The Srpska republic army also possesses a significant number of artillery pieces that have so far been used in battle for targets on the ground, but the crews have also been exceptionally well trained for their basic assignments. Their combat readiness is at a peak, as if the air strikes are going to commence right away. The heavy snowfalls over Sarajevo in recent days have prevented NATO patrols from carrying out even routine control flights from the "Deny Flight" plan.
