FBIS3-9383 "dreeu057_i_94008" FBIS-EEU-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA `Fierce' Inter-Muslim Clashes in Western Bosnia LD2303180194 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1754 GMT 23 Mar 94 LD2303180194 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Petrovac, March 23 (TANJUG) -- Fierce inter-Moslem battles in the Bihac-Cazin region (Moslem enclave in western Bosnia) continued on Wednesday and the command of troops loyal to the Sarajevo Moslem authorities admitted that the fighting so far left about 500 dead and 2,000 wounded Moslems. This is the first time that forces of radical Moslem leader Alija Izetbegovic admitted to sustaining heavy losses both in manpower and weaponry in the battles with the Moslems of the autonomous province of western Bosnia. In western Bosnia the opponents of Izetbegovic clashed last September with the forces loyal to the Sarajevo authorities who were ordered to use all means to curb the new autonomy. The new province's media reports that the army of the province's president, Fikret Abdic, is slowly advancing towards Liskovac, Krivaja and Trsce without suffering any losses while Izetbegovic's troops are sustaining heavy losses. Moslem Sarajevo Radio confirmed these reports and added that the fighting is spreading to the other border area in the Cazin region and that all types of weapons are in use. Over the past 24 hours, Izetbegovic's troops in the region of Bihac, western Bosnia, opened sporadic fire on Serb positions along the entire frontline, Bosnian Serb military sources said. According to them, the Serbs did not have any casualties and did not return fire. The Moslem forces in the region of Doboj, northern Bosnia, continued offensive amd provocative actions on Serb positions and settlements, the Bosnian Serb military sources said. The Moslem troops were especially agressive in the southwestern Trebava front (northeast of Doboj) where they attempted to penetrate Serb defence lines. Similar to the previous nine attacks in the past week, the latest one was unsuccessful.
