FBIS3-6919 "dreas056_c_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 North Korea Reportage on Clinton Order To Deploy Missiles Chongnyon Releases Statement SK2303050094 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0442 GMT 23 Mar 94 SK2303050094 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Chongnyon Denounces the U.S., Japan and S. Korean Authorities" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Tokyo, March 22 (KNS-KCNA) - The Central Standing Committee of the General Association of Korean Residents in Japan (Chongnyon) released a statement Tuesday denouncing the U.S. arrogant acts to isolate and stifle the Democratic People's Republic of Korea at any cost and accusing Japan and the South Korean authorities of following it. The United States has all along departed from its agreement with the DPRK, reversed even the February 25 agreed conclusions on four steps of simultaneous action for a package solution to the nuclear issue -- the suspension of the "Team Spirit" joint military exercises, the resumption of the working contact for the exchange of presidential envoys between the North and the South of Korea, inspection by the International Atomic Energy Agency for the continuity of safeguards and the opening of the third round of the DPRK-U.S. talks -- and brought the peaceful solution of the nuclear issue to an impasse again, the statement said, and went on: The perfidious acts of the U.S. are very dangerous moves which may entail confrontation and war again on the Korean peninsula. It is not fortuitous that the South Korean authority brought to a rupture the working contact for the exchange of presidential envoys between the North and the South. This is a logical result of his acts seeking confrontation and division, not reconciliation and reunification, while consistently following the United States, with no will and no capacity to resolve the nuclear issue on the peninsula. He, who had blared in chorus with the U.S. that "the exchange of special envoys is a precondition of the third round of the DPRK-U.S. talks," decided on "a tough reaction" and cried for the introduction of Patriot missiles and the restarting of the "Team Spirit" at "a high-level strategic meeting" held while the working contact was under way. Kim Yong-sam is going to visit Japan to discuss "international sanctions" against the DPRK. This is nothing but an anti-national act to antagonize the fellow countrymen in the North with the backing of foreign forces. It must not go unnoticed that the United States has fostered pressure on the DPRK, openly revealing its intention to take "sanctions" against it through the United Nations Security Council, while the Japanese authorities are zealously responding to it. Recently, Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa charged the DPRK with "the breach of the agreement," while closing his eyes to the U.S. failure to implement the agreement. This is a preposterous misrepresentation of the reality. If the United States, Japan and the South Korean authorities continue acting against the demand of the Korean people and the world peaceloving people and the trend of the time, they will face a stern judgement by history.
