FBIS4-3724 "drchi079_n_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-079 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 Economic & Agricultural Chen Jinhua Urges Efforts To Curb Inflation Chen Jinhua Urges Efforts To Curb Inflation OW2504020094 Beijing Central People's Radio Network in Mandarin 1030 GMT 8 Apr 94 OW2504020094 Beijing Central People's Radio Network Mandarin BFN [From the "National Hookup" program] [Text] A national meeting of commodity price bureau directors closed in Wuhan on 8 April. Chen Jinhua, minister of the State Planning Commission, pointed out at the meeting: Effective measures must be taken to curb excessive commodity price increases and to ensure an overall stable situation by strengthening regulation and control. Chen Jinhua said: A conspicuous economic problem at present is worsening inflation. Market prices have increased rapidly, and the increases are particularly excessive for those things which have an important bearing on the people's daily life and the nation's economic development, such as basic daily necessities, basic services, and basic capital goods. Chen Jinhua said: Recently, the State Council adopted a series of measures to stabilize commodity prices. Commodity price departments at all levels should resolutely implement the four measures formulated by the State Council --to set up a grain risk fund, to exercise effective supervision over the prices of the people's basic daily necessities and services, to enforce the rule of clearly marking commodity and service prices, and to carry out a general inspection of commodity prices. Resolute efforts should be made to successfully stabilize soon the prices of rice, nonstaple foods, and fuel for the people. Chen Jinhua pointed out: Under the current state of market prices of most commodities, it is imperative for us to establish a perfect price regulation and control system during the course of deepening reforms. In the meantime, however, regulation and control must be exercised with new thinking and new methods which conform to the market economy. Commodity price departments at all levels should make active explorations, have the courage to do practical things, strive to establish as soon as possible a pricing system under the conditions of the socialist market economy, and ensure that price management will gradually be governed by regulations.
