FBIS4-29482 "dreas118_m_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-118 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 Thailand Prasong To Push for ASEAN-SAARC Ties Prasong To Push for ASEAN-SAARC Ties BK2006080294 Bangkok BANGKOK POST in English 20 Jun 94 p 2 BK2006080294 Bangkok BANGKOK POST English BFN [Text] Foreign Minister Prasong Sunsiri says he will push to establish links between the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the South Asian regional grouping. The minister said yesterday that as ASEAN chairman he would consult his counterparts at the ASEAN ministerial meeting in July in Bangkok on ways to set up ties between ASEAN and the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation. Ties between the two groups were raised during talks between the Thai and Bangladesh foreign ministers in Dhaka at the weekend. Bangladesh Foreign Minister Mustafizur Rahman told his counterpart that the SAARC would like to set up joint activities with ASEAN including economic and social aspects. SAARC comprises Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, besides Bangladesh. Sqn Ldr [squadron leader] Prasong returned from Dhaka yesterday after a two-day visit during which he cochaired a joint commission meeting with the Bangladesh foreign minister. Thailand and Bangladesh called for increasing trade between the two countries and for the private sector to play a greater role in this. Bangladesh has potential and is a promising market for Thai traders, especially in textiles, because of an abundance of labour and very high domestic demand for the product, Sqn Ldr Prasong quoted the Bangladesh foreign minister as saying. Bangladesh called for Thailand to buy more products including urea fertiliser, paper, paper products, tobacco, tea and jute. Two-way trade between the countries accounted for about $93 million last year with a surplus of $53 million in favour to Bangkok. Sqn Ldr Prasong asked Bangladesh to ease measures against Thai trawers and fishermen illegally fishing in Bangladeshi waters. Dhaka will conside Thailand's proposal to set up of a committee to solve this problem.
