FBIS4-23409 "drafr108_d_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-108 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Role of South African Mercenaries Examined Role of South African Mercenaries Examined MB0306205494 Johannesburg SABC TV 1 Network in Afrikaans 1800 GMT 3 Jun 94 MB0306205494 Johannesburg SABC TV 1 Network Afrikaans BFN [Text] For some time now a lot of attention has been paid to the presence of so-called South African mercenaries in Angola. The soldiers are assisting in the training of MPLA [Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola] soldiers. An international news team succeeded in visiting one of the controversial training camps, and Nan Roux has the details: [Begin recording] [Roux] These soldiers are former members of the South African Special Forces, a special unit within the South African Defense Force. They have already been in Angola for a year now and are involved in the training of their former enemy, the Angolan Government, the MPLA. Many see them as mercenaries but they do not agree with this. They insist that they are not fighting the war for the Angolan Government, but that they are merely helping the MPLA soldiers to fight their own war more effectively. [Executive Outcomes official Karl Deats, in English] ...already, that our function over here comprises a couple of things, first of all, in an advisory ... in an advisory capacity. Secondly, in a socioeconomic assistance role, and then the main function that we had over here is to conduct training. [Roux] The South Africans have three training camps in Angola: in the country's diamond province, Lunda Sul, as well as south of the capital Luanda. The camps are used for the training of new troops. The soldiers are instructed in basic techniques, such as weapons maintenance, radio signals, and fighting techniques. The South Africans originally entered Angola under the name of a South African company, Executive Outcomes. The company was approached by oil companies to protect their installations in Angola. No one knows how long the South Africans will remain in Angola, but according to Executive Outcomes this will depend on the Angolan Government and their success in the battle against UNITA [National Union for the Total Independence of Angola]. [end recording]
