FBIS3-1488 "drafr060_c_94028" FBIS-AFR-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Events Surrounding 28 Mar Zulu March Detailed ANC Responds to Postponement Request MB2903112894 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1117 GMT 29 Mar 94 MB2903112894 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by C. Doonan] [Text] Durban March 29 SAPA -- King Zwelithini said Monday's violence in Johannesburg had "further compounded problems", explaining that his subjects' anger "is such that an early meeting is quite out of the question". "I must, I think, call for a moratorium on all negotiations about the future of the kingdom until people have been given the opportunity to bury their dead, and until such time as the fierce anger in their breasts has abated somewhat." The king said he also feared for his safety after Monday's events. His advisors would be reluctant to put their king in the hands of "those whom they believed killed them" and in the hands of a government which had been powerless to do anything to prevent Monday's tragedy. Reacting to the king's request, a spokesman for the state president's office said Mr de Klerk felt the present situation warranted the holding of the meeting before the weekend. Efforts to hold the summit as soon as possible would continue and Mr de Klerk was trying to get in touch with King Goodwill about the matter, SABC [South African Broadcasting Corporation] radio news quoted the spokesman as saying. ANC [African National Congress] Spokesman Ronnie Mamoepa said his organisation had not been formally notified of the king's requests. Mr Mamoepa said it would be unfortunate if the meeting, scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday, was postponed "given the gravity of the current situation in the PWV [Pretoria, Witwatersrand, Vereeniging] and Natal". He said the situation demanded the leaders meet urgently "to ensure the whole democratic process moves forward". "It's crucial and critical that all players must be involved... To bring about a stable situation to ensure our people participate freely in the forthcoming elections," he said.
