FBIS3-8560 "dreeu049__a94015" FBIS-EEU-94-049-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 March 1994 ANNEX Bulgaria Berov Unlikely To Return to Politics AU1103093894 Sofia BTA in English 0851 GMT 11 Mar 94 AU1103093894 Sofia BTA Language: English Article Type:BFN [From BTA's 11 March "Press Review"] [Excerpt] Sofia, March 11 (BTA) -- Today's press front-pages comments on the cardiac operation Prime Minister Berov is to undergo. Prof. Berov had a heart attack on March 8, at about 2 a.m. [1200 GMT], and was taken to hospital. He will be operated to have a bypass implanted, DUMA and 24 CHASA say. TRUD quotes Military Medical Academy Head Colonel Prof. Milan Petrov as saying the prime minister could be either operated within 15 days or get back to work first and have the operation on a later date. The Constitution does not specify the period during which the prime minister can be away from work neither does it answer a number of questions pertaining to the powers of the person sitting in for the prime minister (Deputy Prime Minister Evgeni Matinchev in this case), OTECHESTVEN VESTNIK writes. According to anonymous sources cited by this daily, the activity the acting prime minister is to perform are purely administrative. DEMOKRATSIYA, too, quotes anonymous sources as saying the Constitutional Court should be approached to rule on the powers of the person replacing the prime minister and thus fill in the gap in the effective legislation. New Policy Centre leader Dimitur Ludzhev yesterday called on acting Prime Minister Matinchev to resign, 24 CHASA reports. Prime Minister Berov is unlikely to return to politics, this daily quotes Mr. Ludzhev and goes on to say that Prof. Berov intends to hand in his resignation in case he is unable to soon return to his duties. STANDART NEWS for its part quotes Deputy Prime Minister Matinchev as saying the relations between himself and the other deputy prime minister, Valentin Karabashev, would not destabilize the cabinet's performance simply because there is no conflict between them. According to Mr. Ludzhev, to be ruled by Evgeni Matinchev for Bulgaria would be the same as to be ruled by Todor Zhivkov (this country's former communist dictator), DUMA says. Dimitur Ludzhev pledged to introduce a vote of no confidence in the cabinet headed by Mr. Matinchev when Prof. Berov recuperates. According to DUMA, he also predicted elections to be held this autumn. OTECHESTVEN VESTNIK quotes Mr. LUDZHEV as alleging Evgeni Matinchev to be a former communist functionary. The Podkrepa Labour Confederation (one of Bulgaria's two major trade unions) does not support Prof. Berov's cabinet, 24 CHASA learned from a forum this labour organization held in Stara Zagora (southern Bulgaria). [passage omitted]
