FBIS3-34458 "drnes027dd_94007" FBIS-NES-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 Palestinian Affairs `Rejectionist Forces' Urged To Review Stands JN0802204294 Baghdad Voice of the PLO in Arabic 1700 GMT 7 Feb 94 JN0802204294 Baghdad Voice of the PLO Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Unattributed commentary] [Text] Brothers: The continuous obstacles in the negotiations to implement the Palestinian-Israeli Declaration of Principles agreement -- which are caused by Israeli intransigence and the maneuvers of the Israeli negotiating team, which tries to evade the spirit and letter of the agreement -- confirm, once again, the truth about the Palestinian reading of the agreement. This reading proved at the negotiations to be the more accurate reading of the agreement, the closest to its spirit, and the most accurate to interpreting its clauses. The stumbling of the talks indicate, beyond any doubt, that the Palestinian reading is facing the Israeli reading -- with full strength and firmness -- and that the fierce conflict between them refutes the desperate allegations by the rejectionist forces on Palestinian capitulation and on the weakness of the Palestinian negotiator in the face of the Israeli negotiator. If the arguments of the rejectionist forces on capitulation, weakness, and enormous concessions -- which the Palestinian negotiator is supposedly making there -- are true, we would not have seen obstacles, conflict in the negotiations, or Israeli intransigence, since the Israeli negotiator would have taken everything from the Palestinian negotiator -- as claimed by the statements of the rejectionist. The agreement also would have been implemented from the first moments in the negotiations in accordance with the Israeli way and reading. Yes, if the Palestinian negotiator was weak and surrendered to the Israeli negotiator, we would not have passed through three months of heated negotiations, which have been fruitful thus far, between the two parties. Will the Palestinian rejectionist forces look at these facts thoroughly and with a national eye so as to practice a role -- even as an opposition -- to support the Palestinian view and the Palestinian reading, which is aimed at turning the agreement into a first step on the path of building the independent Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital. Yes, this is what we want from the agreement. There is no difference over this national objective. Will there be a review of stands before it is too late?
