FBIS4-47375 "jpust012___94129" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 June 1994 EARTH SCIENCES Problems in National Map Production in Modern Stage Problems in National Map Production in Modern Stage 947N0033C Moscow GEODEZIYA I KARTOGRAFIYA in Russian No. 3, Mar 93 pp 44-49 947N0033C Moscow GEODEZIYA I KARTOGRAFIYA Russian CSO [Article by I. I. Maksimov and A. N. Panin; UDC 528.92] [Abstract] After reviewing the past accomplishments of the Russian mapping industry, the technical and organizational deficiencies are critically assessed. The latter include a low quality of polygraphic reproduction of compilations of maps and atlases, narrow specialization of cartographic enterprises, antiquated technology of many processes and a great lag in automation of time-consuming processes. These and other problems have been seriously aggravated by the political breakup of the former USSR because prior to 1992 60% of the map production needs of the Russian Federation was met in the former union republics, with some of the most modern facilities being constructed there. Only 23.7% of the map production capabilities remained inside Russia and these facilities lacked the equipment to produce a wide assortment of cartographic products. The drawing of new boundaries and the renaming of hundreds of places is meanwhile imposing an enormous demand for immediate revision of hundreds of maps. Some of the efforts to upgrade Russian cartographic enterprises are specifically mentioned. During the last several years even the existing map production plants have been underloaded due to the unavailability of map compilations which have been retained at enterprises outside Russia, not being returned despite agreements to do so. The new names of cities, the new boundaries of countries, all are in many cases not finalized, making for map production problems. The system by which plants pay for materials and the plants receive payment for their products has seriously complicated the process and all these factors have resulted in a severe drop in map production. Production has also been impeded by the shortage or low quality of paper, ink, offset plates and countless other materials. Against this discouraging background, the need for cartographic products is increasing rather than diminishing. An ambitious program is outlined, including production of a third edition of the famed Atlas of the World. If all goes well, the map production requirements should be fully met by the year 2000.
