FBIS3-47704 "dreas011_i_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Cambodia Khieu Samphan Supports Sihanouk's 5 Jan Article BK1701035994 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia in Cambodian 2330 GMT 16 Jan 94 BK1701035994 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia Language: Cambodian Article Type:BFN [Text] On 14 January His Excellency [H.E.] Khieu Samphan, chairman of the Party of Democratic Kampuchea [PDK], sent a telegram to His Majesty Norodom Sihanouk, king of Cambodia, expressing respect and admiration for the latter's 5 January 1994 editorial entitled "Human Rights in Cambodia and the Rights of the Cambodian People To Live Permanently in Peace Within Cambodia's Internationally Recognized Legitimate Land and Sea Borders of 1963-69." The telegram reads as follows: Humbly to His Majesty Norodom Sihanouk Varaman, king of Cambodia. His Majesty has composed an editorial dated 5 January 1994 entitled "Human Rights in Cambodia and the Rights of the Cambodian People To Live Permanently in Peace Within Cambodia's Internationally Recognized Legitimate Land and Sea Borders of 1963-69." We would like to express our great respect and admiration for the resourcefulness of His Majesty, who is always concerned about national and social problems facing our Cambodian nation and people. Our people are delighted to praise you for this prowess. The editorial is encouraging our people to join hands to resolve currently unresolved problems, both big and small, and to follow you in your crusade, like the one you launched between 1952 and 1953. Our nation and people pin their hopes on His Majesty, the only great leader capable of leading the country and preventing our Cambodian nation and people from disappearing as was the case in Kampuchea Kraom. Our nation and people are well aware of the great dangers since several western powers and UNTAC [UN Transitional Authority in Cambodia] implemented a policy of opening up Cambodia for millions of ethnic Vietnamese to enter freely and systematically. For our compatriots -- the children of His Majesty, who is the father of the nation and the father of national independence -- the editorial is vitally important. For this reason, I have ordered the Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia [VGNUFC] radio to broadcast the article several times for the attention of our nation and people. Availing myself of this opportunity, I would like to wish His Majesty a speedy recovery, zealous physical strength, and high spirits. I would like to extend best wishes to the respected queen as well. Your Majesty, please forgive any inappropriateness. [Dated] 14 January 1994 [Signed] Khieu Samphan, PDK chairman
