FBIS3-53208 "drnes008_r_94005" FBIS-NES-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 India Kashmiri Hindus Demand Homeland 94P50077C Bombay NAVBHARAT TIMES in Hindi 25 Dec 93 p 6 94P50077C Bombay NAVBHARAT TIMES Language: Hindi Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article: "Separate State Demanded by Hindus of Kashmir"] [Text] Dr. Ajay Chrungoo, official spokesman of Panun Kashmir, which is organizing a two-day World Kashmiri Pandit Conference to be held at New Delhi on 27 and 28 December, today demanded a separate homeland for Kashmiri Hindus. He accused the government of ignoring the concerns of this minority community, which had been forced out of its home by Pakistan's activities. In a press conference he said the government willingly talked with the all-party Hurriyat Conference, and with everyone else, while consciously failing to take note of that component, namely the Kashmiri Hindus, who were the actual victims of the ethnic cleansing in the valley. The Panun Kashmir spokesman also assailed Amnesty International and Asia Watch, two human rights organizations, for highlighting human rights violations and ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and other places around the World, but not presenting the true picture of Kashmir. He said the two human rights organizations undermined certain basic features of Indian democracy by doing nothing to protect the human rights of the Kashmiri Pandits, who were the victims of the Islamic fundamentalist groups operating in the valley. Pakistan was pushing weapons and ideology into Kashmir for the destruction of peaceful coexistence and harmony, and India had failed to protect the constitutional rights of the Kashmiri Hindus, when they were forced out of their homes by infiltrators. He also said the human rights organizations were preoccupied with excesses committed by the state apparatus. The spokesman said: "Amnesty International and Asia Watch highlight only one aspect and ignore the other, and Amnesty representatives on a visit here some time ago would not give us an appointment to hear our case. Despite provocations, the community has not taken up arms and continues to plead for protection and understanding. We are seeing the extinction of a race that has been living in Kashmir for 5,000 years. Ours is a historical identity. Inspite of all of this, our families are fragmented, and nobody cares for us.
