FBIS3-2917 "drchi050_k_94013" FBIS-CHI-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social CPPCC Holds Second Plenary Meeting OW1503035994 Beijing XINHUA in English 0339 GMT 15 Mar 94 OW1503035994 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 15 (XINHUA) -- The Second Session of the Eighth National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) held its second plenary meeting here today. Nearly 2,000 members of the CPPCC National Committee listened to a report on proposals handling, and six members spoke at the meeting. Today's executive chairmen were Hong Xuezhi, Dong Yinchu and Ma Man-kei. Some senior officials of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and State Council attended the meeting. Zhou Shaozheng, director of the subcommittee for handling proposals, reported its proposals handling work since the first session last spring. He said that CPPCC members, democratic parties and people's organizations have raised 1,981 proposals since the first session and 99 percent of them have been handled. Through raising proposals, CPPCC members, democratic parties and people's organizations have performed the function of political consultation and democratic supervision and played an active role in the implementation of the principles of the 14th CPC National Congress, promoting economic and social development, consolidating the political situation of unity and stability. Wan Guoquan, vice-chairman of the Central Committee of the China Democratic National Construction Association, proposed that deepening reform of state-owned enterprises should start from clarifying who represents state assets, restructuring the management of state assets and defining the ownership of state enterprises' property rights. Fang Jiade, vice-chairman of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, proposed relying on the working class whole-heartedly in the establishment of a modern enterprise system. "The board of directors, the supervisory board and the assembly of share-holders should consist of a certain number of representatives of workers," he said. Guo Guoqing, a professor of the People's University of China and two other members, raised proposals on bringing into full play the role of special supervisors, inspectors, auditors and educational inspectors and other discipline enforcement workers. Li Hongchang, vice-chairman of the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce, suggested that a law governing chambers of commerce be enacted. Gu Shengzu and Wang Chuanlun spoke on the need to guide the massive movement of rural labor and the ongoing anti-corruption drive. Ye Xuanping and 11 other vice-chairmen of the CPPCC National Committee were present at today's meeting.
