FBIS4-22928 "jpust008___94131" JPRS-UST-94-008 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 31 March 1994 LIFE SCIENCES LASER AND NONIONIZING RADIATION Possibilities of Using Fiber Optic Luminescent Light Sources Possibilities of Using Fiber Optic Luminescent Light Sources in Medical and Biological Research 947C0051A Moscow MEDITSINSKAYA TEKHNIKA in Russian No. 2, Mar-Apr 93 pp 13-14 947C0051A Moscow MEDITSINSKAYA TEKHNIKA Russian CSO [Article by V.A. Monich, I.V. Krivosheina, S.L. Malinovskaya, K.N. Kontorshchikova, Nizhniy Novgorod Medical Institute; UDC 615.849.19.03] [Abstract] The emergence of low-power medical lasers and the resulting uses of such lasers on biological tissues as well reports that the use of noncoherent light sources and lasers in clinical practices leads to virtually indistinguishable results prompted renewed interest in developing light treatment devices using polymer optical fibers, especially since in most cases, the clinics do not have the facilities for retuning the laser radiation wavelength to match its spectrum with the resonant absorption lines of biologically significant molecules. The optical fiber will be able not only to transmit radiation bounded by the fiber end aperture but also the light generated by photoluminescence of the impurities. The structure of a two-layer optical fiber containing luminescing impurities and a block diagram of the fiber optic luminescent device are cited, and the design and operating principles of this low-intensity fiber optic luminescent device designed on the basis of the above characteristics are described in detail. The operating principle makes it possible to combine the function of injecting light into thin fibers and isolating spectral radiation bands which are most effective in given procedures. The device's ability to generate pulse radiation greatly increases the strength of the postoperative sutures; a 40 Hz frequency is optimal, and red light (600-680 nm) is the most efficient. Experiments with animals and donor blood demonstrates that monochromated light has a favorable effect on skin tissue regeneration. Figures 3; references 9.
