FBIS3-1477 "drafr060_c_94017" FBIS-AFR-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Events Surrounding 28 Mar Zulu March Detailed Freedom Front Leader Urges Election Postponement MB2903074394 Johannesburg SAPA in English 2348 GMT 28 Mar 94 MB2903074394 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Norman Patterton] [Text] Pretoria March 28 SAPA -- A Mmabatho (Bophuthatswana) situation could easily develop in Johannesburg because of a number of factors, Freedom Front [FF] leader and former South African Defence Force [SADF] Chief Gen Constand Viljoen warned on Monday. He told a press conference in Pretoria that Johannesburg's street battles represented an intensification of the Inkatha Freedom Party [IFP]/African National Congress [ANC] war. The clashes occurred because the government and ANC were pressing on with the constitutional process and elections while Zulus, like the Afrikaners, had not yet been politically accommodated. He hoped the election would be postponed. Gen Viljoen added there was "no hope" of the police and the defence force solving the problem unless there was solidarity in the security forces. One could not break down the morale of the police and that of South Africans, as had happened, and still think one could control security. The defence force was already experiencing problems because of the low response rate, as little as five per cent, to call-up orders. In this type of war there could be no military solution, but only a political solution. -- There had been much progress in negotiations with the government and the ANC on the establishement of an Afrikaner "volkstaat" [homeland], and Gen Viljoen said he had asked President F. W. de Klerk on Monday for a further round of trilateral talks to obtain clarity on the concept of self-determination so that people voting for the FF knew what they were voting for. The FF released its election manifesto at the conference. It stated the FF rejected any notion of a unitary state subjugating the Afrikaner people, or any form of communism. The FF sought a confederal dispensation for South Africa.
