FBIS3-54424 "drnes017_j_94011" FBIS-NES-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Jan 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Military Committee Calls For Redeploying Forces JN2601105394 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 2000 GMT 25 Jan 94 JN2601105394 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] The military committee has continued its field visits to the southwestern axis by visiting the 25th Brigade [words indistinct] and meeting the commanders and troops. During the meeting, brother Staff Lieutenant General [words indistinct] General Staff for operations and head of the committee, addressed the commanders and troops. At the outset, he conveyed the greetings of brother Lt. Gen. 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih, chairman of the Presidential Council and supreme commander of the Armed Forces, and 'Ali Salim al-Bid, vice chairman of the Presidential Council. He also reviewed the military committee's efforts and duty of inspecting the military situation. He said the drawbacks produced by the transitional phase with regard to the Armed Forces and its personnel should now end. He urged pooling all efforts to overcome all negative phenomena in all military aspects in light of the accord document which hopefully will remedy all ills. He further urged the commanders and troops to assume their national responsibilities in the current decisive circumstances and to do whatever would restore trust and brotherly communication between troops as a condition for the cohesion of the ranks of the Yemeni Armed Forces. During the meeting, the members of the military committee also spoke about the importance of Yemeni unity as a historical and national gain. They stressed that Yemeni unity is not up for bargaining. They said the current national issues in the Yemeni arena are national political issues and not differences between the two parts of Yemen. They also emphasized that safeguarding Yemeni unity is the duty and goal of all honorable people in the Yemeni arena. They further stressed that responsibility for national security is a prime duty of the state of unity and its institutions. This duty is primarily the responsibility of the units and formations of the Yemeni Armed Forces, which should be redeployed on this basis so as to enable the homeland to have a unified identity. Also during the meeting, the unit commanders welcomed the military committee, affirming that the commanders and troops are aware of their national responsibilities and the Armed Forces' duty to protect Yemen.
