FBIS4-38553 "drsov105_m_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-105 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 Tajikistan Ammunition Depots Found in Pamir Highlands Ammunition Depots Found in Pamir Highlands LD0106095394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0839 GMT 1 Jun 94 LD0106095394 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Galina Gridneva] [Text] Dushanbe June 1 TASS -- A total of 11 big underground ammunition depots were found in Tajik Pamir highlands during a joint raid carried out by the local security units and Tajik interior troops. Field engineers removed a large number of explosives, ammunition, rocket shells, unexploded air bombs and spare parts for them, mostly of foreign origin, ITAR-TASS learned from the headquarters of the Tajik Defence Ministry today. The aim of the search operation conducted at the end of May was to inspect whether army units of the Defence Ministry were ready to cut short possible attempts by the Tajik opposition to destabilise the political situation in the area of Pamir highlands and confiscate weapons illegally kept by the local population. The Tajik Defence Ministry admitted the presence of anti- government formations in gorges located in hardly accessible areas of Pamir highlands, including in the Tavildarinsk and Darvas regions. However, military sources said that the groups were not big and posed no serious threat. The local population does not support anti-government formations, since the majority of the Tajik residents support the present constitutional government and its efforts to stabilise the political situation both in the Pamir region and in the entire republic. Tajik defence minister, Major-General Aleksandr Shishlyannikov, dismissed rumours spread by some Western media alleging that there are areas in the Pamir region offering serious armed resistance to the authorities. In a recent interview to Russian journalists the Tajik defence minister said in his usual sharp manner that "the alleged presence of thousand-strong detachments of fighters of the opposition in Tajik mountains is pure imagination of the irreconcilable opposition and some journalists." At the same time the general pointed out that the Tajik Government does not intend to remain indifferent to incidents of terroristic attacks launched by Tajik militants both against lawful representatives of the military, local authorities and peaceful civilians. According to the general, detachments of the Tajik government forces keep the situation in the Pamir region under control and heavily guard the Khaburabad mountain road, ensuring the safety of cargoes on a highway connecting central Tajikistan with the Gorno-Badakhshan autonomous region.
