FBIS3-45257 "drchi010_v_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 TAIWAN Investment in PRC Drives Economic Growth OW1401103794 Taipei CNA in English 0850 GMT 14 Jan 94 OW1401103794 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Y.C. Tsai] [Text] Taipei, Jan. 14 (CNA) -- Ever-increasing investments made by domestic manufacturers in Mainland China will have a positive impact on Taiwan's economy in the short term, an official at the Council for Economic Planning and Development (CEPD) said Friday [14 January]. K.C. Li, director of the CEPD Economic Research Department, made the remarks at a public hearing on the influence of the mainland investment fever. The public hearing was sponsored by legislators P.H. Peng and T.J. Tsai of the opposition Democratic Progressive Party. Taiwan investors relocated their production lines to the other side of the Taiwan Strait mainly due to the cheap labor, low land prices, and easy land acquisition on the mainland, Li pointed out. The investment advantages make production costs on the mainland much lower than on Taiwan, thereby benefiting Taiwan investors, he elaborated. Growing Taiwan investment in Mainland China, which in turn pushed up mainland demand for Taiwan's products such as electric and electronics parts as well as machinery, has fueled Taiwan's exports, he added. The mainland investment fever has therefore emerged as the driving force behind Taiwan's economic growth in the past few years, he noted, saying Taiwan's economy might post zero growth without mainland investment. Statistics show that approved investment in Mainland China amounted to US$3.16 billion last year, while other outbound investment totaled US$1.66 billion. Unofficial estimates put aggregate Taiwan investment in Mainland China at roughly US$10 billion. The CEPD official, however, expressed the worry that more big Taiwan enterprises might follow their small- and medium-sized counterparts to the mainland. Too many and too big investment projects in Mainland China will eat away at Taiwan's capital, he said. In the long run, he said, the government must work to improve the domestic investment climate and to expedite the upgrading of the industrial base with a view to gaining an upper hand on the international market.
