FBIS4-39602 "drsov111_c_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-111 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 Federal Assembly Duma Television Seen Benefiting Zhirinovskiy Duma Television Seen Benefiting Zhirinovskiy MK0906080794 Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI in Russian No. 23, 5-12 Jun 94 (Signed to press 7 Jun 94) p A2 MK0906080794 Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI Russian BFN [Unattributed commentary under the "Quotation" rubric] [Text] "... The former Supreme Soviet made a similar decision three years after the elections and died there and then. This is a sure road to death. Let the Duma set up its own channel. I will not be taking part in this...." Aleksandr Yakovlev, head of the federal television and radio service, said this apropos of the well-known decision by the Duma to "flush" its debates and decrees through television channels. Many politicians and journalists have since spoken in the same vein. But the Duma, despite the ominous precedent, seems to be bent on going whole hog. Freedom is for the free, as they say. Why is it, then, that the majority of the Duma should be taking chances so recklessly? Most probably because past illusions die hard. Too many politicians are still under the impression that television is a magic wand. That if you own it, you just have to whisper to it: Make me a deputy for another term, and your wish will be granted. The "next term" is also the imminent presidential elections -- that's what eggs on the deputies to accost television. It is the experience of the Supreme Soviet that urges them to make haste. The disaster that hit the previous parliament can also be explained not by the fact that the then deputies created docile television three years after the elections, but that they did not create it three months after them. In this case, though, the current deputies from various factions do not realize one thing: That doing so would win only one deputy, and only one faction -- Vladimir Zhirinovskiy and the LDPR [Liberal Democratic Party of Russia]. The precedent is too fresh in our memory. As far as the LDPR leader is concerned, television is not an improved version of the megaphone, but really and truly a magic wand. This is what his friends-rivals have handed to Mr. Zhirinovskiy.
