FBIS4-46431 "jptot024__l94108" JPRS-TOT-94-024-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 6 June 1994 WEST EUROPE ITALY Police Rule Out Link Between Rome Grenade, Clinton Visit Police Rule Out Link Between Rome Grenade, Clinton Visit BR0706094094 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 1948 GMT 6 Jun 94 BR0706094094 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "Grenade Found in Rome Park"] [Text] (ANSA) Rome, June 6 -- A SRCM-type [Rome Company for Mechanical Products] hand grenade was spotted in Rome's Villa Borghese park Monday afternoon [6 June] by a passerby who alerted police. Explosives experts were called in and detonated the grenade without mishap. The condition of the grenade and the fact that it was partially covered with dirt led police to believe that it had been placed at the site -- alongside the viale del Museo, one of the many roads that wend through the vast park -- some days ago, in turn, leading to an initial theory that, perhaps, it was linked to the recent Rome sojourn of United States President Bill Clinton. Investigators later ruled this out, however, as Clinton entered Villa Borghese from an entrance near the zoo which is more than 500 meters from where the SRCM was found, a type of grenade which can cause damage only if launched from close quarters, explosive experts said. Laboratory tests will establish the explosive power of the grenade and how long it was on the ground. Investigators said it was highly unlikely that it was there during Clinton's visit as security was extremely tight and careful checks were made of Villa Borghese each time the American president went there to jog. (Clinton left Rome on Saturday morning [4 June]). SRCM (Societa' Romana Costruzioni Meccaniche) grenades cannot be modified, explosive experts noted. It was this same kind of grenade that killed a policeman during a right-wing demonstration in Milan in April of 1973. The grenade had struck officer Antonio Marino full in the chest. Similar grenades were found in April and May, both in Rome and in Milan. However, the grenade in Milan was found to be a wooden model of the type used in military training. It came to light just before the sentence was handed down in the lengthy Cusani kickbacks trial in Milan. In Rome, the explosive was found near the Villa Glori police station in the somewhat posh Parioli quarter.
