FBIS4-65719 "drweu099_h_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-099 Daily Report 20 May 1994 GERMANY Ruehe Urges Russia, NATO Security Plan Ruehe Urges Russia, NATO Security Plan AU2005192894 Berlin DIE WELT in German 20 May 94 p 3 AU2005192894 Berlin DIE WELT German BFN ["j.t./DW"-signed report: "Germany Has a Duty To Participate"] [Text] Oxford/Brussels -- German Defense Minister Volker Ruehe has once again called for a security partnership between NATO and Russia. Speaking at Oxford yesterday, he said NATO would be well-advised to respond positively to Moscow's expectations. It is, quite simply, entirely understandable that the great power Russia should wish to participate in the alliance process of formulating views if the issues in question concern overall European security and global strategic considerations. Ruehe said: "NATO cannot treat Russia like Tajikistan or Albania." In comments addressed to Moscow, the defense minister said that Moscow must learn how to be a neighbor among neighbors as well as a partner among equals and act accordingly. Ruehe thus indirectly criticized statements by leading Russian politicians who have recently reserved for themselves the right to take unilateral steps should circumstances become critical in neighboring countries. Russia must become a strategic partner for NATO, said Ruehe, and it must also feel that it is that. This should not mean, however, that the integration of Germany's immediate eastern neighbors into Western structures should be hindered. In his Oxford address, Ruehe came out in favor of an active German foreign policy. If one does not "export" stability now, one will later be affected by instability oneself. Germany has a duty to participate. Ruehe said: "Germany must develop a new national tradition for the Berlin republic." At NATO headquarters in Brussels, it was said that Russia should not be accorded any kind of special role under the Partnership for Peace. However, the alliance should develop appropriate relations with the Kremlin in view of Russia's significant geopolitical role. Defense Minister Pavel Grachev is coming to Brussels next week to hold talks. He will also discuss Russia's new military doctrine.
