FBIS4-24081 "drafr121_c_94016" FBIS-AFR-94-121 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Zulu Paper Criticizes ANC Opposition to Ulundi Zulu Paper Criticizes ANC Opposition to Ulundi MB2206131494 Durban ILANGA in Zulu 20-22 Jun 94 p 4 MB2206131494 Durban ILANGA Zulu BFN [Unattibuted editorial] [Text] The issue of three ANC cabinet ministers in KwaZulu/Natal refusing to attend meetings of the provincial Legislative Assembly held in Ulundi gives the impression that the ANC is not really committed to peace and reconciliation. We say this because much has already been said by the ANC in the short space of time that the issue has come up. Most unfortunately its spokesmen are in the habit of using a sharp tongue to tackle delicate issues. We do not know if this is deliberate, or if it is the result of the hotheadedness of youth. It is not constructive now, and will never be, to speak of Ulundi in a manner that even a child can see is not just debate on an issue of interest, but that is rather aimed at stirring up the cauldron of hate and stubbornly barricading all avenues to peace and reconciliation. It is most unfortunate that this is taking place in KwaZulu/Natal, a province that lags so far behind others in development and needs a new provincial government dedicated above all to redressing the situation. The ANC must learn that, as the Zulu saying goes, "Don't spit into the wind". We know how hard it is for the ANC to swallow all those terrible things it said about Ulundi before the election, and that is why it is fighting so hard to ensure that Ulundi does not become the provincial capital. We admonish the ANC not to be one-sided in such issues. We also urge it to accept the fact of its defeat in the provincial elections, because we believe that its problems stem from its attempts to mentally block out this one fact. It must realize that the contribution needed in our region is not its ability to hurl abuse, slander, and disparaging remarks whenever it does not get its way, but that the spirit of peace and reconciliation be nurtured.
