FBIS4-63372 "drsov099_a_94036" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 20 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS PRC Expresses `Concern' With Dalai Lama Visit PRC Expresses `Concern' With Dalai Lama Visit LD2105093094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1838 GMT 20 May 94 LD2105093094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Andrey Lvov] [Excerpts] Moscow, 20 May -- In an interview for ITAR-TASS today, the Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama, who lives in exile in the Indian city of Dhamsala, expressed his hope that he would one day return to his homeland. "I hope to return to Lhasa at some time, to the Potala palace, the residence of the Dalai Lamas," said the former ruler of Tibet, who left Tibet after the bloody clashes between the local population and the Chinese Army in 1959. The Dalai Lama said he "would find ways and channels to hold a referendum on the future of Tibet." He said that in the referendum the population would be given the choice of several alternatives. One of these is supported by advocates of the "middle way" who do not demand the complete separation and independence of Tibet from China. The Dala Lama, himself, is one of these. A different point of view is held by many young Tibetans who insist on complete independence for Tibet. [passage omitted] The Dalai Lama stated that the unique Tibetan culture was on the verge of disappearing. At the same time he stressed his readiness to hold talks with Beijing on the basis of the principle that Deng Xiaoping, the architect of Chinese reforms, put forward with regard to Taiwan and Hong Kong -- "one country-two systems" -- extending it to the present Tibetan autonomous region of the PRC. Sharing his impressions about present day Moscow, which he has already visited several times, the Dalai Lama said "a lot more cars" have appeared on the streets and "many houses are under construction near the capital," which in his opinion is evidence of development. But a much more striking change is that "previously in Moscow it was difficult to communicate with ordinary citizens, but now Muscovites converse willingly, they ask questions and show a new openness of views and emotions." "I think this is very important," the Buddhist spiritual leader stressed. He advised Russians "to create something new in the economic sphere" to avoid the drawbacks of the "Western economic model." On Saturday the Dalai Lama leaves for Delhi. During his stay in Moscow, the PRC embassy in Russia expressed "serious concern" about the activity of the Tibetan spiritual leader, which in the opinion of Chinese diplomats, was directed "at splitting China."
