FBIS4-8514 "dreeu072_i_94010" FBIS-EEU-94-072 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Attack Intensifies Attack Intensifies AU1404145794 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 1300 GMT 14 Apr 94 AU1404145794 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by Enes Musovic from Gorazde] [Text] Continuing their fierce offensive on Gorazde, the chetniks have since morning been launching extremely heavy combined artillery and infantry attacks on (Borovo) from the direction of Ustipraca, and on the right bank of the Drina River from the direction of Cajnice. The aggressor has deployed very strong forces, reinforced with newly arrived units from the Uzice Corps, the Herzegovina Corps, and the Sarajevo-Mt. Romanija Corps, and special units from Nis, which are equipped with the most state-of-the-art weapons and the most lethal ones, too. The information from these areas indicates that extremely heavy fighting is under way. The chetnik attacks on these defense lines are continuing. The aggressor is pounding every inch of these areas with mortars of the heaviest caliber. The fighters of the Eastern Bosnia Operative Group of the Bosnia-Herzegovina Army, the unrelenting defenders of Gorazde, are withholding all the attacks by these insane killers [word indistinct] to enter Gorazde as soon as possible. There is total chaos in the clinic and the Gorazde war hospital. Screams, cries, and the wailing of children. Several people have been killed today by shells that have landed on the town. The exact number is still unknown, but the deaths of three children and two women have been confirmed. Dozens of civilians have also been wounded, three of them children and one woman very seriously. The chetniks are shelling the surrounding villages, but we have no information about the casualties from these areas. During the day the aggressor has also intensified attacks on all the other defense lines. The chetniks are simultaneously reinforcing their forces, and concentrating them from the direction of Foca, (Medici), and the Praca River valley . The general alarm has been in force in Gorazde since this morning owing to the shelling of the residential areas in the region. The Gorazde defenders are putting up strong resistance to the aggressor despite the inadequacy of their weapons.
