FBIS3-20760 "jpeer008__s94025" JPRS-EER-94-008-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 10 March 1994 POLAND Ujazdowski of Conservative Coalition Profiled 94P20418D Poznan WPROST in Polish No 8, 20 Feb 94 p 6 94P20418D Poznan WPROST Language: Polish Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article under the rubric "People": "Kazimierz Ujazdowski"] [Text] The Conservative Coalition (KK)--such is the name given to the new Polish right-wing group that was formed following the secession of seven of the 15 members of the Main Administration of the Conservative Party (PK). They claim to have the support of half of the local PK affiliates. The head of the Coalition, Kazimierz Michal Ujazdowski, would like to bring about a quick integration of the right, together with Center Accord (PC), the Christian National Union (ZChN), the RdR (Movement for the Republic), and the PL (Peasant Accord). The founding congress of the Conservative Coalition will probably take place in March, and Ujazdowski himself is mentioned as one of the chief pretenders to the leadership of the national-Christian right camp. The 30-year-old Kazimierz Ujazdowski was born in Kielce and was graduated from the Department of Law of Lodz University. In 1990 and 1991, he was secretary general of the Forum of the Democratic Right [FPD, founded in summer 1990; merged with ROAD, Citizens Movement-Democratic Action, to form UD, the Democratic Union party]. As a member of the presidium of the UD, he was deputy to the secretary general of the party. However, he deserted UD and, together with Aleksander Hall, created in 1992 the Conservative Party. Before last year's September elections, he negotiated with the ZChN leaders to accept the Conservative Party into the "Ojczyzna" [Fatherland] electoral coalition, of which he was an ardent supporter. From that time on, a conflict between him and Hall grew, leading to the division in the Conservative Party. Kazimierz Michal Ujazdowski was a Sejm deputy in the first term and was a member of the Parliamentary Club of the Democratic Union and later of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Convention [Konwencja Polska, a 33-member parliamentary club consisting of deputies from the FPD, the PChD (Party of Christian Democrats), and the SL-Ch (Peasant-Christian Party)]. He is the founder of the "Kraj" ["Country"] association and of the Alexis de Tocqueville Democratic Foundation. He is married and has one son. He likes to spend his free time reading belles lettres literature and traveling.
