FBIS3-20264 "drweu060_n_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Denmark Swedish EU Quota Agreement May Spark `New Cod War' BR2903080294 Stockholm DAGENS INDUSTRI in Swedish 24 Mar 94 p 11 BR2903080294 Stockholm DAGENS INDUSTRI Language: Swedish Article Type:BFN [Ola Hellblom report: "New Cod War Could Prevent Swedish EU Membership"] [Text] Copenhagen -- A promise from the European Union [EU] that Sweden will be given a higher cod quota in the Baltic Sea has caused an outcry among Danish politicians and fishermen. One Danish representative in the European Parliament is now threatening to vote against Swedish membership of the EU. During the last, hectic night of talks on the EU agreement, Sweden succeeded in negotiating a higher cod quota in the Baltic Sea. The increased share of Baltic cod can only be taken from EU member states Denmark and Germany. Neither Denmark nor Germany has approved the Swedish fisheries agreement, and Danish politicians in the European Parliament are so indignant about it that they are thinking of voting against Swedish EU membership unless the fisheries agreement is altered. In the past, Sweden has had 24 percent of the total cod quota in the Baltic Sea, which amounts to 60,000 tonnes. The EU member states, i.e., Denmark and Germany, share 36 percent between them. The remaining 40 percent is split between Russia, Poland, and the Baltic states. "Next year the total cod quota in the Baltic Sea will increase to at least 80,000 tonnes. Under the terms of the EU agreement, the Swedish quota will increase by 5 percent," Stefan de Mare, chief negotiator for the Swedish fisheries sector at the talks with the EU on accession, said. Danish Fisheries Minister Bjorn Westh said that the Swedish agreement was a technical error and that Denmark, together with Germany, will try to change it. Danish MEP [European Parliament Member] Niels Anker Kofoed, who represents Bornholm, described the agreement as scandalous. He is considering voting against Swedish membership in the European Parliament unless the agreement is changed back. Fishermen from Bornholm, who are highly dependent on cod fishing, were recently promised higher quotas next year. A higher Swedish quota could wreck their chances of this, too. The Bornholm fishermen have lodged a protest with Fisheries Minister Bjorn Westh.
