FBIS3-43057 "jpust005___94053" JPRS-UST-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 10 February 1994 LIFE SCIENCES BIOTECHNOLOGY Spectral Properties of a Bacteriorhodopsin Analog Obtained Via the Insertion of 4-Keto-Retinal Into Bacterioopsin in vivo 937C0091A Moscow BIOLOGICHESKIYE MEMBRANY in Russian Vol 10 No 2, Mar-Apr 93 [manuscript submitted 29 Jun 92] pp 140-144 937C0091A Moscow BIOLOGICHESKIYE MEMBRANY Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by L. S. Broun, A. B. Druzhko, A. A. Kononenko, S. K. Chamorovskiy, V. Yu. Shakhbazyan, Moscow State University imeni M. V. Lomonosov; Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Pushchino; UDC 577.322] [Abstract] One of the most promising methods of studying the interaction of bacterioopsin and the chromophore in bacteriorhodopsin involves the use of analogs that are proteins obtained via the replacement of retinal with a synthetic analog. There are two primary techniques for performing the replacement: incubation of the analog with apomembranes and cultivation of halobacteria that are defective in terms of retinal synthesis on a medium to which a given retinal analog is added. Since replacement with the first technique has a negligible effect on protein structure and interprotein interactions, and the purple-membrane hydroxylaminolysis involved leads to irreversible changes in properties, the second technique is thought to produce analogs with a protein structure that is closer to native and with certain properties that differ from those of analogs obtained with the first technique. The researchers here studied the structural and functional differences between the bacteriorhodopsin 4-keto analog obtained via the insertion of a retinal analog into apomembranes consisting of either the R1M1 or ET-1000 strains and the pigment obtained via the cultivation of the JW-5 mutant retinal-free strain on a medium containing 4-keto-retinal. The absorption spectrum of the pigment from the JW-5 strain had no retinal-oxime absorption band, but did possess a minor band at 410 nm that, in terms of peak, coincided with the band of brown-membrane cytochrome b. The circular dichromism spectrum of the pigment lacks the typical pronounced doublet, and one positive band predominates, with only small distortions. Opsin fluorescence output is twice that in 4-keto-BR, and the spectral peak is shifted toward longer wavelengths by 2-3 nm. No light-adaptation spectral effects were observed in the pigment from the JW-5 strain. The dependence of the constant for the intermediate M rates of decay is lg(k) approximately -pH/5 at pH 5-7, and lg(k) approximately -pH/1.25 at pH 7-9. Figures 2, references 32: 9 Russian, 23 Western.
