FBIS4-7782 "dreeu066_i_94013" FBIS-EEU-94-066 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA `Hurricane Artillery Attack' Described `Hurricane Artillery Attack' Described AU0604110194 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 1000 GMT 6 Apr 94 AU0604110194 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by Mustafa Kurtovic from Gorazde] [Text] As we are sending this report, the hurricane artillery attack that the aggressor launched this morning on the defense lines on the right bank of the Drina River is being extended on all lines of defense of the Gorazde defenders. In this attack the Chetniks are using the most destructive howitzer, mortar, and tank projectiles. The blood-soaked ground of the free Gorazde territory is trembling. Members of the Army of Bosnia-Herzegovina under the command of the East Bosnian Operations Group and the units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs from Gorazde are still firmly holding their positions, expecting new attacks by the insane Serbo-Montenegrin infantry. At the same time the aggressor is bringing fresh forces from the direction of Serbia and Herzegovina. Intelligence reports state that the aggressor has carried out a large concentrated of new armored-mechanized units in (?Premlje), and that it has a large number of new mercenaries from the army of the self-proclaimed Yugoslavia. Fresh forces and hardware of the Herzegovina Corps are also concentrating in the Foca area. All this indicates that, by bringing fresh Chetniks, the aggressor intends to step up the offensive attacks on Gorazde. The announced arrival of General Michael Rose, chief commander of the UN forces in Bosnia-Herzegovina, in Gorazde should and must bring about positive results in stopping further suffering of these people, and in the attitude of the international community toward Gorazde as a protected zone. The truth about Gorazde's suffering in the latest Chetnik offensive can be and is being confirmed by UN military observers and UNHCR representatives in Gorazde. This is Mustafa Kurtovic reporting for the Radio and Television of Bosnia-Herzegovina from the Press Center of the Gorazde District.
