FBIS4-30993 "dreeu106__a94005" FBIS-EEU-94-106-A Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 ANNEX Albania Socialist Deputies Protest Socialist Deputies Protest AU0106203294 Tirana ATA in English 0824 GMT 1 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0106203294 Tirana ATA English BFN [Text] Tirana, June 1 (ATA) -- At today's proceedings of the People's Assembly, the speaker, Pjeter Arbnori, told deputies to vote the draft law for some changes of the Law on the State Budget of the 1994 and after it to discuss the draft law on the Advocates Office in the Republic of Albania. But, Mr. Arbnori said that he was giving the floor to the chairman of the SP [Socialist Party] parliamentary group, Namik Dokle, who has requested to read a statement. Mr. Dokle said in his statement that "whatever might be the result of the local government elections in the Libofshe commune, the Socialist Party declares it as unsupportable because there have been irregularities during the elections, violence, buying of the votes, manipulations, ill-treatment of the SP members in the election's commission and even to the six SP deputies." Addressing to the SP deputies, Mr. Arbnori said you should accept the result of the elections. At this moment, the deputies of the SP parliamentary group stood up creating a tense situation and slapping the tables started coming out of the hall. In this tense situation, Mr. Arbnori gave the floor to the chairman of the DP [Democratic Party] parliamentary group, Ali Spahia. Mr. Spahia said in his statement that "we are seeing the continuation of the policy of destabilization and tension, violation of the law and confrontation of the justice by the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party created that tense situation in Libofshe. The Democratic Party held three peaceful meetings. The meeting of the Socialist Party was provocative making insulting and provocative appeals against the Democratic Party, and extremist and Enverist shouts such as "Long live the Labour Party," etc. Mr. Spahia said that the Socialist Party is the offspring of the dictatorship but now it is not able to deceive the people. "During all the electoral campaign, no DP activist or supporter have used insulting words against any political personality or party or the Socialist Party, no in the special meetings nor in the open ones," Mr. Spahia said adding that "our messages have always been constructive, peaceful, and brotherly ones, having the thought that the elections will be won by that political force which is chosen by electors." During all the time Mr. Spahia was speaking, the SP deputies continued to slap the tables and shout trying to interrupt him. At this moment, Mr. Arbnori canceled the seance. After the break, the deputies approved the draft law for some changes on the Law on the State Budget of the 1994. The SP deputies did not vote but continued their protest.
