FBIS3-45817 "drchi015_n_94013" FBIS-CHI-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Economic & Agricultural Gold Industry Welcomes Overseas Investors OW2101071594 Beijing XINHUA in English 0602 GMT 21 Jan 94 OW2101071594 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 21 (XINHUA) -- China has once again demonstrated its resolution of developing domestic gold industry by using overseas funds and technologies. The China National Gold Corporation (CNGC), the only specialized gold industry company in the country, has set up a special group to coordinate experimental work of importing overseas funds and technologies. Cui Lan, chairman of the board of the CNGC, disclosed that so far a dozen companies from the U.S., Canada, Australia and South Africa have contacted them, showing interest in investing in China's gold mines. He said that, besides opening the gold industry to overseas investment, China is now putting equal efforts into introducing advanced technologies for prospecting, mining, dressing and smelting, as well as models for running gold mines and means of collecting funds. Cui pointed out that the rumor that China bans overseas investors from its gold industry is false. He explained that China's gold industry has made great strides since the government adopted the reform and opening-up policy in the late 1970s. The country's gold production capability has been raised five times since then. Altogether there are 28 enterprises directly subordinate to the company, which also has nine joint ventures or share-holding companies. So as to help China's gold industry move into the world market, the company has established four overseas branches. As a group company monopolizing the country's gold industry, the CNGC has a large business scope covering prospecting, engineering design, construction of gold-related enterprises, consultancy, dressing, processing and sales of gold, and importing materials, machinery and technologies. Cui foresaw that in the near future the CNGC will develop into a trans-regional group investment company.
