FBIS4-62835 "drsov097_d_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-097 Daily Report 17 May 1994 Regional Affairs `Apparatchik' Orel Governor Seen Appointing Duma Leaders `Apparatchik' Orel Governor Seen Appointing Duma Leaders PM1805141194 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 17 May 94 First Edition p 2 PM1805141194 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian BFN ["Rejoinder" by V. Tikhonov, Category I economist in the Glazunovskiy Rayon Administration Financial Department, Orel Oblast, rayon Duma deputy, and member of the Russian Journalists Union: "Stroyev Appoints Everyone"] [Text] Orel Oblast -- ...There was an announcement on oblast morning radio that Orel Governor Yegor Stroyev had confirmed the authority of a number of rayon adminstration heads and their combining of their functions with those of chairmen of the newly elected rayon dumas. This undoubtedly should have been expected in line with the statute on local self-government in Orel Oblast for the transitional period. However, "appointmentism" on such a scale as we have in our oblast grated even on people who have seen a thing or two. A few hours later oblast administration spokesman V. Sosunov read out the above order at the first session of our rayon duma and announced that there would not even be any formal elections of the head of the rayon duma. I'll be jiggered! As far as usurping power is concerned the oblast administration has even outdone the old party organs, which also appointed the leaders of the soviets. However, we must primarily blame ourselves for all that has happened. I consider my mistake to have been voting for Ye. Stroyev twice in the past -- in the elections for oblast administration head and in the Federal Assembly election. A party apparatchik with a long service record will hardly be able so easily to abandon the old stereotypes in his behavior. Common sense suggests that the people's deputies should meet often in order to resolve pressing problems in people's lives and carry out voters' instructions. But it is hard to predict how the so-called duma chairman, who has been appointed (he is, after all, the head of the administration), will like this. So it only remains to envy the former rayon soviet of people's deputies until a law on local self-government is adopted (unless it echoes the Orel instructions).
