FBIS3-2277 "drchi045_f_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 Near East & South Asia Qian Qichen, Iranian Officials Discuss Qiao Shi Visit OW0803013094 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0525 GMT 6 Mar 94 OW0803013094 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By reporter Chen Ming (7115 6900)] [Text] Tehran, 3 Mar (XINHUA) -- The Iranian Majlis is awaiting Chairman Qiao Shi's visit to Iran. Iran hopes to strengthen cooperation with China in developing its national economy and with regard to international issues. The above remarks were made this afternoon respectively by Iranian Majlis speaker Nateq-Nuri and Iranian First Vice President Habibi when they met with Qian Qichen, visiting Chinese vice premier and concurrently minister of foreign affairs. The two sides expressed satisfaction over the smooth development of relations between the two countries, including relations between the Chinese National People's Congress and the Iranian Majlis. Nateq-Nuri said the friendly contacts between the parliaments of the two countries have shown the desire of the two countries to develop bilateral relations. Nateq-Nuri said: The ancient Silk Road connected the two countries. Today, friendly contacts between the two countries in various fields, economic and trade cooperation in particular, have added new contents to the friendship between the people of the two countries. In 1993 bilateral trade increased by 63.2 percent compared with that of the previous year, reaching $712 million. Economic and technological cooperation between the two countries now includes the fields of water conservancy, mechanical industry, and nonferrous industry. Qian Qichen said: Iran serves as a bridge between Asia and the Middle East and is a major country in the region. China hopes to further develop cooperative relations with Iran on the basis of mutual benefit. Vice President Habibi briefed Qian Qichen on the situation of reconstruction in Iran. He said: Iran needs assistance from friendly countries and cooperation of the international community in her reconstruction. He is convinced there is great potential for further strengthening cooperation although relatively big progress has been made in developing relations between the two countries. He said the two countries should strengthen cooperation and jointly raise bilateral relations to a new high level.
