FBIS3-42264 "jptot006__l94006" JPRS-TOT-94-006-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 9 February 1994 EAST EUROPE MACEDONIA Ex-PDP Official Arrested in Connection With Arms Smuggling AU0202110294 Skopje MIC in English 1 Feb 94 AU0202110294 Skopje MIC Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Mithat Emini Arrested"] [Text] The former secretary-general of PDP [Party for Democratic Prosperity] was arrested on Saturday under the charges of founded suspicion that he was involved in the affair with the organization of paramilitary Albanian formations in Macedonia and arms smuggling, MIC reports, quoting reliable sources in the interior ministry. The district attorney Gligor Serafimovski confirmed this information to MIC. However, he denied that Emini was transferred from prison in Skopje to the state polyclinic, due to heart difficulties. MIC found out that the court proceedings of the group of Albanians, including an Albanian with Macedonian and U.S. citizenship, all indicted under the same charges, are expected to begin toward the end of this week. Toward the beginning of last November, the Macedonian police arrested the Deputy Minister of Defense Husein Haskaj, together with a larger group of Albanians, under the suspicion of smuggling arms and organizing paramilitary and parapolice organizations in Macedonia. The Minister of the Interior Ljubomir Frckovski stated, at the time, that "there is a founded suspicion that the Deputy Minister of Defense Haskaj was involved in the expert estimation and giving advice to a foreign state, which is in the sphere of giving out state secrets." The Ministry of Defense denied this information and explained that Haskaj did not have at his disposal information about the defense plan of the Republic of Macedonia. Frckovski also denied that an arsenal of 300 automatic guns were found on the suspects, but only 35. Frckovski also denied that a list of 20,000 recruits of the Albanian paramilitary in Macedonia was also found on the people arrested. "It is quite possible," Frckovski said, "that the arrested individuals were preparing a concept for organized paramilitary action." The police then announced that this was otherwise the fourth cut off arms smuggling channel in Macedonia. The first had come from Croatia through Bulgaria, the second from FRY through Bulgaria, and third through Salonika, into Macedonia.
