FBIS4-2741 "drchi071_v_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-071 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 TAIWAN Company To Proceed With Investment Company To Proceed With Investment OW1304074394 Taipei CNA in English 0701 GMT 13 Apr 94 OW1304074394 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Y.C. Tsai] [Text] Taipei, April 13 (CNA) -- Despite the current wave of boycotts against exchanges with Mainland China, a leading plastics producer in Taiwan has decided to go ahead with its investment projects there. Nan Ya Plastics Corp. announced following a shareholders' meeting Tuesday [12 April] that the company will channel NT$710 million (U.S.$26.79 million) into the mainland for five investment projects. As an affiliate of the renowned Formosa Plastics Group, Nan Ya's investment plans have become the focus of attention here. The five projects include a soft PVC [polyvinyl chloride] roller-press factory in Guangzhou, PVC pipe factories in Anhui, Shangdong, and Fujian Provinces, and a PVC fitting factory in Guangdong Province, a company spokesman said. The spokesman noted that the investment plans, which will take the form of joint ventures among Nan Ya, other Taiwan plastics producers, and their mainland counterparts, will be soon submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for approval. If all goes well, he said, the soft PVC roller-press factory in Guangzhou will begin production next June. Nan Ya made the decision to open plants on the Mainland at the request of downstream plastics producers, many of which have relocated to the Mainland and rely on Nan Ya for raw materials, he said. Formosa Plastics Chairman Y.C. Wang declined comment on Nan Ya's Mainland investment plans. Meanwhile, the domestic business community is still outraged at Beijing's inhumane handling of the March 31 Qiandao Lake disaster, in which 24 Taiwan tourists were killed. Both the National Federation of Industries and the General Chamber of Commerce called on domestic manufacturers not to visit the mainland until Beijing authorities clear up questions surrounding the incident. The federation's planned trip to northern Mainland China in May was also canceled, and preparations for a seminar on business arbitration across the Taiwan Strait were suspended. Taiwan investors must join hands to press Mainland China to ensure protection of Taiwan tourists, investors and their property on the mainland, Chamber of Commerce President Wang Yu-cheng said.
