FBIS4-26955 "drchi124_n_94027" FBIS-CHI-94-124 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 Economic & Agricultural `Commentary' Urges North To Prepare for Floods `Commentary' Urges North To Prepare for Floods OW2706192494 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0546 GMT 24 Jun 94 OW2706192494 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN ["Short commentary" by XINHUA reporter Lu Yongjian (7773 3057 1696): "The North Must Not Ignore Anti-Flood Preparations While Combating Serious Droughts"] [Text] Beijing, 24 Jun (XINHUA) -- In addition to doing all it can in combating drought and executing the three summer jobs [planting, harvesting, and field management], experts have pointed out that north China must also pay close attention to keeping flood-control projects in good repair and implementing various antiflood measures. They must, in particular, rush repairs of unsafe sections and remove obstacles in river courses. Experience tells us that if we make full use of every minute now, we will be able to achieve maximum results with little efforts. Experience also tells us that localities that have done a good job in building water control projects are better prepared to prevent and combat floods, and they are in a better position to minimize losses of life and property. Currently, combating drought is an urgent task in the north. They must, however, prepare against the possibility that "a serious drought suddenly turns into a big flood." Experts noted that late July and early August are the peak days of the flood season. Harder days still lie ahead insofar as prevention is concerned, and localities in the north should conduct a review of their flood prevention efforts. As the rainy season has begun gradually moving northward from the Zhu Jiang valley, a countdown has started for the north in terms of the time it has to make preparations; they must make every minute count. There are such major rivers as the Huai He, Huang He, Hai He, Liao He, and Songhua Jiang and countless smaller streams and tributaries north of the Chang Jiang. Government at all levels must maintain high vigilance. There have been reports that the north will experience heavier rainfall during this year's flood season. Localities in the north should make early preparations and see to it that adequate attention is paid both to combating drought and preventing floods.
