FBIS3-11243 "drlat054_f_94018" FBIS-LAT-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA El Salvador Officials Comment on Upcoming Elections Interior Minister Martinez PA2103045994 San Salvador Radio Cadena YSKL in Spanish 0412 GMT 21 Mar 94 PA2103045994 San Salvador Radio Cadena YSKL Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Interview with Interior Minister Colonel Juan Antonio Martinez by an unidentified reporter from the Presidente Hotel in San Salvador--live] [Text] [Reporter] We want to hear Interior Minister Colonel Juan Antonio Martinez Varela's opinion on the elections, because he was a member of the commission that reached the peace agreement in Chapultepec. Colonel, pleased to have you with us. [Martinez] Thank you very much. I am pleased to have the opportunity to salute the Salvadoran people on such an important occasion. This was a historic day when the ideas, concerns, values, and all things that interest the Salvadoran people were at stake. I think this enormous number of observers who came here will attest to what happened here, that this was for real. The results will reflect much of the Salvadoran people's political and mental development. We hope the people will grow fully aware that what transpired here represents a great step forward for the Salvadoran people. [Reporter] Is this electoral process, which concluded on 21 March with nationwide general elections, a way to consolidate the effort you, as a negotiating commissioner, as a commissioner for dialogue, made to reach the agreements in Chapultepec two years ago? [Martinez] Undoubtedly, I think so. A phase was virtually closed, and, I think, another phase has begun. The elections reflect the preferences of the Salvadoran people, and this is why we are anxious to learn about the official results. Various quarters have reported the initial unofficial results. We reached this phase and another phase, which will strengthen the country's democratic development, has started. [sentence as heard]
