FBIS3-14490 "drnes060bb_94006" FBIS-NES-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 Inter-Arab Affairs Further Reportage on Arab League Council Session `Foreign Plots' Against Sudan Condemned EA2803164694 Khartoum SUNA in English 0920 GMT 28 Mar 94 EA2803164694 Khartoum SUNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Cairo, 28 Mar (SUNA) -- Foreign Minister Dr. Husayn Abu-Salih has met here on the sidelines of the current Arab League Council's meeting his Qatari, Iraqi, Syrian, Kuwaiti, and Tunisian counterparts, SUNA learned. Dr. Abu-Salih has reviewed with his Qatar counterpart progress of the distinguished relations between Sudan and Qatar. They underscored the importance of intensifying contacts between the two sister countries. Dr. Abu-Salih has briefed the Qatar minister on the recent developments in Sudan, particularly the efforts to realize peace in the country. Meanwhile, the League's ministerial council has unanimously declared full support to Sudan's struggle to safeguard its unity and sovereignty. The council has condemned the foreign plots aimed at separating the south of Sudan. In a press statement, Dr. Abu-Salih has praised the unanimous Arab attitude in support of Sudan which has been facing the threat of harming its unity. He pointed out that the resolution's project in this regard has received due support from all the Arab countries which had voiced their condemnation of any foreign attempt to interfere in Sudan's internal affairs. Dr. Abu-Salih stated that the Sudan is waiting for the visit to the Egyptian foreign minister to Khartoum to resume talks on ways to resolve differences between Sudan and Egypt referring to Hala'ib issue. Egyptian Foreign Minister 'Amr Musa has affirmed Saturday [26 March] before the League's Council his country's support to Sudan in the face of foreign plots. The Libyan foreign minister, Ibrahim al-Bishari, also emphasized his country's unshakeable support to Sudan's unity, warning of the conspiracies to separate the southern part of Sudan. He explained that the war in south Sudan is a plot which will affect the security of Egypt and Libya.
