FBIS3-57750 "drsov020bb_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS International Economic Forum Held in Davos Meets Western Leaders in Davos LD3101091694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0705 GMT 31 Jan 94 LD3101091694 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Nikita Yermakov and Konstantin Pribytkov] [Text] Davos January 31 TASS -- Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin held a series of meetings with representatives of political and business circles of Western countries during his two-day visit to the Swiss resort city of Davos to attend the World Economic Forum. Chernomyrdin met with Swedish Prime Minister Carl Bildt, Swiss federal adviser Jean-Pascal Delamuraz, OPEC Secretary General Subroto, EBRD [European Bank for Reconstruction and Development] directors and managers of a number of major commercials banks. "We have attained our goal at the talks -- there was a thorough and professional discussion of problems and difficulties faced by Russia," Valentin Sergeyev, head of the press service of the Russian Government, told ITAR-TASS. "There is no question of reforms or no reforms on today's agenda. We are for reforms, but the question is how they should be carried out, who should help us and by what means the reforms should be fulfilled," Sergeyev said. "The forum in Davos was beneficial for all, including the West and Russia, for the general comprehension of problems we are facing today and which might arise tomorrow," Sergeyev said. He pointed out that in the opinion of the Russian delegation, this time the talks were not merely a discussion in character, which shows that a new stage in the comprehension of Russia's problems has begun. "It was not the question of what to do but rather how this should be done that was at issue," Sergeyev said. "Our cooperation with the West is not merely a declaration, but quite a concrete matter. Earlier, we discussed aid, whereas today, we are speaking about mutually advantageous cooperation, while the word "aid" sounds like nonsense. Today, we are not merely discussing investments, but rather ways in which Russian goods, but not only raw materials, can enter the world market. In short, the Davos forum has risen to a qualitatively new level in its businesslike atmosphere, approaches and expected results," Sergeyev said.
