FBIS4-14001 "drnes080yy_94002" FBIS-NES-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks PLO, Israeli Negotiators Reach Agreement on Issues PLO, Israeli Negotiators Reach Agreement on Issues Palestinian `Free Passage' Noted TA2504184094 Jerusalem New Channel 2 Television Network in Hebrew 1700 GMT 25 Apr 94 TA2504184094 Jerusalem New Channel 2 Television Network Hebrew BFN [Report by Roni Daniyel] [Excerpts] The Palestinians will have free passage from Gaza to Jericho, passing through Israeli settlements, and they will even travel on the Tel Aviv-Jerusalem highway. Agreement on that was reached a short time ago in the Cairo talks. Our correspondent Roni Daniyel reports on the agreement reached: Inspections at the Erez junction will be reorganized. Inspection of vehicles and passengers will be computerized to provide real time data on those leaving the Gaza Strip, their destinations, and the time they arrive, so that by the end of the day we will know who is still in Israel. Four axes were defined as free passage for traffic from Gaza to Jericho. From the Yad Mordekhay junction those with permission will be able to travel to the Shoqet junction, and from there to Hebron, Bethlehem, and Jericho, or through 'Arad to the Dead Sea and Jericho. [passage omitted] Besides those two southern axes, Israel has agreed to permit free passage along two other axes: From Ashqelon through Qiryat Gat to Hebron, a distance of 60 km, while the fourth axis links the Gaza Strip with Latrun and Jerusalem through Qiryat Mal'akhi. [passage omitted] Those are the four axes that will link Gaza and Jericho, it was agreed upon in Cairo. They are called the free passages. We traveled along one of them today and where does it come to? Highway No. 1, which links Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, and from there they will travel through Jerusalem to Jericho, with all the security problems such traffic can set off, but that was what was agreed upon and the moment there is autonomy traffic from Gaza will cross here.
