FBIS4-30853 "dreeu105_p_94008" FBIS-EEU-94-105 Daily Report 31 May 1994 POLAND EU `Deliberately' Protecting Own Carriers EU `Deliberately' Protecting Own Carriers WS3105120994 Warsaw NOWA EUROPA in Polish 31 May 94 p 3 WS3105120994 Warsaw NOWA EUROPA Polish BFN [Report by "J.S.": "European Transportation Market -- A Door Left Ajar"] [Text] The countries of the European Communities deliberately protect their own carriers. Practically anyone can enter our country, and without paying attention to legal provisions -- said Transportation and Maritime Economy Minister Boguslaw Liberadzki. According to the minister, the countries of the European Union [EU] should express a political will -- followed by practical steps -- aimed at eliminating any form of discrimination of carriers from Central and East Europe. Transportation is regarded as a major source of revenue for the budgets of Western countries and that is why it is well organized while shipping companies have excellent canvassing networks at their disposal. Foreign TIR [International Road Transport] cars which bring merchandise into Poland, also carry goods on their way back in 85 percent of the cases, which makes the entire operation cost-effective. Our drivers on the other hand, carry just air on their way back, as a general rule. A small number of strong shipping companies has assured a dominating position for themselves in the European market. They themselves set prices which they all adhere to, while leaving a small space for small, local carriers. The Western shipping market is protected -- among other things -- by EU legal requirements concerning shipping companies' financial resources -- which are different than our legal provisions -- and by high technical standards concerning the vehicles' construction and equipment. We cannot agree to this kind of terms. We stressed these issues strongly during a European Conference of Transportation Ministers in Annecy, France which took place in the last days of May -- said the chief of our ministry. During the conference, the Polish representatives supported an initiative aimed at a gradual liberalization of legal provisions concerning international transportation. We need a few years to adapt to those provisions.
