FBIS3-26525 "drchi027_t_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 Northwest Region Shaanxi To Increase High-Tech Production HK0802061394 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 8 Feb 94 p 1 HK0802061394 Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Ma Lie: "Shaanxi Gears Up High-Tech Production"] [Text] Xian--Shaanxi, one of China's technological powerhouses, is gearing up its high-tech development to bolster economic growth in this relatively under-developed inland province in Northwest China. The main breakthroughs will be achieved by developing non-State-run high-tech enterprises, establishing a technology market and focusing on key research projects, according to Sun Haiying, director of the Shaanxi Provincial Science and Technology Committee. "The total income of non-State high-tech enterprises this year will hit 1.5 billion yuan ($170 million), 28 percent more than last year, while the business volume in technological transactions will be 500 million yuan ($57 million)," Sun said. Six out of 10 key research products developed this year will reach the production stage, he added. The rate of transferring technology development to production should be even faster, he noted. This year, the province plans to build a technical market--the Northwest Technological Trade Centre, the largest of its kind in Northwest China. More than 1,000 technical market brokers will be trained in technology, business and management. Local governments will focus more on developing private high-tech enterprises that have flexible operation and management systems. Their development will be supported with loans through such channels as new technical credit cooperatives, Sun said. "We hope the non-State high-tech enterprises will increase to more than 6,000 from the 4,000 in 1993," Sun said. The province has identified 10 agricultural and manufacturing projects as vital to Shaanxi's economy. These key projects will actively use foreign advanced technology and funds. The province also plans to further widen its international co- operation and exchanges. This includes plans to attract foreign research institutes and enterprises to establish high-tech joint ventures in Shaanxi. More local research organizations and manufacturers of high-tech products will also be encouraged to compete in the international market, Sun added. Shaanxi's technological strength now ranks third in the country, behind only Beijing and Shanghai. Some 50 universities and colleges and more than 500 research institutes are located in the province.
