FBIS4-17154 "drsov078_c_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-078 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 Regional Affairs Deputies Differ Over Privatization Program Deputies Differ Over Privatization Program PM2204105194 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 22 Apr 94 First Edition p 2 PM2204105194 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Report by Yevgeniy Skukin: "Passions Over Privatization"] [Text] What will the second stage of privatization actually be like? After 1 July will Anatoliy Chubays and his team manage to channel this progress toward attracting investments in industry and the development of production? The disputes which flared up over this subject at the parliamentary hearings showed once again how the deputies' political positions differ and how firmly politics and the economy are still welded together. Summing up the ideologically close speeches of representatives of several factions -- Adrian Puzanovskiy ("New Regional Policy"), Vladimir Lisichkin (Liberal Democratic Party of Russia), and Valentin Martemyanov (Russian Federation Communist Party) -- one can draw the conclusion that privatization did not have a human face to start with and will not have in the future. The opponents of A. Chubays' program believe that not one of the set tasks has been fulfilled. "We will not accept the idea of the suspension of privatization," said Sergey Ivanenko, the "Yabloko" spokesman and deputy chairman of the committee for property, privatization, and economic activity. "Such a step will have no political success." The bloc's concept for post-voucher privatization is as follows: A program is needed for the reorganization of enterprises which are now reminiscence of collective farms. For this it is necessary, first, to create a law on privatization and a system of voluntary bankruptcies. Second, we must move from the mass process of privatization to specific work with each enterprise. And the most important element is that it is essential to expand the front of privatization -- to begin to regulate privatization in other spheres." Anatoliy Chubays, chairman of the State Committee for the Administration of State Property [Goskomimushchestvo], reacted with understanding to the deputies' contradictory assessments of his program -- this reflects the feelings of different groups of the population. Some say that the process is dragging one and that privatization must be carried out more rapidly. Others, on the contrary, are speaking of a privatization blitzkrieg. But, A. Chubays explained, the target for the pace of privatization was not formulated by the Goskomimushchestvo and not by the government but... by the former Russian Federation Supreme Soviet. The "privatization program" it adopted states that the Russian Federation Goskomimushchestvo must complete the transformation of small and medium enterprises into joint stock companies by 1 October 1992. So that the privatizers did not even keep to that deadline. "If the State Duma adopts any other laws," A. Chubays stressed, "we shall act in accordance with them."
