FBIS4-34309 "drlat118aa_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Holds Talks With Frei, Duran Ballen Holds Talks With Frei, Duran Ballen PY1706161894 Asuncion ABC COLOR in Spanish 17 Jun 94 p 4 PY1706161894 Asuncion ABC COLOR Spanish BFN [Text] President Juan Carlos Wasmosy returned last night to Asuncion from the Fourth Ibero-American Summit that was held in Cartagena [Colombia] between 13 and 15 June. Wasmosy met with his Ecuadoran and Chilean colleagues, Sixto Duran Ballen and Eduardo Frei, respectively, on 16 May in that city. During his first address, Wasmosy's call for a sea outlet for our country was warmly received by Frei, who promised his government will immediately begin the construction and paving of the 60 km stretch of highway that will connect northeast Argentina and Antofagasta [Chile] and thus open an outlet to the Pacific for our exports. Wasmosy stressed that his government will improve and pave the highway that connects Mariscal Estigarribia [Paraguay] with Pozo Hondo [Paraguay] through Mision La Paz [Argentina], which will make possible the connection with Chile. It must be reported that Wasmosy's appeal for a sea outlet with a smoother policy did not receive encouraging answers from Argentina or Uruguay. The president indicated that speeches have no significance if in practice there is no real cooperation. The president questioned the customs tariffs that Argentina charges on our exports. He also said he cannot conceive the river waterway without the incorporation of the River Plate. During his meeting with Duran Ballen, Wasmosy invited him to officially visit our country. The Ecuadoran president will visit the country at the end of the year with a trade mission. Wasmosy also met with Colombian President Cesar Gaviria in Cartagena's Hilton Hotel. Gaviria later reported that he promised his Paraguayan colleague that within the next few days he will send a mission of legal experts to advise the executive branch on the drafting of a bill for the repression of drug trafficking. He gave no more details. Another topic discussed by the two presidents is that Paraguay should make its presence felt more at the OAS taking into account that Gaviria will in the near future take over as secretary general of the organization replacing Joao Baena Soares. Ruben Melgarejo Lanzoni, Paraguayan ambassador to the OAS, who also participated in the meeting, indicated that Gaviria promised a larger participation in the organization's posts to our country, including the post of OAS representative to member countries. Melgarejo Lanzoni also indicated that he did not reject the idea that the Mercosur [Common Market of the South] Treaty could be modified to allow the membership of Chile and Bolivia. He indicated that Wasmosy and Frei had also discussed the topic. Wasmosy reported that he will thoroughly overhaul the foreign service "by creating a school of diplomacy," in other words, establish a career system that will remain unchanged no matter who is in power. "Our foreign policy must be one and one alone," he said.
