FBIS4-22912 "jpust008___94115" JPRS-UST-94-008 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 31 March 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Organic Reservoir Water and Soil Contamination in Organic Reservoir Water and Soil Contamination in Kramtsovskiy' State Farm in Sverdlovsk Oblast 947C0121E Moscow GIGIYENA I SANITARIYA in Russian No. 6, Jun 93 pp 22-26 947C0121E Moscow GIGIYENA I SANITARIYA Russian CSO [Article by Ye.S. Brodskiy, N.A. Klyutev, A.A. Tumashov, G.L. Rusinov, V.B. Gurvich, E.A. Sokolnikov, V.S. Soyfer, Evolutionary Morphology and Animal Ecology Institute imeni A.N. Severtsov at Russia's Academy of Sciences, Chemistry Institute of the Bashkir Scientific Center at the Urals Department of Russia's Academy of Sciences, Ufa, and Oblast Center of State Sanitary and Epidemiological Oversight, Yekaterinburg; UDC 614.777-074:543.544] [Abstract] The harmful consequences of the uncontrolled use of chemical plant protection agents which led to cases of agricultural worker poisoning prompted a study of soil and water samples taken at the Khramtsovskiy state farm in Beloyarsk rayon of Sverdlovsk oblast in June 1990 after several cases of poisoning were reported. Samples were taken near the area of suspected use or storage of chemicals and well as water from puddles and ponds near the fields. The samples were analyzed for the concentration of such organic pollutants as chlorophenols, polycyclical aromatic hydrocarbons (PAU), and pesticides by using a combination of gas-liquid chromatography (GZhKh) and mass spectrometry (MS). To this end, 50 g samples were mixed with 200 ml of 50% aqueous acetone and filtered, after which the residue was extracted in 100 ml of the same mixture, while the extract was reduced by evaporation. Total ion current (PIT) mass spectrograms of the water extract from a puddle near carrot and other fields and mass spectrograms with various retention times are plotted. The findings demonstrate that various toxic substances are found in the samples taken near the poisoning locations, especially near pesticide storage facilities, but in most cases, no abnormally high concentrations of residual amounts exceeding the maximum permissible concentration were detected except for one sample. The data are not sufficient for a complete statistical estimate of the total field contamination and for pinpointing the specific cause yet point toward the presence of individual localized contamination of the territory with possible harmful impacts on agricultural workers. Figures 6; references 3: 1 Russian, 2 Western.
