FBIS4-1272 "drafr080_e_94009" FBIS-AFR-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 WEST AFRICA Liberia All-Citizens Conference Issues Resolution, Ends All-Citizens Conference Issues Resolution, Ends AB2504173294 Gbarnga Radio ELRL in English 1200 GMT 25 Apr 94 AB2504173294 Gbarnga Radio ELRL English BFN [Text] A two-day all-citizens conference has ended in Gbarnga with the issuance of a resolution giving a one-week grace period to the State Council for the full sitting of the Liberian National Transitional Government [LNTG] to ably observe the disarmament process. In the eight-count resolution, the citizens called for the setting up of a committee which would constantly remind ECOMOG [Economic Community of West African States Cease-Fire Monitoring Group] and ULIMO [United Liberation Movement for Democracy in Liberia] to accelerate the peace process. According to the resolution, the all-citizens conference fully endorsed all NPFL nominees to the LNTG and urged the appointees to adhere to the code of conduct agreed upon by the NPFL. The resolution also called on the NPFL to contact leaders of all armed groups to the Liberian conflict through NPFL representatives to the Constitutional Assembly to open dialogue for the total and the unconditional resolution of the Liberian civil conflict. The conference also spelled that the general and presidential election, scheduled for December this year, be held in accordance with the (?April 7 accord) in Monrovia. Receiving the resolution, the leader of the NPFL, Mr. Charles Gankay Taylor, said he would carry out the wishes of the Liberian people as he is their servant. He said the road to peace has been rough and rocky and the Liberian people have contributed immensely to the peace process. Mr. Taylor said the Liberian people can boast that they preserved the sovereignty of this nation. The NPFL leader, Mr. Charles Gankay Taylor, speaking during the citizens meeting in Gbarnga over the weekend, said the NPFL is satisfied over the resolve of intense negotiations thus far in furtherance of the peace process and therefore formally becomes part of the LNTG today, Monday. Mr. Taylor expressed greats thanks and appreciation to the Almighty God for his mercy and handiwork which have continued to sustain this nation, despite all odds during the course of the five-year old civil conflict.
