FBIS3-11186 "drlat053_c_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 MEXICO Guatemala's De Leon Continues Visit Announces Creation of Committee PA1703190094 Mexico City XEW Television Network in Spanish 0430 GMT 17 Mar 94 PA1703190094 Mexico City XEW Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "24 Hours" newscast] [Text] Guatemalan President Ramiro de Leon Carpio has announced the creation of a Guatemalan-Mexican binational trade committee. During the second day of his visit to Mexico, Guatemalan President Ramiro de Leon Carpio held a working meeting with members of the Mexican Businessmen's Council for International Affairs, CEMAI. He told Mexican and Guatemalan businessmen that the big challenges facing Latin America today are to fight poverty, to increase production, and to eliminate the banners of subversion, because there are those who use poverty and injustice as banners to destabilize. The Guatemalan president announced the creation of a binational committee headed by the Mexican trade secretary and Guatemalan trade minister so that access to both markets will be facilitated at the government level. Later, Ramiro de Leon Carpio met for 30 minutes with Mr. Jorge Madrazo Cuellar, president of the National Human Rights Commission. At the end of the meeting the Guatemalan president said that the task of a human rights defender is difficult in any country, but that it is even more complicated when there are movements, such as the one earlier this year in the State of Chiapas. [Begin de Leon recording] I have said so very frankly and very sincerely, as I am accustomed to speaking. I envy you. I envy you, because I would have liked it if the internal armed conflict in Guatemala could have been resolved as quickly as this confrontation was solved here. [end recording] Later, the Guatemalan president made a private visit to the San Angel Televisa Studios. President Ramiro de Leon Carpio ended his official visit by meeting in the afternoon with a Guatemalan delegation in Mexico.
