FBIS3-21435 "jpnea015___94037" JPRS-NEA-94-015 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 9 February 1994 SOUTH ASIA INDIA Russian Arms Supplies Continue, Naval Chief Visits Upswing in Relations Seen 94AS0226A Madras THE HINDU in English 9 Feb 94 p 1 94AS0226A Madras THE HINDU Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by K. K. Katyal: "Arms Spares From Russia Coming"] [Text] New Delhi, Feb. 8--Three shiploads of spares for the defence hardware are arriving from Russia this month, marking a breakthrough in the jammed supplies since the disintegration of the Soviet Union. One ship has already arrived, another is expected this week and the third later in the month. This is not the only sign of an upswing in India-Russia bilateral relations, the plans for the exchange of visits by the top brass being the other. The Russian naval chief, Admiral Gromov, is due here soon, while the Chief of the Army Staff, Gen. B. C. Joshi, will go to Russia later this month. Russian ships will make a call at Bombay in the near future, while the plans for joint naval exercises are under way. At the political level too, the warmth and likemindedness, evident during the stay here of the Russian President, Mr. Boris Yeltsin, remains intact. According to latest indications from Moscow, Russia will support New Delhi's stand at the U.N. Human Rights Commission at Geneva, where Pakistan plans to move an anti-India resolution. The warmth beneath the customary Republic Day message from Mr. Yeltsin to the President, Dr. S.D. Sharma, has not gone unnoticed. "Our two countries are united," said Mr. Yeltsin, "not only by the concurrence of the core national interest, adherence to democratic objectives but also by the invaluable potential of mutual trust and sincere goodwill." The idea of the Prime Minister, Mr. P.V. Narasimha Rao's visit to Moscow has been seriously mooted but the schedule is yet to be finalised. At one stage, the two foreign offices proceeded on the assumption of a trip in May--but, now a later date is to be fixed, around the middle of the year. The two leaders recently exchanged letters, dealing with bilateral issues and the problems of their respective regions. Kashmir and Indo-Pakistan relations figured in the two communications though the precise references are not known publicly. According to the Russian embassy sources here, Moscow regarded Kashmir an integral part of India and affirmed faith in its territorial integrity, considered a "must" not only for the region but for the world as a whole. On one issue, however, Russia will need to update its position. Mr. Yeltsin's letter, it is learnt, had noted with satisfaction Pakistan's decision to give up its plan for an anti-India human rights-related resolution at the U.N. That phase, however, proved short-lived with Pakistan thinking of an identical move at Geneva. On trans-border terrorism, India has every reason to draw comfort from the Russian view.
