FBIS4-31061 "dreeu107_h_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-107 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 HUNGARY Bekesi Views Structure of Economic Ministries Bekesi Views Structure of Economic Ministries AU0206120494 Budapest MAGYAR HIRLAP in Hungarian 1 Jun 94 p 1 AU0206120494 Budapest MAGYAR HIRLAP Hungarian BFN [Report by Ibolya Veres: "Bekesi: If the Prime Minister Is an Economic Expert, There Is No Need for a Deputy"] [Text] With the approach of the government change, the question whether there will be an main economic ministry is becoming increasingly more important. What kind of reorganizations are the party that was victorious at the elections planning for the economic ministries? It makes a difference whether the government begins its operation by establishing a new state administration structure -- which takes quite some time -- or if it keeps the existing structure. We interviewed Laszlo Bekesi, the number one economic expert for the Hungarian Socialist Party [MSZP], on this issue. It is very important to have an economic policy center. It has to be achieved that the spheres of authority for decision-making and preparation do not clash, which requires a suitable institutional structure, Bekesi said. He considers the current system untenable because the spheres of authority are fragmented between the Office of the Prime Minister, the Finance Ministry, and sometimes the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, or the Industry and Agriculture Ministries. According to Bekesi, all this is not satisfactory and, instead, integration is the main goal. In his view, a threefold structure is needed. Based on the Finance Ministry, an main economic ministry has to be established to governs the macro-processes, the balancing processes, medium and long-term strategies, economic integration, and state finances. The finance minister who heads this ministry also has to be the leader of the economic cabinet. Bekesi believes that the view that the Finance Ministry should be turned into an office solely for tax and budget affairs does not correspond to the current Hungarian situation. This might be the future way, but it cannot be implemented at the moment, Bekesi claims. Should the finance minister responsible for economic control also fulfill the function of deputy prime minister? In Bekesi's view, this depends on whether the prime minister is an economic expert. If he is, then there is no need for the finance minister to be a deputy prime minister at the same time. However, if the prime minister is not an economic expert then the finance minister responsible for the economy must also be a deputy prime minister. Another ministry will have to deal with the tasks of the economic branches, governing the real economic processes, market protection, concrete foreign economic relations, and technical development. This ministry has to be established on the basis of the current Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, by merging the Industry and Trade Ministry and some sections of the National Technical Development Committee [OMFB], Bekesi claims. The third economic ministry will have to fulfill diverse tasks in the areas of infrastructure and regional-development, Bekesi believes.
