FBIS4-65770 "drweu099_j_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-099 Daily Report 22 May 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Berlusconi Upbeat on Government Support Berlusconi Upbeat on Government Support LD2205200794 Rome RAI Uno Television Network in Italian 1800 GMT 22 May 94 LD2205200794 Rome RAI Uno Television Network Italian BFN [Text] This is the first week which sees the government taking control of the full powers invested in it. At the same time the dispute between the government and the opposition is growing over the chairmanships of the parliamentary committees, and campaigning is already in full swing for the European elections, which are 20 days away. Mauro Mazza reports: [Mazza, over video of Forza Italia election rally] We can hear his amplified voice: Silvio Berlusconi chose to take part in the rally at Cagliari over the telephone. He told the Forza Italia rally of his dream of an Italy which was prevented from falling into the clutches of the Left when he joined the election. He explained that 80 percent of his party's objectives have already been met, only 20 percent are left, and these consist of giving Italy a good government. Berlusconi, citing a number of opinion polls, maintains that only one out of 10 Italian Popular Party voters support the opposition line chosen by the current leadership and he forecast that many Popular Party parliamentarians will support his government. In other words, Forza Italia has the wind in its sails even if Berlusconi, for the first time, puts his troops on the alert: Be careful and pay close attention to the many people, the recycled ones -- as he called them -- who want to change their spots and who want to join the movement. The leaders of the Christian Democrat Center have also commented on the presence of the fascist ministers in the government. Clemente Mastella, Pierferdinando Casini, and Francesco D'Onofrio say that Italian democracy has nothing to fear from the National Alliance. Even the opposition are now choosing other ways in which to attack the government: Mino Martinazzoli, the former secretary of the Italian Popular Party, said at a meeting in Iseo that the party must remain at the center of Italian politics and warned that it should lean neither to left or the right. However, not everybody agrees, and (Veltroni) has said that the left and the center must find a way of coming together as an opposition force and also as a future ruling coalition. Achille Occhetto cuts short any questions on the arguments involving the party leadership. He said that the party congress will put an end to speculation, but at present it must be united in order to fight in the European elections on 12 June. Massimo Cacciari [mayor of Venice] seems to be giving Occhetto a hand. Cacciari is being wooed as the next possible secretary of the Party of the Democratic Left. He said that even if he wants to become leader of the party, he could not because he is not a party member. The argument goes on.
