FBIS4-46050 "jptnd013___94083" JPRS-TND-94-013 JPRS PROLIFERATION ISSUES 23 May 1994 WEST EUROPE ITALY Official Arrested for Selling Uranium, Plutonium Official Arrested for Selling Uranium, Plutonium BR2405150194 Bern ATSA/SDAA Database in French 1443 GMT 23 May 94 BR2405150194 Bern ATSA/SDAA Database French BFN [Article signed BZ/BA/PO: "Following the Arrest of Romano Dolce. Swiss Authorities Deceived. Canton of Zurich Wants To Take Action."] [Text] Como/Zurich, 23 May (ATS) -- The Deputy Public Prosecutor of Como (Italy), Romano Dolce, arrested last Friday, has probably duped the Swiss authorities for years. To hide his own fraudulent activities, he sent them wrong or incomplete information. The canton of Zurich wants to clear up the affair. Marcel Bertschi, the Zurich public prosecutor, told ATS [Swiss Press Agency] on Monday that his office intends taking action, confirming a report in the Swiss-German weekly newspaper SONNTAGSZEITUNG. However, a spokesman for the Federal Justice and Police Department said that Italy has yet to ask Switzerland for international judicial cooperation. Swiss Involvement Romano Dolce, aged 59, was arrested in Como by the town's police. He was well-known in Switzerland. He was in fact in charge of the investigation into the illegal trafficking of uranium, plutonium, and red mercury between Switzerland and Italy and between the countries of eastern Europe and Italy. Together with five other people, including his secretary, an officer in the "Guardia di Finanza" (the financial police), Mr. Dolce stands accused of having participated in the illegal trafficking of arms, explosives, and radioactive material. According to the Como police, the network has branches in Switzerland and eastern Europe. Swiss Authorities Duped Following his arrest, the Italian authorities explained to the press how Romano Dolce had duped his Swiss colleagues to cover his own tracks. In 1991, for example, the magistrate had submitted false documents to the Swiss Justice Department concerning supposed trading in uranium, which led to the arrest of a Swiss businessman who was found carrying a sample of uranium. In fact, this maneuver had concealed a larger operation, diverting the attention of the Swiss authorities away from deals in which Romano Dolce was involved. Also in 1991, according to SONNTAGSZEITUNG, the magistrate had similarly tipped off the Zurich police about a deal involving 30 kg of uranium. In 1992, in Como, he arrested a Swiss man carrying a sample of plutonium. The same year, a Swiss-Italian uranium traffic was uncovered, again on a tip-off from Romano Dolce. The material in question in fact turned out to be totally inoffensive. For the time being, Romano Dolce remains under arrest. He has been put at the disposal of Brescia [Italy] magistrates since the Como prosecutor's office is not empowered to examine its own magistrate. The five people who stand accused with Mr. Dolce include the Italian Aldo Anghessa (aged 50), currently held in the La Stampa prison in Lugano.
