FBIS4-17345 "drsov079_b_94030" FBIS-SOV-94-079 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 RUSSIAN NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Differences on Program May Split Communist Party Differences on Program May Split Communist Party MK2204102094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 22 Apr 94 p 3 MK2204102094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Russian BFN [Yevgeniy Yanayev report: "Russian Communist Party Holds April Plenary Meeting. Zyuganovites Decide Whether They Should Support the Bolsheviks or the Communists"] [Text] Russian communists have launched a whole slew of organizational measures that are primarily designed to resolve whether supporters of this movement will adhere to democratic rules or whether they will once again start agitation in the parliament. Yesterday, a plenary meeting of Zyuganov's Communist Party [CPRF] Central Committee opened in Zvenigorod. For a leader with a penchant for parliamentarianism this will be a test of strength on the eve of a party conference scheduled for next weekend. The plenary meeting will focus on the communists' theses for a party program, which is to be approved by the All-Russia conference. The program itself has been purged of the slightest hints of Bolshevism. State-patriotic in tone, it recognizes the need to continue reform -- of course, with a greater emphasis on social aspects -- and tolerates the existence of private property. Some CPRF "mid-level" chiefs, however, do not share the state and social democratic views of their leaders. Gennadiy Zyuganov's opponents are more attracted by the stance of the Bolsheviks from the Union of Communist Parties -- the CPSU under Oleg Shenin, former Politburo member. The union hews to unblemished principles, puts class struggle and internationalism above anything else, and does not have a single seat in the "bourgeois" parliament. Matters to be discussed by the plenary meeting have taken on such an urgency in the party that observers do not rule out the possibility of a split in its ranks. The agenda of the plenary meeting also includes the consideration of an organizational matter. The meeting is set to remove Ivan Rybkin from the Central Executive Committee under the official pretext of his having too much work in parliament. To all appearances, however, the actual reason is related to his political platform, because many party members think that the lower chamber speaker has embarked on the path of opportunism. Too often have the views of Comrade Rybkin coincided with those of the authorities, to which the CPRF is still in opposition. KOMMERSANT-DAILY will report the results of the plenary meeting and the party conference in its 26 April issue.
