FBIS4-48602 "drafr099_c_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-099 Daily Report 22 May 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC's Ramaphosa Elected Constitutional Assembly Chair ANC's Ramaphosa Elected Constitutional Assembly Chair MB2205192594 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1905 GMT 22 May 94 MB2205192594 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Cape Town May 22 SAPA -- The African National Congress's parliamentary caucus on Sunday evening elected ANC Secretary-General Mr Cyril Ramaphosa to chair South Africa's Constitutional Assembly which is to draw up the country's final constitution. Ms Bridgit Mabandla is to be the ANC's nomination for deputy chair, but this post may still, in terms of government of national unity considerations, be given to a National Party member. The Constitutional Assembly -- consisting of senators and National Assembly members -- is to be constituted at Parliament on Tuesday morning. ANC Chief Whip Mr Arnold Stofile told a press briefing after the caucus meeting that Mr Ramaphosa would act as a "political rudder" to ensure the principles laid down in the interim constitution, as well as the ANC's own principles, were adhered to. Mr Ramaphosa had been earmarked for the position "all along". He would also remain ANC secretary-general, Mr Stofile said. The caucus had also decided to appoint its own sub-committee into political office-bearer's remuneration. The view that the Melamet Commission had proposed high salaries for politicians was "not an accurate reflection", Mr Stofile said. "We think the proposals are not market-related." Caucus hoped the cabinet would move fast in appointing a commission into the matter, proposed by the Melamet Commission. Mr Stofile said on average no MP would earn more than 10,000 rand a month. "I don't think that's market-related." Salaries could even be higher, he said. The deputy minister of finance, Mr Alec Erwin, and MP Mr Raymond Suttner would serve on the ANC's sub-committee into the matter. -- Mr Themba Msimang was elected caucus chairman.
