FBIS3-33192 "drlat035_c_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 MEXICO Salinas Confirms Determination To Respond Nonviolently PA1802150694 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1324 GMT 18 Feb 94 PA1802150694 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1324 GMT 18 Feb 94 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "Good Morning From Mexico" newscast] [Text] On the evening of 17 February, Peace Commissioner Manuel Camacho Solis met privately with President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. Upon leaving Los Pinos Presidential Residence, Manuel Camacho stated progress is being made in the right direction -- toward pacification -- in Chiapas. In very brief remarks, he noted that statements by the EZLN [Zapatist National Liberation Army] will be respected, because if each statement causes controversy, no progress would ever be made in the peace process. Jaime Guerrero has filed the following report. [Guerrero] The Mexican Government has confirmed its determination to reject violence, which only causes more injustice and controls the political solution, following the outbreak of violence in Chiapas. [Begin Salinas recording] The government of the republic will continue to favor a political solution over armed confrontation. We believe in democracy. [end recording] [Guerrero] The liberation of General Castellanos paved the way for direct negotiations between the government and the EZLN. During a short tour of the capital, President Salinas stated these are times of peace. From his comments, one can infer that the Mexican Government is ready to negotiate with the EZLN. Negotiations will begin soon. We must understand to be able to resolve, the president explained. [Begin Salinas recording] They all deserve respect. That is why we must and will undertake the greatest effort to understand, to talk, and to resolve the situation. We will do all we can to commit ourselves to a future of harmony and unity, which we undoubtedly share. We will do all we can to meet our promises. [end recording] [Guerrero] The president delivered 2,000 land titles to residents of the Ixtapalapa neighborhood, where he said the conflict in Chiapas is affecting the poorest of the poor. [Begin Salinas recording] We will seek ways to generously open the way of humanism. These are times for peace. [end recording] The message ended shortly afterward. Salinas de Gortari stepped down from the stand into a large crowd to continue his activities, which included the inauguration of a school. He said he was proud to be the president of the republic.
