FBIS3-21325 "jpnea011___94039" JPRS-NEA-94-011 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 8 March 1994 SOUTH ASIA INDIA Reportage on Election Commission Measures Ban on Weapons, Vehicles 94AS0192B Madras THE HINDU in English 13 Jan 94 p 9 94AS0192B Madras THE HINDU Language: English Article Type:CSO [Text] New Delhi, Jan. 12--The Election Commission has issued fresh instructions for seizing arms and ammunition and checking the movement of authorised vehicles to ensure the smooth and peaceful conduct of elections. The three-page orders have been issued in the light of the experience gained during the recently held Assembly elections to four Northern States and the Union Territory of Delhi, besides Mizoram. According to the directions, no new arms licences would be issued during the election period. The police would conduct mopping up operations in the areas infested by anti-social elements, paying special attention to unearthing unlicensed arms and ammunition. The illegal manufacture of firearms would be checked by conducting searches and arresting the persons involved. Special vigil on the inter-State movement of trucks and other commercial vehicles has also been suggested to prevent smuggling of arms and ammunition and anti-social elements. All firearms licence holders living in sensitive areas would be asked to deposit their weapons with the district administration for one week from the last date of the withdrawal of candidature. Exception may however be made in genuine. Responsibility: The District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police would be personally responsible for ensuring that the exemptions granted were genuine. They would be liable for sever action if any of the licensed arms which were not impounded were found to be misused during elections. Prohibitory orders banning the carrying of licensed arms would be issued as soon as the election was announced. If, in the opinion of the Director General of Police, there was a real threat to the life and property of any person, he or she should be provided with necessary security. But under no circumstances would he be allowed to carry his own personal firearms or to be accompanied by anyone with firearms. The orders prohibit the plying of authorised cars and vehicles in a convoy of more than three vehicles. All bigger convoys would be broken up even if they were carrying any Minister of the Central or State Government or any person entitled to any security cover. Failure to do so would be treated as serious and might lead to cancellation of the poll, the order said.
