FBIS3-13214 "drnes047_v_94001" FBIS-NES-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 Pakistan Minister Views Postponement of Vote on Kashmir BK0903144094 Islamabad PTV Television Network in English 1400 GMT 9 Mar 94 BK0903144094 Islamabad PTV Television Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Voting on resolution on human rights violations in Kashmir in the UN Human Rights Commission has been postponed by three hours on the request of China and Iran. This was stated by the foreign minister, Sardar Asif Ahmad Ali, during a news conference in Islamabad a short while ago. The foreign minister said China and Iran have requested Pakistan at the highest level not to press for voting on the resolution. He said they are our great friends, and we have to give due consideration to their proposals. The commission is still in session, and a decision to the Chinese and Iranian proposal will be taken after consultation. He said the objective of the resolution has been achieved to a great extent as Kashmir has become a front-line issue, and the world community has stressed on India to improve the human rights situation in Kashmir. He said although most of the countries have decided to abstain, almost all of them have deplored the human rights violations in Kashmir on the floor. The foreign minister said this is the first time during last 29 years that Pakistan has crossed the barriers and has put a resolution on Kashmir on the agenda of a world forum. Speaking on the occasion, the information minister, Mr. Khalid Ahmad Khan Kharal, said the purpose of this resolution was to send fact-finding missions to Kashmir to review the human rights conditions. This purpose has been achieved as India has opened Kashmir. One mission had already visited, and another 11-member mission is still in occupied Kashmir. He said naturally if this resolution would have been carried, there would not have been any change in the ground realities in occupied valley. The very fact that fact-finding missions are visiting India proves that we have made substantial gains. The world community, he added, which had forgotten the plight of Kashmiris in the occupied valley is now fully alive of the situation and the matter is on their agenda. Almost every world capital has sent a strong signal of its displeasure to the Indian Government for the human rights violations in occupied Kashmir.
