FBIS3-23169 "jptot010__l94132" JPRS-TOT-94-010-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 10 March 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA `Terrorists' Said Planning Attack on St. Petersburg Mayor IZVESTIYA Confirms Plot Report PM0203162794 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 2 Mar 94 p 4 PM0203162794 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Yevgeniy Solomenko report: "Was an Attempt on Sobchak's Life Planned?"] [Text] St. Petersburg -- Discord reigns in the mass media on this delicate and sensational question. No sooner had ITAR-TASS reported that the criminal group arrested in St. Petersburg had intended to carry out this attempt, and the St. Petersburg Television evening edition of INFORM-TV refuted it, citing an officer on duty at the Federal Counterintelligence Service [FCS] St. Petersburg Administration. So whose reports are more reliable? At the beginning of February, IZVESTIYA told its readers: Employees of the antiterrorist service at the FCS St. Petersburg Administration, together with criminal investigation officers, detained an armed group of five people. The arrest took place when these robbers attacked the security premises of the "Zarya" Science and Production Association, tied up the guards, and seized the weapons there. The FCS St. Petersburg Administration Press Center reported at that time that those arrested belonged to a grouping which "considers it possible to resolve complex political problems by terrorist methods." Today the materials gathered during the operational-investigation work testify to the fact that the members of this grouping did intend to carry out an attempt on the life of St. Petersburg Mayor Anatoliy Sobchak and attack the Government House in Moscow. Aleksandr Kuznetsov, leader of the antiterrorism service at the FCS St. Petersburg Administration, stated this. The failed terrorists are well known to those who were present at rallies conducted by opposition political movements. Aleksandr Bogdanov regularly participated in conducting these rallies, and he conducted the registration to the "People's Volunteer Corps." Maksim Izmailov collaborated closely with the "Russian Communist Workers Party Young People's Workers Group" and with Nina Andreyeva's brainchild -- "The Young Guard of Bolsheviks of the All-Union Communist Party (Bolsheviks)." Captain 3rd Rank, Retired, Vladimir Khoukhlyantsev was an activist in the St. Petersburg section of the USSR Officers Union. Some of them took part in the October events in Moscow.
