FBIS4-57212 "drlat094_b_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-094 Daily Report 13 May 1994 Costa Rica Haiti Spokesman Denies U.S. Pressure on Potential Ministers Spokesman Denies U.S. Pressure on Potential Ministers FL1305210494 Port-au-Prince Radio Tropic FM in French 1600 GMT 13 May 94 FL1305210494 Port-au-Prince Radio Tropic FM French BFN [Passages within quotation marks recorded] [Text] Two days after he took office and was installed as provisional president of the Republic by the Army and the unofficial Office of the Senate, Justice Emile Jonassaint has not yet published the names of his government. According to Dominique Levanti of AFP, who quoted well-informed sources, Mr. Jonassaint's steps toward formation of a government are allegedly hindered by strong U.S. pressure on those who could be appointed ministers in order to dissuade them, a report denied by the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince through its spokesman, Stanley Schrager. [Schrager] "No, not at all. The U.S. Government is putting no pressure on this new -- this so-called government. But I would say instead that the reason the so-called president cannot find ministers who would like to participate in his government is that no self-respecting Haitians would be part of such a government. That is the problem. It is not pressure from elsewhere that is preventing this so-called government from functioning." On the part of the supporters of the implementation of Article 149 of the Constitution, this delay in the formation of the government is explained by the fact that attorney Jonassaint finds himself in an awkward position because he has to choose from an overabundance of names. This is, for instance, the opinion of Hubert De Ronceray, who is a possible prime minister. [De Ronceray] "Once again, I cannot answer with precise explanations, but I suppose that President Jonassaint must be facing a pretty wide range of proposals. He must -- perhaps with clear-mindedness -- be checking all those proposals so as to end up in a correct choice which meets all the criteria that are essential on this occasion." It should be noted that several names are circulating for the post of prime minister. Rumor has it that the latter is allegedly a woman, a lawyer who is well-known in Port-au-Prince for her statements in favor of the coup d'etat. But there is a major problem for this government: the matter of due ratification by the two chambers of the parliament. It is allegedly almost impossible to reach a quorum, given that the socialists and the National Front for Change and Democracy members have dissociated themselves from the partisans of Article 149 and did not participate in the session held on the installation of Justice Jonassaint -- unless, of course, the procedures established by the Constitution are ignored, as was the case on 11 May.
