FBIS4-43987 "drweu122cc_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Russia's Yeltsin, Churkin Arrive in Corfu for EU Summit Russia's Yeltsin, Churkin Arrive in Corfu for EU Summit Churkin on Situation in Bosnia NC2306185794 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network in Greek 1700 GMT 23 Jun 94 NC2306185794 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network Greek BFN [Report by Mirella Kalostipi] [Excerpts] Many senior officials arrived in Corfu today. All European Union [EU] leaders are expected to arrive on the island by late tonight. French President Francois Mitterrand and German Chancellor Helmut Kohl are expected late tonight. Tonight, Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou will host an official dinner for the twelve EU leaders, the four new partners, and Russian President Boris Yeltsin. The Russian president arrived in Corfu at noon today accompanied by Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Vitaliy Churkin and Greek Foreign Minister Karolos Papoulias. Cypriot President Glavkos Kliridhis arrived earlier. Spanish Prime Minister Felipe Marquez Gonzalez's plane landed in Ioannis Kapodhistrias airport around 1400 today. [passage omitted] Kliridhis said the differences with the Turkish Cypriot side have essentially increased and said he hopes that negotiations on Cyprus' accession to the EU will begin soon. In a statement, Churkin referred particularly to Bosnia-Herzegovina. He said: We will give all sides a last chance to reach a peace agreement. If they do not accept these proposals, which are extremely detailed and serious, I am afraid they will get into serious trouble. The Russian deputy foreign minister feels that the parties involved in Bosnia-Herzegovina have no political will to reach a peace settlement. In any case, an effort will be made in Corfu and a last chance will be given to everyone for a peaceful settlement of the Bosnian issue. Churkin described the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina as very dangerous. He said: What the ministers and the international community will attempt to formulate in Corfu and in early July is a serious proposal that contains strong elements to motivate and to dissuade the three parties.
