FBIS4-39076 "drsov108_h_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-108 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 Moldova Interstate Commission Discusses Border Issues With Ukraine Interstate Commission Discusses Border Issues With Ukraine AU0306183594 Kiev HOLOS UKRAYINY in Ukrainian 1 Jun 94 p 8 AU0306183594 Kiev HOLOS UKRAYINY Ukrainian BFN [Report by Svitlana Chala from Chisinau: "There Is the Law on Borders. There Is No Border Itself"] [Text] The Moldovan Parliament approved the Law on State Borders, the absence of which had given rise to complaints on the part of border guards for almost two years. Lately, the Moldovan-Romanian border has increasingly become a corridor through which narcotics and weapons are smuggled into Western Europe and which residents of Southeast Asia and various criminals have been trying to cross in search of a better life. Due to the absence of legal norms the border has, in fact, remained "transparent," and trespassers were, in the worst case, deported from the [Moldovan] Republic -- to Ukraine or to Russia. Soon, they were again detained at the same place, and the circular movement continued. Moldova borders upon two states -- Romania and Ukraine. However, whereas the Moldovan-Romanian border is clearly defined, because it used to be the state border in the former USSR, in the case of Ukraine it remained, until recently, just an administrative border. Although the law approved by the parliament attached an official status to it, no clear-cut demarcation line has been drawn. An intergovernmental Moldovan-Ukrainian commission is presently defining it. However, according to parliamentary speaker P. Luchinschi, this issue requires time. Deputies of the Popular Front faction drew the parliament's attention to the problem of the "Danube Triangle" -- 800 borderline meters along the Danube near the town of Reni. Moldova counts upon this triangle, planning to build a port there and ensure exit to the Black Sea for itself. According to the Moldovan minister of security, this question is being discussed at a corresponding interstate level.
