FBIS3-26103 "drchi023_k_94013" FBIS-CHI-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Ismail Amat Views Progress in Minorities Work OW0202110994 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0647 GMT 27 Jan 94 OW0202110994 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By RENMIN RIBAO reporter Pan Yue (3382 6460) and XINHUA reporter Jia Fenyong (6328 1164 0516)] [Text] Beijing, 27 Jan (XINHUA) -- A national work conference of nationalities affairs commissions was held in Beijing today. The conference will relay and study the guidelines of relevant central directives on improving nationalities work in the new period, review the achievements and experiences gained in recent years in this work, and study and arrange this year's nationalities work. Wang Guangying, Cheng Siyuan, Buhe, and Wang Zhaoguo attended today's plenary session. Ismail Amat, state councillor and concurrently minister in charge of the State Nationalities Affairs Commission, delivered a report. He said: In recent years, China has made continuous progress and scored great success in nationalities work during the course of reform and opening up. After the central nationalities work conference in 1992, various minority areas greatly expedited economic construction, reform, and opening up, thereby making speedy progress in economic construction. Township and town enterprises in minority areas developed greatly with the assistance of nationalities affairs departments at all levels. Poverty relief efforts in those areas yielded notable results, releasing approximately 250,000 people from poverty in two years. Minority areas made tremendous headway in various social services on the basis of economic development. The new type of socialist relationship among various nationalities was further consolidated and developed. People of all nationalities showed an even deeper love of their united and multinational motherland, and they worked even more conscientiously toward rejuvenating the Chinese nation. Meanwhile, enormous progress was made in instituting a legal system governing nationalities, resulting in the enactment and implementation of many laws and regulations in this regard. Relations among various nationalities and work regarding nationalities are being gradually written into laws. Ismail Amat said emphatically: People engaged in nationalities work should seriously study Volume 3 of the Selected Works of Deng Xiaoping, arm themselves with the theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics, seriously study new circumstances and problems encountered by minority nationalities and minority areas in the course of establishing a socialist market economic system, energetically promote economic development, reform, and opening up in minority areas, and constantly make new contributions to the unity and progress of various nationalities. Conferees included chairpersons of nationalities affairs commissions of various provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government, and cities with independent decision-making power; leading comrades in charge of work regarding nationalities from some provinces and autonomous regions; and responsible comrades from relevant departments under central state organs.
