FBIS3-15939 "drsov048_r_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 Azerbaijan Envoy Holds News Conference on Settlement LD1103115894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1649 GMT 10 Mar 94 LD1103115894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Mikhail Shevtsov] [Text] Moscow, 10 Mar -- One of the conditions for a settlement of the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict is the liberation of the Azerbaijani territory seized by the Armenians. This was stated at a news conference today in Moscow by Ramiz Rizayev, Azerbaijan's ambassador to Russia. He noted that the main difference between the warring sides over implementation of the protocol on a cessation of military actions and the withdrawal of troops from l March this year, which was signed on 18 February by the Azerbaijani and Armenian defense ministers and a representative of the armed formations of Nagorno-Karabakh under the mediation of the Russian defense minister, is disagreement over the starting points for the withdrawal of troops. According to the ambassador, the Armenian side believes that the troops should be withdrawn from the positions they now occupy. Azerbaijan is insisting that the administrative boundary of Nagorno- Karabakh be accepted as the starting point for the withdrawal of troops. To achieve peace, it is, first of all, necessary to have a cease-fire and for Armenian troops to withdraw from the Azerbaijani territory they have seized, and then for the troops to be separated and a mutual security zone created under the strict supervision of mediators and observers, the ambassador said. Only after these conditions have been fulfilled, will it be possible to get down to a political dialogue and to seek ways to reach a comprehensive settlement of problems, Rizayev noted. He denied reports that mercenaries from Russia are fighting on Azerbaijan's side. "We have sufficient manpower of our own. If there are Russians fighting, they are inhabitants of Azerbaijan or those who remained there after the reorganization of the USSR army," Rizayev said. He also rejected reports about the involvement in Azerbaijan's army of mercenaries and advisers from Iran, Turkey, and Afghanistan. Asked by the ITAR-TASS correspondent about the possibility of Russian peacekeeping forces being introduced into the conflict zone, the ambassador noted that "we have nothing against this in principle, but it would be desirable to involve the peacekeeping forces of other states so that it is not only Russian peacekeepers that are put at risk."
