FBIS3-15547 "drsov045_e_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Kravchuk Meets Business, Jewish Leaders in New York LD0703152194 Kiev Radio Ukraine World Service in Ukrainian 1200 GMT 7 Mar 94 LD0703152194 Kiev Radio Ukraine World Service Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN [Text] President of Ukraine Leonid Kravchuk met representatives of the business community and leaders of the Jewish organizations in New York on Sunday. What needs to be done to attract foreign capital to Ukraine? What economic assistance needs to be given to Ukraine at this stage of market reforms? These and many other topical questions on U.S.-Ukrainian economic relations were in the center of attention at the meeting with U.S. business circle representatives. It was attended by representatives of about 20 largest corporations of North America. The meeting was held behind closed doors, the press was not invited. According to one of the Ukrainian delegation members who took part in the discussion, it concerned promising opportunities for investment in concrete sectors of the Ukrainian economy which are of interest to U.S. corporations. Many questions were put to the Ukrainian delegation about opportunities for capital investments in power engineering, transport, the metal industry and defense enterprises undergoing conversion. President Kravchuk said in his address that Ukraine had lately passed a number of important legislative acts on privatization and protection of foreign investments. The head of state also stressed that Ukraine is undergoing transition to a market economy in conditions of a deep economic crisis. He urged U.S. entrepreneurs to be bolder in exploring the Ukrainian market and to set up close trade ties. Also on Sunday, the president of Ukraine held a small meeting with the management of a large U.S. corporation, Morgan. They, too, discussed specific projects for investments in Ukraine. Leonid Kravchuk spoke on Sunday to the heads of leading Jewish public organizations of the United States. He said, in particular, that a number of laws had been passed in Ukraine lately on human rights and protection of the public's religious freedom. We have now begun to live according to the rules of the civilized world, the president said. The head of state noted that over 500,000 Jews are living in the republic today. It is one of the largest ethnic groups in our state," Kravchuk said. Ukrainians, Jews and other ethnic groups are working together for the benefit of our country and increasing its wealth." The president stressed the special importance of the treaty signed in Washington a few days ago between the leadership of the United States and Ukraine, according to which, the governments of both countries commit themselves to joint efforts in assisting the protection and conservation of historical places which are of great significance for the cultural heritage of Ukraine and the United States.
