FBIS3-1125 "drafr054_c_94020" FBIS-AFR-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC's Mbeki on Zulu Kingdom, Afrikaner Homeland MB2003071094 Johannesburg SAPA in English 2205 GMT 19 Mar 94 MB2003071094 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Ben Maclennan] [Text] East London March 19 SAPA -- Any dismemberment of South Africa, such as the establishment of a Zulu kingdom, would have to be decided by the people of South Africa as a whole, African National Congress [ANC] National Chairman Thabo Mbeki said on Saturday [19 March]. Speaking at an ANC fundraising dinner in East London, he also said neither he nor ANC President Nelson Mandela had accepted an Afrikaner volkstaat [homeland]. He said the ANC had been looking forward to the meeting which was to have been held with the Zulu king this week but was cancelled. "As of now we have never received any proposal from the Zulu king as to what he wants so we don't know what he wants apart from what was reported in the newspapers. We would like to engage the king to hear what he wants and to see in what manner whatever concerns he expresses can be addressed." Clearly, in legal, political and constitutional terms, and in ordinary reality there was no such thing as an independent kwaZulu/Natal. The question of the secession of any part of South Africa could not be decided on except through democratic processes. "Any matter that has to do with dismemberment of South Africa in any way is a matter that would have to be decided by the people of South Africa as a whole." He said the ANC had not agreed to a volkstaat. What it had agreed was to continue discussions with what was now called the Freedom Front on the idea of a volkstaat. "To continue the discussions and possibly conclude them before the elections, we've agreed to that." A document agreed to by the ANC and the Afrikaner Volksfront [Afrikaner National Union] in September last year stipulated that any solution to the volkstaat question would have to be consistent with the principles of democracy and non-racialism. The two sides had agreed that any further discussion on the issue should be guided by these principles. "So the proponents of a volkstaat have an obligation to make proposals about a (territory) that would be democratic, non-racial, anti-apartheid, resulting in peace, absence of conflict and so on. If a volkstaat consistent with these principles can be proposed, I don't think the ANC will have a problem with it." However no such proposal had been made. "So there is no volkstaat to be accepted by Nelson Mandela or myself."
