FBIS3-9845 "dreeu061_c_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Skoda Nuclear Engineering Exports to Ukraine AU2903140994 Prague HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Czech 28 Mar 94 p 6 AU2903140994 Prague HOSPODARSKE NOVINY Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Article by Vaclav Proks: "Ukrainian Power Plants Need Skoda Nuclear Engineering Products"] [Text] The representatives of the Skoda Jaderne strojirenstvi (Skoda Nuclear Engineering) company recently signed a contract to deliver to Ukraine the first major shipment worth more than 60 million korunas. The draft contract also deals with the security of the payment. The product concerned is compact containers for spent fuel pools at the Rivne nuclear power plant. According to the company director, Vaclav Lobovsky, Ukraine has expressed an interest in purchasing $150 million worth of nuclear equipment from Skoda Jaderne strojirenstvi over the next five to eight years. Cooperation is subject to the complex solution to the problem of payments. According to Lobovsky, there is the possibility of barter, the trade for Ukrainian electricity or perhaps some other goods. "Ukraine is trying to reduce its undesirable dependence on Russian monopoly suppliers, whose products allegedly are not of as high quality as ours. Cost advantages are losing attractiveness," Lobovsky claims. Ukraine has the largest number of AVER 1000 [Water-Moderated Water-Cooled Power Reactor] reactors (10 in operation and four under construction). Only nuclear power plants are economically capable of producing electric power in Ukraine. Skoda Jaderne strojirenstvi introduced itself already in November by successfully completing a one-year test run at the Ukrainian power plant of its own modernized inching drive [krokovy pohon] for the reactor, in which even the Russians expressed interest. Ukraine is now beginning to replace its outdated control and security systems. Ukrainian nuclear power plants are therefore most interested in Skoda's inching drives, including electronics, compact grids [kompaktni mrize], hermetic cable bushing, and maintenance inspections, which Skoda allegedly offers at a price 10 times lower than Siemens, for instance. Ukraine is also deciding now from whom to purchase spent fuel containers. Skoda Jaderne strojirenstvi is not without chances. So far, it has been producing them under a German license, but, as early as in September, it will introduce its own container prototype, which could become, according to Lobovsky, the most promising product of Skoda Plzen.
