FBIS4-51783 "dreas085_d_94026" FBIS-EAS-94-085 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 South Korea Defense Industry Accord Sought With Russia Defense Industry Accord Sought With Russia Negotiations Prior to Kim Visit SK2804064994 Seoul HANGUK ILBO in Korean 28 Apr 94 p 2 SK2804064994 Seoul HANGUK ILBO Korean BFN [Text] It was learned on 27 April that the ROK Government is seeking to sign a "ROK-Russian defense-industry technological cooperation agreement" (provisional title), which details bilateral cooperation necessary for the ROK to introduce defense industry equipment and technology. It was also learned that the Foreign and Defense Ministries and other pertinent offices had been closely negotiating with Russia so President Kim Yong-sam can sign this agreement when he visits Russia in early June. Therefore, ROK Defense Minister Yi Pyong-tae, who will be arriving in Russia on 28 April, will hold talks with the Russian defense minister to extensively discuss the revision of the "Memorandum of Understanding on Military Exchange" and the signing of the defense industry technological cooperation agreement. A ROK foreign minister official said: "Russia's defense industry is different from ours in terms of systems and technology. Therefore, it is difficult for us to directly introduce some Russian equipment and technology." He also said: "The scientific and technological level of the Russian defense industry is as high as that of the U.S. defense industry. Therefore, the Russian defense industry will be very valuable to us in the long run because it will contribute to developing our defense industry and transferring its technology to private industries in the ROK." This official also said: "If the ROK and Russia promote technological cooperation in earnest in the defense industry, the ROK's practice of introducing military technology mainly from the United States will change." Meanwhile, the ROK Government is reportedly examining the possibility of paying royalties for Russian technology by exempting Russia from repaying some of the principal and interest on our economic assistance loans, which Russia has so far failed to repay.
