FBIS4-67920 "jptnd011___94043" JPRS-TND-94-011 JPRS PROLIFERATION ISSUES 20 April 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS SS-25 Topol Missiles Redeployed From Belarus to Russia SS-25 Topol Missiles Redeployed From Belarus to Russia LD2004135494 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1100 GMT 20 Apr 94 LD2004135494 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Russian BFN [Video report by Mikhail Zotov; from the ``Novosti'' newscast] [Text] Announcer Tatyana Komarova: We would now like to show you for the first time footage our correspondent managed to film. Missiles brought out of Belarus under an agreement are being placed on alert duty in Russia. Mikhail Zotov: In the village of Manan-Muchash, which means -- short end -- in the Mari language, not far from Yoshkar-Ola, a regiment equipped with missiles brought out of Belarus under the trilateral agreement has been placed on alert duty. You can see the missiles behind me. They are the newest strategic missiles, codenamed Topol, SS-25. The military says these strategic mobile missile complexes have no computer program devised to eliminate targets in any country that might be a potential adversary. However, the on-board electronic systems are capable of retargeting the complex within a few seconds. Radar-proof warheads can reach any point in the opposite hemisphere. Despite the fact that the army is troubled by many problems, the missile troops are relatively well-off, and in the words of Maj Gen (Nikolay Moroz), are capable of maintaining a guaranteed minimum of security and independence for Russia. Meanwhile, the West is keeping a close watch on the Topols in Mari territory. Radar stations have registered the fact that our neighbors' satellites were monitoring the redeployment of the missiles. Space, however, remains the only place from where an outsider can watch Russian strategic missiles being placed on alert duty. On the ground it is only reporters from Ostankino's First Channel who can do it. [Video shows a truck-mounted missile, an electrified wire fence with wasteland and a small building in the background; missile complexes on trucks being transported along a road]
