FBIS4-53420 "dreas097_m_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-097 Daily Report 19 May 1994 Thailand ROK Foreign Minister Continues Official Visit ROK Foreign Minister Continues Official Visit Meets Chuan on Nuclear, Regional Issues BK1905032994 Bangkok THE NATION in English 19 May 94 p A8 BK1905032994 Bangkok THE NATION English BFN [Text] Thailand will support South Korea's candidacy for non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council, Foreign Minister Prasong Sunsiri said yesterday. Ambassador Nit Phibunsongkhram in New York will be asked to consult with other ASEAN members about the issue, Prasong told reporters after meeting with visiting South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu. The visiting minister had been granted an audience with His Majesty the King before meeting with Prasong. The UN membership issue has also raised at a meeting between Han Sung-chu and Prime Minister Chuan Likphai, along with Chuan's planned visit to South Korea between June 23 and 26 at the invitation of President Kim Yong-sam. Chuan asked South Korea to open its markets to more Thai agricultural products, including tapioca and frozen chicken, to reduce the trade deficit, Prasong said. He quoted Chuan as saying Thai imports from South Korea were mostly high-cost industrial goods while Thai exports were mainly agricultural products. Han Sung-chu, who arrived in Bangkok on Tuesday from the Philippines, is on a three-day official visit to Thailand to promote bilateral relations. He will leave for Vietnam and Indonesia today. The South Korean minister discussed with Thai leaders tension over the nuclear issue in the Korean peninsula. Thailand, a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency and a party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, has good ties with the both North and South Korea. Other topics included Cambodia, Burma and the upcoming ASEAN Regional Forum which South Korea will be attending along with 16 other countries in the Asia Pacific region. The forum is the first of its kind for ASEAN. Prasong said North Korea could join the forum only after the Korean Peninsula issue is solved. North Korea has canvassed ASEAN governments for support to attend, claiming that they should not be excluded because they are part of the Asia Pacific region. Fearing that the forum could turn into a "boxing match" between the two Koreas, ASEAN officials viewed North Korea's participation as a prospect for the "longer term", when there are positive signs in the dialogues between North Korea and the United States. "South Korea thinks that in order to resolve the nuclear issue and also deal with the problems we have with the North, dialogue is essential. Unfortunately right now there is no dialogue. We hope North Korea will open dialogue so we can improve relations and also resolve the nuclear problem," Han told reporters. He said South Korea was ready for talks anywhere, at any level, and as soon as possible. He noted that at present the response from the North was negative. Han said that dialogue between the U.S. and North Korea depended on the outcome of the International Atomic Energy Agency inspection, expected in the next two weeks.
