FBIS4-26008 "drchi117_a_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-117 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Foreign Ministry Spokesman Comments on Spratlys Foreign Ministry Spokesman Comments on Spratlys OW1606162194 Beijing Central People's Radio Network in Mandarin 1030 GMT 16 Jun 94 OW1606162194 Beijing Central People's Radio Network Mandarin BFN [From the "National Hookup" program] [Text] Since mid-May, the Vietnamese side has sent exploratory vessels to the Wan An Reef area of China's Nansha [Spratly] marine area to carry out geophysical operations. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang today issued a statement on this. The statement says: As is known to all, China has indisputable sovereignty over the Nansha Islands and their adjacent waters, and the Wan An Reef is part of the Nansha Islands. In recent years, Vietnam has demarcated certain blocks in this area for external bidding and has on many occasions harassed the normal scientific survey and fishing activities of Chinese vessels. Now it has moved into this area for oil and gas prospecting and development. It must be pointed out that these moves have seriously violated China's sovereignty over the Nansha Islands and have also put the Wab-21 petroleum contract signed between the China National Offshore Oil Corporation and the Crestone Energy Corporation of the United States, which covers this area, in serious jeopardy. The Chinese side has made solemn representations on many occasions to the Vietnamese side over its acts of violating China's sovereignty in the Nanshas. The Chinese Government demands once again that the Vietnamese Government, in proceeding from the overall interests of maintaining and developing bilateral relations and preserving peace and stability in the region, stop the aforementioned acts of infringement upon China's sovereignty. Shen Guofang also announced: Vice President Joseph Estrada of the Republic of the Philippines will pay an official visit to China from 18 to 25 June at the invitation of Chinese Vice President Rong Yiren. A delegation of the Supreme Soviet of the Republic of Tajikistan will pay an official goodwill visit to China from 21 to 28 June, as guests of China's National People's Congress Standing Committee. Shen Guofang also answered questions raised by reporters on the Korean nuclear issue, Sino-British relations, and the Hong Kong issue.
