FBIS4-3314 "drchi076_f_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-076 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 Near East & South Asia Mubarak Emphasizes Peace Mubarak Emphasizes Peace OW1904172694 Beijing XINHUA in English 1700 GMT 19 Apr 94 OW1904172694 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [By Xia Haitao, Song Bingheng, Liu Shun] [Text] Cairo, April 19 (XINHUA) -- Egyptian President Husni Mubarak hoped the year of 1994 will be a year of peace in the Middle East. He spoke of the aspiration in an interview Monday [18 April] with resident Chinese journalists in Cairo prior to his visit to China. The Middle East cannot afford to remain always in a state of war, for war is not the solution, peace is the only choice, the Madrid peace conference is deemed as a historic turn in boosting the Middle East peace march, he said. Throughout the two years of difficult, sometimes faltering, talks, all parties concerned have unanimously expressed their will to opt for peace, overcome all obstacles and rebuild long-lost confidence, Mubarak noted. The Palestinian-Israeli Declaration of Principles reached last September is undoubtedly an important landmark, which has brought together all the parties concerned close to an acceptable peaceful settlement, Mubarak said. This settlement will bring the Palestinian issue to the threshold of a new phase in which self-rule will be realized by the start of interim arrangements and negotiations on the final status of the occupied territories, he added. With the same level of importance, there have been serious negotiations along the Syrian-Israeli, Lebanese-Israeli and Jordanian-Israeli tracks. This reflects an obvious political will on the part of parties concerned that the best means to reach agreement is through dialogue and mutual acceptance, he said. Mubarak said a resolution of the conflict between Syria and Israel needs a complete Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights. Mubarak said Egypt has been committed consistently to the strategy of peace based on justice. The Egyptian role started years before the Madrid peace conference and has continued till now since Egypt enjoys the trust of all the concerned parties in the peace process and has direct contacts with both regional and international leaders. Egypt is the only Arab country that has diplomatic relations with Israel and maintains good relationship with the Arab parties involved in the Arab-Israeli negotiations. It has received leading officials of the parties to the conflict regularly to narrow gaps of differences. Establishing comprehensive peace in the Middle East region is a great historic contribution to the peace and stability in the world, concluded the Egyptian president.
