FBIS3-17874 "drsov061_b_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Commission To Formulate Mechanism for Civil Accord LD3003114294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1109 GMT 30 Mar 94 LD3003114294 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS parliamentary correspondent Lyudmila Yermakova] [Text] Moscow March 30 TASS -- A special commission is being set up to work out a mechanism for implementing the agreement on civil accord in Russia. The commission will consist of representatives of the Russian president, government, both chambers of the parliament, State Duma factions, as well as public and cultural figures, according to Federation Council speaker Vladimir Shumeyko. The draft agreement says "civil accord should be perceived as a process to involve all forces of society, which support the principles laid in the agreement". Concrete issues are to be elaborated at round-table discussions and by ad-hoc work groups, the speaker told reporters on Wednesday. Shumeyko stressed that the agreement should be implemented only in full compliance with the Russian Constitution and laws. The Conciliation Commission will be empowered to examine and make public cases of agreement violations by any side, and even to demand that the given side be excluded from the signatories. The upper house speaker views the agreement on civil accord in Russia as a document of paramount political and social importance. But he warned against regarding this document as "a substition of the existing Constitution". Shumeyko told reporters that the agreement had been put on the agenda of the Federation Council's session scheduled to open next week. He called to speed up work on the text, because "if we try to bring it to perfection, it may never see the light of the day", the speaker emphasised. He believes that the text of the draft agreement should be distributed among upper house deputies. If they agree to it, they may instruct the Federation Council speaker to take part in its filalizing in coordination with other structures. A similar procedure should take place in the parliament's lower house, as well as in all parties and movements, Shumeyko said.
