FBIS4-46324 "jptot024__l94001" JPRS-TOT-94-024-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 15 June 1994 FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 3-10 June FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 3-10 June FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 3-10 June 11111111 11111111 CSO Editor's Note: The FBIS Terrorism Desk welcomes suscribers' comments and suggestions at (703) 733-5512. Highlights and major incidents in this edition of the FBIS Terrorism Report include: Ecuador/U.S. Two U.S. citizens, both employees of a U.S. oil company, were kidnapped or 4 or 5 June in the Amazon region. Police later arrested several suspects. Ecuador The leftist Red Sun group surrendered its weapons to the government on 2 June. Egypt The Interior Ministry cracked down on the Muslim Brotherhood organization at the beginning of the month, arresting 11 members on charges of attempting to overthrow the government. The Brotherhood's deputy supreme guide assured a government newspaper that the organization "will not be involved in any escalation." Egypt/Lebanon According to Beirut's AL-SHIRA' magazine, Egypt is trying to gather information about meetings between Egypt's al-Jihad and former Hizballah Secretary General Subhi al-Tufayli. India/UK Three members of the Muslim militant group Harkat-ul-Ansar kidnapped two British hikers in Kashmir, demanding that Harkat-al-Ansar leaders be released from prison. Other Kashmiri militant groups condemned the kidnapping. Iran/Lebanon Iranian Foreign Minister Velayati met with Hizballah's secretary general in Damascus on 4 June. Italy/U.S. A passerby found a hand grenade in Rome's Villa Borghese park several days after President Clinton visited the site. Italian police rule out any connection between the grenade and Clinton's visit because the area had been checked several times during the president's stay. Italian police arrested three foreigners in Caserta (near the NATO base) who were holding stolen U.S. passports. The arrestees also had notes and addresses in Arabic, counterfeit documents, and surveillance maps of the area. Lebanon/International Expatriate Arabic magazine AL-WATAN AL-`ARABI cites "a report by a major Western intelligence organization in Beirut" that a "Hizballah commando group has arrived in Germany" to kidnap Israeli diplomats in retaliation for Israel's abduction of Mustafa al-Dirani. Germany's DER SPEIGEL publishes a similar report. Peru Counterterrorism forces have uncovered a new Shining Path element called "Lima-Regional Committee" under the Shining Path's Red Path faction. The government blames this element for the August 1993 attack on the U.S. Embassy and other actions. Philippines During a large-scale military offensive against Abu Sayyaf Group camps in southern Philippines, the group detonated a bomb in Zamboanga City, wounding over 30 people. Several days later, "Muslim gunmen" believed to be affiliated with Abu Sayyaf Group executed 15 hostages. A second, unclaimed bombing killed three people in Mindanao. Russia Four bombs went off in Moscow between 4 and 7 June. One car bomb apparently targetted Logovaz General Director Boris Berezovskiy, who was seriously wounded. A second improvised device went off near a train station, killing several people, and two other bombs went off in the early morning hours, causing no casualties. South Africa/Germany CITY PRESS newspaper reports that German "neo-Nazi mercenaries" tried to kill President Nelson Mandela during his inauguration and continue to enter the country to "wage terrorism against the new government." Thailand/Iran Thai police are holding four Iranians in connection with the truck bomb found in Bangkok in March. Their court date is expected to be set for 20 June. Turkey Security forces arrested five members of the Islamic Action organization in possession of explosives, bombmaking materials, and booby traps. The five were caught after kidnapping a "foreign girl" for cash. Turkey/Armenia HURRIYET newspaper cites intelligence reporting that the PKK and the Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia are crrying out joint activities against Turkey. The article also lists locations of PKK camps in Armenia.
