FBIS4-33845 "drlat113_f_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 El Salvador President Reports Death Threats; Views PNC Appointment President Reports Death Threats; Views PNC Appointment PA1206033694 San Salvador Canal Doce Television in Spanish 0300 GMT 10 Jun 94 PA1206033694 San Salvador Canal Doce Television Spanish BFN [Report by Gandhi Montoya; from the "Up-to-Date" newscast] [Text] The wave of death threats by clandestine sectors against public personalities also reached President Dr. Armando Calderon Sol, who said today that this form of intimidation will not make him relent from his efforts to consolidate peace and democracy in El Salvador. The president asked people to be sensible, to have common sense, and to have confidence in the country's institutions, and not to be alarmed by a simple telephone call making a death threat. Calderon Sol referred to the incident during a news conference in the National Assembly where he went to request permission to leave the country. This is Dr. Armando Calderon Sol's first visit to the deputies in his role as constitutional president. On Thursday the president went to request permission to travel to Latin America and the Caribbean during 1994. After his request was ratified, the president met with the press. This is when he disclosed that he had received threats. [Begin Calderon Sol recording] During all my political career I have been the victim of and have suffered much from disinformation, all sorts of threats. You were witnesses of how it was said that there were explosives in my office when I was mayor of San Salvador -- anyway, we have had everything. Nothing intimidates me, nothing scares me. I know that my work and my efforts are for the sake of the Salvadoran people, for the most needy. [end recording] Thus, the president joins the list of officials, such as the Ombudsman and Deputy Milena de Escalon, who have also received death threats these last few days. Regarding another issue, President Calderon Sol referred to the imminent appointment of the new PNC [National Civilian Police] director and he mentioned two of the candidates with the most possibilities -- PNC Administrative Chief Rodrigo Avila, but especially National Public Security Academy Director Dr. Mario Bolanos. [Begin Calderon Sol recording] Dr. Bolanos is being considered; he is doing an excellent job. The academy is worthy of recognition not only nationally but internationally as well. The countries that are cooperating and helping with technical missions recognize the effort and the work done in the police academy. [end recording] The president also announced that he will travel on Sunday to Costa Rica to meet with his Central American colleagues to prepare a joint document in connection with the region's sustained development to be presented at the Ibero-American Summit next week in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia.
