FBIS3-58329 "drweu008_h_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 GERMANY Dailies Comment on Brussels NATO Summit Impact of Partnership for Peace AU1101154294 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU in German 11 Jan 94 p 3 AU1101154294 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU Language: German Article Type:BFN [Editorial signed "ha": "Partner Instead of Member"] [Text] The East European states will have no choice but to accept NATO's Partnership for Peace offer. The summit meeting in Brussels was organized so carefully that all disputes over an eastward expansion were removed in advance. Basically, the alliance declared its openness, but it deliberately tried to keep the exact dates that countries might be accepted a mystery. The evading maneuver has a temporary advantage: Russia's President Yeltsin can sell the Brussels result as a "success." If the democratic forces in Russia succeed in keeping the chauvinists and neoimperialists under control, the concerns of the Western neighboring states from the Baltic states to the Black Sea may vanish again. Yet the stabilization of the Russian democracy may depend to an even greater extent on economic successes. The small states in Central and East Europe will try to establish close political and military ties within the framework of the Partnership for Peace. There were voices on the sidelines of the summit that predicted their entry into the Alliance "in a few years' time." It became clear that it will not be possible for the Alliance to deny them membership in the long run if the aggressive tones from Moscow intensify. By the way, it is also possible for the Eastern neighboring states to enter NATO in a roundabout way, that is via membership in the European Union and its defense alliance, the Western European Union [WEU]. President Mitterrand suggested completing the "European Treaties" that the East European countries concluded with the European Union by a "WEU association." "Poland has not perished yet." The text of the Polish national anthem is also valid for other countries.
