FBIS3-4248 "drchi059_n_94016" FBIS-CHI-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 Economic & Agricultural Management of State-Owned Shares Set To Tighten HK2803091094 Beijing CHINA DAILY (BUSINESS WEEKLY) in English 27 Mar-2 Apr 94 p 3 HK2803091094 Beijing CHINA DAILY (BUSINESS WEEKLY) Language: English Article Type:BFN [By staff reporter Liu Weiling: "State Acts To Protect Its Shares"] [Text] China is tightening the management of State-owned shares of stock in an effort to stop the drain of State assets. Closer scrutiny will be given to those State enterprises that are transformed into shareholding companies according to an official with the National Administrative Bureau of State-owned Property. Early this month the bureau issued an opinion specifying that the administrative departments managing State property at all levels are in charge of State shares. According to the bureau's formal opinion, the country's first document in this field, these departments will be involved in all the important steps in converting a State enterprise into a shareholding company. This includes evaluating assets, specifying property rights, setting the prices of newly issued shares, and appointing the institutions to act as representatives of State-owned shares. The bureau also said that the State property administration departments, along with other government departments and institutions, can also act as representatives of State-owned shares if authorized by local governments. Zheng Li, division chief of the bureau's Enterprise Department said the State will incur big losses if State shares are not protected as the wave of shareholding conversions builds up. She noted that most of the transformed enterprises are mainstays of an industry, a region, or even the entire country. "The biggest headache in the shareholding companies is that many companies' State-owned shares do not have responsible representatives," Zheng said. Generally, if a State enterprise is converting to shareholding, the local State property administration department will appoint the enterprise's president as the representative of State shares in the new company. But, Zheng said, most such representatives are not very responsible, resulting in unfair treatment of State-owned shares. Since the representatives have no direct stake in the State property, Zheng said, State-owned shares are not allocated the bonus shares and dividends they are due. Meanwhile, Zheng said, many representatives who are conscious of the need to protect State property, don't know how to exercise their duties. Others, though, simply infringe on the rights of individual shareholders. For example, they personally appoint members of the board without proper election by shareholders. Now, Zheng said, institutions will replace individuals as representatives of State shares. Zheng said that since institutions will be responsible to the State, she hopes they will ensure better treatment of State shares. Zheng said the bureau's formal opinion is also intended to standardize the procedures for establishing shareholding companies, since many businesses converting to shareholding do not know how to deal with State assets. Zheng said the bureau's opinion can guide State property administrative departments in managing this area and enterprises in switching to shareholding.
