FBIS3-55797 "drsov008_m_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 Tajikistan Ruble Zone Implementation's First Stage Viewed LD1101155694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1304 GMT 11 Jan 94 LD1101155694 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Galina Gridneva] [Text] Dushanbe January 11 TASS -- The preliminary results of the implementation of the first stage of the Russo-Tajik agreement on the republic's accession to Russia's single monetary system, which began on January 5, have been summed up in Tajikistan. Tajik banks have stopped accepting deposits from the population as of today. The circulation of old 10-rouble banknotes was stopped the day before. ITAR-TASS has learned from sources close to the Tajik government that Imamali Rakhmanov, chairman of the Tajik Supreme Soviet, had optimistically assessed at a meeting of a special state commission on Monday evening the preliminary results of the first stage's implementation. He stressed that this important undertaking, in spite of several organisational difficulties, was carried out with less social losses than predicted by sceptics. On the whole, more than 120 billion old roubles were withdrawn from circulation. The population got wages and various allowances amounting to 10 billion new roubles. The head of the Tajik state noted in particular that honest people had not suffered from the republic's phased accession to Russia's rouble zone. However, he ordered Tajik law enforcement bodies to look into cases when individual enterprises and commercial structures had turned in to banks scores of millions of old roubles. It was stressed during the commission's meeting that the heads of corresponding ministries and departments were confronted with the tasks of supplying the market with enough goods, primarily food products, exercising strict control over the state commercial system, and preventing the leakage of new Russian roubles to other countries. In the meantime, the situation in the state retail trade network and on the local markets is deplorable. Food stores are empty as before. Nothing has changed for the better at Dushanbe markets. Owners of commercial kiosks have not reduced prices.
