FBIS3-44584 "drchi004_d_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Jan 1994 Northeast Asia Beijing Secretary Meets Japanese Businessmen SK0601093694 Beijing BEIJING RIBAO in Chinese 25 Dec 93 p 1 SK0601093694 Beijing BEIJING RIBAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By Reporter Lian Gong (6647 0364): "Extensive Cooperation Helps Development of All Countries"] [Text] On the evening of 24 December, Chen Xitong, secretary of the Beijing municipal party committee and honorary president of the municipal people's association for friendship with foreign countries, met with Wada Kazuo, president of Japan's Babaiban [name as transliterated] International Distribution Group, and Hashimoto Ikari, adviser to the group and former ambassador to China. Chen Xitong extended a welcome to the Japanese friends and praised Mr. Hashimoto Ikari for his contributions to Sino-Japanese friendship when serving as the ambassador to China. He said: China and Japan are friendly neighbors, and their long-term friendly cooperation is conducive to the peace of Asia and the world. China's opening wider to the outside world, its economic development, and its greater cooperation with other countries will, instead of affecting its cooperation with Japan, help develop Sino- Japanese cooperation still better. China's development will not affect the development of other countries, and its effort to develop extensive cooperation will be helpful to the development of all countries. During the meeting, Chen Xitong expressed congratulations and support to the establishment in Beijing the "Babaiban multi-national women's volleyball team," holding that sports will promote friendship. Both sides also discussed joint investment in establishing the "Beijing Babaiban International Material Exchange Center Company Limited." Wada Kazuo said: I am very pleased to come to Beijing and find a very good cooperation partner. Chinese commodities are good and more of them will enter the world market. The Babaiban group wishes to sell more Chinese commodities. Vice Mayor Lu Yucheng and others were present at the meeting.
