FBIS3-30888 "dreeu028_b_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 BULGARIA Army's Finances, Repoliticization Viewed AU0902103694 Sofia DEMOKRATSIYA in Bulgarian 4 Feb 94 p 3 AU0902103694 Sofia DEMOKRATSIYA Language: Bulgarian Article Type:BFN [Rayko Stoyanov commentary: "Dogan and Communists Are Liquidating the Bulgarian Army"] [Text] The government's draft budget dooms the army to a slow death, the deputies of the Union of Democratic Forces [SDS] in the parliamentary National Security Commission think. They point out with concern that the 12 billion leva envisaged for this year will hardly cover the most urgent needs of the Bulgarian Army. "Rapidly growing inflation will eat into a significant part of this meager sum," a SDS deputy told DEMOKRATSIYA. "It must be remembered that at least 3 billion leva will go on last year's expenditure." The situation is especially grave in the Air Force and the Navy. As Vice-Admiral Ventseslav Velkov, Navy commander, recently said, "70-80 percent of our warships are hopelessly obsolete." A high-ranking air force officer said with alarm that the the spare part situation for warplanes is desperate. The situation of the ground troops is no better. Not only are there insufficient means for the army's equipment and training, but on top of this the budget envisages humiliatingly meager wages for the officers and sergeants. Battalion commanders will receive wages lower than those of the cleaning ladies in some private companies. The Bulgarian Army's troubles do not end with the budget. New dismissals of capable officers are imminent, while at the same time people who implement the political orders of the present leadership are being promoted to command positions. Many officers think that the Army is again being deliberately politicized, even before the process of decommunization has ended. Reports confirm that the functions of the former State Security Third Administration, so much hated in the past by the officers, are being seized by Brigo Asparukhov's service. The Foreign Political Intelligence Service has already publicized its control over the General Staff and the civilian leadership of the Ministry of Defense.
