FBIS3-35875 "drsov021_g_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 Belarus NATO Official Discusses Military Cooperation WS3101163794 Minsk VECHERNIY MINSK in Russian 28 Jan 94 p 1 WS3101163794 Minsk VECHERNIY MINSK Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Aleksey Bezveselnyy: "Belarus and NATO: Options for Cooperation"] [Text] As part of his trip to Belarus, Field Marshall Richard Frederick Vincent, chairman of the NATO Military Committee, met with Colonel-General Kozlovskiy, Belarusian defense minister. The negotiations were devoted to the issues of continuously developing contacts between the Belarusian Armed Forces and the North Atlantic bloc and the exchange of experience in reforming the Army and arms reduction. During talks between both military officials, substantial attention was attached to determining their positions regarding the possibility of Belarus joining the "Partnership for Peace" initiative. Incidentally, this issue was also brought up during the recent visit of U.S. President Clinton in Minsk and in negotiations with the leadership of our Republic. Mr. Vincent shared his views on the development of cooperation among European countries to achieve guarantees of their sovereignty and territorial integrity. Regarding this, there was particular interest in understanding the positions on the intention of our Republic to become a neutral state and to completely remove nuclear weapons from the Belarusian territory, as well as possible forms of bilateral cooperation in the military sphere [sentence as published]. It is believed that this may have an impact on a future visit of a group of NATO military inspectors to examine Belarusian participation in the "Partnership for Peace." Toward the end of the meeting, Field Marshall Richard Vincent noted that the North Atlantic Bloc knows very well and respects the Republic's foreign policies directed at entirely giving up its nuclear arsenals. As a result, this evokes the bloc's sincere desire to help Belarus, especially in the sphere of conventional weapons.
