FBIS3-56043 "drsov009_b_94016" FBIS-SOV-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Ruble Falls Against Dollar at 12 Jan Auctions PM1301110194 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 13 Jan 94 First Edition p 1 PM1301110194 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Ivan Zhagel: "Dollar Has Increased in Cost by 42 Rubles in One Go"] [Text] The routine 12 January auctions at the Moscow interbank currency exchange reflected a drastic destabilization in the situation on the currency market. The ruble exchange rate fell to a record low and was 1,335 rubles [R] per a U.S. dollar, while at the previous auctions the rate was R1,293 per dollar. Analyzing the reasons for such a drastic surge in the exchange rate, A. Zakharov, general director of the Moscow currency exchange, noted that one of the main reasons for the increased demand for dollars is the ban on currency trade introduced at the start of the year. In this connection trade organizations buying food and goods abroad have been obliged to start converting their ruble profit through the exchange. And so far market mechanisms and the efforts of the Central Bank are unable to neutralize and even out the increased demand or currency. In addition, in A. Zakharov's opinion, the uncertainty of the political situation and the lack of clarity as to what economic program the Russian Government will implement are also having an effect. Incidentally, it is worth recalling here that the previous drastic decline in the ruble exchange rate was in September last year, that is when the Russian president's edict on the dissolution of parliament. So that political instability remains a very important factor determining the state of the national currency. Finally, we cannot discount either the fact that in accordance with the president's edict "on financing state expenditure from the Russian Federation republican budget in the first quarter of 1994" money has begun to enter all spheres of the economy. And since control over its passage and expenditure remains at a low level, a considerable proportion of these financial resources is starting to surface at the exchange, putting adverse pressure on the ruble exchange rate.
