FBIS3-35543 "drnes038dd_94029" FBIS-NES-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Palestinian Affairs Commentary Warns Against Attempts To Weaken Nation JN2302104394 Baghdad Voice of the PLO in Arabic 1700 GMT 21 Feb 94 JN2302104394 Baghdad Voice of the PLO Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Unattributed commentary] [Text] Brothers: As we proceed with firm steps and solid determination to achieve our national objectives, destroying all obstacles on the path of our march, we should be more alert, have an honest national awareness, and place Palestine -- land and one people -- over all considerations. The objective is to deprive the enemy of opportunities and to foil the seditions which the enemy is trying to create to undermine our national unity by pushing us toward despair and internecine fighting, God forbid. O brothers: With the exacerbating political confrontation, the procrastination and prevarication by Israeli officials, and the escalating Israeli repressive acts against our steadfast Palestinian people in the occupied homeland, we must be fully aware that the enemy will not give in easily to the achievements accomplished by our people under the banner of their sole, legitimate leadership, the PLO. The enemy will lie in wait to attack and liquidate these achievements. The Israeli enemy is endeavoring to evade all its pledges and commitments contained in the Declaration of Principles agreement. The evidence is its continuous attempts to [word indistinct] the Palestinian negotiator and to (?delay) withdrawal from the agreed areas and its desperate attempts to delay the release of Palestinian detainees from Israeli jails. This is in addition to its continuous procrastination in transferring powers to the national Palestinian authority in the areas from which it will withdraw under the pretext that all these issues need more discussion and more (?recommendations). Hence, it is evident that the enemy is trying, through all this, to gain time and prepare the road for a new scheme which, this time, aims to create seditions and sow discord in front of the national Palestinian authority. The enemy wants to show that this authority is unable to tackle the situation and that it cannot run the affairs of the Palestinian people in the interim period. The objective is to entrench occupation as the best way to maintain security and stability in these areas. As they have always proved, our people can -- through their awareness, steadfastness, unity, and cohesion -- make the designs of aggressors backfire. Those who try to encroach on our people's steadfastness and march toward liberation and independence must know full well that he who plays with fire will burn his fingers and that he who plants thorns will harvest storm.
