FBIS3-14080 "drnes056_l_94004" FBIS-NES-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 ISRAEL Peres on Resumption of Talks, Settler Issue NC2203194094 London MBC Television in Arabic 1800 GMT 22 Mar 94 NC2203194094 London MBC Television Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Interview with Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres by MBC Correspondent Mahir Shalabi on 22 March; place not given--recorded, in English with superimposed Arabic translation] [Text] [Shalabi] The Palestinians in Tunis say that your delegation, which visited Tunis recently, did not make any new proposals that could help the resumption of negotiations. [Peres] I am not sure that they have said something like this. I hope the talks will resume. This is a beginning, and we are all in a difficult situation. But I believe that through a common effort we can continue the negotiations and establish a new reality. [Shalabi] The Palestinians are saying that the Israelis are proposing setting up a security belt around settlements in Hebron instead of finding another solution. [Peres] I do not think so. I believe that the Israeli delegation said that while negotiating over the measures we need to guarantee the security of all citizens--Arabs and Jews--and we are ready to hold talks with the PLO over this matter. However, the issue of the settlers is a purely Israeli matter. This matter is the responsibility of the Israeli Government and it will make the appropriate decision. [Shalabi] In your opinion, what are the factors that will help the resumption of the negotiations? [Peres] I believe that we need to do two things. The first is to take measures to provide security for everyone in Hebron. We will take such measures. The second thing is to quickly conclude negotiations over Gaza and Jericho in a very short period of time. Thus, we would be showing the Palestinians and ourselves a new reality, not only a new declaration. I hope that within a few weeks the Palestinians' autonomy in Gaza and Jericho will be a reality. [Shalabi] Do you think that if you reach an agreement with the PLO you will be able to implement it before 13 April? [Peres] It all depends on when we start negotiations because if we want to know when they will end, we need to know when they will begin. However, it is not far away from that date. At any rate, the talks will resume tomorrow.
