FBIS4-1477 "drafr083_c_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-083 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Freedom Front Criticizes `Militant Far Right' Freedom Front Criticizes `Militant Far Right' MB2804162394 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English 28 Apr 94 p 3 MB2804162394 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY English BFN [Report by Amanda Vermeulen] [Text] The bombing campaign in SA has highlighted the growing rift in right-wing circles, with Freedom Front [FF] officials now openly criticising the militant far right. Any members of right-wing organisations which might be involved in bombing soft targets and killing civilians were sick and cowardly, Hoopstad Freedom Front chairman and SADF [South African Defense Force] Sergeant-Major Obie du Plessis said this week. "I call them Klipdrift [liquor brand] soldiers -- they get drunk and then go around trying to be soldiers. They are fighting a war of cowards and we are not sympathetic to their cause. It is wrong to kill innocent people." Du Plessis, a member of the SADF's special services, was instrumental in organising eight mobile polling stations to visit rural areas where farmers had refused to provide transport to polling stations for their workers. He denied farmers in the Hoopstad, Wesselbron and Bultfontein districts had been intimidating farm labourers, but claimed that Freedom Front supporters were being threatened by extreme right-wingers. Du Plessis said he and Freedom Front leader Gen Constand Viljoen had received death threats. Businessmen in the area were being threatened with boycotts if they voted for the party. "We are accused of being traitors -- of betraying the volk [Afrikaner people]. But they pose no real threat. These right-wingers are hopeless and stupid. All they do is play soldier games. The Freedom Front knows what real war is, which is why we are negotiating, not fighting for a volkstaat [Afrikaner homeland]." Du Plessis, a farmer himself, believed the Front had the support of 90 percent of the farmers in the Hoopstad district. However, many had recently resigned from the party, not wanting to be seen to be supporting the organisation publicly, following threats from CP [Conservative Party] and other right-wing organisations' supporters. Du Plessis, who said he would not serve in the SADF under a black government, doubted whether there would be an uprising of farmers against a black-led government. However, he said attempts by the new government to disarm the farmers, most of whom fought in the Angolan and Namibian campaigns, could trigger a "10 or 20-year-long civil war that would make the war in Bosnia look insignificant. We would not fight a guerrilla war. After all those years of fighting against the ANC and the communists precisely because they fought a terrorist war, how could we turn around and do the same thing? No -- we are gentlemen and we would never resort to terror tactics."
