FBIS3-45156 "drchi009_w_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Reportage on New Hong Kong Airport Project Lu Ping Views Project HK1201084294 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO in Chinese 12 Jan 94 p a2 HK1201084294 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By reporter Chen Chien-ping [7115 1696 1627]: "Lu Ping Says That Cutting Apart Airport Project by Hong Kong Government Is Bound To Increase Costs"] [Text] Beijing, 11 Jan (WEN WEI PO)--Lu Ping, director of the State Council Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, said here today that facts have proved that the British Hong Kong Government has not separated politics from the economy. The British Hong Kong Government has adopted a non-cooperative attitude toward the Chinese side on the issue of the new airport in Hong Kong. When airport talks can be resumed has become a question, and a solution to the airport issue has become complicated. When asked by reporters about the new airport in Hong Kong today, Lu Ping said that the issue of the new airport in Hong Kong can be said to be very simple, and what is needed is to follow the Memorandum of Understanding signed by China and Britain. When a reporter asked about Chris Patten's remarks that the Hong Kong Government is acting in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding, Lu Ping said that with the present financial arrangements made by the British side, the debt involved greatly exceeds the amount mentioned in the Memorandum of Understanding. How could he say that the Memorandum of Understanding is being followed? Since the debt has exceeded the memorandum, it is necessary for the two sides to negotiate to solve the problem. When asked about the issue of land allocations along the airport railroad, Lu Ping said that the British side had proposed allocating 58 hectares of land along the airport railroad all at once. The Chinese side holds that since it is necessary to build an airport railroad, land along the railroad should be developed. Whether or not the land should be allocated in one go should be determined by the land supply and demand situation each year. Such allocations should be cordinated with those of the Land Commission [Sino- British Land Commission], the purpose being not to cause confusion in the whole land market. When a reporter mentioned that the Hong Kong Government had separated the airport project, Lu Ping held that the costs of the new airport should be settled by an overall financial plan. The present piecemeal approach is bound to increase costs. He said that according to figures on the financial reserve published by the British Hong Kong Government, the British Hong Kong Government surely has the strength to build the new airport in accordance with the memorandum. Lu Ping said that the Memorandum of Understanding stipulates that, in the future, HK$25 billion [Hong Kong dollars] should be reserved for the government of the special administrative region and debt should not exceed HK$5 billion. The financial secretary of the British Hong Kong Government has said that, in the future, HK$78 billion will be kept for the government of the special administrative region. We said that HK$25 billion would be enough. The rest can be used for injecting funds so that debt will not exceed HK$5 billion. In this way, the airport can be built.
