FBIS3-33087 "drlat033_o_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 Colombia Naval Commander Cited on U.S. Troops in Juanchaco PA1702004794 Santa Fe de Bogota EL NUEVO SIGLO in Spanish 12 Feb 94 p 13A PA1702004794 Santa Fe de Bogota EL NUEVO SIGLO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Eduardo Carrillo in Juanchacho, Valle Department] [Excerpts] Colombian military engineers, rather than U.S. Army engineers, are building the airport in Juanchaco with a clear vision of progress, wholly convinced of the national and international projection of the challenges the Pacific region faces for the year 2000. Admiral Jose Ignacio Rozo Carvajal, commander of the Pacific Naval Force, has said, given the Navy's insistence and the decision by local authorities, Inter-Administrative Agreement No. 350 was signed on 17 August 1993 between the Valle del Cauca Department Governorate and the Defense Ministry. He explained that on 29 and 30 October 1993 the ARC [Republic of Colombia Navy] landing craft "Bahia Solano," which belongs to the Pacific Naval Force, carried materiel, equipment, and a scouting detachment for the construction of a camp, which would precede the construction of an airport. The Army Engineering Corps appointed the Codazzi Battalion to build the airport. Military engineers believe the work to repair and extend the runway will be completed by late April, while the Valle del Cauca Governorate is in charge of building the control tower, passenger terminal, and access roads. The only access road to the airport consisted of a dirt road that the U.S. soldiers have patiently turned into a highway so they could proceed with the construction of a school and health center. [passage omitted] Admiral Rozo Carvajal has explained the presence of the U.S. Forces has made it necessary to double security measures not only in Bahia Malaga but also in Juanchaco, Ladrilleros, and neighboring areas to prevent any problems. "Security measures were increased to provide protection to the Colombian military engineers in charge of building the airport and the North Americans who are building a school and health center," he has said. [passage omitted] Admiral Rozo Carvajal has said he "would be the first to notify superiors if anything exceeds the framework foreseen with the U.S. military engineers. I must notify them, and that is how it should be." He has reasserted the Bahia Malaga Naval Base has regulations, an internal system, and the U.S. forces involved in "Fuertes Caminos 94" were instructed on what they could do. "We control the speed of vehicles, the way they are parked, the notices and reports when the "Runnymede," a craft used to transport personnel and machinery, will be mobilized, when helicopter support is given, and other measures," added Jose Ignacio Rozo Carvajal, commander of the Pacific Naval Force.
