FBIS4-66914 "jptac005__l94029" JPRS-TAC-94-005-L JPRS Arms Control 17 May 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA KAZAKHSTAN Russia Objects to U.S. Elimination of Kazakhstan's Missiles Russia Objects to U.S. Elimination of Kazakhstan's Missiles LD1705135094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1318 GMT 17 May 94 LD1705135094 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Anatoliy Yurkin] [Text] Moscow May 17 TASS -- Kazakhstan wants to invite U.S. experts to dismantle Russian-made nuclear missiles which it had inherited from the former Soviet Union and the decision causes concern among the Russian military. "The access of experts of third countries to Russian missile complexes for their dismantling contradicts the Russian-Kazakh agreement on strategic nuclear forces and the treaty on military cooperation", Aleksandr Volkov, first deputy commander-in-chief of the Russian Strategic Missile Forces, told TASS on Tuesday. Russian experts are currently removing nuclear warheads from the missiles, extracting them from silos and preparing for transportation, according to Volkov who added that Russia had pledged to transfer to its territory all nuclear components for elimination by May 1, 1995. He stressed that financial aspects of dismantling and elimination have been fixed in a separate Russian- Kazakh agreement. In the meantime, three U.S. companies want to eliminate the SS-18 missiles in Kazakhstan and are planning to request the U.S. Congress to appropriate 75 million dollars for that, according to Kazakh mass media which reported that the main bulk of the missiles is to be destroyed, while ten of them are to be used as spacecraft carriers. The Kazakh-U.S. cooperation idea in the sphere has emerged after the visit of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to the United States. The invitation to U.S. experts to dismantle Russian missiles affects not only the Russian interests, but also of missile constructors in other CIS countries. According to Aleksandr Piskunov, deputy chairman of the Russian State Duma committee on defence, the Kazakh decision ignores the right to intellectual property and thus contradicts international norms.
