FBIS3-3160 "drchi052_n_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Economic & Agricultural Stockpiling `Resuming' as Response to Rising Food Prices HK1403040494 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD in English 14 Mar 94 p 8 HK1403040494 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Cary Huang, China editor, in Beijing] [Text] China is resuming Stalinist planning economics by stockpiling staple foods. The move is prompted by price rises in major cities in December and panic buying in recent years after sweeping market-driven reforms. It also underscores serious concern by the leadership over increasing inflation and other potential social instabilities, Beijing analysts and diplomats say. The decision, mapped out by Ministry of Internal Trade and endorsed by the State Council China's cabinet, orders localities to revive a Mao-era practice of storing basic goods and necessities. "Storage of important commodities is the basis for the government to guarantee supply to meet the needs of basic life of the people, to combat inflation and deal with natural disasters and other unexpected events," Chinese sources quote a government circular as saying. The central government is asking localities, especially large and medium-sized cities, to have a certain quantity of commodities such as grain, pork, sugar and edible oil in storage. Consumer products are also listed but the central government notes that emphasis should be laid on necessities and commodities sensitive to markets. Beijing also requires localities to set up risk funds to enable the government to maintain stockpiles. The practice was popular under socialist planning economy throughout Mao's period, by which the government controlled all market supplies under a rationing system. However, the system has abated since the late 1970s when paramount leader Deng Xiaoping launched market oriented economic reforms and openness policies. Nevertheless, the government has kept grain stores-the rationing system for this staple food was only recently abolished. The circular says the storage system should only be conducted by government departments through state-run commercial enterprises. The cost should be met by the state and enterprises will not be liable.
