FBIS3-57178 "drsov016_a_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Commentary on Reports of Submarine Sales to DPRK OW2501023894 Moscow Radio Moscow in Mandarin 1000 GMT 24 Jan 94 OW2501023894 Moscow Radio Moscow Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Commentary by Surikov from the "Current Event and Commentary" program] [Text] Listeners: The Western mass media reported over the weekend that Russia is arming Korea [DPRK] and has sold 40 submarines to them. What is the true story? Here is a commentary by station commentator Surikov. First of all, it should be noted that arms sales are now one of the major export items of many countries. Commercial arms supplies should not be a cause for surprise. Russia's submarine sales to Korea are nothing but scrap metal. The intermediary in this purely commercial deal is a Japanese company. The company's general manager (Shibata) told ITAR-TASS NEWS AGENCY: Last October Russia sold three submarines, which had long been decommissioned and scrapped, to Korea. The submarines carried no weapons whatsoever. Pyongyang cannot use them for training, much less for combat. The most reliable guarantee is that representatives from the Russian Navy directly oversaw professional Korean workers in breaking down the submarines into several parts. The Japanese company did not violate domestic laws banning indirect weapons and military technology sales to other countries. Speaking at a press conference in Vladivostok, General Gromov, commander in chief of the Russian Navy, said: Russia has not supplied weapons to Pyongyang; nor does it plan to do so (?in the near future). Selling scrap metal to other countries is not a secret practice. Many scrapped and disarmed warships and submarines are berthed in some Russian ports. (Shibata) said: Korea aside, China and Japan are very interested in buying such scrap metal. This shows that reports by the Western mass media are only rumors that do not tally with the facts at all.
