FBIS3-44931 "drchi007_f_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 Near East & South Asia CPC Central Committee Delegation Visits India Received by Prime Minister OW1101130694 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1449 GMT 10 Jan 94 OW1101130694 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Text] New Delhi, 10 Jan (XINHUA) -- Speaking at a meeting with Wen Jiabao, alternate member of the Political Bureau and member of the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee, Indian Prime Minister Rao said today that India hoped to speed up the process of Sino-Indian cooperation in all spheres. Rao said: The potential for close Sino-Indian cooperation is enormous; the prospects for cooperation in agriculture, industry, and joint ventures are broad; and speeding up the cooperation process will benefit the two countries significantly. Wen Jiabao said, at the meeting, that China and India share identical views on many major issues. He expressed appreciation for Rao's efforts and contributions to promoting Sino-Indian friendship and cooperation. Recalling his visit to China in September last year, Rao said that his visit opened a new chapter for the two countries' relations which have developed in the economic, diplomatic, and cultural fields. Commenting about Sino-Indian accord on maintaining peace and tranquility along areas under the two countries' actual control, Wen Jiabao said that the accord has further strengthened Sino-Indian relations and the two countries should continue to solidify the existing relations. On strengthening the ties between the CPC and the Indian Congress Party, Wen Jiabao said: Since the two parties are ruling parties of the two most populous countries in the world, China attaches great importance to developing the relations between the two parties. The development of the two parties' relations will help strengthen the friendship between the their leaders as well friendship and cooperation between the peoples of the two countries. Wen Jiabao also relayed to Rao cordial regards and best wishes from General Secretary Jiang Zemin and Premier Li Peng. Rao again invited Jiang Zemin to visit India. He said: "People of all walks of life in India are looking forward to President Jiang's early visit." During a meeting with Indian Minister of Home Affairs Chavan today, Wen Jiabao briefed him on the development of the socialist market economy in China. The CPC delegation headed by Wen Jiabao arrived here on 7 January on a friendly visit to India.
