FBIS4-40153 "drsov115_a_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-115 Daily Report 14 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Commentary Views DPRK Situation, Sanctions Commentary Views DPRK Situation, Sanctions SK1506063694 Moscow Radio Moscow in Korean 1200 GMT 14 Jun 94 SK1506063694 Moscow Radio Moscow Korean BFN [Commentary by Solton from the "Today's World" program] [Text] The Korean Foreign Ministry stated that Pyongyang would withdraw immediately from the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA]. Station commentator Solton writes on it as follows: The decision Pyongyang adopted means in fact that it would withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty [NPT]. The Foreign Ministry statement said that Korea will realize the nuclear plan independently from now on and that it will not allow the international inspectors to enter the nuclear facilities. This is a dangerous decision that would bring about the gravest consequences. By closing the door to the international inspection team, Korea supports the suspicion that it either already has a nuclear weapon or intends to develop one. The Korean leaders claim that their nuclear development is peaceful in nature. Then why does Pyongyang avoid international inspection and intimidate the world community? Why does Pyongyang warn that sanctions would mean merciless war, while daring to subject itself to sanctions? This could be interpreted to be designed for internal purposes. At any rate, the situation on the Korean peninsula is aggravating, and this is causing serious worries for neighboring countries, including Russia. The presidents of Russia and the United States discussed the issue over the telephone yesterday. President Yeltsin and President Clinton exchanged views about the resolution being prepared by the UN Security Council. Both the possible sanctions and the plan to call international meetings should be equally reflected in the resolution to ensure the security of the North and the South and to ensure the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. There is still enough time to overcome the dangerous situation ensuing from Pyongyang's decision to withdraw from the IAEA by sheer political means rather than by resorting to sanctions. However, unless Pyongyang shows a good-intentioned, sincere attitude for the solution of the problem, it will be impossible to solve the problem without resorting to sanctions.
