FBIS4-18510 "drweu066_h_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-066 Daily Report 2 Apr 1994 GERMANY New Army Inspector Hartmut Bagger Profiled New Army Inspector Hartmut Bagger Profiled AU0504133394 Munich FOCUS in German 2 Apr 94 p 50 AU0504133394 Munich FOCUS German BFN [Unattributed report: "Ten Points About Hartmut Bagger"] [Text] Lieutenant General Hartmut Bagger, new Army inspector, does "not" want to lead the Armed Forces "in line with political desires." Origin Born 17 July 1938 in Braunsberg/Eastern Prussia. Found a new home near Celle after fleeing from Eastern Prussia. Graduated from the Protestant-Pietist high school of the Hermannsburg Mission in 1958. Choice of Profession The lieutenant general smiles. His decision to become a career soldier -- branch of service: armored infantry -- was seen by his "strictly and rather narrowly" religious teachers as an "act of youthful unruliness." Career Bagger is considered to be a "soldiers' man." In 1976 he became battalion commander in Rotenburg/Fulda, in 1984 brigade head in Hamburg-Fischbek, in 1990 division general in Wuerzburg. His military-political profile was developed in the Command Staff of the Armed Forces in Bonn and at the Command Academy in Hamburg. Alliance Experience The new army chief also gained experience with the alliance unspectacularly in the daily life of the troops rather than at the green table of NATO headquarters: "The staff work in Hamburg, for instance, was closely linked with the Dutch, that in Wuerzburg with the Americans." Style Calm determination. Listening and watching closely as command virtues. Is able to laugh heartily, also about himself. Worries Lt. Gen. Hartmut Bagger comes to the head of the still 250,000-man strong Bundeswehr during a period of unprecedented upheaval: "Over the past two years one out of two professional soldiers has had to move, some even twice." He is "grateful" to Alfred Biehle, the Bundestag defense commissioner, for the warning about reeling troop morale. Hopes The Armed Forces must "not be led in line with political desires and they need a reliable basis for planning." The changed assignment will make make the career of being a professional soldier more attractive, because "international experiences, also on other continents" are beckoning. Goals Establishing the new command structure by the end of 1995. Not allowing the Bundeswehr to be run down to become a two-class army -- superior crisis reaction forces, inferior national defense. This is one of the reasons that compulsory military service must be preserved: "Half of the young officers and almost two-thirds of the noncommissioned officers come from compulsory military service." Interests "My family" (two sons). And his second, art-loving nature. Bagger plays the piano and paints water-colors of flowers and landscapes. Dream Perfecting my organ playing, which I have neglected since my schooldays and "playing myself to exhaustion" after retirement.
