FBIS3-38253 "drweu021__a94031" FBIS-WEU-94-021-A Document Type:Daily Report 1 February 1994 ANNEX Germany Siemens Awarded `Secret' Saudi Telephone Contract LD3101150094 London FINANCIAL TIMES in English 31 Jan 94 p 1--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY LD3101150094 London FINANCIAL TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [Alan Cane report: "Saudi Royals Set Up Mobile Telephone Network in Secret"] [Text] The Saudi royal family has secretly commissioned a 10,000 line mobile telephone network for its exclusive use from Siemens, the German electronics group. In doing so it has not sought the approval of the Saudi telecommunication authorities and annexed frequencies earmarked for the country's public portable telephone service. The network, constructed in only three weeks, was first used for the December meeting of the Gulf Co-operation Council in Riyadh, where each delegate was presented, on arrival, with a portable GSM [Global System for Mobile Communications] telephone. The GSM standard has been adopted by European countries for the next generation of portable phones. Siemens confirmed that the system had been constructed for the Royal Palace and that its technicians were extending the network to 30,000 lines covering Riyadh, Jeddah, Dammam and other Saudi Arabian cities. Mr Helmut Muller, the German group's director of international sales for mobile networks, said the intention was to spread use of the system to groups outside the Royal Family. The whole system would be completed by April this year. He rejected suggestions that the network would cost between $40 and $50 million but would not be drawn on the price. A 50,000 line system built for Kuwait cost $30 million, according to industry analysts; that suggests that if $40 million was close to the real price for the Saudi system then the royal family paid heavily for the speed and secrecy with which the system was constructed. The royal network was uncovered last week by a journalist specialising in telecommunications. Mr Damian Peachey happened to switch on his mobile phone while staying in Riyadh and was puzzled to see a message on the screen that the network was live but he was forbidden to use it. He knew Saudi Arabia had no public mobile phone network, but the message suggested there must be a cellular radio system operating in Riyadh on the GSM standard. Telecommunications, particularly mobile telephone systems, is a touchy subject in Saudi Arabia where the demand for mobile telephones is huge. There is a mobile network of sorts, based on obsolete analogue technology and extending to only 20,000 lines, 4,000 of which are reserved for the exclusive use of the Royal Family. The only way to obtain a mobile line is to buy one from another user at prices said to reach SR [Saudi riyals] 130,000 (28,500 pounds). GSM, based on computer technology where messages are transmitted as a series of electronic pulses, is the technology of choice for the Gulf states. Users can "roam" freely and use their phones across national boundaries. Siemens has installed GSM systems in Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, and Morocco. There is a general shortage of telephone lines in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Telecom is asking for bids for a further 500,000 lines of which 100,000 will be GSM. The contract is expected to be announced in May and a consortium of Ericsson of Sweden and NEC of Japan is thought to be in the lead.
