FBIS4-21836 "jptot015__l94001" JPRS-TOT-94-015-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 13 April 1994 FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 1-8 April FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 1-8 April FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 1-8 April 11111111 11111111 CSO Editor's Note: The FBIS Terrorism Desk welcomes suscribers' comments and suggestions at (703) 733-5512. Highlights and major incidents in this edition of the FBIS Terrorism Report include: Cambodia/U.S. The Khmer Rouge abducted an American missionary and her Cambodian colleagues on 31 March, demanding that the missionary group dig wells in their area. Five Cambodians who were released reported that they were well treated. Colombia/U.S. Police believe that the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) kidnaped U.S. citizen Ramon Rissin, the security chief of the Summer Linguistic Institute in Meta Department. Their motive is unknown, and they have made no demands yet. This is the third American that FARC has abducted this year. Denmark/U.S. After searching the apartments of three Egyptians arrested in Arhus, Denmark in December 1993, Danish police report that they found addresses and phone numbers of suspects in the World Trade Center bombing. Germany/Algeria/Turkey In two separate reports--one from an Arabic magazine, and one from a German paper--Germany is characterized as an overseas base for both the Kurdish Workers Party (PKK) and the Algerian Islamic Salvation Front (FIS). See the "European Affairs" and "Algeria" sections of this Terrorism Report. Iran/Palestinians/Hizballah While heading a delegation in Damascus, Iranian Deputy Majles Speaker Hasan Ruhani met with Hizballah Secretary-General Nasrallah and and representatives from the Palestinian rejectionist alliance. Iraq/International Foreigners in Iraq were attacked on three consecutive days this week. Gunmen killed a German AFP reporter and her bodyguard near al-Sulaymaniyah on the 3rd, authorities defused an explosive device under a UN car on the 4th, and gunmen wounded a Danish UN guard in a roadside ambush. Kurdish opposition sources say that the Iraqi government is offering $10,000 to anyone who kills foreigners. Israel/Palestinians An Islamic Jihad statement threatens to kill any international observers sent to the territories. Hams has taken credit for a carbomb that exploded near a bus stop in 'Afula on 6 April. The blast killed eight and wounded over 50. Israeli "security sources" characterized the bomb as the kind built by Hizballah. A Hamas communique says that this is the first of five attacks to avenge the Hebron massacre. The communique also threatens to shell settlers' home with rockets that Hamas has "recently received." Libya/U.S. AL-WATAN AL-`ARABI magazine interviewed two Libyan opposition leaders in the United States on the formation of the new "Libyan Movement for Change and Reform." The two announce their group's readiness to use "military operations and violence" against the Libyan government. Palestinians Six Palestinian leader discuss with AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT newspaper the prices, availability and sources of guns in the occupied territories. Sudan A flyer distributed by an opposition group within the police force describes the confessions of a religious fundamentalist arrested in connection with the 4 February mosque bombing in Umm Durman. The arrestee describes his training in Lebanon, association with Usamah Bin-Ladin and Hasan al-Turabi, and his group's plans to kill Sadiq al-Mahdi and others. Turkey A bomb killed a Spaniard and a Tunisian in the Closed Bazaar in Istanbul on 2 April. Several other tourists were among the 12 injured. The PKK is suspected. Turkey/Russia The Russian interior minister agreed to help Turkey end the PKK's "terrorist activities" after meeting with Turkey's interior minister for two days of talks.
