FBIS4-17055 "drsov077_v_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-077 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 Lithuania Prime Minister Discusses Energy Situation Prime Minister Discusses Energy Situation LD2004181694 Vilnius Radio Vilnius Network in Lithuanian 1300 GMT 20 Apr 94 LD2004181694 Vilnius Radio Vilnius Network Lithuanian BFN [Text] To date, the Lithuanian economy subjects debt to the power engineering system is in the sum of 230 million litas. This was said by Prime Minister Adolfas Slezevicius on Lithuanian Radio today. According to him, the government will be compelled to adopt unpopular measures because such a debt cannot be endless. In spite of all debts, the supply of hot water to Lithuania's residents will not be interrupted. It is natural that the prices of the power engineering sources will go up, because they have not changed for almost a year, and inflation has been taking place in all branches of the economy, said Adolfas Slezevicius. The compensation mechanism, because of the future increase in the price for people who must be socially supported, has already been prepared. According to the prime minister, in the size of fuel and electricity subsidies, Lithuania occupies first place among the Baltic states. According to him, Lithuania subsidizes about 70 percent of the true price of electricity, Latvia -- about 30 percent, and Estonia has altogether rejected such subsidies. This year over 200 million litas are to be allocated in the budget to subsidize the power engineering system. Power Engineering Minister Algimantas Stasiukynas, who took part in the broadcast, said that the power engineering system has so far used about 145 million dollars of foreign credits. Commenting on such use of foreign credits by Lithuania, Adolfas Slezevicius said that because of a great shortage of turnover funds in the power engineering system and of high debts for fuel to foreign countries, we have been compelled to use part of the foreign credits to amass state fuel reserves. According to him, this made it possible essentially, to eliminate all debts for the purchase of fuel and remain warm during the last winter. Today, Lithuania has no oil debts, and the natural gas debt is in the sum of 25 million dollars. Meanwhile, the gas consumers debt to the power engineering system is in the sum of 60 million dollars. By the way, Lithuania has been paying world prices for fuel for the second year now.
