FBIS4-2882 "drchi073_a_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-073 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Further on Foreign Ministry News Conference Further on Foreign Ministry News Conference Comments on Wei Jingsheng, Tibet HK1504101794 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO in Chinese 15 Apr 94 p 2 HK1504101794 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO Chinese BFN ["Special dispatch": "Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesman Comments on Wei Jingsheng Case and Human Rights Issue"] [Text] Beijing, 14 Apr (TA KUNG PAO)--Shen Guofang made a relatively long statement at today's Foreign Affairs Ministry news briefing in response to questions on the human rights issue raised by a number of reporters. He said that the human rights issue is very extensive and that China is willing to have international cooperation on the issue of human rights. The case of Wei Jingsheng is not an issue of human rights. I have talked with many reporters about the Wei Jingsheng case and have discovered that reporters do not know very much about him. The so-called human rights do not simply mean releasing criminals, which is irrelevant to human rights. Regarding the request Warren Christopher made during his visit to China a month ago, when he asked Qian Qichen to solve the problems of the Chinese side's approval of applications for family dependents to visit their relatives in the United States and of releasing 108 Tibetans, Shen Guofang said not without ridicule: I do not know whether reporters have ever been to the U.S. Embassy in China, where there is a long line of people waiting for visas every day. Many people were not able to get their visas to the United States and, as a result, their families were broken up. As a matter of fact, many people do not want to permanently stay in the United States and only wish to visit their relatives and friends there. Regarding the namelist of the 108 Tibetans, we often receive similar lists from western countries. Upon investigation, however, we have found that there are many problems in those lists. Investigation has revealed that some of the people did not exist at all, some had already been released, and other were serving other sentences. When western personalities have given such namelists to us, we have tried to verify the contents and sources with them, but they themselves could not tell us where the information came from.
