FBIS4-40744 "drsov118_b_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Clash Between Skokov, Shmakov Bodes Ill for Trade Unionists Clash Between Skokov, Shmakov Bodes Ill for Trade Unionists MK1806133694 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 18 Jun 94 p 3 MK1806133694 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Russian BFN [Yekaterina Achalova report: "FITUR Board Plenum. Trade Unions Change Ally"] [Text] Addressing yesterday's sitting of the executive committee of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Russia [FITUR], Federation head Mikhail Shmakov accused Yuriy Skokov of attempting to break up the FITUR and create on its basis another trade union organization. The sharpness of the accusation was provoked by the fact that Skokov is building contacts with regional trade unions bypassing the FITUR's central leadership and actually stripping them of control. Earlier, the FITUR cooperated with the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs [RUIE] whose president Arkadiy Volskiy masterminded the creation of a Trilateral Conciliation Commission -- the RUIE, the FITUR, and the government -- so that trade unions could refer their demands directly to the government. In the wake of October 1993 the government stopped delegating its ranking representatives to the commission's sessions, which rendered the RUIE's cooperation with the FITUR less interesting. When Volskiy's centrists suffered complete defeat in the December elections and finally departed the list of influential political forces, all reasons for FITUR-RUIE cooperation were totally lost. Trade unions bosses and entrepreneurs started to look around for new partners. An apolitical mode of life under the leadership of Mikhail Shmakov looked to union bosses not exciting enough, and they started to look for a new Big Brother for political gambles. Producers of commodities suited the role best. Four major trade unions associations of the Urals, Siberia, the Northern Caucasus, and the Central Volga, decided to secure support from Skokov and signed an interaction agreement with him. This agreement may soon lead to a split of the Federation. Offended by the behavior of Skokov, who ignored all proposals for a meeting and who played up to his subordinates behind their boss's back, Mikhail Shmakov intends to press for the annulment of the agreement. But since the FITUR is a typical example of a political partner always on the lookout for someone to form a bloc with, it is doubtful that union officials will listen to their chairman and give up so opportune an idea as an alliance with Skokov.
