FBIS4-8278 "dreeu070__a94046" FBIS-EEU-94-070-A Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 ANNEX Czech Republic NAA Officials Say Nation Fit for NATO NAA Officials Say Nation Fit for NATO AU1104151394 Prague CTK in English 1322 GMT 11 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1104151394 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Prague, April 11 (CTK) -- Loic Bouvard, chairman of the North Atlantic Assembly (NAA), and Peter Corterier, NAA secretary, are convinced that the Czech Republic should have "differentiated status" within the Partnership for Peace programme, in comparison to some other post-communist countries, which are "less fit for integration". They said they considered the Partnership for Peace a step towards full NATO membership, Czech Deputy Chairman Jan Kalvoda told journalists after his meeting today with the two representatives, who arrived in Prague on Sunday [10 April]. Kalvoda quoted Corterier as saying he had registered "more accommodating stances" towards the Czech Republic's admission to NATO in parliaments of NATO member countries than on the level of NATO representatives. Kalvoda refused to specify which the countries "less fit for integration" were, according the guests from the NAA, saying that no Czech Republic's direct neighbor was among them. He said he had discussed with the NAA representatives the ways of Czech Republic's coping with the infiltration of the exponents of the former, communist regime in the new democratic structures. Asked by CTK in this connection, Kalvoda said that he considered the passage of the screening law a correct legitimate act. However, he added he was personally dissatisfied with judicial punishments for concrete wrongdoing. "The principle of individual responsibility could be applied to more people," Kalvoda said, stressing that the issue was fully in the courts' jurisdiction. The Screening Law, adopted by the Czechoslovak parliament in 1991, bans from high government and economic posts until 1996 peopled linked to the former communist StB secret police, Communist Party officials and members of the People's Militia. Bouvard and Corterier today also met with Czech Economics Minister Karel Dyba. Dyba informed journalists after the meeting that he had discussed with the NAA guests mainly the economic situation in the Czech Republic and the country's relations towards the European Union and NATO.
