FBIS3-20313 "drweu061__a94042" FBIS-WEU-94-061-A Document Type:Daily Report 30 March 1994 ANNEX Switzerland Delegation Urges Ban on Weapons Export to Turkey BR3003101194 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1636 GMT 29 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR3003101194 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed AH/SN/HA: "Swiss Delegation Back From Kurdistan -- Export of Weapons Should Be Prohibited"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Excerpt] Zurich, 29 Mar (ATS) -- The recent elections in Turkey were not free. This is the observation made by a Swiss delegation which came back after a 12-day monitoring mission. Given the "exceptional situation" prevailing in the country, the human rights were almost abolished, said the members of the team that was set up by the Switzerland-Kurdistan association. They gave a press conference on Tuesday [29 March] at the Zurich airport. Twenty-three Swiss nationals were part of an international delegation to Kurdistan. Their objective was to ensure the safety of the civilian population during the Kurdish New Year celebrations on 21 March. They also intended to monitor the local Turkish elections during the week-end. The members of the delegation were put under house arrest. The Turkish security services virtually prevented any contact with the population they said. Banning the Export of Weapons The Swiss delegation has urged the Swiss authority to immediately ban the export of weapons to Turkey. It has also demanded that refugees from Kurdistan be no longer deported. Moreover, Switzerland must do everything possible to convince the parties involved in the conflict to negotiate. It was said that the eastern part of Anatolia is virtually under siege and one can easily imagine the consequences that this situation entails--mainly for the economy. As far as the elections are concerned, many irregularities were noticeable, according to the Swiss delegation. They estimate that one fourth of the population was excluded from the poll in Kiziltepe. Many people were displaced. What is more, the presence of armed soldiers in the polling stations is said to have prevented the secrecy of the vote. In some places, ballot papers were missing. [passage omitted]
