FBIS3-10731 "drlat048_n_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 Chile Warns Against `Sabotage' of Economic Plan PY1103011094 Brasilia Voz do Brasil Network in Portuguese 2200 GMT 10 Mar 94 PY1103011094 Brasilia Voz do Brasil Network Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Relay from Santiago, Chile, by Luiz Augusto Mendoca] [Text] President Itamar Franco warned that those businessmen who try to sabotage the economic plan will be severely punished. During a chat with journalists this evening, President Itamar Franco expressed his indignation over the price markups taking place throughout Brazil and asserted that the government must win the battle against price increases by any means. Franco said that on 14 or 15 March the government will submit a draft bill to Congress containing very strict, severe sanctions on business people obstructing the economic plan. The president, however, did not mention what type of sanctions the draft bill will contain. According to Franco, since Congress is also interested in doing away with constant price markups, he believes the draft bill might be approved expeditiously through an agreement with party leaders. As for the abusive price increases, Franco asserted that talks with the business sector are not working, that the government holds talks democratically but despite these talks nothing happens, mentioning the pharmaceutical industry as an example. Franco, who on 11 March will attend new Chilean President Eduardo Frei's inauguration, also talked about presidential succession and the rumor that Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso will be a candidate. Franco said Fernando Henrique Cardoso still has said absolutely nothing to him on whether or not he will be a candidate, and that it is up to him and his party, the PSDB [Brazilian Social Democracy Party], to decide but that he, the president, does not know what the minister has in mind. President Franco added that if necessary the minister can make a decision in 24 hours but that he still has time because, after all, the deadline to resign in order to run for elections does not expire until 2 April, which means the minister still has 20 days to decide. Franco ended by stating that the president of the Republic is responsible for choosing the finance minister and that Minister Cardoso, in his capacity as a democrat, would never suggest anybody for the post. Franco also commented that Congress' decision not to extend the deadline for those holding a public post who want to run for elections to resign will speed up the succession process. Soon President Franco will be leaving for La Moneda Palace, where he will have dinner with outgoing Chilean President Patricio Aylwin.
