FBIS4-51233 "drchi102_v_94013" FBIS-CHI-94-102 Daily Report 25 May 1994 TAIWAN Firms Urged To Form Ties With Swedish Companies Firms Urged To Form Ties With Swedish Companies OW2505115794 Taipei CNA in English 0801 GMT 25 May 94 OW2505115794 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Sofia Wu] [Text] Taipei, May 25 (CNA) -- Taiwan companies should consider forming strategic alliances with their counterparts in Sweden to tap north and east European markets, a senior trade official said Wednesday [25 May]. "Sweden has advanced modern port and warehousing facilities as well as well-developed distribution systems," said James C.K. Lin, director of the Representative Office in Stockholm of the semi-official China External Trade Development Council (Cetra). Lin, who returned to Taipei earlier this week for consultations, said Sweden is also a frontrunner in the aerospace, automobile and electronics industries. "By forging partnerships with Swedish companies, Taiwan firms can obtain advanced technical know-how in the above-mentioned fields and gain access to north European markets," Lin said. He said that although operational costs in Sweden are relatively high, the Scandinavian country offers many tax incentives for businesses. "Taiwan entrepreneurs can consider setting up distribution centers in Sweden to facilitate their entry to north and east European markets," he added. Sweden has been Taiwan's most important trade partner in North Europe. Two-way trade between the two countries totaled US$880 million in 1993, down 12 percent from 1992. In the first four months of this year, Taiwan-Swedish trade increased to US$330 million mainly because of a nearly 40 percent growth in Taiwan's imports from Sweden. Taiwan's exports to that country, however, declined by about 15 percent during the four-month period. Personal computers, bicycles, sporting goods and plastic products were Taiwan's main exports to Sweden, while cars, machinery and steel products formed the bulk of Taiwan imports from that country. Cetra officials said Sweden offers preferential tariff rates for South Korea, Singapore and Hong Kong because the Swedish Government considers them "developing countries or areas." Taiwan, however, is denied such treatment. This has been the greatest obstacle for Taiwan goods to enter the Swedish market, the officials noted.
