FBIS4-18545 "drweu067cc_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Seminar on Russian Membership in Council of Europe Ends Seminar on Russian Membership in Council of Europe Ends LD0604162594 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network in Finnish 1430 GMT 6 Apr 94 LD0604162594 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network Finnish BFN [Excerpts] Russian membership in the Council of Europe will largely depend on the withdrawal of Russian troops from the Baltic countries. It was also possible to list the other obstacles hindering Russia's membership in the Council during a two-day seminar in Helsinki. This is what Olli Rehn, the chairman of the Finnish delegation to the Council of Europe, said. [Begin Rehn recording] Russia cannot become a member before there is an agreement on the withdrawal of the troops. [end recording] [Correspondent Sinikka Siekkinen] However, Rehn said that there are good grounds to assume that there will be agreement between Russia and Estonia so that the Russian troops will be withdrawn by the end of August. Latvia has also reached a preliminary agreement with Russia on the withdrawal of the main part of its troops. Other obstacles standing in the way of Russian membership concern human rights and press freedom. The rights of minorities were also discussed. [passage omitted] Vladimir Lukin, the head of the Russian delegation, expressed the view that the meeting was very useful for the Russians because many members of the delegation had very shaky information on the Council of Europe. [Begin Lukin recording, in English] This conference was very useful for us, the majority of our group before this conference (? very big) impression on what the Council of Europe...[recording interrupted by correspondent; sentence as received] [end recording] [Siekkinen] According to Lukin, now that the Council of Europe is much more familiar to them, it is easier to decide whether to join it or not. Lukin also acknowledged the fact that a member of the delegation, Vladimir Zhirinovskiy, behaved better than expected at the actual meeting, to everyone's surprise. This is what Olli Rehn said about Zhirinovskiy's excessive media coverage. [Begin Rehn recording] I hope that the media -- the press and the electronic media -- pay as much attention to the implementation of Russia's membership in the Council of Europe and the fact that the process is progressing, as it has done to these extra events during this two-day seminar. These are two matters of a completely different scale; Russia's membership in the Council of Europe is a really important issue concerning the security of the whole of Europe.
