FBIS4-68079 "jptot020__l94001" JPRS-TOT-94-020-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 17 May 1994 FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 6-13 May FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 6-13 May FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 6-13 May 11111111 11111111 CSO Editor's Note: The FBIS Terrorism Desk welcomes suscribers' comments and suggestions at (703) 733-5512. Highlights and major incidents in this edition of the FBIS Terrorism Report include: Algeria/France Two French nationals were murdered in the Casbah area of Algiers on 8 May. Also, a French newspaper has published an interview with Charles Pellegrini, former head of the Central Criminal Repression Agency, on Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) activities in France. Czech Republic A Prague newspaper reports that the government expects terrorist actions due to developments in former Yugoslavia. Greece The new Revolutionary Violence Cells [Pirines Epanastatkis Vias] claimed responsibility for torching a car belonging to the Greek General Confederation of Labor in Aryiroupolis on 12 May. Holland/Middle East A Cairo opposition paper reports that terrorism financier Usamah bin-Ladin now "manages his terrorist activities" from Holland, where he recently fled after bombs were thrown at his home in Sudan. Iran/Lebanon/Israel The Iranian News Agency reports that eight Iranian diplomats abducted by Amal in Lebanon in 1982 were turned over to Israel. Israel/U.S. An American tourist was slightly injured when he was stabbed by a youth in Husan, near Betar settlement. Mali/U.S. A communique from "an unknown armed resistance group" in Mali threatened to attack French, U.S., and German interests there. Palestinians An Amman newspaper notes that Hamas recently moved its "media activity" from Amman to Damascus. Palestinians/Turkey An Ankara newspaper reports that Turkish security has rounded up 21 members of a Hamas ring. Peru The Counterterrorism Directorate arrested Emilio Villalobos, a member of the MRTA national executive committee. Villalobos is held responsible for kidnappings of several businessmen. Authorities said that his arrest prevented the kidnapping of two foriegn businessmen. Turkey/Japan Early this month, an unidentified "Kurdish liberation organization" called the Turkish embassy in Tokyo and threatened to blow up a Turkish airliner en route to Istanbul. The plane made an emergency landing in Moscow, but no explosives were found on board.
