FBIS3-40743 "jpnea006___94010" JPRS-NEA-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 2 February 1994 NEAR EAST ALGERIA Oran: Twelve Reported Dead in Landslide 94WN0144Z Algiers LIBERTE in French 27 Dec 93 p 3 94WN0144Z Algiers LIBERTE Language: French Article Type:CSO [Article by Razik Remila: "Tragedy in Oran Substandard Housing: 12 Dead, 46 Injured"--first paragraph is LIBERTE introduction] [Text] During the night of Saturday (around 2230), the people of the old district of El-Bahia awoke to the height of tragedy. According to sources very close to the Oran governorate, 12 dead were reported yesterday around 1800, while the injured numbered 46, including four in critical condition who were taken to the Oran University Hospital Center where special medical teams were formed. On the other hand, yesterday at 1327, press agencies reported 15 dead and 62 injured. In addition, civilian rescue services estimated at 130 the number of housing units that were completely destroyed, and close to 400 buildings in the area are in danger of collapsing. For its part, the crisis center set up at the Oran DEC [expansion not given] indicated that two people who were buried under the rubble were found alive and rescued yesterday, early in the afternoon. Following the landslide, the Ras El-Ain region was declared a disaster area and a civil emergency plan was therefore decreed. The buildings destroyed did not withstand the landslide because they were built on a hillock: "It is a difficult clay soil that can be cleared only with shovels and cranes for fear of touching neighboring buildings." Another information from local officials indicated that "all the buildings involved were illegal constructions." Add to this the very violent wind that blew in the area and contributed to the collapse of some buildings. Since Saturday evening, two crisis centers have been set up, and two land sites have been cleared to relocate disaster-stricken families, who were also provided with tents and food. Soon afterward, we learned that yesterday morning the Orolait Company distributed 1,500 liters of milk and 1,050 rations of pasta with cheese to the victims of the disaster. In closing, we would like to mention that, in the middle of the night, the Oran governor visited the site of the disaster where rescue operations were still in progress.
