FBIS3-36658 "drsov026_b_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-026 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Chernomyrdin Adviser on Government Changes LD0702215894 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 2020 GMT 7 Feb 94 LD0702215894 Moscow Russian Television Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Vesti" newscast] [Text] Andrey Illarionov, head of the Russian prime minister's analysis and planning group, who is in fact the prime minister's expert adviser, said today that the present government has in fact commenced the economic and political restoration under the guise of continuing to press on with the amended reforms. Our correspondent met Andrey Illarionov. [Begin recording] [Illarionov] The government has unequivocally announced a turnaround in its economic policy, in specific deeds and in words alike. This coup, or this turnaround in economic policy, has in fact already been accomplished. [Unidentified correspondent] Illarionov says the decision to merge the Russian and Belarusian currencies, the allocation of enormous resources for the agro-industrial lobby, and a number of other decisions force the country to face the danger of an unchecked growth in inflation. [Illarionov] Toward the end of 1993 the government set itself the goal, the main goal for the end of 1993, to bring inflation down to between 3 and 5 percent. In January this goal was altered to between 7 and 9 percent. In Davos, the prime minister spoke of between 15 and 18 percent. At the last government sitting the figure of 20 percent was mentioned. [Correspondent] According to Illarionov's predictions, this will lead the country toward the Ukrainization of its economy over the next few months. Moreover, what is in store for Russia is a highly monopolized market with a strong state influence in all areas, including the setting of prices. A letter of resignation was this evening sent to Viktor Chernomyrdin. So far, there has been no answer. [end recording] In his letter to Viktor Chernomyrdin, Illarionov points out that recently the government has rejected the services of specialists and advisers, and as a consequence of this, according to Illarionov, very strange statements have been made about the non-monetarist methods of combatting inflation, the fluctuating and ongoing inflation, the hyper-decline of the shock therapy, and this, in Illarionov's view, discredits not just the prime minister but also any person involved in the government apparatus, and Illarionov regrets to note that Vasiliy Starodubtsev is among the prime minister's present advisers.
