FBIS4-14576 "drsov063_a_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS U.S. Commerce Secretary Urges Abolishing Barriers U.S. Commerce Secretary Urges Abolishing Barriers PM3103123194 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI in Russian 31 Mar 94 p 3 PM3103123194 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI Russian BFN [Yuriy Popov report under the "Visits" rubric: "Is the Russian Market Economy Necessary for U.S. Security?"] [Text] The U.S. business delegation which arrived in Moscow on Monday is surely the most high-powered ever to come here. It is headed by Commerce Secretary Ronald Brown and consists of leading figures from the largest U.S. corporations and concerns, the export-import bank, and other associations and institutions. The purpose of the trip is to carry out an on-the-spot study of Russia's economic position and determine potential for the further development of economic ties between the two countries. The U.S. visitors confirmed this intention during a round table meeting of representatives of Russia and the United States held at the Slavyanskaya hotel yesterday. The significance that the Russian side attaches to the visit is shown by its representatives at the meeting: Aleksandr Shokhin, Oleg Soskovets, Oleg Davydov, Yuriy Shafranik, Sergey Dubinin, and Yuriy Petrov. President Clinton, who announced the mission in Moscow back in January, bade the delegation farewell by saying that the Russian market economy is vitally necessary to the economic security of the United States and the whole world. In his opening address at the meeting, R. Brown stressed that the U.S. side intends to overcome all the barriers standing in the way of the development of Russo-U.S. trade and private enterprise. U.S. entrepreneurs, he said, prepared for this mission with great enthusiasm and were extremely keen to visit Russia. They represent the broadest U.S. business circles -- a fact which suggests that we have great potential for expanding mutual relations in commerce and trade, investments, and so forth. At the same time he expressed the hope that the Russian state will take appropriate steps to ensure a basis conducive to the entry of foreign investments. Perhaps this is the ultimate task of the visit by such a high-powered delegation. That was the main theme in the U.S. representatives' comments during the discussion of the items on the agenda which has now begun: the economic reform, trade, and foreign investments.
