FBIS4-42345 "drweu106_q_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-106 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 TURKEY Foreign Ministry Criticizes UN Report on Cyprus Foreign Ministry Criticizes UN Report on Cyprus TA0106184294 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1700 GMT 1 Jun 94 TA0106184294 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report] [Text] Turkey has announced that the recent Cyprus report issued by the UN secretary general disregards the accomplishments made toward reaching an agreement on the confidence-building measures package. A Foreign Ministry announcement on the issue states that Turkey will not allow the Turkish Cypriot side to be unjustly treated. The Foreign Ministry statement is as follows: The recent Cyprus report issued by the UN secretary general within the framework of his goodwill mission disregards the accomplishments made toward reaching an agreement on the confidence-building measures. Rauf Denktas, president of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus [TRNC], yesterday informed the UN representatives that if the planned benefits to the TRNC from the implementation of the confidence-building measures made in accordance with the agreement reached at the meeting held with UN officials in Vienna are reflected in the final agreement, then the Turkish Cypriot side accepts the map of Maras [Varosha] and the arrangements regarding access to Maras. The fact that the report accuses the Turkish Cypriot side, despite its justified and constructive attitude, of not having the will to reach an agreement is incompatible with the realities. This approach does not contribute to the efforts being exerted in Cyprus toward a solution. The principle of reaching an agreement on the island based on the will of the two sides and through free negotiations has been ignored. It is clear that a positive result cannot be achieved through pressure. Turkey shares and supports the views expressed by the TRNC authorities regarding the UN secretary general's report. Turkey will not allow the Turkish Cypriot side to be unjustly treated. Turkey has always favored a realistic and viable solution in Cyprus and with this understanding in mind it has supported the positive and constructive attitude the TRNC has so far pursued in the negotiating process for the confidence-building measures.
