FBIS4-59880 "drnes097yy_94004" FBIS-NES-94-097 Daily Report 19 May 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks 'Arafat Clarifies Remarks on `Jihad' in Norway 'Arafat Clarifies Remarks on `Jihad' in Norway 'Arafat, Aide on `Crisis' TA1905084894 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT in Hebrew 19 May 94 pp 1, 19 TA1905084894 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT Hebrew BFN [Report by Orli Azulay-Katz in Oslo] [Excerpt] "I will be moving to Jericho next month, and the PLO headquarters will be moving along with me," Yasir 'Arafat stated last night in an interview with YEDI'OT AHARONOT. He added: "I have not yet set the exact date, but my goal is to move next month. In the initial stage, not all but only part of the headquarters will move, but all of the leadership will be arriving in Jericho with me." Question: "Do you think the crisis in the wake of your remarks in Johannesburg has been settled?" 'Arafat: "There is no crisis whatsoever; everything is clear now. I spoke in the mosque about `jihad,' which is a religious term. I did not talk about violence. One meaning of the word `jihad' is prayer, not war. I am against violence, and I am in favor of all of us doing everything we can to pursue the peace." 'Arafat was in a good mood last night, basking in the flattery and praise of his speech at the Norwegian Peace Institute in Oslo. "It was very important to me to make people understand what I meant," 'Arafat said. "I did not see anything wrong with it. People who know me know that I was not referring to violence. How could they even conceive of such a thing?!" At this point, 'Arafat's bodyguards cut off the interview and told me to leave, saying that "the chairman also needs to rest for five minutes." Marwan Kanafani, 'Arafat's aide, told YEDI'OT AHARONOT last night: "The media is to blame for everything. It took a problem of semantics and turned it into a crisis. Whoever wrote such things did not understand their meaning. President 'Arafat was addressing an Iranian audience in the mosque in Johannesburg, and he did not speak about violence. Furthermore, this is not the first time that he talks about the issue of Jerusalem. He always speaks about Jerusalem, not just to the Arabs but to members of all faiths. "I absolutely do not understand why such a fuss is being made over one word. Imagine us creating a crisis because you insist on calling 'Arafat the chairman, while we insist that he is the president. Those who want peace should not do such things, because it creates a bad feeling." [passage omitted]
