FBIS3-23179 "jptot010__l94142" JPRS-TOT-94-010-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 10 March 1994 WEST EUROPE TURKEY PKK's Ocalan Reportedly Carries Syrian Identity Certificate NC0103130294 Istanbul HURRIYET in Turkish 27 Jan 94 p 21 NC0103130294 Istanbul HURRIYET Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Saygi Ozturk report: "Secret File on PKK Leader Abdullah Ocalan"] [Excerpts] The Turkish intelligence units have discovered the truth behind the claim Damascus has made for many years that Kurdish Workers Party [PKK] leader Abdullah Ocalan is not in Syria. The intelligence units have established that Damascus has given Ocalan a Syrian identity certificate and a new name. The Syrian officials maintained during the meetings they held with their Turkish counterparts that Abdullah Ocalan is not in their country. That was correct because no one in Syria is known as Abdullah Ocalan. His name in that country is "Ahmad Jasim Musa." The identity certificate that was issued to him was signed by General 'Ali Duba, chief of the Syrian Intelligence Organization. According to the latest report from the Turkish intelligence units, Ahmad Jasim Musa drives a bullet-proof vehicle that has red registration plates. The registration numbers on Ocalan's vehicle has been conveyed to all the security units and they have been instructed not to stop him. Meanwhile, several members of al-Mukhabarat, Syria's secret service organization, are among Ocalan's bodyguards. They accompany him on his visits to various cities in Syria. [passage omitted] The PKK militants are obliged to inform al-Mukhabarat about their activities. The PKK militants in the Aleppo region are under the control of Brigadier General Hasan Khalluf, deputy chief of military intelligence. The PKK militants in the al-Hasakah and al-Qamishli regions are under the control of Colonel Muhammad Mansur, head of military intelligence in the two areas, and Amn al-Dawlah [state security]. Syrian officials accompany the PKK militants to Tel Kocak, al-Malikiyah, and 'Ayn Diwar on Syria's border with Iraq and help them cross into that country. That is within the knowledge of Mansur and al-Dawla. Meanwhile, Syria issues passports and identification to the PKK militants who wish to travel to Europe. Those who travel from Europe to Syria land in Beirut first. They are then transported in trucks to al-Hasakah and al-Qamashli.
