FBIS4-16552 "drsov074_a_94018" FBIS-SOV-94-074 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Churkin Fails To Achieve Cease-Fire Churkin Fails To Achieve Cease-Fire LD1804130594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1220 GMT 18 Apr 94 LD1804130594 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Andrey Naryshkin] [Text] Zagreb April 18 TASS -- Russian envoy to former Yugoslavia Vitaliy Churkin failed to talk Bosnian Serbs into ceasing their offensive on Gorazde and warned them that attempts to seize the city would trigger mass bloodshed. "My only hope is that fire will no longer be opened on the town. It would be a huge catastrophe to try and seize it -- this would result in an immense bloodshed", he told reporters before leaving for Moscow Monday. Churkin arrived in Zagreb from Sarajevo. The situation around the Muslim enclave in Bosnia "is poorly manageable and completely unexplainable in any reasonable and logical terms", he stressed. During his eight-day trip Churkin tried to ensure "a serious agreement on ceasing hostilities along the whole of the Serbian-Muslim front and proceed to a political settlement and, what was always important for the Serbs, to a practical beginning of the lifting of sanctions". "Only one thing was demanded from the Serbs in the given situation -- to stop their offensive on Gorazde", Churkin said and added "unfortunately, they failed to do that". "Defence of Gorazde has collapsed. It is surrounded by Serbs. We worried all day yesterday whether they would open fire. Luckily they fired only four mines. The situation was very tense when three tanks approached the city. Had they fired, NATO could have resumed air strikes", he said. According to Churkin, Serbs have reportedly agreed to allow the evacuation of the sick from Gorazde, "but for the time being we are afraid to do that as the arrival of helicopters can cause panic among refugees". Churkin refused to predict further developments in Gorazde. He only said that "if they get out of this humanitarian deadend we shall see how the developments go".
