FBIS4-4673 "dreas065__a94002" FBIS-EAS-94-065-A Daily Report 4 Apr 1994 ANNEX Japan U.S. F-15 Fighter Crashes in Okinawa U.S. F-15 Fighter Crashes in Okinawa Okinawa Officials `Shocked' OW0404134994 Naha OKINAWA TIMES in Japanese 4 Apr 94 Evening Edition p 1--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0404134994 Naha OKINAWA TIMES Japanese BFN [Text] Officials of Okinawa City and the prefectural government are shocked by the crash of an F-15 fighter belonging to the U.S. Forces [USF]. Shusei Arakawa, mayor of Okinawa City, expressed his anger, saying: "Today's accident clearly shows that the existence of the military base itself is a danger. It happened on a military base but the military base is in Okinawa, and there is an ammunition dump near the site of the accident. The accident could have resulted in disaster." Governor Ota commented: "I feel like saying here we go again. We will file a stiff protest with the USF." On the other hand [as published], all political parties on Okinawa are taking the accident seriously. They plan to convene an extraordinary meeting of the prefectural assembly to adopt a protest resolution. The prefectural government also plans to file a protest with the USF, and demand the USF immediately find out the cause of the accident. It Is Serious and Regrettable That the Accident Happened Governor Ota's comment: It is serious and regrettable that the aircraft belonging to the USF crashed near a residential area. They are saying that nobody was injured, and no damage occurred to property, but we are concerned by the fact that the aircraft crashed near an ammunition dump. I have asked my staff to find out the details. The Accident Occurred Because There Is a Military Base Okinawa City Mayor Shusei Arakawa's comment: I have already been to the site of the accident. The aircraft crashed on farmland. People who had been working near the site of the accident said they heard a roar and saw fire shoot out when the aircraft crashed, and that they were terrified. Several accidents occurred in the past too because of the existence of the military base, and we lodged a protest each time. However, today's accident clearly shows that the existence of the military base itself is a danger. It happened on a military base, but the military base is in Okinawa, and there is an ammunition dump near the site of the accident. The accident could have resulted in disaster. We will immediately begin to study how to deal with the situation.
