FBIS4-41897 "drsov125_d_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-125 Daily Report 28 Jun 1994 Regional Affairs Siberian Agreement Boosts Region's Powers Siberian Agreement Boosts Region's Powers MK2806122094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 28 Jun 94 p 3 MK2806122094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Zhanna Trofimova report under the "Lobby" rubric: "`Siberian Agreement' Enhances Its Status. Now It Is Better Positioned To Take Part in the Allocation of Money From the Federal Budget"] [Text] The council of the "Siberian Agreement" Interregional Association, which includes representatives of legislative and executive authorities of 19 Federation components, ended its meeting 26 June at the village of Listvyanka on Lake Baykal. The meeting was attended by the chairmen of the Federal Assembly chambers and members of the Russian Government. The meeting's main result was the ratification of the General Agreement between the government and organizations ensuring Russia's economic coordination. According to Sergey Shakhray, "chiefs of Siberian regions managed to make significant headway in solving the problems of economic coordination." In particular, the General Agreement gives the economic associations the right to take part in the consideration of the draft federal budget and the taxation policy program with regard to the regions. In addition, the territories were granted the right to set up their own banking networks. The General Agreement points out the need to adjust the Law on the Central Bank taking into account the interests of Russian Federation components. "Siberian Agreement" experts will from now on be involved in the preparation of draft laws and other enforceable enactments by Federation Council committees. Association chiefs were tasked with resolving together with the central authorities the problem of setting tariffs for electric power and railway transport. The meeting also approved the draft law "On the Environmental-Economic Region of Altay," the creation of the "Sibagromash," and backed the idea of forming a food market in the region in 1994.
