FBIS3-24939 "drafr024_c_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA National Party Congress Continues in Kempton Park Pik Botha Attacks ANC Policies MB0302145794 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1158 GMT 3 Feb 94 MB0302145794 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Johannesburg Feb 3 SAPA -- The African National Congress [ANC] confused its own international acceptability with that of its leader, Nelson Mandela, who was indeed internationally accepted as a martyr, Transvaal National Party [NP] leader Pik Botha said on Thursday [3 February]. He was given a standing ovation at the NP federal congress at Kempton Park's World Trade Centre for a sharp attack on the ANC while speaking in support of the NP's new election manifesto. The ANC was not African or national or a congress, he said. The ANC was an embarrassment everywhere in Africa because it pursued policies which were no longer practiced anywhere on the continent. "They still call each other 'comrade', and African leaders ask me why can't the ANC get rid of the past. It claims to have international acceptability but, but by whom? They confuse their acceptability with that of Mr Mandela who is a martyr," he said. "They are not African because there is not one country in Africa that propagates their policies. They are not national but a conglomeration of converse foreign ideologies. They are also not a congress but a conglomeration of confused people." The ANC also could not refrain from personal insults against President F W de Klerk. In front of foreign governments and audiences where Mr de Klerk was regarded as a man of integrity, the ANC acknowledged this. But the moment the ANC addressed an audience that "lives in the past with a racist orientation", Mr de Klerk was reviled as a criminal and racist terrorist. "There was only one man who liberated South Africa -- not as a sign of weakness -- and that is why he got the Nobel Peace Prize," Mr Botha said. Mr Botha received a standing ovation with some black women delegates ululating and whistling.
