FBIS4-20641 "jpjst015__l94020" JPRS-JST-94-015-L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 12 April 1994 AEROSPACE ETS-6 Prototype Test Completed ETS-6 Prototype Test Completed 43070064C Tokyo NASDA REPORT in English Fall 93 p 16 43070064C Tokyo NASDA REPORT English CSO [First paragraph NASDA comment] [Text] ETS-VI Protoflight Test Completed: Three Tests Conducted in Addition to Six Major Experiment Themes; Testing Entered Final Stage in Preparation for Launch in 1994. The Engineering Test Satellite-VI (ETS-VI) is a 2-ton three-axis-stabilized geostationary satellite scheduled to be launched in the August-September launch season in 1994 by H-II Launch Vehicle Flight No. 2. The purpose of the satellite is to establish fundamental technologies for applications satellites and to develop, test and validate the satellite-borne equipment required for advanced satellite communication technology. ETS-VI has undergone protoflight testing at the Spacecraft Integration and Test Building in Tsukuba Space Center since March 1992, and all tests were completed at the end of August 1993. The protoflight test, including environmental testing in simulated space environments, is to verify the appropriateness of the ETS-VI satellite design and to confirm the designed functions in space. The major tests conducted are described below. (1) Electric Performance Test Electric function and performance of the satellite were tested. (2) Mass Property Test The satellite weight and center of gravity were measured. (3) Vibration Test Sinusoidal vibration equivalent to that generated during rocket launch was applied to the satellite. Strength and rigidity of the satellite structure in this environment and satellite-borne equipment resistance against vibration were verified. (4) Acoustic Test Acoustic loads equivalent to those generated during rocket launch were applied to the satellite in the Acoustic Chamber. Strength of the satellite structure in the acoustic environments at the launch and the satellite-borne equipment resistance against the acoustic environments were verified. (5) Deployment and Separation Shock Test Resistance of the satellite and satellite-borne equipment to shocks generated by pyrotechnic ignition (*1) was tested. Deployment and separation functions were verified at the same time. (6)Thermal Equilibrium and Thermal Vacuum Test The satellite was put in the large space chamber which simulates the vacuum and cryogenic conditions in space and given thermal input by the Simulated Solar Ray Irradiation Equipment and thermal infrared lamps. Thermal design and thermal function and performance on orbit and electrical performance of the satellite in the thermal vacuum environments were verified. In addition to the above tests, alignment measurement, solar paddle irradiation test, and propulsion system leak test, etc. were included in the protoflight test. The satellite will be transported to Tanegashima Space Center for launch in April 1994 after undergoing partial modification necessary to employ it in flight and compatibility tests for intersatellite data relay experiment. The satellite will undergo final verification and preparation at the launch site.
