FBIS3-19605 "drweu054_i_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 FRANCE Mitterrand Moves To Defuse `Row' With Germany AU2003140294 Paris AFP in English 1211 GMT 20 Mar 94 AU2003140294 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Paris, March 20 (AFP) -- President Francois Mitterrand said Sunday [20 March] he had spoken personally to German Chancellor Helmut Kohl in a bid to defuse a diplomatic row which blew up last week between France and Germany. A "dialogue" is underway between advisers to the two leaders, the French president told AFP, aimed at mending fences between the two normally close allies. In a move highly unusual between friendly states, German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel on Thursday summoned French ambassador Francois Scheer to explain remarks he allegedly made about the German attitude toward the European Union. Scheer had spoken earlier to German journalists on condition of anonymity. Relations between the two countries also became strained after Kohl was omitted from celebrations for the 50th anniversary of the Allied landing in Normandy, taking place on June 6. Mitterrand moved to play down the row, saying he had discussed "these issues by telephone with the Chancellor last week," adding: "Our advisers have met. The dialogue is continuing." He said he would meet Kinkel next Thursday "as has been scheduled for a long time." Mitterrand said Kohl had "not asked me" for an invitation to the D-Day memorial ceremonies, adding: "I'm considering with the prime minister (Edouard Balladur) what is the best way to... celebrate the 50th anniversary as it should be and mark that, after the period we're commemorating, has come historically unprecedented cooperation." [sentence as received] Recalling that cooperation between the two countries had led to the creation of a French-German military corps, "a European corps," Mitterrand said: "We remain in this spirit." The French president said he and Kohl had done "lots of work together in the best spirit and we shall continue to do so in the interest of both our countries and Europe."
