FBIS3-39314 "drweu031cc_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Japanese Minister To Meet EU Officials on Trade Issues BR1502112894 Paris LES ECHOS in French 14 Feb 94 p 5 BR1502112894 Paris LES ECHOS Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article by Isabelle Graviere: "Snail-Paced Negotiations Between Brussels and Tokyo"] [Text] Concurrently with its talks with Washington, Tokyo is in the midst of a similar process with Brussels, albeit in a less conflict-laden style, without it being necessarily more productive. A high-level meeting could take place in April. Deputy Foreign Minister Koichiro Matsuura flew into Brussels from Washington yesterday night. He was due to meet this morning with Jacques Delors, [European Union Commission] president, as well as with Horst Krenzler, EU director general for external economic relations, to inform them of the U.S.-Japan trade talks which broke down this weekend. There are now regular contacts between Brussels and Tokyo "so that," according to Japanese diplomatic circles, "no discussion goes on in Washington without Europe been kept informed." Nevertheless, the Europeans also hope to take advantage of this situation to review their own trade relations with Japan. The overall framework was established in July 1991 with the two parties signing a joint statement which, among other things, tentatively provided for an annual meeting at the highest level. A few days later an agreement was concluded according to which the Japanese agreed to voluntarily limit their car exports to Europe. This remains the only specific trade agreement between Japan and Europe. This is the reason why the Twelve felt a need to review a number of sectors in which European firms believe their market share in Japan is insufficient as compared to their worldwide performance. Meeting Tentatively Scheduled for April The process -- known by its English acronym "TAM" [expansion not given] -- began last winter. First, it seeks to identify, sector after sector, the fields in which European exports to Japan are markedly lower with respect to world markets. Then, it focuses on the reasons for such variations in the hope of remedying them. Completion of the list, which includes dozens of industrial and service activities, is due soon. Then, concrete conclusions will have to be drawn at a ministerial-level meeting, tentatively scheduled for the month of April "if the political situation in Japan allows." But between the statistical exercise -- in which the Japanese have proved quite willing to cooperate -- and a hypothetical political decision regarding the opening of Japanese markets, there is a gap which is unlikely to be crossed easily, despite the low profile assumed by Europe over the past two years as a result of its decision to focus on dialogue rather than conflict.
