FBIS3-2110 "drchi043_p_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 Central-South Region Shenzhen Taxi Drivers Strike To Protest Extra Licences HK0403073694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 4 Mar 94 p 1 HK0403073694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Stella Lee] [Text] Hong Kong people visiting Shenzhen this weekend may be forced to scramble for taxis as a strike by drivers looks set to continue. Ninety percent of the 10,001 taxis are said to be involved in the three-day strike, which was organised by a loosely- formed "union' and started yesterday. Drivers are protesting against the Government's recent approval of an extra 2,000 taxi licences, a move bound to intensify competition. The drivers are also outraged that Public Security Bureau and People's Liberation Army officials often use threats to get free rides. The strike went on quietly without any protests although public security officers were on standby. Many drivers said they were "just having days off". Violence was reported on the outskirts of the city, where the windscreens of strike-breakers were damaged. Nine trucks were deployed outside the Shenzhen Government building early yesterday morning to tow away any taxis trying to take part in a blockade. Traffic in Shenzhen was unusually smooth although passengers had to wait slightly longer for taxis at the railway station. "Even longer waiting time is expected on Saturday when more Hong Kong people visit Shenzhen. Hong Kong people account for about 50 per cent of our business," a striker said. Some drivers said 90 percent of the ranks supported the strike. But some taxi companies contacted denied any involvement. The Government appealed to drivers not to take part in the strike through radio broadcasts while some state-run companies threatened to sack strikers. The strike went ahead although Shenzhen Vice-Mayor, Zhu Yuening, had held a meeting with representatives of the drivers on Wednesday to discuss how to improve the operation of the industry. A taxi driver who worked yester day said he had not heard reports of violence against strike-breakers. "But, of course, I am afraid. They can smash your car windows by throwing stones while you are driving. Had it not been for my debts, I would have supported the strike." He said he was also "ordered" to do business by his taxi company. One striker said: "Our business is made more difficult by the fact that some Public Security Bureau officers and soldiers often ask for a free ride. If we object, they will use force. The strikers are expected to lose about $1,000 business for taking part in the strike. But they said it was worthwhile as they wanted to vent their dissatisfaction.
