FBIS3-44613 "drchi004_k_94018" FBIS-CHI-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Jan 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Tighter Advanced Degree Program Controls Planned OW0601091094 Beijing XINHUA in English 0841 GMT 6 Jan 94 OW0601091094 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 6 (XINHUA) -- China is to put postgraduate courses under a uniform administration to ensure the standards of master and doctorate degrees. This was announced by a spokesman of the Academic Degrees Committee under the State Council. According to the spokesman, educational authorities will keep records and start a uniform control system over courses in subjects ranging from finance, politics and law to management and engineering. He said that recently some universities and institutes had rushed to start courses outside their range of accredited major subjects and had started to award degrees without approval or assessment by the educational authorities. They set up so-called "new majors" and ran training classes in coastal areas. To attract more students, they even accepted unqualified ones. Furthermore, the spokesman said, it had been discovered in Beijing, Shandong Province and Liaoning Province that some unauthorized units ignored the country's regulations and were running postgraduate courses jointly with overseas colleges. Most of these courses are not accredited to accept postgraduates but merely aim at making money. They have no entry examinations or necessary management system. Some of them even confer overseas academic degrees, severely disturbing China's normal postgraduate education and degree awarding system, the spokesman pointed out. He said that to stop the confusing situation, the Office of the Academic Degrees Committee had issued a circular on the administration of such postgraduate courses. Foreign academic degree certificates awarded by unapproved Sino- foreign educational units are not recognized in China, the circular stipulates. The spokesman stressed that, to ensure the quality of degree- holders, his office will organize experts at an appropriate time to inspect and assess the educational quality of the courses. He said that students already enrolled in courses who come to the end of their studies and apply for master degrees will be strictly examined. Units which ignore educational quality and run classes and award degrees and graduate certificates illegally will be seriously punished, he added.
