FBIS4-38747 "drsov106_i_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-106 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 CENTRAL ASIA Kazakhstan Parliament Criticism of Government Reflects `Power Crisis' Parliament Criticism of Government Reflects `Power Crisis' PM0106143994 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 1 Jun 94 p 2 PM0106143994 Moscow IZVESTIYA Russian BFN [Vladimir Ardayev report: "Kazakhstan: Power Crisis"] [Text] Alma-Ata [Almaty] -- The Supreme Council of Kazakhstan has issued a statement containing its assessment of the activity of the republic government. The statement notes that the government, while declaring a market-economy course, is essentially blocking it, which has resulted in economic chaos in Kazakhstan. The government, the statement says, has been unable to draw up a national reform program which could serve as the basis for the consolidation of society, given which the Supreme Council "is forced to express its lack of confidence in the government's socioeconomic and legal policy." Parliament proposes "constructive dialogue among all the branches of power and social and political forces to create a national reform program and form a government capable of carrying it out" as the sole way to avoid total paralysis of power. Until such a program is adopted the Supreme Council intends to concentrate its attention on a number of issues, examination of the presidential edicts adopted in the absence of the legislative organ topping that list. Moreover, parliament has stated that it intends, first, to take a number of economic measures to give strong support to manufacturers; second, it intends to limit legislatively the executive branch's powers as regards the management of state property; and, third, it intends to extend the autonomy of enterprises in all kinds of ownership. The statement issued at the start of the week has had a very mixed reaction. However, at a special press conference, deputy head of parliament Marat Ospanov assured journalists that the statement it in no way implies measures to dismiss the cabinet forthwith or any cadre changes in government, as this is the prerogative of the head of state. President Nazarbayev's reaction to the parliamentary statement was "calm and considered," particularly as a lot in the statement coincides with his own stance. As far as the cabinet itself is concerned, its press service has issued a statement which accuses parliament of being unconstitutional -- the government is responsible to the president alone -- and unconstructive. Parliament's haste is, presumably, due to some extent to public opinion's dissatisfaction with parliament itself, whose activity (or, more accurately, its inactivity) has caused a good deal of censure in the Kazakhstan press since the middle of April. Nevertheless, the situation does reflect very accurately the power crisis in Kazakhstan, where the president, who has shouldered a heavy legislative burden, is unable to keep the cabinet's activity under complete control, and the government is unable to withstand the crisis, which is becoming increasingly irreversible and unmanageable in nature, while parliament simply does not know where to start and therefore starts by criticising the government.
