FBIS3-56902 "drsov014_f_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 National Affairs Attack on Rukh Offices, Missing Official Reported AU2001114294 Kiev HOLOS UKRAYINY in Ukrainian 19 Jan 94 p 4 AU2001114294 Kiev HOLOS UKRAYINY Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "An Armed Attack on the Rukh Secretariat. Mysterious Disappearance of Its Chairman"] [Text] Overnight between 15 and 16 January, an armed attack was made on the Rukh [Ukraine People's Movement for Perestroyka] Secretariat in Kiev. As reported by RUKH-PRESS, two unknown persons, claiming that they had to hand a package of documents from Lvov to chairman of the Secretariat Mykhaylo Boychyshyn, entered the reception room together with a watchman. As Mykhaylo Boychyshyn was not there, the visitors started telephoning him at home. After the call, which seems to have remained unanswered, one of the attackers pulled out a pistol. Hitting the guard on the head twice, he ordered that the chairman of the Secretariat be found immediately. After the watchman's refusal to fulfill the order, the attackers demanded that another guard they had noticed before, be summoned. The latter offered resistance and locked himself up in a room. The RUKH-PRESS head, who was at work at the time, immediately called the militia. Before the militiamen appeared, the armed "guests" managed to escape. On the same day, chairman of the Secretariat Mykhaylo Boychyshyn, who had left the office about three hours prior to the attack, disappeared. His whereabouts are still not known. The day before, the premises of the Ternopil regional organization of Rukh were also subject to an armed attack. At night, unknown persons got into the building through the second floor window, broke the doors of the Information Center and of other offices, and carried out a pogrom there. Having made their way to the roof of the building, the offenders dismantled and stole the installation for satellite antenna reception. Law-enforcement organs have started an investigation.
