FBIS4-24835 "drchi106_v_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-106 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 TAIWAN Trade Representative to El Salvador Discussed Trade Representative to El Salvador Discussed OW0106141594 Taipei CNA in English 1258 GMT 1 Jun 94 OW0106141594 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Flor Wang, Huang Kwang-chun, and Luo Kwang-jen] [Text] San Salvador, May 31 (CNA) -- In a bid to further help Taiwan investors in El Salvador, the government is considering designating a trade representative in its embassy here, Economic Affairs Minister P. K. Chiang said Tuesday [31 May]. Chiang, who is accompanying Premier Lien Chan on his May 29-June 7 Central American tour, said investors from the Republic of China [ROC], especially textile, footware and umbrella makers, should consider El Salvador when choosing overseas production sites, given that labor and production costs in many Southeast Asian countries are rising. Although many investors who have set up businesses here have lauded the favorable investment climate, the ROC Government believes assigning a trade representative will be necessary to help increase the number of Taiwan investors interested in expanding into El Salvador, Chiang said. Chiang said the government will decide on whether to assign a trade representative to El Salvador after he holds talks with Ambassador Andrew J. P. Shen and Taiwan investors in the country. Currently, ROC diplomatic missions in Panama, Guatemala, Costa Rica, and Honduras include a trade representative. Meanwhile, newly designated Salvadoran Foreign Affairs Minister Oscar Alfredo Santamaria and Economic Affairs Minister Luis Enrique Cordova, said the newly installed government of President Armando Calderon Sol will take measures to simplify visa procedures for ROC citizens as a way of attracting more Taiwan investment, which he said creates jobs and helps upgrade living standards here. As ROC agricultural missions stationed here have contributed a great deal to the social and economic development in El Salvador, bilateral ties between the two countries should be further boosted, Cordova said. The new Salvadoran Government will also send ranking officials to Taiwan to hold investment seminars as a way of attracting additional investors, he added.
