FBIS3-35586 "drsov020_a_94015" FBIS-SOV-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Defense Ministry Signs Accord With NATO LD2801110294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1015 GMT 28 Jan 94 LD2801110294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS observer Vladimir Gondusov] [Text] Moscow, 28 January -- A programme of military cooperation between NATO and the Russian Defense Ministry for the current year was signed in Moscow today. It includes mutual visits by the highest command corps and military experts, joint exercises and training, and the seconding of Russian officers to units and training establishments in NATO countries--some 50 measures in all. An ITAR-TASS observer was told at the Russian Defense Ministry that the problems involved in settling the crisis situations in CIS flashpoints were discussed during a two-day visit by a delegation from the North Atlantic alliance. Mutual understanding was found with regard to many crucial problems. NATO's military structure is ready to provide help to the peacekeeping forces of Russia and the Commonwealth countries, specifically regarding the training of specialists who are to work as observers in regions of interethnic conflict. In the opinion of NATO representatives, it is not a matter of the participation of the organization's military subunits in settling the conflicts on the fringes of the former Soviet Union. Just the exchange of experience and help with specialists, they think. But "rear support" is not denied -- specifically, with communications and observation means. According to NATO officers, their organization cannot operate outside the community without a UN mandate. At the same time, representatives of the North Atlantic alliance think that it is only under UN auspices that Russian peacekeeping forces too should operate in the CIS' flashpoints. This, in their view, would give rise to greater trust in them, specifically, in Tajikistan.
