FBIS3-25485 "drafr035_c_94010" FBIS-AFR-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Zulu King Addresses Chiefs on Independent State MB1902162094 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1556 GMT 19 Feb 94 MB1902162094 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by L. Roderick] [Text] Piet Retief, South-Eastern Transvaal, Feb 19 SAPA -- Zulu monarch, King Goodwill Zwelithini, says he hopes all people in Natal/kwaZulu will accept him as their king. Speaking to a gathering of Zulus near Piet Retief on Saturday [19 February], he said he stood firm on his call for an independent Zulu monarchy. "I want to give my assurance to all the people of kwaZulu/Natal that all your needs will be met under a Zulu monarchy," he said, promising to uphold democratic and pluralistic values. "This independent state would offer full protection to all its people as individuals and members of social and cultural formations," he said. The king, at a meeting with State President F W de Klerk last week announced his plans for secession from South Africa, rejecting participation in the country's first non-racial election in April. Explaining his move on Saturday, he said South Africa's interim constitution was a "threat" to the status and institutions of the Zulu kingdom. "The constitution has reduced you to playing a minimal tribal and administrative role in the running of your communities," he told the gathering of tribal leaders and chiefs. He raised the concern that the constitution did not include a provision which would "ensure that a new government will not take the land the monarchy has held in trust for the Zulu people". He said his claim for an independent Zulu state was based on historical precedent and had been his intention prior to kwaZulu Chief Minister Mangosuthu Buthelezi's "warning" of a deadlock on the question of federalism in constitution negotiations. He called on the tribal chiefs and leaders to "stand together" if they were to survive the threats and challenges he claimed were being faced by the zulu people.
