FBIS4-67978 "jptot018__l94024" JPRS-TOT-94-018-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 2 May 1994 LATIN AMERICA VENEZUELA Homemade Bomb Explodes on Board Caracas Train; 5 Injured Homemade Bomb Explodes on Board Caracas Train; 5 Injured Police Blame Students PA0305004294 Caracas Radio Nacional de Venezuela Canal Clasico Network in Spanish 2200 GMT 2 May 94 PA0305004294 Caracas Radio Nacional de Venezuela Canal Clasico Network Spanish BFN [Report by Luisa Amelia Rodriguez from the "National Newscast"] [Text] The Technical Judicial Police [PTJ] have ruled out terrorism in this morning's bomb blast, which occurred at 0642 on the No. 1207 Caracas subway train. At the time of the blast, the subway train was moving westward and headed toward the Parque del Este station. Five people were injured in the explosion. As we announced during our noon newscast, PTJ investigations are currently centered on a group of youngsters believed to be students at the Don Bosco Industrial Vocational School. Witnesses reported that they had seen the students behaving oddly in the subway car in which the explosion took place. The students left the subway train at the Los Cortijos station just a few minutes before the pipe bomb exploded. PTJ Chief of Homicide Leonardo Pia Baruta has the following explanation: [Begin recording] Baruta: At this time, the Homicide Division is continuing its investigation into the explosive device [words indistinct] in which four [as heard] people were slightly injured. We have collected some evidence, such as leaflets that had been scattered throughout the subway car. We also collected some of the residue of the chemicals used in the bomb. Unidentified reporter: Could this incident be interpreted as a reactivation of terrorist activities in our country? Baruta: In no way whatsoever. We cannot speak about terrorism or anything of the sort. I would prefer to associate it with a student protest. It was probably caused by some youngsters who, as result of their immaturity and youth, detonated this pipe bomb. [end recording] In this way, the PTJ has ruled out the hypothesis that terrorism was behind the Caracas subway explosion.
