FBIS4-54289 "dreas103__a94022" FBIS-EAS-94-103-A Daily Report 27 May 1994 ANNEX Japan Government Considering Reconnaissance Satellites Government Considering Reconnaissance Satellites OW2705031094 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 27 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2705031094 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Japanese BFN [From NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 27 May Morning Edition] [Text] Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata commented on the issue of Japan's acquiring reconnaissance satellites at the House of Representatives Budget Committee on 26 May. He said, "It is time to consider how far this can be done for information gathering, and to think of what to do," in response to a question from Wataru Hiraizumi (Liberal Democratic Party). This remark of the prime minister, which indicated he does not discount such a possibility, is bound to trigger a debate in relation to an existing Diet resolution on the "peaceful use of outer space." Hiraizumi interpellated Hata on security issues in relation with the situation on the Korean peninsula. He asked if Japan should acquire reconnaissance satellites to strengthen its capability to gather and analyze information. Hata responded, "It is important to possess accurate information to ensure security. However, satellites have to do with flying over other countries' territories, which is a controversial question. That is why there has been little progress." This indicated that the issue is indeed being examined. At present, for analytical purposes, Japan purchases from the United States photographs taken by meteorological satellites. However, such photographs have much lower definition than photographs from reconnaissance satellites. For this reason, officials of the Defense Agency have been asking for Japan's own reconnaissance satellites. However, the Foreign Ministry is concerned about the impact of this on neighboring countries. The United States is also asking Japan to participate in the Theater Missile Defense (TMD) program. Some ministry officials are of the opinion that owning such satellites "is not good for Japan-U.S. economic relations." In May 1969, the Diet adopted a resolution stipulating that "objects launched into outer space, and rockets use for launching should be used only for peaceful purposes."
