FBIS4-49373 "drchi087_b_94018" FBIS-CHI-94-087 Daily Report 3 May 1994 United States & Canada Canadian Banks Plan To Expand Services Canadian Banks Plan To Expand Services OW0305212994 Beijing XINHUA in English 2052 GMT 3 May 94 OW0305212994 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Ottawa, May 3 (XINHUA) -- Bank of Montreal plans for an expansion in China to serve Canadian business there, the Canadian newspaper GLOBE AND MAIL said today. Neil Tait, the bank's senior vice-president for Asian banking, was quoted as saying that the bank wants to upgrade its presence in China. It intends to convert the Guangzhou office into a full branch and to open a branch in Shanghai, he said. "We would like to see more so that we can service the needs of Canadian businesses," Tait said, adding that "we believe that the Canadian banks have to be there on the ground in the market to allow Canadian business to enter China." The bank's chairman and chief executive officer Matthew Barrett will meet Chinese Vice Premier Zhu Rongji in Beijing this week to discuss the expansion plans. Bank of Montreal is not the first Canadian financial institution to branch out in China. Last year, Royal Bank of Canada became the first Canadian Bank to open a full branch in the country. Tait said it is mostly small and medium-sized businesses in Canada that have an interest in establishing a presence in China. "So the banking system has to be there as a leader as opposed to countries such as Europe or North America, where businesses are larger and can enter those markets more readily," he added. He said, the branches will initially be offering trade financing services to stimulate trade between Canada and China. Money markets and project financing will also be offered, he said. China has hinted at a greater role for foreign banks in its booming markets. Hong Kong Bank, with its affiliate Hang Seng Bank Ltd., has one of the largest networks among foreign banks in China, with 12 branches and four representative offices, while Standard Chartered Bank has 13 branches and offices. U.S. and Japanese banks are also angling for a bigger presence in China.
