FBIS3-39159 "drweu030_q_94011" FBIS-WEU-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 TURKEY Newspapers Review Azerbaijan President's Visit Aliyev Wants `Security Guarantee' NC1102094094 Istanbul HURRIYET in Turkish 9 Feb 94 p 20 NC1102094094 Istanbul HURRIYET Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Report by Irfan Sapmaz and Selin Caglayan: "Aliyev Will Seek a Security Guarantee From Turkey"] [Text] President Geydar Aliyev, a former member of the USSR Politbureau, arrived in Ankara yesterday. He will be seeking a security guarantee against Moscow. Aliyev has been in power in Azerbaijan for 100 days. He wants to use his visit, which follows recent Azerbaijani victories on the battlefronts in the Caucasus, to convey the message to the Azerbaijani people that "former President Elchibey's era in Azerbaijan has ended and a new chapter will be opened between Ankara and Baku." Warning to Opponents Ankara wants to use the visit to end the chill between Turkey and Azerbaijan by removing the Turkish people's negative views of Aliyev and the conviction that "Azerbaijan cannot exist without Elchibey." Ankara wants to use the visit to convey to the Azerbaijani people and to Moscow that it supports Aliyev. Ankara knows Aliyev has a reputation as someone who is supported by Moscow. But he is also known to have resisted Russia during the past few months. Considering that, Ankara will try to ease Aliyev's anxiety over the extent of the support Turkey is prepared to give him. President Demirel has said that Ankara is prepared to provide the support Azerbaijan needs. Demirel tried to ensure that Aliyev was warmly welcomed in Turkey. He disregarded the new rules on protocol and met his guest at Esenboga Airport. Replying to an Azerbaijani correspondent's question, Demirel said: "We embrace the person who represents Azerbaijan. We embrace Azerbaijan when we embrace Aliyev. Azerbaijan has a very special place in Turkey's heart." Security Is Aliyev's Main Problem Turkey and Azerbaijan will sign 15 agreements during Aliyev's visit. This means that all the agreements signed when Abulfaz Elchibey was in power in Azerbaijan will be signed again. Foreign Minister Gasan Gasanov has said that the two sides will discuss Azerbaijan's problems with Russia. He stressed: "There is nothing we wish to conceal from Turkey." Gasanov said that the memorandum to be signed between the two sides will also include provisions on issues relating to security.
