FBIS4-61068 "drsov085_a_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-085 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Moscow Radio on U.S.-DPRK Talks on Armistice Moscow Radio on U.S.-DPRK Talks on Armistice SK0305051694 Moscow Radio Moscow in Korean 1200 GMT 29 Apr 94 SK0305051694 Moscow Radio Moscow Korean BFN [From the "Today's World" program] [Text] The DPRK has (?proposed to the United States) that talks be held to conclude a peace agreement. Station commentator (Aleksey Kondratyev) writes on this: Today, the United States and the DPRK (?have been talking) on the [word indistinct] of the Armistice Agreement signed in 1953. According to Pyongyang, (?the Korea cease-fire) agreement is incompatible with today's situation. [passage indistinct] (?Relevant authorities) of the United States and the DPRK have been making informal contacts. They have even held high-level talks as many as two times. The third round of talks will discuss issues on normalizing the relations between the two countries [words indistinct]. The United States has been delaying talks for the reason that Pyongyang has expressed its own position regarding inspections of nuclear facilities. While Pyongyang refuses to accept complete international inspections of its own nuclear facilities, the United States persists in saying that it will only be willing to resume talks when the complete inspections are finished. [passage indistinct] The United States has (?insisted) that the DPRK accept international inspections of the nuclear sites in Yongbyon. [passage indistinct] Pyongyang is maintaining that the issue of inspections of the radiochemical laboratory should be raised only in the direct talks between the DPRK and the United States. The United States has also expressed its willingness to continue talks with the DPRK, holding that the nuclear issue should be resolved in a (?diplomatic) manner. But, Washington is warning that international (?measures) can also be taken in case Pyongyang holds fast to an unconstructive position regarding nuclear inspections. But, if such sanctions are taken, the situation on the peninsula will (?become) more dangerous. So, today's task lies in easing the tension on the peninsula. A measure to resolve the nuclear crisis in a peaceful way should be (?worked out). An international conference recommended by Russia will help (?make such a measure feasible).
