FBIS4-3837 "drchi079_k_94018" FBIS-CHI-94-079 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Fradulent Hong Kong Firms Find New Victims on Mainland Fradulent Hong Kong Firms Find New Victims on Mainland HK2404070094 Hong Kong SUNDAY HONGKONG STANDARD in English 24 Apr 94 p 2 HK2404070094 Hong Kong SUNDAY HONGKONG STANDARD English BFN [By Abdul Turay] [Text] Hong Kong's whitecollar criminals are raking in hundreds of millions by swindling mainland businessmen. Police and financial sources say scams often involve foreign-exchange and debt- collecting deceptions, as well as letters of credit and securities fraud. The Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) is holding monthly meetings with mainland authorities to find ways to clamp down on the problem, which is riding on the back of China's economic boom. A memorandum of co-operation between the two sides was signed in June last year. SFC public affairs manager Wesley McDade said companies and individuals which had fallen foul of SFC regulations in Hong Kong frequently re-established themselves in China. "The SFC has no authority over offshore companies but we are able to give the authorities on the mainland details on suspected companies," he said. An investigation by the SUNDAY HONGKONG STANDARD has revealed that Kingly Commodities, the brokerage firm which had its licence revoked by the SFC in March last year, is operating in Shenzhen under the name World Wide Forex. Last year, the SFC revoked the licences of 10 individuals, suspended four others and warned another 16. Debt-collectors have also earned a bad name for widespread fraud. Commercial Crime Bureau chief superintendent Neil McCabe said: "We've had a number of cases where mainlanders have hired a dodgy debt collector who then makes off with the money. The debt collector shows up at the office of the Hong Kong company and says 'give us the money'. The people they are dealing with are fairly respectable and easily intimidated, so they pay." Mr McCabe said although these criminals were one or two-man shows, the amounts involved were sums of hundreds of thousands, or even millions, of dollars. Peter Kwok, a former forex trader, said most crooked operators were doing business on the mainland. "They are running the same kinds of scams they were running in Hong Kong. There is a lot of interest in these companies on the mainland." Inspector Tres Nielson, of the Commercial Crime Bureau, said Chinese were not necessarily more gullible. "They are attracted by any deal with a promise of a high return because they are unable to invest in China," he said. "Any kind of investment opportunity they will take."
