FBIS3-40832 "jpnea009___94012" JPRS-NEA-94-009 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 23 February 1994 SOUTH ASIA INDIA Bilateral Commission With UAE Meets, Pact Signed 94AS0183Q Hyderabad DECCAN CHRONICLE in English 7 Jan 94 p 13 94AS0183Q Hyderabad DECCAN CHRONICLE Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article: "India, UAE Sign Extradition Treaty"; quotation marks as published] [Text] New Delhi, Jan. 6: India and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have made considerable headway on a bilateral extradition treaty and other aspects of judicial cooperation. The Indo UAE joint commission, in a pressnote on Thursday, said that technical discussions were held between the two sides and these would be continued in Abu Dhabi at an early date. The seventh meeting of the commission was cochaired by Secretary (West) in the External Affairs Ministry K. Srinivasan and Director in the Department of Economic Relations and International Cooperation of the UAE Foreign Ministry Mohammed Khalifa Bin Yousef Al-Suwaidi. Mr Al-Suwaidi, who later called on External Affairs Minister Dinesh Singh, conveyed to him that conclusion of an extradition treaty would be held in combatting the menace of terrorism. Mr Al-Suwaidi expressed satisfaction at the recommencement of Indo-Pakistan dialogue and hoped that this would continue with patience and flexibility. Mr Dinesh Singh noted that the just concluded three-day meeting of the joint commission had taken substantial decisions and assured the UAE leader that India would pursue various specific initiatives vigorously. Mr Al-Suwaidi said his country was looking forward to Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao's visit this year. He also met Ministers of State R.L. Bhatia and Salman Khursheed. The joint commission discussed a wide range of issues relating to investment, trade, economic and industrial cooperation, justice, security, consular and man-power matters and interaction in the areas of water resources, power generation, agriculture, fisheries, post and telecommunications, banking, education and information and media exchanges. An agreement to counter trafficking in narcotic drug and the cultural exchange programme for 1994-96 were also signed by the two sides. The narcotics agreement, which provides for exchange of information and other cooperation between the designated agencies of the two sides, is the first which India signed with any Arab country. Technical discussions were held and considerable headway was made on a bilateral treaty dealing with extradition as well as other aspects of judicial cooperation. India will organise an exclusive `India exhibition' in Dubayy in September this year. In addition visits are planned this year by delegations from the Federal Chambers of Commerce and Industry [FICCI] of the UAE to India and by delegations from the Assocham [Associated Chamber of Commerce] and FICCI to the UAE. The UAE Agriculture Minister is to pay a visit to India this year. The eighth meeting of the joint commission, it has been decided, would be held in Abu Dhabi in the middle of this year.
