FBIS4-65156 "drweu093__a94004" FBIS-WEU-94-093-A Daily Report 13 May 1994 ANNEX Netherlands Feasibility of `Purple' Coalition Assessed Feasibility of `Purple' Coalition Assessed BR1005141694 The Hague ANP NIEUWSBERICHTEN Database in Dutch 1921 GMT 9 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1005141694 The Hague ANP NIEUWSBERICHTEN Database Dutch BFN [Article signed KVB: "Informateur Tjeenk Willink Directs Investigation Into `Purple' Coalition"] [Text] The Hague, 9 May (ANP) -- Tjeenk Willink, who is assessing on behalf of the queen whether a proposed government formation will succeed, is initially directing his exploratory investigation toward the political will of forming a "purple" coalition composed of the PvdA [Labor Party], the VVD [People's Party for Freedom and Democracy], and the D66 [Democrats 66]. To this end, he separately invited floor leaders Kok (PvdA), Bolkestein (VVD), and Van Mierlo (D66) for a talk, Willink's spokesman reported Monday [9 May]. Before holding the meeting with the three floor leaders, Willink had an early morning talk with Second Chamber Chairman Deetman. He did so in Deetman's capacity as adviser of the queen. Tjeenk Willink has already been appointed adviser as speaker of the First Chamber. The political situation of the moment was reviewed by Tjeenk Willink on Monday evening by telephone with Vice President Scholten of the Council of State, the third direct adviser. Kok, Bolkestein, and Van Mierlo were invited for deliberations about the possibility of forming a "purple" coalition since "the investigation into the `purple' coalition emerged as the most obvious choice from Monday's advising round." Most of the smaller political parties let Willink know that the "purple" coalition should first be considered. During the talks, Tjeenk Willink wants to see whether there is the political will, especially with Kok and Bolkestein, to make the necessary efforts to set up a "purple" coalition. There will be no talk of the political contents on Tuesday, just the political will, about which Willink "wants to find out their innermost thoughts." So far, for the next few days, no other talks have been planned with Willink apart from those with Kok, Bolkestein, and Van Mierlo, "unless it does not work," the spokesman said.
