FBIS4-14341 "drnes083_s_94007" FBIS-NES-94-083 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 Iran Commentary Views Christopher's Middle East Tour Commentary Views Christopher's Middle East Tour NC2704194194 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0345 GMT 27 Apr 94 NC2704194194 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Commentary by News Research and Commentaries Group] [Text] U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher started his Middle East tour with his arrival in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, where he was welcomed by his Saudi counterpart Prince Sa'ud al-Faysal. In addition to his meeting with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, Christopher will hold a joint session with the foreign ministers of the six Gulf Cooperation Council [GCC] member countries. Although it is said that Christopher's talks in Riyadh will concentrate on three topics--the Middle East compromise, the situation and developments in the Persian Gulf, and the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina--political observers believe that the major topic of discussion among the U.S. secretary of state, Saudi officials, and GCC foreign ministers will be these countries' role in activating the talks with the Zionist regime, the recognition of this regime, and the normalization of relations with it. In view of the difficulties that the compromise talks are facing on bilateral levels, especially those of Syria and Lebanon, as well as the bleak prospects for the Israeli-PLO talks, the foreign sides--especially the United States--are trying to shift the talks' center of gravity from bilateral conflicts between the front-line countries and those that are in contact with the Zionist regime to multilateral sessions. By removing the support from behind the front-line countries, they hope to transform compromise with the Zionist regime into a road of no return. Within this framework, a new round of multilateral sessions with Zionist diplomatic delegations have started in the Arab littoral countries of the Persian Gulf. Although Saudi Arabia is apparently not the host of any of these sessions, Christopher's visit to Riyadh shows that the center of Washington's new diplomacy for activating the rusty wheels of compromise is in Riyadh. One of the most important topics in the discussions between the six GCC foreign ministers and the U.S. secretary of state is a statement proposed by the United States in which countries participating in the multilateral talks would mutually recognize the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and so-called political independence of each other and declare their firm belief in a peaceful solution of differences, respect for human rights, and support for economic cooperation with each other. Moreover, the statement proposed by the United States emphasizes the need for political reform, the implementation of democratic principles, and the freedom of political parties. Thus, the GCC countries are currently facing a new bottleneck and have to resort to a deal with Washington. These countries consider the implementation of any type of fundamental political reforms to be destructive. Thus, they will possibly resort to a political transaction that will include concessions to Tel Aviv in the political and economic fields in return for Washington's acceptance of the slow pace at which political reforms are moving in these countries.
