FBIS3-11275 "drlat054_a_94024" FBIS-LAT-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Plenum Held on Parliaments in the Workplace Ross Leal on Analyzing Efficiency FL1803205694 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 1000 GMT 18 Mar 94 FL1803205694 Havana Radio Rebelde Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Yesterday in Bayamo, Politburo member Pedro Ross Leal, secretary general of the Cuban Workers Federation [CTC], said the workers parliaments have expressed their support for economic efficiency. In a meeting to evaluate the progress of this process in Granma Province, which Alfredo Enriquez Pina, first secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba [PCC] in Granma Province, also attended, Ross Leal noted that the solution to our problems is not money but more production. He stated that as long as 79 percent of the country's enterprises are unprofitable, Cuba will not be able to improve or overcome the special period. He stressed that it was essential to reduce expenses and increase production. He pointed out that until production is raised we cannot think of an analysis of agriculture prices. He went on to say that agricultural-livestock workers first need to produce enough for themselves and for the rest of our people. During this meeting to analyze the workers parliaments of Granma Province, it was mentioned that the Basic Cooperative Production Units [UBPC] have been created but the number of management personnel of the enterprises and delegations of the Ministry of the Sugar Industry and the Ministry of Agriculture have not been reduced. The importance of implementing a set of ideas previously submitted by workers was also stressed by participants. The solution to many of those problems can be found in the individual work center, municipality, or province. [Begin Ross recording] On the 29th we will agree on what we will call the process that will follow this one, because we do not want the word parliament to lose its content. The name should express what is desired and it should be used when that is necessary. We are going to change the focus and the name of our process of assemblies of production or services. We are thinking that they should be assemblies to discuss economic efficiency in production or service centers. We must analyze this carefully to establish a proper name so that they are not used for something else, because production or services assemblies are good for everything except for the analysis of these problems. [end recording] During the meeting, Pedro Ross Leal awarded a banner to Granma Province for being the largest contributor toward financing the Territorial Troops Militia [MTT] during 1993. In a coming contact, we will offer exclusive statements made for this program by comrade Ross Leal giving his personal views of the progress of the workers parliaments in Granma Province.
