FBIS4-7194 "dreas082_a_94019" FBIS-EAS-94-082 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Biographical Sketches of New Cabinet Members Biographical Sketches of New Cabinet Members MITI Minister Eijiro Hata OW2804075594 Tokyo KYODO in English 0720 GMT 28 Apr 94 OW2804075594 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, April 28 KYODO -- New International Trade and Industry (MITI) Minister Eijiro Hata served an event-filled term as agriculture, fishery and forests minister in the previous administration of Hata's predecessor Morihiro Hosokawa. Hata, 65, who broke away from the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) last June, is one of the founding members of Shinseito (Japan Renewal Party). He succeeded Hiroshi Kumagai of Shinseito, who was appointed to chief cabinet secretary. During his previous trial-by-fire term, he was confronted with such knotty problems as a severe cold spell that damaged the country's rice crop and paved the way for the government's decision to partially open the country's rice market. He was also at the helm of the ministry when Japan joined the United States and the European Union in concluding a long-in-coming Uruguay Round agreement covering agriculture. One time during his term, amid coalition party wrangling, Hata is said to have resolved to resign and to have packed up his belongings for departure from his ministry office. When an LDP censure motion was presented in the House of Councillors, Hata demonstrated great composure. The motion was rejected. Hata subsequently threw himself into the promotion of emergency measures to improve the agricultural situation. He is highly-regarded within the ministry for his forward-looking attitude and tactfulness. As the head of MITI, he is expected to steer Japan's trade policy, which faces difficult problems such as trade relations with the United States. Elected to the House of Representatives six times from Oita Prefecture on Kyushu Island, where he was mayor of a small town, Hata is particularly known for his work in the field of posts and telecommunications. He was instrumental in the privatization of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. (NTT) in 1985.
