FBIS4-6617 "dreas078_a_94012" FBIS-EAS-94-078 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Policy Accord To `Spur' Tax Debate Policy Accord To `Spur' Tax Debate OW2204093594 Tokyo KYODO in English 0928 GMT 22 Apr 94 OW2204093594 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, April 22 KYODO -- A policy accord newly reached by the ruling coalition parties will spur discussions of a comprehensive tax reform to include income tax cuts and consumption and other indirect tax hikes, the head of a government tax panel said Friday [22 April]. "The agreement is in the same direction with the panel's discussions... and confirmed that the tax reform will be decided in June and enacted at the Diet by the end of the year," Kan Kato, chairman of the Tax Commission, told reporters after a panel meeting. The coalition reached the accord earlier in the day as a basis for forming a new cabinet, with Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata selected as the coalition's candidate to succeed Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa. Under the accord, the coalition parties agreed on a plan to revamp the tax system while seeking "public understanding." The plan calls for revision or elimination of the 3 percent consumption tax while raising indirect taxes. The chairman of the advisory panel to the prime minister interpreted the accord as calling for cutting direct taxes and raising indirect taxes. Hosokawa asked the panel when it began its discussions earlier this month for income tax cuts and net tax increases to realize a balanced tax system for income, assets and consumption to cope with the coming aged society in the 21st century. Panel members did not bring up the coalition accord at Friday's meeting, Kato said. The panel will speed up its discussions by holding meetings on Tuesdays and Fridays from next week to compile a report with various options for the parties to decide in June, Kato said. The meeting centered on administrative reform, with many panelists calling for further slimming of the government and its affiliated companies and institutions to win public support for net tax increases, he said.
