FBIS3-7856 "dreeu040_i_94015" FBIS-EEU-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Women Block UNHCR Convoy Near Sarajevo AU0103085094 Paris AFP in English 0828 GMT 1 Mar 94 AU0103085094 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Sarajevo, March 1 (AFP) -- A 12-truck Danish UNHCR convoy was held up overnight and still blocked Tuesday [1 March] from entering Sarajevo by Serb women demonstrating on a road, UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) spokesman Kris Janowski told AFP. He said there were dozens of women asking for their husbands to be released from what they said was a Bosnian government concentration camp at Pazaric, also near Sarajevo. The convoy, escorted by two UN Spanish armored personnel carriers, had arrived Monday afternoon in Serb-held Hadzici, 15 kilomtres (nine miles) southwest of Sarajevo. It took three hours to clear a Serb checkpoint there and then was held up by Monday evening by the women's demonstration. Janowski said the blockade by civilians was similar to what has happened to UNHCR convoys trying to get into the Serb-besieged Moslem town of Maglaj in the north. That town has been cut off for months from humanitarian aid. "We're trying to talk with them, reason with them. We hope for the best," said Janowski. "But it's certainly a problem," he added. Janowksi said Serb troops often checked the contents of UNHCR convoys. The women's demonstration occurred shortly after the convoy had left the Serb checkpoint. The trucks spent the night overnight at a UN checkpoint, Janowski said. UNHCR land convoys moving through Serb territory were suspended Monday as a security measure after NATO air attacks over central Bosnia. The Danish convoy had, however, already left Metkovic, in Croatia on the Adriatic coast. The UNHCR air lift to Sarajevo was resuming Tuesday after being suspended Monday, Janowski said. U.S. planes flying for NATO shot down four Serb jets over Vitez in central Bosnia Monday morning. Janowski had said Sunday the UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR) had decided not to negotiate the passage of convoys as it had been doing but simply to announce their routes to Bosnia's warring parties. But he said the convoys would not use force to drive through checkpoints.
