FBIS4-15143 "drsov067_f_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 National Affairs Defense Minister: `Permission' Not Needed To Visit Crimea Defense Minister: `Permission' Not Needed To Visit Crimea LD0604142994 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1137 GMT 6 Apr 94 LD0604142994 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Ukrainian Defense Minister Vitalyy Radetskyy in a national radio interview on Wednesday said he would fly to Crimea on business whenever needed without asking for any local authorization. "Crimea is part of Ukraine and it is the Ukrainian Armed Forces but not the Black Sea Fleet [BSF] which is responsible for its defenses", he said. The minister's statement follows yesterday's report saying that a group of senior military officials including Radetskyy would descend on Crimea without any prior arrangement with the regional administration or BSF command. Radetskyy denied both the report and media speculations alleging that he and a group of senior Army officials had flown out to the peninsula to block local airports to prevent Crimean President Yuryy Meshkov's return from Cyprus. The minister said no armed units had been sent to Crimea and that he himself had worked at his office in Kiev throughout Tuesday. "Crimea is part of Ukraine, said Radetskyy, as defense minister, I am responsible for defenses of the state as a whole. That is why I do not have to ask for anyone's permission whether or not to fly to Crimea and what I must do there. I take orders from the commander in chief who approves plans for carrying out the tasks according to the country's defense doctrine." In the meantime, a defense ministry spokesman told INTERFAX-Ukraine that Deputy Chief of Staff Gennadyy Gurin and his aides went on a scheduled trip to Crimea on Tuesday. Among other things, they visited the headquarters of the Ukrainian navy in Sevastopol. For his part, deputy head of the ministry's press office Anatolyy Murakhovsky described as a blatant lie one report alleging that a Ukrainian commando unit had been sent to the Black Sea Fleet.
