FBIS4-3388 "drchi076_w_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-076 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Editorial Sees `Pragmatism' Behind New Democratic Party Editorial Sees `Pragmatism' Behind New Democratic Party HK1904072194 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 19 Apr 94 p 18 HK1904072194 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST English BFN [Editorial from the "Comment" page: "Unity Strengthens"] [Text] The merger between the main liberal political parties -- the United Democrats of Hong Kong (UDHK) and Meeting Point -- will strengthen the electoral position of the pro-democracy camp. That prospect alone will provoke China's ire. But the formation of the Democratic Party also represents a form of united front, a tactical turning of the tables on Beijing, and China will find this all the more infuriating. Beijing has been trying to woo what it regards as "moderate" liberals away from the "subversive" UDHK. That tactic has suffered an awkward reverse. Far from isolating the UDHK, it has drawn the democratic movement into its bosom with the appointment of Meeting Point Chairman Anthony Cheung Bing-leung as a Hong Kong Affairs adviser. Mr Cheung now turns out to be a UDHK ally after all. The merger allows Meeting Point to put its democratic credentials on display, after some months during which it seemed they might have been placed in the bottom drawer. China undoubtedly sees the new party's pending foundation as a provocation. Already officials are saying the merger has not changed their view that core members of the United Democrats are subversive. But the new party is also an opportunity and a challenge. For the United Democrats have shown that their oft-proclaimed desire for dialogue with China is not mere lip service. They see the value of having a link, through Meeting Point, to China. The opportunity for China is to take up the implied offer, in the interests of hearing different points of view so it can better understand the thoughts and feelings of all the people of Hong Kong. Pragmatism The recent unhappy history of political relations between Hong Kong and China suggests anger will prevail, but it would be far better if dialogue could follow. The merger, however, is not merely an anti-Beijing countermeasure. At a more fundamental level, it reflects maturity and pragmatism on the part of both parties. It is a recognition that neither has anything to gain from allowing their opponents to exploit largely artificial divisions in the liberal camp. A single party has a better chance of winning an election outright than a coalition of like-minded parties. Even nominally divided, the democratic camp is less than the sum of its parts. However, while the merger may have been dictated by simple electoral arithmetic -- and the need to dispel any public perception of differences over China policy which would have kept the voters away in droves -- its long-term success will depend on how it weathers China's expected attempts to blow it apart. Cold shoulder From what mainland officials have said, it seems likely China would not have appointed Mr Cheung as an adviser if it had known he was about to make common cause with the United Democrats. Faced with the failure of its attempt to drive a wedge between the parties, it must now decide whether to cancel his appointment -- and thus confirm its cold shoulder of the UDHK. A more subtle resolution to its dilemma would be to exploit Mr Cheung's apparent desire to maintain some favour with Beijing to place destructive strains on the UDHK from within. However, that would be an admission that the UDHK as a party is not beyond the political pale. China should not find dealing with the new party impossible on grounds of principle. Meeting Point and the more compliant Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood both retain group membership of the "subversive" Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the Patriotic Democratic Movement in China. The UDHK does not. Yet China has accepted the leaders of both the first two parties as advisers, while rejecting the United Democrats on the grounds that some of its leaders are core members of the alliance. In practice, however, China will have difficulty accepting members of the UDHK, since this would make it harder to exclude it from elections to the first post-1997 legislature. If it confirms Mr Cheung's appointment as an adviser, Hong Kong's pro-democracy politicians will have strengthened their position not only for the 1995 elections but also for those thereafter.
