FBIS4-36698 "drnes113dd_94006" FBIS-NES-94-113 Daily Report 11 Jun 1994 Palestinian Affairs 'Abbas Denies Tunis Offices To Close 'Abbas Denies Tunis Offices To Close PM1306141294 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 11 Jun 94 pp 1, 4 PM1306141294 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Arabic BFN [Report by 'Ali al-Salih: "Abu-Mazin To Remain in Tunis With Abu-al-Lutf and Abu-Mahir"] [Excerpt] London -- PLO Executive Committee member Mahmud 'Abbas (Abu-Mazin) has denied that a decision has been taken to close PLO offices in Tunis. He said: "That is untrue." Reports said the day before yesterday that Palestinian President Yasir 'Arafat had issued a decision to close all PLO offices in Tunis before 15 June on the occasion of what was termed the "return to the homeland." Abu-Mazin told AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT over the telephone: It is not known yet which establishments will remain [in Tunis]. However, he expected the Political Department, headed by Faruq Qaddumi (Abu-al-Lutf), to keep its offices in Tunis. Asked about the fate of his department (International Relations), Abu-Mazin, architect of the Oslo accord, said that "it could be abolished or incorporated into the Political Department or maybe moved to the inside [the self-rule areas]." He went on: "But I will not move to the self-rule areas at the moment. I will remain in Tunis." As for Fatah Central Committee member Muhammad Ghunaym (Abu-Mahir), he said in this context: All offices, except those related to the Political Department, the Returnees Department headed by 'Abdallah Hurani (who resigned from the Executive Committee), and the general staff, have been or will be closed. I mention in particular the offices related to the security and military services, most of whose cadres and staff have left for the self-rule areas. Abu-Mahir said that the departments concerned with external action and the military forces will remain in Tunis. "Other departments will move to the inside [the self-rule areas]." On his own position, Abu-Mahir said: "We might move from Tunis after a period of time, but not to the inside." But he declined to name the area to which he is going to move. [passage omitted]
