FBIS3-41328 "jptdd008__l94036" JPRS-TDD-94-008-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 23 February 1994 LATIN AMERICA MEXICO Court `Confrontation' Between DEA Agents, Munoz Talavera Delayed 94WB0025B Mexico City EXCELSIOR in Spanish 28 Jan 94 pp 1-A-3, 7-A-3 94WB0025B Mexico City EXCELSIOR Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Article by correspondent Francisco Santacruz Meza] [Text] Hermosillo, Sonora, 27 January--The first district judge, Otoniel Gomez Ayala, reported that the confrontation between three DEA [Drug Enforcement Administration] agents and the Munoz Talavera brothers, accused of drug trafficking, has been pending since October 1993. This evidence has not been presented owing to the lack of a petition that must be submitted to U.S. authorities by the International Legal Affairs Directorate of the Office of the Attorney General of the Republic (PGR). As he explained, the confrontation could not be held because the official note requesting the U.S. Government's permission for the DEA members to participate in this hearing was mistakenly turned over to the Mexican consul in El Paso, Texas, so that he, in turn, could attend to it. However, the PGR is the agency legally responsible for carrying out such procedures. For this reason, the brothers Rafael and Eduardo Munoz Talavera have been unable to present the expert documentary evidence, or to hold the confrontation. Both are necessary conditions for judgment to be pronounced. As for the action taken by the court to hold the confrontation between the accused and the United States counternarcotics agents, Gomez Ayala revealed that a second official note was issued, to obtain a response from the PGR's director of international legal affairs. However, he has not responded to date. The first judge specifically noted that both Rafael and Eduardo Munoz Talavera face charges of crimes against health and illegal export of cocaine. He added that another person implicated in this case is Carlos Enrique Tapia Anchondo, currently serving a sentence in the high security prison at Almoloya de Juarez, in Mexico State. Therefore, legal proceedings have been instituted against him here as well.
