FBIS3-2009 "drchi042_n_94019" FBIS-CHI-94-042 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Mar 1994 Economic & Agricultural People's Bank of China To Fund Inland Rural Enterprises OW0203064394 Beijing XINHUA in English 0632 GMT 2 Mar 94 OW0203064394 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 2 (XINHUA) -- China has decided to step up the development of rural enterprises in its inland provinces as part of an effort to narrow the gap between their economy and that of coastal regions. The country's central bank, the People's Bank of China, will allocate special funds every year till the year 2000 as low interest loans for these areas to develop township enterprises. This was revealed here today by He Kang, vice-chairman of the Chinese Association for Science and Technology (CAST) at a CAST national conference. They will also be given priority in using other loans from banks, or encouraged to raise funds through issuing shares, said the vice- chairman, who was formerly minister of agriculture. Economic and technological cooperation between the inland provinces and coastal regions is to be enhanced in terms of selling of technology, jointly venturing and raw material processing, he said. Other programs include developing rural towns and trade with bordering countries, he disclosed. "Though these places suffer from the inconvenience of transportation, they have a long border line, on which they may rely to enter foreign markets," He Kang said. "With both foreign markets and home markets accessible, the inland provinces could better allocate resources." But the rural enterprises in the inland provinces, covering 80 percent of China's territory and having 65 percent of the country's 800 million farmers, get a smaller slice of the cake than their coastal counterparts. He Kang said that the inland areas have advantages of rich natural resources, abundant labor and considerable market potential. "With support by the central government, aid from the eastern areas and avid expectations of their people, the rural enterprises in the inland provinces will be quickly developed and the whole economy will step further," he said.
