FBIS3-24688 "drafr020_a_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 January 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Congo Presidential Group on National Union Government AB3001140094 Brazzaville Radio Nationale Congolaise Network in French 1830 GMT 29 Jan 94 AB3001140094 Brazzaville Radio Nationale Congolaise Network in French 1830 GMT 29 Jan 94 Language: French Article Type:BFN [Statement issued by the secretariat of the Presidential Group; place and date not given] [Text] In his year-end address, the president of the Republic announced that he would take the political initiative, provided peace was restored in the country. The Presidential Group, which salutes this step by the president of the Republic, is surprised that Bernard Kolelas, his political family, and the international press interpret this initiative by the head of state as the expression of his wish to form a national union government with which the opposition would be associated. Indeed, in his many statements, the head of the Union for Democratic Renewal-Congolese Labor Party [URD-PCT] coalition has said that the Congolese political class is actively thinking about such a government, thus giving the impression that he has discussed the issue with the other political forces in the country, notably with the presidential group. The Presidential Group, which has the parliamentary majority, the statement continues, takes this opportunity to say that it has never discussed the formation of a national union government with anyone whatsoever. To this end, it is proper to reaffirm the following: The Presidential Group is not opposed to the participation of all the sons of the Congo in the management of public property according to their competence, regardless of their political convictions. It is, however, opposed to a party government as was the case of [words indistinct] the formation of political combinations that will look like a one-party system. On the other hand, the Presidential Group is still open to all the sons and daughters of the Congo, without exception, who want to contribute at all levels, including the governmental one, in the reconstruction of the country on the basis of the president's program. Furthermore, as the end of the proceedings of the international arbitral college--charged by the terms of the Libreville accords to examine the electoral dispute--draws near, the Presidential Group would like to break the responsible silence that it has so far observed so as not to impede the delicate work of the college. Regarding this, the Presidential Group denounces the feverishness of the opposition and its external allies and the manipulation of the opposition, in which they pass muster by spreading alarming rumors about the imaginary results of the arbitral college. According to them, these results allegedly gave them the majority at the National Assembly. The statement continues that these habitual tactics by the opposition are well known. They are aimed at embarrassing the arbitral college and, above all, preparing public opinion toward accrediting a thesis of fraud in case the decisions of the arbitrators do not tally with their fantasies and wishful musings -- in which the URD-PCT coalition excels. Finally, the opposition's attitude is aimed at justifying a new spate of violence, which they are currently preparing for. The Presidential Group invites all its activists, well-wishers, and all the Congolese people to await in calm, serenity, and above all, in vigilance the decision of the seven international judges who have accepted the delicate task of helping our country to peacefully resolve the dispute that cropped up in the wake of the by-elections.
