FBIS3-24916 "drafr023_c_94021" FBIS-AFR-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA South African Press Review for 3 Feb MB0302130494 MB0302130494 Article Type:BFN [Editorial Report] THE STAR `Partial Endorsement' of East Rand Peace Plan -- Johannesburg THE STAR in English on 3 February in a page-12 editorial contends that the peace plan announced by President de Klerk and African National Congress (ANC) President Nelson Mandela "merits partial endorsement only." First, the plan "has not won the approval of the IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party], mainly because of the decision to withdraw policemen from the Internal Stability Division [ISD] and replace them with Defence Force units. The IFP has described the withdrawal of ISD men as a `treacherous betrayal' of undertakings given by De Klerk." THE STAR believes the IFP "is a force in the townships," and its grievances are therefore "a cause for concern." The second "major weakness" is the plan's "failure to deal with the question of ANC-aligned self-defence units, whose reputation as predatory vigilantes was underlined by the Goldstone Commission late last year. The omission accentuates suspicion of bias in favour of the ANC." BUSINESS DAY ANC Doubts About Relationship With Thebe Corporation -- "It is appropriate that the announcement of the African Life deal occurred in the same week as ANC President Nelson Mandela, belatedly, gave the first official indication that his organisation was developing doubts about its relationship with the Thebe Investment Corporation," declares a page-10 editorial in Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English on 3 February. "Mandela clearly identified the Thebe problem on Monday when he conceded it would be undesirable for a company to be closely associated with a governing party, or for that party to control a large corporation which would be competing with other businesses." "The African Life initiative is a conscious attempt to expand black economic influence and control in the sphere of 'big business'. And it occurs without the artificial buttresses, such as quotas and government favours, which often give affirmative action activities an initial boost but leave them ill-equipped to deal with the real world. Thebe's prospects will be immeasurably improved if it adopts a similar method." SOWETAN `Big Flaw' in East Rand Peace Plan -- Johannesburg SOWETAN in English on 3 February in a page-10 editorial sees a "big flaw" in the East Rand peace plan unveiled by President F.W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela because the IFP did not participate in the conception and implementation of the plan. SOWETAN has "always argued" that "poverty and the abject living conditions" in areas like Katlehong and Thokoza "are at the root of the violence." The peace plan "obviously needs the consent and co-operation of all those involved in the conflict to succeed. Gaining the support of IFP members is therefore a prerequisite." The "onus is now on the newly deployed SADF units to assuage the fears of IFP members by acting against the perpetrators of violence in a non-partisan and unbiased manner and affording protection to all township residents."
