FBIS4-21026 "jptdd014__l94086" JPRS-TDD-94-014-L JPRS Narcotics 2 March 1994 WEST EUROPE FINLAND Appeals Court Reduces Several `Too Severe' Sentences Appeals Court Reduces Several `Too Severe' Sentences 94P20566A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 2 Mar 94 p 10 94P20566A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Finnish CSO [Article by Susanna Reinboth: "Appeals Court Reduced Sentences of Amphetamine Gang Members"] [Text] The Helsinki Court of Appeals has reduced the sentences of several individuals convicted of involvement in an amphetamines gang. The gang on three separate occasions during the period May-August 1992 brought a total amount of 32 kg of the drugs into Finland. Sentences for the two brothers thought to be the ringleaders were not changed. Vanta resident and salesman Raine Bruno Tienhaara, 35, was sentenced to 10 years, and Helsinki auto salesman Raimo Anthoni Tienhaara, 36, was sentenced to nine and a half years in prison. A courier on two of the smuggling trips, salesman Eki Petteri Sosunov, 24, had his sentence reduced to a seven-year prison term. The Helsinki Municipal Court had originally given him a sentence of two years longer. The Appeals Court based the sentence reduction on the fact that Sosunov had cooperated with authorities in solving the case. Sentences of two others convicted in the case were reduced to about one year. Helsinki motorcycle mechanic Risto Yrjo Tapio Haverinen, 29, had his sentence reduced to six years, and Helsinki offset printer Harri Marko Juhani Lihtavuo, 27, had his reduced to six and a half years. Sentences "Too Severe" The Court of Appeals did not explain the reduced sentences for Haverinen and Lihtavuo, except by stating that their sentences "are considered too severe." Sentences of the others remained unchanged. The Court of Appeals excused the convicted from paying compensation to the state based on the drug value, since the narcotics code regarding this has been changed. According to a new law that came into force at the start of this year, the drug value no longer has to be paid to the state. The municipal court had ordered the Tiehaara brothers to pay some 1.3 million markkas, with smaller compensation amounts to be paid by the others. Some of those involved in this case were also convicted in a related case involving bombings of a tax office. Sosunov, who participated in this in separate incidents in October 1991 and March 1992, received the most severe sentence. The government prosecutor eventually gave up his attempt to convict Raimo Tienhaara on incitement charges.
