FBIS3-21068 "jpest007___94065" JPRS-EST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 17 March 1994 WEST EUROPE ENERGY, ENVIRONMENT Germany: Environment-Friendly Products Reported. Longer Usable Products. 94WS0165C Berlin INGENIEUR DIGEST in German, Dec 93 p 43 94WS0165C Berlin INGENIEUR DIGEST Language: German, Article Type:CSO [Article by Otfried Maus, senior graduate engineer] [Text] COMMENT: Longer Usable Products "If we squander and destroy our natural resources, strip the land instead of cultivating so as to increase its yield, we will undermine the very prosperity which we are duty-bound to enhance and pass on to our children". What sounds like warning a given today about the consequences of destroying the environment is in fact already 86 years old. In the year 1907 President Theodore Roosevelt expressed his concern about this in his message to the United States Congress. The admonition is still as timely. It was established at the 1992 United Nations Conference on "Environment and Growth" in Rio de Janeiro that "the world must now face the beginnings of an ecological revolution or will risk an ecological collapse and economic demise." There have been warnings, action is now called for. In order to ensure that damages to the environment do not become irreversible, it is necessary to institute unavoidable fundamental changes in the production, consumption, and disposal of goods. Society must place a higher value on conservation and efficiency, and to an even higher measure emphasize renewable energy sources. As a rule of thumb, for every ton of waste material from a product at the end of the latter's useful life there were five more tons of tailings lost in manufacture of the product and 20 tons of the material lost during during its shipment. Doubling the average useful life of a product not only would cut in half the energy consumption and the amount as well as pollution but also would delay depletion of natural resources. Environment-friendly production technologies need to be developed and products need to be made more durable, i.e., their useful life needs to be lengthened and their repair, i.e., maintenance needs to be simplified. Engineering diagnosis, by the way, can be helpful in optimizing the design of products for a longer useful life and their easier maintenance.
