FBIS3-21149 "jpjst010__l94022" JPRS-JST-94-010L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 8 March 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness STA To Begin Financing System To Encourage Private Sector To Engage in Research Exchange 94FE0047H Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO in Japanese 16 Sep 93 p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0047H Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] Next year, the Agency of Industrial Science and Technology will introduce a new financing system in order to further research exchange with private companies in broad areas of research beginning with advanced science and technology research. For private research organizations planning the preparation for research exchange facilities and equipment, 50% of the financing can be financed partially with facilities financing from the Japan Development Bank. With the idea that the object of financing in the first year will be the areas of global environment, new materials, electronics, the estimated requirements for the 1994 budget includes a total of ¥10 billion. Regions to be the object of financing are research exchange facilities coupling the research institute with facilities for inviting researchers, research information exchange facilities, and general open facilities (halls, observation facilities, seminar and workshop rooms). For example, when a private company builds facilities on the scale of ¥1 billion, 50% of that, ¥500 million, will be low interest financing through the Japan Development Bank. Also the conditions of financing are set on a commercial basis. According to AIST, semiconductors, life sciences, global environment, electronics, new materials, and comfortable environment are areas planned to be the object of financing. Definitely, research exchange facilities concerning CO[.sup]2[/] fixation technology which is one policy for the prevention of global warming, technology for the improvement of fine ceramics, and the residential environment are in the policies. The importance of the promotion of research exchange is increasing with the start of planning for the ``Intellectual Contact International Plaza'' supporting advanced research exchange and the expansion of research and exchange affairs due to the partial revision of the New Technology Enterprise Act. This financing system aims for private energy being given to places for such research exchange.
