FBIS3-41568 "jpten004___94038" JPRS-TEN-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 17 February 1994 EAST ASIA PHILIPPINES Batangas Bay Slated for Marine Pollution Management Project BK0612061493 Manila BUSINESS WORLD in English 2 Dec 93 p 11 BK0612061493 Manila BUSINESS WORLD Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Maricris C. Carlos] [Text] Batangas Bay has been chosen as one of three pilot areas in Asia to showcase a marine pollution management project geared at helping mitigate pollution damage in East Asian seas. Once fully operational, it will be the first program of its kind where pollution and its risks are confronted and studied in depth for more systematic and effective management. Cosponsored by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the project will have an initial funding of $8 billion. The two other projects will be piloted in Xiamen Bay in China and Malacca Strait in Malaysia. The project is designed to strengthen East Asia's capability in marine pollution management by demonstrating the effectiveness of an integrated coastal zone management approach. The mechanism provides a conceptual framework within which the cumulative, multisectoral environmental consequences of industrialization can be managed to remain within tolerable limits. With the project in place, rapidly industrializing countries in East Asia will have an idea on managing marine resources on a sustainable basis. The program will support the development of a regional marine pollution information management and monitoring network. It also seeks to strengthen the capacity of the region and the countries to enforce and comply with international conventions in controlling marine pollution. Equally important, the project also aims to initiate sustainable financing options for marine pollution management. The Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) will play the lead role in the project's implementation. DENR is hopeful the project can also mitigate pollution damage in the waters of Manila Bay, Lingayen Bay, Tanon Strait, Calancan Bay, and Iligan Bay. DENR's Robert Jara told BUSINESS WORLD one of the reasons Batangas Bay was chosen as a pilot area was on the active role of government and the private sector in protecting the bay's marine resources.
