FBIS3-49251 "dreeu005_y_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Serbia Recent Strikes, Lack of Solidarity Decried AU0601210594 Belgrade RTB Television Network in Serbo-Croatian 1830 GMT 6 Jan 94 AU0601210594 Belgrade RTB Television Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Dnevnik 2 editorial commentary] [Text] The railroad, Serbian Electricity Board, Kolubara coal mines, and Belgrade Public Transport Company strikes came and went. What they left behind is the enormous damage done to the state and the citizens. They left behind the bitter realization that the organizers of the strikes did not show the least bit of solidarity with the citizens. The strikes took place -- what a coincidence -- on the eve of the New Year holidays, at a time when new threats by world powers started coming in, at a time of terrible and criminal sanctions imposed by order of the same world powers. It is not a coincidence that the strikes were organized in enterprises of vital significance to the state and nation. The railroad, electricity board, coal mines, and public transportation are all state and national property. Therefore, they are not somebody's inheritance to be played with, even less to be used to blackmail both the state and the citizens. The members of the leaderships of the independent trade unions should be aware of this. They bear the greatest share of responsibility for the initiation and consequences of the strikes. Their sponsors are fully aware of this. Those who issued the orders have, for the time being, remained behind the scenes. However, it is known that, for example, the Soros Foundation is significantly aiding the activities of some of the independent trade unions. This is precisely the foundation whose founder put his signature on the petition calling for the bombing of Belgrade. The strikes are sponsored by those who wish to destroy the Serbian people. At the same time, the West was gloating over these pre-New Year events. Radio's Voice of America was ominously forecasting chaos in Serbia. Certain West European newspapers and certain domestic, so-called independent media were not far behind. They did not meet with success. The state reacted, and what is most important, the citizens -- although overwhelmed by great dissatisfaction and anger -- knew what the real background to the strikes was. The organizers also sensed this. The County Public Prosecutor's Office qualified the strike in the Kolubara coal mines as attempted sabotage. However, we have to say that some of the responsible authorities did not react adequately, although there could be no doubt that someone was trying to sabotage and paralyze public life in Serbia. For the sake of truth it needs to be stated that the Kolubara miners -- and miners in other mines -- and the railroad and electricity board employees are not in a favorable position. However, they are in no worse a situation than the great majority of citizens. On the contrary, they have the largest salaries, and what's more, they do not hide this fact. This is precisely the reason -- and responsibility -- that those employed in public companies, particularly at a time of crippling effects of sanctions imposed by the world powers, should exhibit more, much more solidarity with the citizens, who rightly expect them and the state to regularly supply them with electricity and coal, and to secure regular and safe railroad and bus transportation. The times call for solidarity, not pig-headedness.
