FBIS4-8471 "dreeu072_b_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-072 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 BULGARIA Performance of Defense Minister Criticized Performance of Defense Minister Criticized AU1304114194 Sofia DEMOKRATSIYA in Bulgarian 8 Apr 94 p 3 AU1304114194 Sofia DEMOKRATSIYA Bulgarian BFN [Commentary by Colonel (Res.) Purvan Tonev: "Defense Minister's `Bayonet Charge' Against Cabinet"] [Text] Mr. Aleksandrov has now been in office for 15 months. Therefore it was impossible not to admit that he contributed to the absurd inflating of the payrolls of the Ministry of Defense and the General Staff. Supposedly, it is only now that the defense minister has understood that dozens of colonels with or without trouser stripes, were carrying files from one room to another and did not know what to do all day. For a whole year DEMOKRATSIYA has been writing about the arbitrary rule of the Defense Ministry leaders and the lack of prospects for the honest Bulgarian officers. Although somewhat late, the gentleman who filled our ears with talk about cardinal and fundamental changes comparable to those in the most modern armies finally understood this. The balance is more than sad: dilapidated equipment, obsolete structures, a paralyzed General Staff, insecure military personnel, unprecedented corruption, lack of realistic reform ideas, and infighting within a group of Aleksandrov's friends and neighbors, called, God knows why, "the leadership of the Defense Ministry." It is not a secret that the minister failed in his attempt to assemble a team capable of proposing ideas and advancing the changes. He also failed to give a personal example with his morals. On the contrary, he introduced threats and penalties, endless talk to a selected group of journalists, demagogy, and theatrical effects. Is the dismissal of the 87 office colonels not a cheap gesture? It is obvious even to the colonels themselves, that the Army does not need them, but where were the minister and the chief of General Staff until now? Is it only 87 colonels in the two Defense Ministry buildings that are expendable? The recent statements of the defense minister about early elections indicate not only his tactic of turning to the direction in which the wind blows, but also prove the well-known thesis that this cabinet is becoming dangerous for the country's security.
