FBIS3-3104 "drchi052_a_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General World Oil Leaders Discuss Cooperation With China OW1703104194 Beijing XINHUA in English 1020 GMT 17 Mar 94 OW1703104194 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 17 (XINHUA) -- The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) wants to "foster closer relations with China and the members of the Asia-Pacific region," OPEC's Secretary General Dr. Subroto said here today. Addressing the China petroleum investment conference which opened here today, he said China "offers much scope for oil exploration and development" and has "bright prospects for economic growth and the growth of the oil sector." Therefore, he said, China "has a strong interest in helping to maintain a reasonable level of oil prices, which will encourage further investment." The China petroleum investment conference, attended by a total of 329 delegates from 183 well-known multinational oil companies, banks and financial organizations and China's oil industry, is the highest-ranking international oil forum ever held in the country. The delegates were expected to discuss issues concerning joint and cooperative exploration and development of China's oil and natural gas resources during the two-day conference. Addressing the opening, Wang Tao, president of the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), spelt out China's strategy to develop its oil industry. He said China has opened its petroleum industry to the outside world and thus provided more opportunities to foreign investors. He added that China welcomes world investors to cooperate in China's petroleum industry. Sheng Huaren, president of the China Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec), Wang Yan, president of the China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC), and Zheng Dunxun, president of the China Chemical Import and Export Corporation (Sinochem), spoke on the development trends in China's oil and petrochemical industries. Also present at the meeting were Omani Deputy Minister of Petroleum and Minerals Salem Shaban. The conference, sponsored by the XINHUA NEWS AGENCY, CNPC, Sinopec, CNOOC and Sinochem, is designed to provide a forum for oil companies and financial institutions both in and outside China to increase understanding and exchange information. Foreign delegates and speakers come from oil companies and financial institutions including Esso, Chevron, Shell, Amoco, Arco, BP, Texaco, ELF, the Japan National Oil Corp., Mitsubishi, the Japan Import & Export Bank, the Bank of America, and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
