FBIS4-11383 "drlat080_m_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-080 Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 Brazil Possibility of Military Intervention Rejected Possibility of Military Intervention Rejected 94SM0319A Belo Horizonte ESTADO DE MINAS in Portuguese 20 Mar 94 p 3 94SM0319A Belo Horizonte ESTADO DE MINAS Portuguese CSO [Article: "Armed Forces General Staff Issues Warning, Demands Compliance With Law"] [Text] Brasilia--The minister-chief of the Armed Forces General Staff [EMFA], Admiral Arnaldo Leite, warned yesterday that "the Armed Forces are prepared to enforce law and order against any person at all who disobeys the law, even if that person is a judge on the Federal Supreme Court." Leite denied, however, that the military are poised for an institutional confrontation. "It is not a matter of confrontation; it is a matter of enforcing the law," he said. In his opinion, the fact that the Federal Supreme Court [STF] unanimously voted itself an 11-percent pay increase by moving up the date for converting wages to URV's [real units of value] from the 30th to to 20th means nothing "because there is no sovereign decision which can violate the law." Anarchy The suggestion by the minister-chief of the EMFA--and it is supported by other military ministers--is that President Itamar Franco should not release any funds beyond those already provided to anyone who is disobeying the law. "The amount in excess, which in the STF's case is that 11-percent increase, cannot be paid because the executive branch is bound to obey the law, and anyone who does not is subject to arrest," the minister said. "No one can disobey the law, be he a Supreme Court judge, a deputy, a senator, the minister of Army, the chief of the EMFA, or an ordinary government employee," he emphasized. In the minister's opinion, that kind of attitude on the part of the Supreme Court and of Congress, which overrode the presidential veto limiting the pay of a portion of the civil service, is aimed at destabilizing the plan. "If they do not obey the law, the result will be anarchy, and that is not acceptable," he noted. Arnaldo Leite said that the note released by Planalto Palace on Friday night had the support of the entire cabinet. Although only 13 ministers were present, President Itamar Franco instructed Henrique Hargreaves, chief of the Civilian Household, to notify them all of the note's contents. There was general agreement. Military Intervention Ruled out Brasilia--President Itamar Franco will meet with all the military ministers again next Tuesday at a luncheon on board the training ship Brasil, which is beginning its year-long training cruise. In the opinion of Adm. Arnaldo Leite, minister-chief of the EMFA, the president will be applauded by the servicemen because he has shown that the administration is not indifferent to the pay disparity among the three branches of government. Despite the tone of his statements, the minister maintains that there is no possibility of military intervention in politics. "The country is living in a democracy," he pointed out. "Our action shows only that the Armed Forces are prepared to enforce the law in the manner determined by the president," he added. "Judges interpret the law; they cannot disobey the law," the admiral said heatedly. In his opinion, the branches of government are "distinct, harmonious, and independent," but they must obey a provisional measure. He concluded by saying: "The only people who don't see that are the people who don't want to."
