FBIS4-6630 "dreas078_m_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-078 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 Thailand Chuan Reviews Talks With Malaysian Counterpart Chuan Reviews Talks With Malaysian Counterpart BK2104163494 Bangkok Radio Thailand Network in Thai 1200 GMT 21 Apr 94 BK2104163494 Bangkok Radio Thailand Network Thai BFN [Text] Prime Minister Chuan Likphai returned from Malaysia this evening. Talking to reporters upon his arrival at Don Muang Airport, he said that his talks with the Malaysian prime minister on issues of common interest proceeded in a good atmosphere. [Begin recording] [Chuan] In brief, I held talks with the Malaysian prime minister on bilateral cooperation, such as cooperation in the field of communications linking Thailand and Malaysia and this region and the issue of the proposed East Asian Economic Caucus. The Malaysian prime minister explained details of the proposal. The foreign minister briefed the Malaysian side on the results of his trip to Burma and the Malaysian prime minister agreed with Thailand's plan to invite Burma to attend the upcoming ASEAN ministerial meeting to be held in Thailand in July. Other miscellaneous issues were also discussed. The meeting proceeded in a good atmosphere. The launch of the Malaysian-Thai Joint Authority sets a good example for other countries to follow. [Unidentified correspondent] Did Malaysia raise the issue of Cambodian accusations against Thailand during the meeting? [Chuan] No, nobody is interested in this issue. [Unidentified correspondent] So you did not mention anything about this. [Chuan] No, we have nothing to talk about. We discussed only the main issues such as bilateral cooperation. We emphasized cooperation in the triangle economic development between Thailand, Indonesia, and Malaysia. Private sectors of the two countries have made progress in this regard. We will get a clear direction for this project when the Asian Development Bank completes its study for the project in the next two or three months. [end recording]
