FBIS4-36747 "drnes113_c_94004" FBIS-NES-94-113 Daily Report 12 Jun 1994 Egypt PLO's Sha'th Arrives, Comments on Donor Conference PLO's Sha'th Arrives, Comments on Donor Conference NC1206100694 Cairo MENA in Arabic 0915 GMT 12 Jun 94 NC1206100694 Cairo MENA Arabic BFN [Text] Cairo, 12 Jun (MENA)--Dr. Nabil Sha'th, minister of international cooperation in the Palestinian National Authority, arrived in Cairo from Paris today. In an arrival statement, Sha'th said that during his visit to France he attended a conference of the donor countries. He reported that the financing of the Palestinian National Authority is facing a problem because the World Bank has stopped paying out the sums promised by the donor states. He explained that the problem has two causes, the first being that the donor countries usually finance long-term projects but do not supply funds for the establishment of an authority or government. Sha'th affirmed that the very establishment of the National Authority in Gaza and Jericho requires money to finance the expenses of activities without which the Authority cannot function. He said the second cause pertains to urgent problems resulting from the ugly Israeli occupation, including thousands of handicapped and injured people and widespread unemployment resulting from the ban on Palestinians working in Israel. Dr. Sha'th, who is also Yasir 'Arafat's adviser, explained that one of the most important results of the Paris conference was a declaration by the World Bank and the donor countries that the Palestinian National Authority has met all its commitments and that the successes made by the Palestinian police and the maintenance of the citizens' liberties helped to rally international support for the Authority. Sha'th said this will pave the way for real progress. Sha'th announced that he will return to Gaza on Tuesday [14 June] to make the necessary arrangements for starting the National Authority's functions and to prepare for Palestinian President Yasir 'Arafat's return to Gaza and Jericho as soon as possible.
