FBIS4-33368 "drlat108_o_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-108 Daily Report 4 Jun 1994 Colombia OAS Human Rights Report Criticizes Judicial System OAS Human Rights Report Criticizes Judicial System PA0506021394 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0230 GMT 4 Jun 94 PA0506021394 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Spanish BFN [Report by Victor Javier from the "QAP Newscast"] [Text] The latest report issued by the OAS Human Rights Committee focuses on the Colombian judicial system. It is not as harsh as the Amnesty International report, but it nevertheless leaves Colombia in a poor position regarding the defense of human rights. In a 400-page document, the OAS Human Rights Committee reports on the state of human rights in Colombia from 1990 to the present. It concludes that the public security laws, the faceless judges, and secret witnesses and evidence harm the citizens' rights to defend themselves. The regulations regarding the state of emergency, which were recently approved at the National Congress as permanent legislation, violate international human rights agreements that Colombia signed and agreed to abide by. Military courts trying members of the Armed Forces, as a rule, hand down biased rulings. Torture is not a crime, according to Colombian legislation, and it is not prosecuted or punished. The OAS Human Rights Committee recommends the following for the Colombian Government: In order to guarantee the human rights of all individuals, the secret justice system must be reformed. The government should enforce a state of emergency only in extremely serious situations. To ensure more just rulings, the civil justice system should try all those members of the Armed Forces who have been charged with a crime. Military immunity should be lifted in cases of torture, extra judicial executions, and disappearances. [Begin Leo Valladares, member of the OAS Human Rights Committee, recording] We hope our report will serve to correct many of the mistakes we have found. [end recording] The report concludes by criticizing Colombia for not following the human rights recommendations the OAS made in 1987.
