FBIS4-66432 "jpjst020__l94018" JPRS-JST-94-020-L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 28 January 1994 Energy Japanese, Korean Companies To Jointly Sell Exhaust Gas Japanese, Korean Companies To Jointly Sell Exhaust Gas Desulfurizer in Korea 94FE0402I Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 28 Jan 94 p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0402I Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN Japanese CSO [Text] On 25 January Chiyoda Chemical Engineering & Construction Co. signed a contract with Daewoo Co. of Korea (Seoul; Young Sou Chang, president) to expand joint sales of exhaust gas desulfurizers. In the future, Chiyoda CE & C will also supply Daewoo with exhaust gas desulfurizing technology. Korea has begun regulating emissions of sulfur dioxides as a measure against acid rain and other such air pollutants. The two companies are looking to jointly sell desulfurizers because an increase in demand for that equipment is expected. This is the first joint-sales system ever built by a Japanese firm and a Korean firm. In addition to Hitachi Ltd. supplying Korea's San Sung Co. with exhaust gas desulfurizing technology, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. has a friendly relationship with Hyundai Heavy Industries Ltd. of Korea. Chiyoda CE & C judged that it would be difficult to sell the desulfurizer on its own in Korea and decided to aim for sales through a joint venture. Chiyoda CE & C's exhaust gas desulfurization technology removes sulfur oxides by feeding the exhaust gas into a liquid in which lime is dissolved. The removal rate is 90%. A total of 30 such desulfurizers in Japan, the U.S., and Germany have shown good results. Although there is no desulfurization technology in Korea, the decision has been made to increase the limits on sulfur oxide emissions from the current level of 700 PPM to 500 PPM in 1995 and to 270 PPM in 1999. Only three or four orders for desulfurizers are expected this year and will be mainly from coal-burning power plants that emit a lot of sulfur oxides. Expecting that sort of demand, the two companies will combine Chiyoda CE & C's technology with Daewoo's business strength to sell desulfurizers to electric power companies. In addition to Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries' transfer of liquefied natural gas (LNG) above-ground storage tank technology to San Sung Heavy Industries Ltd., other Japanese-Korean tie-ups include Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding's effort with Hyundai Construction that is aimed at joint sales of a Thai fertilizer plant.
