FBIS3-56434 "drsov011_b_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Announces Resignation to Journalists LD1601210094 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1900 GMT 16 Jan 94 LD1601210094 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By Sergey Shatunov, including recorded excerpts of resignation announcement by First Deputy Prime Minister Yegor Gaydar to journalists in Moscow today; from the "Novosti" newscast] [Excerpt] [Shatunov] [passage omitted] It was precisely the wish to concentrate fully on parliamentary work and dissatisfaction with recent government decisions and the way the council of ministers was functioning in general that prompted Yegor Gaydar to make a sensational announcement today. [Gaydar] The government has of late and with increasing frequency been adopting decisions with which I was either not acquainted or against which I categorically objected. I shall cite just two typical examples -- I could cite more. [Shatunov] The first was the decision to expand the ruble zone and have a joint monetary system with the Republic of Belarus. The second, the decision to build a new parliamentary center in the center of the capital. [Gaydar] Accordingly, I have decided to decline the offer made to me and not accept the post of first deputy chairman of the government in its reorganized form. I know that Social Welfare Minister Ella Aleksandrovna Pamfilova has said that in this situation she cannot accept responsibility for the social policy being implemented, just as I cannot answer for the economic policy being implemented. Today we discussed the issue at the board of our parliamentary faction. The board backed our decision and expressed its readiness for constructive dialogue and cooperation with the government. We are ready to support the government in all its constructive initiatives and endeavors. We shall continue to support the reform policy pursued by the president, but at the same time we must make clear our position regarding decisions, the political decisions, which we cannot support or adopt.
