FBIS4-34395 "drlat118_o_94012" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 Colombia No Casualties Reported No Casualties Reported PA1706133594 Santa Fe de Bogota Emisoras Caracol Network in Spanish 0440 GMT 17 Jun 94 PA1706133594 Santa Fe de Bogota Emisoras Caracol Network Spanish BFN [Report by correspondent Jairo Calle and unidentified announcer] [Text] [Announcer] We have a last minute report from Medellin. Here is Jairo Calle: [Calle] Yes, good evening. Unfortunately, there has been an escalation of terrorism in the city. Approximately eight bombs have been detonated in different areas of the city. So far, there is no report from the authorities about the situation. The only thing we know is that there have been detonations in the city's east side and the nearby Bello Municipality. There have also been explosions near the Caracol facilities in Los Laureles and in the area of 80th Boulevard in western Medellin. So far there are no reports on whether the detonations, which have alarmed citizens, have caused casualties or damage. This is our report from Medellin. We understand that many of these terrorist actions were directed at banks. The authorities have begun to report that some CONAVI's [National Savings and Housing Corporation], such as the one located in Manrique in the city's east side, have been the target of these explosions. The Suramericana Bank branch in Los Laureles, near Caracol, was also affected by one of the explosions. [Announcer] Jairo, might this be an escalation of acts of terrorism like the ones the Simon Bolivar Guerrilla Coordinating Board frequently undertakes in various parts of the country? You say that eight bombs have exploded so far? [Calle] Yes, this is an escalation that had been foreseen. The authorities had intensified the so-called Democracy Plan this evening because there was intelligence information about these terrorist attacks and sabotage of the city's urban bus service, as occurred before the previous elections, when 16 vehicles were set on fire. [Announcer] Well, eight bombs have exploded in the past few minutes in Medellin. Authorities indicate that it seems this is an escalation of terrorism against banking institutions. So far, no casualties are reported, although there are damages.
