FBIS4-16623 "drsov075_g_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-075 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Defense Minister Urges Stricter Discipline Defense Minister Urges Stricter Discipline WS1804144294 Minsk VO SLAVU RODINY in Russian 13 Apr 94 p 1 WS1804144294 Minsk VO SLAVU RODINY Russian BFN [Unattributed report: "At the Belarusian Defense Ministry"] [Text] On 11 April, Colonel General Pavel Kazlowski, the Belarusian defense minister, chaired a meeting of Collegium members and chiefs of administration and services at the Defense Ministry Central Administration. At the beginning of the meeting, the defense minister introduced Major Ye. Nikulin and Colonel S. Kuznetsov, appointed to the posts of chief of the control and inspection agency and chief of the education and training department, respectively. After the introductions, Col. Gen. Kazlowski informed those present about a grave accident in the town of Kobryn in which several children were killed, as well as some other cases, bordering on emergencies, which displayed negligence and a lack of responsibility on the part of ranking officials. It was noted that certain commanders have sometimes adopted irresponsible attitudes toward the performance of their duties, are too lenient with their subordinates, and fail to bring to account those who do not work hard. This kind of attitude makes people lazy and provides a suitable environment for violations of combat discipline. The defense minister demanded a strengthening of personnel education and heightened personal responsibility from all commanders and chiefs, which should eliminate even minor violations of manuals, orders, and daily routines. Every case of violations of combat discipline and manuals must be put under scrutiny, the perpetrators punished, and a consequent analysis and conclusion made. A specific individual should answer for his misdemeanor. One just cannot keep working and serving this way any longer. Officers and generals, without exception, must revise their attitudes toward service and their military duty, and do their best to elevate combat readiness, discipline, and self-organization to an appropriate level. The colonel general continued by suggesting that the Cabinet of Ministers should step up examination of draft army regulations and submit them to the Belarusian Supreme Soviet Presidium for approval. He ordered a comprehensive audit of the "Transaviaeksport" company, the findings of which will then have to be passed on to the Defense Ministry, requested normalization of material and technical supplies to the Military Academy, and focused on the situation surrounding the garrison "Zvyozdochka" [Little Star] department store. The defense minister brought up the issue of the upcoming CIS summit in Moscow and the scheduled negotiations between Belarusian and Russian Defense Ministry delegations. Reports were also delivered by Lieutenant General N. Churkin, chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces and first deputy defense minister, and Major General M. Stankevich, deputy defense minister for armaments. At the end of the meeting, Col. Gen. P. Kazlowski set specific objectives for the immediate future.
