FBIS4-47418 "jpust012___94172" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 June 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Effect of Higher-Level Ionizing Background Radiation on Effect of Higher-Level Ionizing Background Radiation on Barbate Birch in Zone of Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant Accident 947C0257A Yekaterinburg EKOLOGIYA in Russian No. 5, Sep-Oct 93 (manuscript received 7 Aug 91) pp 40-45 947C0257A Yekaterinburg EKOLOGIYA Russian CSO [Article by P.I. Yushkov, T.A. Chuyeva, and N.V. Kulikov, Institute of Plant and Animal at Russian Academy of Sciences, Urals Department; UDC 577.391.57.02] [Abstract] Following the Chernobyl accident in April 1986, during the remainder of this year there were recorded no morphological changes in leaf trees but was recorded a high mortality of needle trees within the zone of heavy fallout and thus within a 30 km radius from the site of the nuclear power plant. Experiments have meanwhile indicated that symptoms of radiative damage including lethal one in trees may become evident not immediately after such an event but somewhat later. More than a year later, therefore, a study was made concerning the delayed effect of higher-level ionizing gamma background radiation on the generative and vegetative organs. Tests were performed in July-August 1987 on birch trees (Betula verrucosa Ehrh.) in three pine-birch woods located one 18 km south of, 6 km south-east of, and 1.5 km west of the accident site. Irradiation with 100-150 gR doses of gamma rays was found not to have lowered the germinating capacity of birch seeds but to have reduced the viability of seedlings, parts of the latter grown from irradiated seeds having fallen off by the end of a 25 days long test. Most immune were found to be seedlings farthest from and south of the nuclear power plant. Based on a statistical analysis of germination energy and and seedling viability data, the reaction of this tree species to irradiation has been classified into three grades: 1) treetop, leaves, and aments not revealing any significant signs of damage after a 3.0 mR/h dose, 2) entire treetops remaining alive and no loss of reproductive capability, but teratological changes such as bifurcation or contraction of some aments after a 20-40 mR/h dose; 3) loss of reproductive capability, partial or complete defoliation of branches, loss of chlorophyll at the edges of leaf blades after a 250 mR/h or larger dose. The larger than expected mass, i.e., number of seeds on trees exposed to higher-level background radiation is partly attributable to a smaller fraction among them of ``empty'' parthenocarpic ones, while stimulated action of small radiation doses coming from external sources and from radionuclides embedded in aments may be partly responsible for the higher germination energy. The higher resistance of such seeds to damaging gamma radiation indicates that may they have acquired some immunity during buildup and storage of small radiation doses, their large size possibly being another contributing factor. Figures 2; tables 4; references 9.
