FBIS3-52742 "drnes005_m_94009" FBIS-NES-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 JORDAN Coordination Talks With PLO Continue in Amman Importance of Meetings Stressed JN0601125294 Amman AL-DUSTUR in Arabic 6 Jan 94 pp 1, 24 JN0601125294 Amman AL-DUSTUR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "The Jordanian-Palestinian Meetings"] [Text] Based on a number of joint principles and amid a climate highlighted by common objectives, the Jordanian-Palestinian meetings began yesterday in order to formulate policies and define mechanisms that would achieve the aspirations of the two fraternal peoples. Those two fraternal peoples are united by hopes and pains as well as the unity of blood, geography, and joint history. There is no doubt that these meetings, which were permeated by a true fraternal spirit, are of special importance. Great hopes are pinned on these meetings that are accompanied by serious challenges. All this should lead to practical results that respond to the requirements of this decisive stage and support the steadfastness of the Palestinian people on their national soil in the occupied territories. These bilateral talks acquire further importance because they, in themselves, represent the first link in a series of links to achieve required Arab coordination. This is especially since it has become clear that Arab coordination is useless without previous coordination between the Jordanians and Palestinians on whom and on whose course at this level everything aspired in terms of broader Arab coordination depends. While defining mechanisms that can translate principles into practical steps, the Jordanians and Palestinians are not forgetting that they are holding talks at a very critical stage; that is, when the initial requirements of the peace process have to be met. This give these talks a responsibility that cannot but be shouldered, especially since any expected result from these talks will strengthen the Palestinian stand and improve the PLO's negotiating stand. As we wager on these talks and aspire for results that serve both Jordan and Palestine, we are confident that the deep sense of serious responsibility and high awareness of the dangers of this stage and its possible consequences will push these talks toward achieving the desired success and whatever else that can reinforce the two peoples' cohesion and strengthen the deep-rooted relations between the two fraternal peoples.
