FBIS3-40453 "jpjst005__l94003" JPRS-JST-94-005L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 31 February 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness Fujitsu To Reform R&D Structure 93FE0811B Tokyo NIHON KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 25 Jun 93 p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 93FE0811B Tokyo NIHON KOGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] Move To Field Specialization with the Closing of 100 Labs Fujitsu Ltd. (Tadashi Sekigawa, president) will completely revamp its 30 year old research and development system. In addition to reassessing the structure and function of Fujitsu Laboratories (Mikio Ootsuki, president; Nakahara-ku, Kawasaki; (044) 777-1111) and eliminating the two pillars of Kawasaki Laboratory (Kawasaki) and Atsugi Laboratory (Atsugi) five research laboratories will be re-established for specific fields such as multimedia and personal systems. Furthermore, about 100 laboratories will be eliminated and a group system will be adopted where each group is built around a theme. This system will take effect on the 29th. For the last two years, Fujitsu has focused on the research and development system in affiliation with the Business Division at headquarters. Shortening the time between research and development and commercialization, and improving the effectiveness of investments are planned in this large-scale restructuring. Shortening the Time to Market The purpose of the new system at Fujitsu Laboratories is to move from the former region-based research system to a function-based research and development system which is closely affiliated with commercial activities. The time-to-market system for decreasing the time from development to product commercialization, which has already been introduced, will be strengthened. The objective is a technical development system with a high level of competitive strength. The new organization is centered around five laboratories for multimedia systems, personal systems, electronic devices, basic technology, and information society sciences. In addition, four new project divisions will be established under the direct control of the president. Each laboratory will promote research on technologies related to next generation information systems related to the commercialization of personal information devices, software, ultra large-scale integration (ULSI), and electronic devices. A research field individualized to each region will expand in an interdisciplinary and a commercial manner. With the themes of processors, optical technology, mobile communication devices, and next generation mainframes, the project division plans to shorten the time to commercialization by interacting with the Business Division at headquarters. A total of about 100 laboratories suitable as the departments of the Business Division will be eliminated and changed into a fluid organization that gathers a staff in a research department for each theme. Although the total number of 1,700 employees will not change, about 10%, 110 people, will be transferred to the Business Division. Previously, Fujitsu strove for research and development with autonomy that was not bound to the vertical organizational structure of the Business Division, thus, established Fujitsu Laboratories as a separate corporation in 1962. With the acceleration of technological innovations in high-tech areas and the fierce competition in development, over the past two years since Vice President Ootsuki was promoted to president of Fujitsu Laboratories, the creation of an environment able to reflect rapid commercialization of research results has been studied.
