FBIS3-31474 "dreeu034_c_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Secret Service Chief Denies Bush Inquiry Report AU1702175994 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES in Czech 16 Feb 94 p 2 AU1702175994 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Article by Jaroslav Kmenta: "U.S. Investigator Is Yet To Come to Prague"] [Text] Prague--The independent U.S. investigator who is to verify whether, within the framework of the [1992 U.S.] presidential campaign, the Bush administration really tried illegally to obtain compromising information about Bill Clinton has not arrived in Prague yet. This has been confirmed by a Czech diplomatic source who did not wish to be named for fear of difficulties at his place of work. The claim by the U.S. daily THE WASHINGTON POST that the investigator had already visited Prague has also been denied by Stanislav Devaty, director of the secret service. Devaty said yesterday that he was not aware of any such person having been to the Czech Republic. The Czech diplomatic source said yesterday that the investigator was attorney-at-law Joseph diGenova, who had been given this assignment by the U.S. Department of Justice. He thus set right yesterday's erroneous information about the investigator's name being Josephine Di Genova. The U.S. lawyer is to find out in Prague details about whether the campaign team of former President George Bush had requested from the Czech intelligence service information about Bush's rival candidate, Bill Clinton. This information, aimed at discrediting Bush's opponent in the elections, concerned the 1970's, when Clinton, as an Oxford University student, had spent a few days in Prague with the family of [widow of Jan Sverma, one of the founders of the Czech Communist Party] Marie Svermova. The WASHINGTON POST wrote that the independent investigator was examining a possible breach of law in the search for compromising information in passport forms filed by Bill Clinton in the past. In connection with the search for this data, in the fall of 1992, Elisabeth Tamposi was forced to resign as assistant secretary of state.
