FBIS3-22585 "jptep006___94053" JPRS-TEP-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 7 March 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Problems in Hospital Administration Noted Independent Analysts' Report 94WE0037B London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 13 Sep 93 p 13 94WE0037B London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by David Fletcher, Health Services correspondent: "NHS Reforms `Getting Out of Control' Warns Report"] [Text] One in three major hospitals, including recently formed trust hospitals, will be forced to close or amalgamate within seven years, says a report by independent analysts on the future of the NHS. "By the end of the decade the current shape of the NHS will be largely unrecognisable," says the report, issued today by Newchurch and Company, an independent business development organisation. It says the upheaval in the reorganisation of London hospitals will come to be regarded as no more than "modest change" and will be repeated in all big cities. "Whatever the merits of the Government's 1991 reforms, they have set in train a process of restructuring which will affect every facet of UK health care," adds the report. "It is a process that may now be beyond the powers of politicians and policy makers to control." The report argues that the growth of day treatment, the introduction of keyhole surgery, the fall in length of hospital stays and the shift to out-patient care was already leading to a need for fewer hospital beds. This over-capacity is now being exposed as competition between hospitals, introduced by the Government's NHS reforms, begins to bite. "Forces unleashed by the reforms are acting as a catalyst for other, wider pressures, and have set off a train of events which will lead inevitably to a rapid and fundamental redefinition in the who, how, and where of health care delivery. "These trends will particularly affect NHS trusts, many of which will have to face sometimes unpalatable decisions about how they function." The report says trust hospitals have substantial additional management costs and estimates that trust status adds at least £250,000 a year to running costs. "For some trusts, the economic pressures will prove terminal." District general hospitals, currently serving a population of about 200,000, will be expected to serve up to 500,000. "The workload of the acute hospital could expand by between 50-100 percent." Strategic Change in the NHS, Newchurch and Co Ltd., 12, Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6AX.
