FBIS3-5458 "dreas045_d_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 South Korea Government To `Readjust' Policy on North SK0803002494 Seoul YONHAP in English 0016 GMT 8 Mar 94 SK0803002494 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, March 8 (YONHAP) -- The South Korean Government will readjust its North Korea policy of linking the nuclear issue with economic cooperation if the proposed exchange of special envoys proceeds smoothly, sources said Tuesday. As a result, inter-Korean economic cooperation could start as early as next month, they said. Such cooperation would include permission for South Korean businessmen to visit the North, investment in the Najin-Sonbong and Nampo free economic zones and the establishment of direct shipping lines to North Korea, they added. The sources, from both the administration and the business sector, said Seoul has already decided to stop linking the issue of Pyongyang's nuclear program with inter-Korean economic cooperation if a special envoy from either side visits the other's capital this month. The government plans to finalize the decision at a meeting of national security-related ministers after watching developments at the next round of working-level contacts at Panmunjom scheduled for Wednesday. A formal announcement on the government's amended North Korea policy could come shortly after Washington holds a third round of high-level talks with Pyongyang in Geneva on March 21, they said. One government source said, "tension on the Korean peninsula has eased greatly as a result of North Korea's acceptance of outside inspections of its nuclear facilities. "It is now the time to resume working toward inter-Korean economic cooperation, which has been suspended for more than a year," he added. "If the U.S.-North Korean talks proceed smoothly and North Korea doesn't suddenly change its attitude toward the exchange of special envoys, the government will announce the change in its North Korea policy around March 23," he said. Seoul, however, has not ruled out the possibility that Pyongyang's attitude could change or circumstances on the Korean peninsula could worsen, forcing a policy readjustment, the source said, asking for anonymity. In addition to increased investment in the North Korean free economic zones, South Korea will push plans to establish inter-Korean economic liaison offices, liaison offices of big businesses in the truce village of Panmunjom and direct shipping routes to the North. As for visits to the North by South Korean businessmen, the government could give the go-ahead as early as next month while sending working-level missions to the North to sound out investment opportunities, they said.
