FBIS4-31418 "dreeu111_d_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-111 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 SLOVAKIA Minister on Shortage of Funds for Military Use Minister on Shortage of Funds for Military Use LD0806135994 Bratislava Rozhlasova Stanica Slovensko Network in Slovak 1000 GMT 8 Jun 94 LD0806135994 Bratislava Rozhlasova Stanica Slovensko Network in Slovak 1000 GMT 8 Jun 94 Slovak BFN [Excerpts] Slovak Defense Minister Pavol Kanis gave a news conference this morning at the Turecky Vrch military training area. Milan Velecky reports: [Velecky] [passage omitted] Neither journalists nor high-ranking officers present at the news conference liked what Defense Minister Pavol Kanis had to tell them. According to him, the Slovak Republic does not have the financial means to maintain even the kind of army allowed by international agreements. But the defense minister was not a pessimist. He said that defense decisions are made in line with our foreign policy. Contemporary European armies are open and therefore under international control, and our Army, not being an exception, does not enjoy finances received through special channels. Pavol Kanis hinted at a new possible means of income--participation in the arms trade. For example, the Army would claim a share in the privatization of the Slovak arms industry, and the defense minister hopes to see arms production restored to at least 25 percent of the 1988 level. Improving the Army's internal economic management indirectly constitutes another source of income. Soldiers, too, must be financially accountable. Defense Minister Pavol Kanis admitted that the time allotted to him is not enough to carry through fundamental organizational changes. His two priorities are a clear orientation on transatlantic structures and preparation of the basic legal documents of the defense doctrine. Kanis is convinced that the Partnership for Peace project of cooperation with NATO will ensure Slovakia's defense guarantees. Social issues remain unresolved due to the limited finances. The defense minister said that the length of conscript service could be shortened, but this would require extra expenses because men would have to be replaced with more effective weapon systems. [passage omitted]
