FBIS3-43303 "drafr002_c_94011" FBIS-AFR-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA South African Press Review for 4 Jan MB0401133994 MB0401133994 Article Type:BFN [Editorial Report] THE STAR Defections Healthy in New Political Era -- The defection to the National Party, NP, of three African National Congress, ANC, military wing members -- "described as 'commanders' in some reports but whose status is downplayed by Umkhonto [Spear of the Nation; ANC military wing -- MK) Chief of Staff Siphiwe Nyanda -- is neither surprising nor unwelcome," declares a page 8 editorial in Johannesburg THE STAR in English on 4 January. The "enfranchisement of millions of black voters and the imminent birth of a new political era has introduced a fluidity into South African politics." THE STAR finds this "reshuffling" healthy since it "breaks up the old racial ties and introduces new loyalties based on shared philosophies and interests. MK, the welfare of whose members has been neglected by the ANC, is no more immune to these shifts than the NP, the IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party] or the DP [Democratic Party]." BUSINESS DAY Criticism of Police Formalities on Killers Hiding in Transkei -- "Transkei military leader Bantu Holomisa has made the correct response to suggestions that terrorist suspects are sheltering in his territory," begins a page 6 editorial in Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English on 4 January. Holomisa has told police he will cooperate if they want to extradite anyone. All they have to do is follow the "appropriate procedures". "It was suggested at the weekend that police knew the identities of the killers in the St James' Church massacre and other Cape attacks, but they could do nothing because the suspects were hiding in Transkei. The claims have now become less emphatic, and the police say they need to establish names and addresses of the suspects before they can start extradition proceedings. Really? Surely such formalities can be overcome in pursuit of dangerous killers now that Transkei will be rejoining South Africa in a parliamentary democracy in a few months' time." SOWETAN KwaZulu Government `No Right' To Buy Luxury Jet -- "The kwaZulu government would probably emerge looking better if it conceded that it bought the R(rand) 33 million luxury jet without serious thought about the implications," begins a page 6 editorial in Johannesburg SOWETAN in English on 4 January. "For one, the ownership of the plane was transferred when the kwaZulu government had only a few months of life left. From April 27 it ceases to exist." "KwaZulu has no right to take decisions for the new Natal regional government."
