FBIS4-41385 "drsov122_h_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 Moldova Presidential Adviser Views Special Legal Status of Gagauzs Presidential Adviser Views Special Legal Status of Gagauzs LD2306163194 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1544 GMT 23 Jun 94 LD2306163194 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Presidential Bulletin" feature: Compiled by Nikolay Zherebtsov, Andrey Petrovsky; Edited by Vladimir Shishlin] [Text] Viktor Grebenshchikov, the presidential state adviser, does not rule out that the contradictions on the draft decree on a special legal status of the Gagauzs agreed between the leaderships of Moldova and Gagauzia is "the result of a certain influence on the representatives of this region from the outside." IF Note: Last Monday leadership of the self-proclaimed Gagauz republic accused Moldovan authorities of falsification of the draft decree on a special legal status of the regions densely populated with Gagauzs, which was agreed earlier, and declared that "despite the agreement Moldova's parliamentary commission has unilaterally introduced its changes into the document." Having called this move "a unilateral and unprecedented act," the Gagauz leadership asserted that it could not been made without the knowledge and consent of President Mircea Snegur and parliament chairman Pyotr Luchinsky. In his exclusive interview with Interfax Grebenshchikov asserted that such actions have the aim to delay the process of the decree's adoption and finally the the aim to link solution of this issue with granting a special juridical status to Transdniestria. "These are quite different things and the Gagauz leaders understand this quite well, Grebenshchikov said. As for Gagauzia, the question concerns the fate of the ethnos which has the right for existence and development. Transdniestria's problem is a political one." Grebenshchikov refused to give his estimate to the last statements of the Gagauz leaders "about serious contradictions on the draft decree." He qualified the attempts of the opposition to assert that Gagauzia is a republic as "demonstration of a certain extremism." As Grebenshchikov said, Article 1 of this draft concretely stipulates that Gagauzia is "a national-territorial autonomous entity as a form of self-determination of the Gagauzs and is a constituent part of the Republic of Moldova." "There are no contradictions between the parties regarding this Article," Grebenshchikov asserted. He expressed his conviction saying that in the near term leaderships of Kishinev and Komrat "will come to a common denominator." (INTERFAX has learned that leaders of Moldova and Gagauzia are to meet next week). Grebenshchikov hopes that the Moldovan parliament would adopt the decree on Gagauzia's special legal status before its summer vacations.
