FBIS4-22274 "jpusr034___94050" FBIS-USR-94-034 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 16 March 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Edict Strengthens MFER's Role in Foreign Investment Edict Strengthens MFER's Role in Foreign Investment 944Q0259A Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 16 Mar 94 p 2 944Q0259A Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Russian CSO [Article by Svetlana Sukhova under the "New Order of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations" rubric: "They Want To Eat the Apple of Discord at Smolenskaya Square"] [Text] Yesterday, the MFER [Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations] of Russia issued an order on restoring the Main Administration for Investment Cooperation within the organization of the ministry. Simultaneously, the MFER submitted to the Government of Russia a draft of the decree "On Making Amendments and Additions to the Regulations on the MFER in Conjunction With the Subordination of the Russian Agency for International Cooperation and Development (RAMSIR) to the MFER and the Establishment of the Federal State Office `Russian Center for International and Cultural Cooperation.'" The RAMSIR has long been an apple of discord between its former and current masters. The MFER decree and the draft decree of the government should codify the role of the ministry as the overseer in investment issues. The MFER of Russia intends to assume "regulatory functions in the area of attracting foreign investment to the Russian Federation" because, as the text of the draft decree reveals, the ministry considers itself a legal successor of the RAMSIR, "insofar as this Agency has operated to perform the above envisioned functions." Along with the functions of the RAMSIR, the MFER should also take over 75 of its employees. However, regardless of the decisions to be made by the RAMSIR personnel, the MFER is already recruiting cadres for its new main directorate. It is proposed that the RAMSIR itself be transformed into the Russian Center for International and Cultural Cooperation (that is to say, some kind of an analog of the Council of Societies for Friendship With Foreign Countries). It will now be charged with carrying out the edict of the president "On Russian Scientific and Cultural Centers Abroad." It is planned to appoint Valentina Tereshkova, the former chairman of the SSOD [Union of Soviet Friendship Societies], to head the new department. In addition to the already mentioned documents, the MFER simultaneously submitted to the government two others. It is proposed that the system of centralized exports be modified. The MFER proposal calls for transmitting state quotas to individual exporters through the tender committee of the ministry. Besides, the MFER insists on canceling export duties on all goods. Both drafts fit very well within the policy of liberalizing foreign economic relations which the MFER is now pursuing. [Boxed item begins] From Order No. 109 of the MFER of Russia 1. The Main Directorate for Investment Cooperation shall be restored. 2. The Main Control and Finance Directorate shall prepare position and wage fund assignments for the newly created directorate. 3. The Facilities Directorate shall provide the necessary official premises and create conditions for the regular operation of the newly created main directorate. [End of boxed item]
