FBIS3-59050 "drweu017_h_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Jan 1994 GERMANY Ukrainian Deputy Rejects Visegrad NATO Membership AU2601115894 Berlin DIE WELT in German 26 Jan 94 p 2 AU2601115894 Berlin DIE WELT Language: German Article Type:BFN [Lothar Ruehl report: "NATO Initiative Meets With Resistance"] [Text] Berlin -- Significant differences in the interests of the participating states were shown yesterday at a security policy conference in Berlin. FRG Defense Minister Volker Ruehe had invited experts from 14 nations to the Spree to develop with them concrete steps in the NATO initiative Partnership for Peace. At their summit meeting two weeks ago, the NATO states had offered close cooperation to all democratic countries of East and Central Europe -- as a possible preliminary step toward full membership. The debate was dominated by the differences between Ukraine and Russia and the unchanged demand of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Slovakia for speedy admission to NATO. These states see in this the only alternative to the development of a new "Russian sphere of interests" and a possible "threat to political stability" in East Europe. Ukrainian Deputy and defense expert Serhiy Holovatyy resolutely rejected the admission of countries west of Ukraine to NATO. He even rejected the offer by the NATO initiative to consult the North Atlantic Council in situations threatening states outside NATO. Both might result in Ukraine's separation from West Europe, but also from its western neighbors in Central Europe, and in a new dependence on Russia. However, Ukraine does not want to find itself in a joint security zone with Russia, he said. The security of the country is determined by certain Russian tendencies and political forces, the Ukrainian politician stated. He sees the danger that Moscow might support "Russian separatism in Ukraine" with the objective "of splitting off," for example, "the Crimea, the Don basin, and south Ukraine." However, such a Russian policy also endangers the agreement between Clinton, Yeltsin, and Kravchuk on the elimination of nuclear weapons on Ukrainian soil, which has just been concluded, he said. However, Russian representative Sergey Karaganov denied that his country had such intentions or any Russian interest in a new annexation of Ukraine. He warned against the admission of new NATO members. This may weaken NATO politically and reduce its "deterrent power" toward aggressive Russian politicians and the security of East Europe. Russia, however, needs a strong NATO as a partner for securing its own democratic reforms and a new foreign policy orientation to international cooperation with the West, he said.
