FBIS3-28935 "dreas030_d_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 South Korea Reportage on Foreign Minister's Visit to U.S. Han on Urging Dialogue With DPRK SK1302064494 Seoul YONHAP in English 0634 GMT 13 Feb 94 SK1302064494 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, Feb. 12 (YONHAP) -- South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu said Saturday he was assured that U.S. policymakers wanted to leave channels with North Korea open if possible and try finding solution to the nuclear problem through dialogue up to the very last minute. Winding up his first two-day agenda in the U.S. capital, Han told reporters that he came to understand that the chances of North Korea and International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) reaching an agreement over nuclear inspections were slim but not entirely hopeless as reported by foreign press in discussing the matter with U.S. senior officials. He said he found the concern for a possible war in the Korean peninsula was very seriously spread among the U.S. press. "I explained that the security situation in the Korean peninsula was not that serious as pictured in the U.S. press through interviews. I think the press views here have become more calm now," he said. The foreign minister said Seoul and Washington agreed not to discuss the matter of deploying U.S. Patriot missiles in South Korea any more before the IAEA board meeting on Feb. 21 as not to provoke North Korea. Noting a North Korean Foreign Ministry statement on Saturday urging Washington to be clear about the next round of bilateral talks, Han said he got the impression that Pyongyang's attitude has turned a bit softer, considering the statement highlighted that the United States wanted to continue talks with North Korea and the IAEA board meeting hinted at nuclear inspections to guarantee continuity of nuclear safety. Han embarks on his four-day schedule in Canada on Sunday, stops by New York for talks with United Nations Secretary-General Butrus Butrus-Ghali on Feb. 16, and visits Washington the following day for the second time.
