FBIS4-34314 "drlat118_a_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Cuba's Presence at Summit `Exceptional' Cuba's Presence at Summit `Exceptional' PA1706150094 Havana Radio Havana Cuba in Spanish 1300 GMT 17 Jun 94 PA1706150094 Havana Radio Havana Cuba Spanish BFN [From the "Morning Information Review" newscast] [Text] Cuban President Fidel Castro returned to Havana from Cartagena de Indias where he participated in the Fourth Ibero-American Summit. The last activities by the Cuban chief of state were separate meetings with Colombian groups that support Cuba and with Colombian businessmen. The Cuban President reiterated in Cartagena de Indias that the importance of the Ibero-American summits stems basically from the fact that it is the first time the Latin American countries meet without anyone convoking them. At a meeting with representatives of Colombian organizations that support Cuba, Castro referred to the progress and perspectives of Latin American integration and the so-called Summit of the Americas, convoked by the United States for later this year. He called the presence of Cuba in the Ibero-American summits exceptional because for the first time it is not excluded. In this regard, he said the support of Mexico, which hosted the first summit, and the support of other friendly countries had a lot to do with Cuba's presence at the summit. The Cuban president noted that the summits have contributed to combating Cuba's isolation, to creating awareness of the blockade it has endured, to giving a lesson to the United States, to increasing Cuba's relations with many countries, and to enhancing rapprochement among Latin American countries. Fidel Castro said that currently, there does not exist a true integration conscience in Latin America, but that the summits are contributing to this. He said the main obstacle is the United States, which is attempting to prevent Latin America from being more independent. The Cuban chief of state said the Ibero-American summits are so important that the northern enemy was envious and invented another summit, precisely in Miami, which it wants to turn into the capital of Latin America. He reiterated, nonetheless, that Cuba is not opposed to that summit, despite the fact that he believes Cuba's exclusion is cowardice. He explained this is because U.S. Government leaders are afraid of words, ideas, and truths, which denotes political weakness. Castro noted that he is not opposed to the summit in Miami because he hopes that the Latin American countries there will firmly defend the interests of the region.
