FBIS3-46467 "drchi020_w_94012" FBIS-CHI-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong PRC To Boost Manpower in HKMAO Office HK2801061694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 28 Jan 94 pp 1, 11 HK2801061694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Chris Yeung] [Text] China's major policy branch on Hong Kong affairs plans to boost manpower and promote younger leaders in the face of growing workloads concerning the 1997 handover. Sources close to the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office (HKMAO) said that existing manpower was stretched to the limit yet the scope of their work had become wider in view of political and economic changes. "We need to increase manpower. But it has become more difficult to get the right people. We do want to have some Hong Kong people joining us. But given the pay scale in the Chinese Government, that is virtually impossible," one source said. The First Department - in charge of economic matters - monitors a wide spectrum of issues such as the mammoth Chek Lap Kok plan; China-funded enterprises in Hong Kong and their listing plans; and infrastructure plans in the Pearl River Delta area, including border traffic. The Second Department, whose duties are political affairs and civil service, is also faced with a heavy workload that covers a series of constitutional and legal problems arising over the changeover. The office under the State Council, and headed by Director Lu Ping, has four major departments with little more than 100 staff members. The manpower shortage has been worsened by the need to deploy staff at the Beijing office of the Preliminary Working Committee (PWC) formed a few months ago to give assistance to the working body doing research and administrative work. A source said: "Some HKMAO officials have had two offices: One in the HKMAO headquarters and the other in the PWC office. There's no other way out in the meantime, unless there are additional staff." Officials, however, refused to say how many people they needed to recruit. Another difficulty was trying to seek more staff in the face of the ongoing drive by Beijing to trim a bloated bureaucracy. Moreover, sources said a senior-level reshuffle was imminent following the transfer of vice-director Mr Wang Qiren to the Bank of China and the retirement of an "old Hong Kong hand," Mr Luo Jiahuan, who is a Joint Liaison Group (JLG) member. Mr Wang's post, which has been left vacant for months, will be taken by Wang Fengchao, head of the Second Department. His deputy, Xu Ze, is set for promotion to head of department. Mr Luo, 66, will retire from the JLG office soon and be succeeded by Chen Zuo'er, who is head of the First Department. Mr Chen has participated in secret negotiations on the Chek Lap Kok airport plan and is expected to sit on the Airport Committee after he is posted to the territory. Mr Xu and Mr Zhang, deputy department heads, have worked in the HKMAO since the early 1980s. In their late 30s, the pair are seen as rising stars in the HKMAO. Another source said the rapid promotion of the younger officers was also because the HKMAO was a less attractive part of the Chinese bureaucracy.
