FBIS4-20267 "drweu083_l_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-083 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 SPAIN Solchaga Lauds CiU, Refuses Comment on Resignation Solchaga Lauds CiU, Refuses Comment on Resignation BR2804143594 Madrid ABC in Spanish 28 Apr 94 p 25 BR2804143594 Madrid ABC Spanish BFN [A.M. report: "Solchaga Avoids Making Statement on Resignation, Emphasizes `Very Good' Relations Between PSOE and CiU"] [Text] Carlos Solchaga, floor leader of the Socialist group in parliament, yesterday avoided making a statement on whether he will hand in his resignation as a PSOE [Spanish Socialist Workers Party] official at the Congress of Deputies. On the contrary, he alluded -- albeit indirectly -- to his intention to carry on in his post. Nevertheless, during a lunch in which, together with Miguel Roca of the CiU [Convergence and Union] he presented the book Catalonia by the Year 2010, Solchaga did not wish to talk openly, preferring to block -- without being able to conceal his discomfort -- any reference to his resignation. When his turn came to comment on the contents of the book, the PSOE leader asked the other participants if they could hear well from all the seats. On his left, from the end of the table, a journalist commented out loud "well enough to hear a resignation." With an annoyed expression, and facing a tense silence, the former economy minister responded, as if he had not heard (although it was perfectly audible): "Excuse me?" The journalist, somewhat embarrassed, excused himself by saying "it was just a comment," which Solchaga, in a clearly annoyed tone, dismissed with a contemptuous "brilliant, quite brilliant." Afterwards, his speech, which was listened to with great anticipation, as have all his speeches since last Monday [25 April] when he placed his mandate at the executive's disposal, was often full of praise for the CiU, and especially Miguel Roca. He defined the PSOE's relations with the center-right nationalist coalition as "frank and very good," and said they were a substantial factor in achieving political governability "at a time of tension and a time when we do not have an absolute majority." He then sent a message that can be interpreted as an intention to carry on in his post as the Socialist spokesman in the Congress of Deputies. Solchaga said: "I am going to make a political statement so that no doubt remains: I am working and will continue to work -- with the agreement of my party -- to ensure that these relations (with the CiU) are optimal." It is true that at no time did he say whether he was thinking of carrying out this task as the head of the Socialist Group or as an ordinary rank-and-file deputy. The praise heaped on the spokesman for the Catalan Group, however, exceeded even that lavished on the CiU. He said that "as long as people like Roca, and others, are around, the political scenarios for Catalonia and Spain are likely to be positive. And I will promote these relations without the slightest reservation."
