FBIS3-5693 "dreas047__a94017" FBIS-EAS-94-047-A Document Type:Daily Report 10 March 1994 ANNEX Japan Poll Probes Opinion of Hosokawa Administration OW0503222294 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN in Japanese 5 Mar 94 Morning Edition p 2--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0503222294 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] YOMIURI SHIMBUN conducted a nationwide poll on 26-27 February, or immediately before Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's decision to give up a cabinet reshuffle, to probe the public's evaluation of the six-month-old Hosokawa administration and their personal impressions of the prime minister. As the result, 60 percent of the pollees showed positive responses to the achievements of the Hosoakwa administration. When asked what is the best achievement of the Hosokawa administration, 37 percent indicated "the enactment of the political reform laws." To a question asking impressions of Prime Minister Hosokawa, however, 54 percent said "he has no leadership," and 64 percent said "he has no control over the coalition parties." Thus, the majority of the public questions the prime minister's political leadership. In response to a question on impressions of the "Kono-led Liberal Democratic Party [LDP]," most respondents indicated negative images of the giant opposition, as 34 percent indicated the LDP's "lack of unity in the party." Regarding the achievements of the Hosokawa administration over the last six months, 60 percent said there were "favorable" achievements, and 35 percent said the achievements are "unfavorable." Followed by "the enactment of the political reform laws," the pollees said the positive achievements of the Hosokawa administration were: "Partial liberalization of the rice market" (21 percent); "the 6 trillion yen income tax cut in advance of an enactment of consumption tax hike" (17 percent); and "positive discussions with LDP President Kono" (16 percent). On the other hand, major responses to a question asking the negative aspects of the administration were: "Shinseito Secretary General Ichiro Ozawa's excessive influence on the administration" (34 percent); "partial liberalization of the rice market" (29 percent); "the Social Democratic Party of Japan's opposition to important policies of the coalition government" (21 percent); and "increase in bureaucrats' influence on political issues" (15 percent). Concerning impressions of the prime minister's "leadership," 43 percent said "he has enough leadership," but 54 percent said "he has no leadership." With respect to "the prime minister's control over the coalition parties," 64 percent said "he has no control," while 28 percent said "he has adequate control."
