FBIS4-41990 "drsov126_a_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-126 Daily Report 29 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS FCS Head Previews Meetings With FBI Director FCS Head Previews Meetings With FBI Director LD2906170994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1451 GMT 29 Jun 94 LD2906170994 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Tamara Zamyatina] [Text] Moscow June 29 TASS -- On the eve of a meeting with Director of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation Louis Freeh scheduled for July 4, head of the Federal Counterintelligence Service [FCS] of Russia Sergey Stepashin informed that this would be the first personal contact between chiefs of counterintelligence of the two countries. Sergey Stepashin was today a guest of the club of editors-in- chief of Russian news media at the ITAR-TASS news agency in Moscow. The director of the Federal Counterintelligence Service elaborated that one of the aims of Louis Freeh's visit to Russia would be the opening of a FBI office in Moscow. Sergey Stepashin also said that the FBI director was concerned about an access of Russian mafia to nuclear technology. Incidentally, the director of the Federal Counterintelligence Service of Russia himself rules out such a possibility. He intends to ask his American counterpart to present documents or information confirming the danger of nuclear terrorism in Russia, otherwise FBI's interest in this problem may be interpreted by the Russian opposition as an aspiration of the United States to establish control over nuclear objects on the territory of the Russian Federation. It is noteworthy that the American side does not offer the Federal Counterintelligence Service of Russia to open its office in the United States. According to Sergey Stepashin, such an agreement was reached only with Germany, France, Czech Republic and Poland. In addition to meetings with the director of the Federal Counterintelligence Service of Russia, chief of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation Louis Freeh also intends to meet with Yuriy Baturin, assistant to the Russian president on national security, and Russian Interior Minister Viktor Yerin.
