FBIS4-23646 "drafr113_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Government, UNITA Reach Accord on Deputies Government, UNITA Reach Accord on Deputies MB1006193994 Luanda Radio Nacional Network in Portuguese 1900 GMT 10 Jun 94 MB1006193994 Luanda Radio Nacional Network Portuguese BFN [Text] In Lusaka, Zambia, the negotiators have reached an agreement on the swearing-in of deputies of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] in the National Assembly. Tomorrow, the negotiating teams from the government and UNITA will continue the peace talks. They will discuss the extension of state administration throughout the national territory. Our correspondent Alves Antonio reports: Negotiators from the government and UNITA have knocked down another obstacle. Tomorrow, they will hold discussions on the extension of the central state administration throughout the national territory. The representatives from the government and UNITA concluded early this evening discussions on the swearing-in of the deputies of Jonas Savimbi's organization in the National Assembly. The agreement's formulation has not been revealed and is at the present moment a great secret. All the same, Angola Radio National will continue its efforts to obtain more details on the agreement. It is already known, however, that UNITA deputies presently in parliament will continue in their posts, while the fate of those who abandoned the country and consequently the parliament will depend on a decision from the National Assembly itself. Meanwhile, the negotiators from the government and UNITA will return to the Mulungushi Conference Center tomorrow to begin discussions on the extension of the central state administration throughout the national territory. During the break today, the negotiators from the government and UNITA attended a reception hosted by the Portuguese Embassy in Lusaka on the occasion of Portugal's national day. The representatives from the government and UNITA surprised each and everyone present when they agreeably socialized as true gentlemen and brothers. Let us hope it was not just aimed at deceiving the public.
