FBIS4-592 "drafr071_c_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-071 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA International Mediators Begin Meetings With Leaders International Mediators Begin Meetings With Leaders Election Date Not Part of Mediation MB1304092894 Johannesburg SAPA in English 0907 GMT 13 Apr 94 MB1304092894 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Johannesburg April 13 SAPA -- Former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and former British Foreign Secretary Lord Carrington would not mediate if the date of elections was included in the mediators' terms of reference, Mr Kissinger said on Wednesday [13 April]. Speaking briefly outside a private Houghton home where the two mediators met African National Congress President Nelson Mandela, Mr Kissinger said the election date had not been included in the terms of reference the seven mediators received on Sunday. The mediators are in South Africa to help mediate in the election impasse between the ANC and the Inkatha Freedom Party [IFP]. Mediation is expected to begin on Wednesday (today). Mr Kissinger said the election date, or what Mr Mandela called the "date of freedom for South Africa", was clearly not a subject of mediation. He said the mediators were prepared only to mediate on constitutional issues, the implementation of which would be left to South Africans. His statement is likely to cause concern in the IFP camp, which insists that the mediators also consider changing the election to a later date to allow the IFP a fair chance to campaign in the event the party decides to participate. Mr Mandela said he welcomed the government taking part in mediation. An agreement could not be effective without the involvemement of the government. The amended terms of reference were reasonable, he said. Mr Mandela also said the election date was not on the agenda for mediation. The ANC, IFP and government would meet at 2 PM on Wednesday to come to a final agreement on the terms of reference, he said. The draft was a good document and a basis from which to move on the question of mediation. "My own attitude is positive," Mr Mandela said. Lord Carrington said the mediators had come to South Africa "to do what we can to help", but it would be up to South Africans to find their own solutions. "There has been a positive attitude on behalf of those we have seen," he said.
