FBIS4-65845 "drweu100_q_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-100 Daily Report 17 May 1994 TURKEY Bulgarian Foreign Minister Arrives on Official Visit Bulgarian Foreign Minister Arrives on Official Visit Signs Cooperation Protocol, Departs TA1705190594 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1700 GMT 17 May 94 TA1705190594 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report] [Text] Bulgarian Foreign Minister Stanislav Daskalov has ended his contacts in Turkey and left the country. A new cooperation protocol was signed that updates the action protocol signed between the two countries in 1992. Daskalov was received this morning by Mustafa Kalemli, deputy speaker of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. President Suleyman Demirel received Daskalov at the Cankaya Mansion. Foreign Minister Hikmet Cetin was also present at the meeting. Cetin and Daskalov signed a new cooperation protocol that updates the action protocol signed by the two countries in 1992. Speaking at the signing ceremony, Cetin said the protocol envisions the development of cooperation in the military field, and in the fight against drug trafficking, organized crime, and terrorism. He pointed out that the Turkish minority in Bulgaria constitutes a bridge for the friendship between the two countries. Bulgaria has been acting in an exemplary fashion regarding this issue in recent years, Cetin said, adding: Turkey and Bulgaria are two important countries in the Balkans. The Balkans today are the hottest and most problematic region in the world. What is happening in Bosnia-Herzegovina today is a shame for humanity. We have a common understanding to make every effort to prevent the spreading of the tension and of the conflict. We also discussed the issues of the Caucasus, the Middle East, and Iraq. We assessed in detail the effect of the embargo on Iraq on the economies of Turkey and Bulgaria. The Bulgarian foreign minister pointed out that his visit showed that the two countries have the political will to develop their bilateral relations. Replying to a question, Daskalov said his country has incurred a loss of about $1.5 billion as a result of the embargo on Iraq. He stressed that Bulgaria wants the embargoes on Iraq and on Bosnia-Herzegovina to be lifted. Daskalov stressed that Bulgaria is not opposed to the deployment of Turkish troops in Bosnia-Herzegovina within the framework of the relevant UN resolution.
