FBIS3-247 "drafr043_b_94004" FBIS-AFR-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 EAST AFRICA Kenya Disturbances at Polls Reported EA0403103094 Nairobi DAILY NATION in English 4 Mar 94 p 1 EA0403103094 Nairobi DAILY NATION Language: English Article Type:BFN [Article by Emman Omari and Caleb Atemi] [Excerpts] General service unit [GSU] and regular policemen fired into the air and sealed off the biggest polling station in Lugari [western Kenya] for 30 minutes during by-election voting yesterday. There was no explanation for the siege of Lumakanda divisional headquarters but FORD [Forum for the Restoration of Democracy]-Kenya officials claimed it was "psychological warfare" intended to intimidate voters. Even after the paramilitary unit had withdrawn, armed policemen patrolled the periphery of the station. Reports from around the constituency indicated little serious violence but there were persistent reports of irregularities including the expulsion of a cabinet minister from a polling station. [passage omitted] There were near-riots at Chekalini polling station when voters hurled stones at KANU [Kenya African National Union] candidate Apili Wawire when he arrived in a convoy of nine vehicles packed with people singing party songs. The by-election pitted the former Lugari member, Mr Wawire, who defected from FORD-Asili, against Mr Burudi Nabwera, a KANU defector to FORD-Kenya, and Mr Nathan Fedha (FORD-A). Voting, at least in the early hours, appeared to be slow. It was three P.M. when heavily armed security personnel in combat and anti-riot gear blocked the entrance to the township polling station and sealed off the Lumakanda headquarters. Six shots were fired into the air but no reasons were given for the action. Opposition leaders held a 30-minute meeting with the provincial police officer and at 3:30 P.M., the GSU lorry and policemen who had blocked the entrance to the station were withdrawn. [passage omitted] There was a high turnout at the three newly-created and controversial sub-stations of Savala, Mahanga and Lumani. [passage omitted] By 1:30 P.M., only 800 people at the [Lugari] township station -- the largest in Lugari with seven streams -- had cast their votes out of the registered 7,000.
