FBIS4-38367 "drsov104_a_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-104 Daily Report 27 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Comments on Russian-European Partnership Agreement Comments on Russian-European Partnership Agreement LD2705212294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1953 GMT 27 May 94 LD2705212294 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Dmitriy Gorokhov, Andrey Krasnoshchekov, and Andrey Shtorkh] [Text] Paris May 27 TASS -- "The signing of an agreement on Russian-European partnership will be a major Russian step to Europe," Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev told ITAR-TASS correspondent while in Paris to attend an international conference on a stability pact. In the words of Kozyrev, much work has been done to finalize the document, and it is clear already now the document will be fundamental. Technical details will be coordinated and the document will be edited and translated into languages of states-members of the European Union. The minister did not exclude experts may fail to do this job by the next session of the European Union to be held in June. That is why, the agreement will be signed later, and initialed in June. He stressed "there is no need to hurry, since the basic agreement to sign the document has been reached". The Russian-European agreement is very important from the political point of view, stressed the minister. This document will provide for the future form of all Russian-European relations. The agreement envisages a system of political consultations, a mechanism of political interaction. Under the document, summit meeting with the leaders of the "European Three" will be held at least once in two years, and contacts between ministers will be regular. A major aspect of the agreement is that it opens way "to gradual but decisive Russian entrance to the world markets of goods, including products of the nuclear cycle, services, capital and labor", said the minister. The document will lay down the basis for fundamental political and economic interaction between Russia and the European Union, he said.
