FBIS4-15485 "drsov068_a_94036" FBIS-SOV-94-068 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Russia Backs South African Law Enforcement Russia Backs South African Law Enforcement LD0804103094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0908 GMT 8 Apr 94 LD0804103094 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Denis Perkin] [Text] Moscow April 8 TASS -- "Russia backs the recent steps of the South African Government to enforce law and order. But these measures may prove insufficient without a long-term political agreement," a representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry stated at the ministry's press centre here today. The developments in the Republic of South Africa are now in the focus of world public opinion: less than three weeks are left before the first universal parliamentary elections in the country. "All the world regards this event as a turning point in the history of South Africa, as a landmark after which the country will become a full- fledged member of the community of democratic states," the representative noted. "In the meantime, the election campaign has brought the situation to a head in several parts of South Africa," the diplomat stated. "The political forces that are unable to win popularity among the electorate are becoming increasingly aggressive. They intend to boycott the elections and to prevent normal voting on the territories under their control," he added. The diplomat believes that "such a tactic actually leads to a break-up of the Republic of South Africa and threatens the society by an open armed confrontation frought with unpredictible consequences for the country an the entire region". The representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry expressed the hope that the meeting among leaders of the conflicting sides, scheduled for saturday, would be constructive. The Russian Foreign Ministry expects "the meeting to adopt a firm commitment of all its participants to contribute by every means at their disposal to the free expression of the will of the South African electors on the entire territory of the country".
