FBIS3-18743 "drweu045_n_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * Government Presents Economic Stimulus Program * Cites Recovery Indicators 94EN0221A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 5 Feb 94 p 6 94EN0221A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Language: Finnish Article Type:CSO [Article by Pekka Vuoristo: "Prime Minister Inspired Faith in the Expansion of the Economy. Aho Promised Vague Tax Reductions Even This Year"] [Text] On Friday [4 February] Prime Minister Esko Aho (Center Party) and Labor Minister Ilkka Kanerva (Conservative) manifested strong faith in the expansion of the economy. Aho announced that "the recession may be regarded as having ended," and Kanerva stated that the growth in unemployment would stop in March or April. The ministers shared the reinforcement of faith at a news conference that was organized for the presentation of a 17-billion-markka supplemental budget. The policy lines contained in the supplemental budget were already reported in two news conferences in December. The supplementary budget will include mainly investments and investment support measures. It is part of a package through which the government is attempting to stimulate the national economy partially through borrowed money. Iiro Viinanen (Conservative), the minister of finance, aroused attention by failing to arrive at the news conference on Friday. Viinanen's staff explained the incident as a breakdown in communications. Accelerated Supplementary Budget At the news conference Aho also made a vague promise regarding tax reductions. When questioned, he clarified that when the May development forecasts arrive it will be possible to say whether it is possible to reduce taxes further this year. At the beginning of the week Viinanen sharply rejected the notion of tax relief this year. The supplementary budget that was presented on Friday was drafted after intense negotiations among the ministries a week earlier than planned, and it was able to be presented two days before the presidential election. Aho denied that the supplementary budget had anything to do with the elections. He justified the speedup by the fact that the Eduskunta that is assembling next week will thus be able to make stimulus decisions more rapidly. Rise in Costs a Concern By "ending the recession" Aho meant in strict economic terms that output began to rise in the fall. In the near future the Ministry of Finance will make a forecast in which this year's growth will be indicated as at least 2 percent and next year's growth as at least 5 percent. Aho was ready to give the government credit for the beginning of economic growth. Aho emphasized that unemployment and public sector debt would cast a shadow over the whole decade. He predicted, however, that the beginning of economic growth, the improvement in export competitiveness, and the lowering of the interest rate would create the prerequisites for taking care of the problems. Speeding up investments is important from this standpoint, Aho noted. It is also important to speed up investments in order to avoid bottlenecks in output that would raise production costs and thus cause inflation. Aho set the maintenance of cost discipline as one of the main objectives. Talk about the danger of overheating, however, Aho labeled as "confusion in the opposition." Tug-of-War Already Over Next Year's Budget Kanerva justified his promise that unemployment would ease by the fact that the increase in short-term unemployment had ceased at the turn of the year and that at this time already 43 percent of the terminating unemployment cases end with a permanent job in the open labor market. The supplementary budget issued on Friday will create about 16,000 jobs, according to Kanerva. The government will begin preparation of the budgets for 1995 and subsequent years next week. The intent is to agree on the final amounts at the beginning of March. Preliminary discussions on the budget have been interpreted as a tense atmosphere. Several ministers are known to have pressures for making a liberal election budget, while on the other hand, Viinanen and his staff want to retain the previously agreed-on policy of reducing government expenditures.
