FBIS4-15318 "drsov068_p_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-068 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 CAUCASUS Armenia Dzhilavyan on Arrest Reports, Political Plans Dzhilavyan on Arrest Reports, Political Plans 944K1039B Yerevan GOLOS ARMENII in Russian 5 Apr 94 p 1 944K1039B Yerevan GOLOS ARMENII Russian CSO [GOLOS ARMENII report: "Dzhilavyan Has Not Been Arrested"] [Text] The editors have received a statement from Moscow issued by the press secretariat of the International Armenian Assembly [IAA], which reads as follows: "On 30 March ERKIR published a report that IAA President Serzh Dzhilavyan had been arrested. "Serzh Dzhilavyan has not been arrested. This morning, 31 March, press service staff members talked to Serzh Dzhilavyan, who was at home at the address published by ERKIR--4 Michurinskiy Avenue, where Serzh Dzhilavyan allegedly had been arrested. "Moreover, on 30 March Serzh Dzhilavyan held a press conference in which he made the following statement: `As is known, I have handed over to Moscow law enforcement authorities the terrorists who, on assignment from the Republic of Armenia MVD [Ministry of Internal Affairs], were supposed to assassinate me last fall. Law enforcement officers of various rank and from different services spent almost the entire night in my home, questioning the suspects and examining their weapons. "`The suspects were taken away, but the weapons for some reason were left behind, despite my subsequent numerous reminders and insistence that the weapons be removed. "`Now there is no doubt that the Moscow law enforcement organs' "forgetfulness" was deliberate at the prompting of the Armenian MVD. The weapons were needed in order to organize another provocation against me--to accuse me of illegal possession of weapons. However, this time, again, it did not work. "`I am not so naive as to not understand the purpose of these provocations. It is the hand of official Yerevan that has reached me in Moscow. "`Being an entrepreneur and with preferences leaning toward charitable activities, I have tried to stay away from politics. I believe, however, that I can no longer remain passive. I declare that I consider myself from now on in political opposition to the current Armenian authorities and intend to run in the presidential elections in the Republic of Armenia.'"
