FBIS3-11625 "drlat057_i_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 Nicaragua Defense Counsels Interpret Status PA2303185094 Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 23 Mar 94 pp 1, 12 PA2303185094 Managua BARRICADA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Oliver Bodan] [Text] Mariano Barahona and Orlando Corrales, counsels for the defense of the eight bodyguards allegedly involved in Jean Paul Genie's murder, said yesterday that Army General Humberto Ortega is still commander of the Sandinist Armed Forces [EPS]. Barahona and Corrales flatly denied that the cautionary measure against Ortega meant a house arrest. In addition, the FSLN [Sandinist National Liberation Front] National Directorate [DN] has expressed its moral support for the EPS Commander's "responsible stance" of appearing in court "with a constructive spirit." The FSLN DN backed all points in the letter Ortega addressed to the country. The FSLN DN agreed with Ortega on the existence of a smear campaign against the EPS unleashed by ultrarightists in Nicaragua and the United States. According to Article 103, Chapter IV of the Military Criminal Law, "the indicted person's pledge not to leave his home shall consist of the obligation not to leave the same, or any place where he might happen to be residing temporarily, without authorization from the prosecutor or the court, as the case may be, except to tend to his business, care for his health, or pursue higher education." In an open letter, Barahona and Corrales insisted that Gen. Ortega only removed himself from learning about any procedure "directly or indirectly" connected with the trial. They also said that Ortega "has voluntarily resigned his jurisdictional powers." According to the counsels for the defense, the cautionary ruling issued against Ortega was "unnecessary because the general has never refused to appear in court." By contrast, Judge Advocate Lester Gallo Sandoval, who is in charge of the preliminary military investigations, has told BARRICADA that "the house arrest will continue for indefinitely but that he will continue to perform his normal functions." Gallo said he will announce his "conclusions" in about six weeks. Inspector General Lieutenant Colonel Denis Moncada Colindres will then announce the final sentence, which can be appealed by the two parties through a writ of appeal presented to the Supreme Court of Justice. Regarding yesterday's doubts about whether Ortega had been temporarily suspended, the prosecutor said that "the president of the Republic," who is also the defense minister according to law, "is the person who decides whether he is suspended."
