FBIS3-39207 "drweu030_q_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 TURKEY Officials React to NATO Decision on Bosnia Air Strikes Ciller Says Turkey Supports Decision TA1002122694 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1100 GMT 10 Feb 94 TA1002122694 Ankara TRT Television Network Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Text] Prime Minister Tansu Ciller has said that Turkey views positively and supports the decision NATO made on Bosnia-Herzegovina yesterday. In a statement prior to the True Path Party General Administrative Council meeting, Ciller said Turkey has for a long time been defending the need to preserve Bosnia-Herzegovina's territorial integrity and to respect human rights. Pointing out the need to lift the arms embargo or to launch an air raid to achieve that goal, Ciller recalled that Turkey had submitted this plan to the United Nations. She continued: [Begin Ciller recording] We had earlier proposed that the Serbs positioned on the mountains surrounding Sarajevo be moved back 20 km and that they surrender their arms. We had also proposed that an air raid be launched in the event they did not comply with these conditions -- in other words, that a transition period be established prior to the air raid. We support this decision made by NATO. We believe that it is positive. [end recording] Ciller said the violence is continuing in Bosnia-Herzegovina and humanity is waging a struggle for life and dignity. Pointing out that the innocent people of Bosnia-Herzegovina should either be given the opportunity to defend themselves or be protected, Ciller added that the NATO decision is a significant step in this direction. Noting that during her contacts with various leaders she was informed that such a development would occur, Ciller concluded by saying: [Begin Ciller recording] I hope that a better solution will be reached through peaceful means within 10 days. We will stand by this decision to the end. I would like to state once more the need to begin the air raid immediately if any clashes take place. [end recording]
