FBIS3-18553 "drweu043_q_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 TURKEY Army's Role Examined NC0303160794 Istanbul AYDINLIK in Turkish 26 Feb 94 p 11 NC0303160794 Istanbul AYDINLIK Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Report by Adnan Akfirat] [Excerpts] There are still repercussions from the warning issued by the Chief of the General Staff Dogan Gures to the government during the 21 February meeting of the National Security Council, which met at the request of the Chief of General Staff Dogan Gures. While the papers and television jointly sang the refrain that "there is no coup," this was in fact confirmed by statements made by General Hursit Tolon, secretary general of General Staff, and Colonel Dogu Silahcioglu, head of the Public Relations Department of the General Staff, to the effect that "DEP [Democracy Party] leader Hatip Dicle's statement has generated indignation within the Armed Forces," and by President Demirel's statement that "the Army is uneasy." [passage omitted] Landing at the Cankaya Presidential Palace These are the developments which led up to the General Staff's warning to the Government: Five noncommissioned cadets were killed by a bomb explosion at Istanbul's Tuzla train station on 12 February. The PKK's [Workers Party of Kurdistan] revenge teams claimed responsibility for the attack. The developments took a new turn when, replying to Guneri Civaoglu's questions on ATV [television station] on 17 February, DEP leader Hatip Dicle said: "I do not approve of the Tuzla incident, but, everybody in military uniform is a target during a war. However, the Geneva treaty prohibits the targeting of civilians." These words triggered the process that ended with the warning by the General Staff. Gures went to Cankaya Presidential Palace on 18 February without a prior appointment. The chief of the General Staff said the generals serving in the southeast were enraged, and criticized Parliament Speaker Husamettin Cindoruk and Parliament for producing nothing but words. This was followed by a mini-security summit with the participation of Prime Minister Tansu Ciller. Gunes' warning that "there is serious concern" was also repeated in a veiled manner at the summit. After the meeting, SABAH's Ankara reporter quoted political circles as saying "a decision was made about a number of DEP deputies." At the demand of Gures, this meeting decided to immediately lift the immunity of Hatip Dicle and a number of DEP deputies. [passage omitted]
