FBIS4-828 "drafr074_c_94007" FBIS-AFR-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Police Welcome IFP Decision Police Welcome IFP Decision MB1704131394 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1240 GMT 17 Apr 94 MB1704131394 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Johannesburg April 17 SAPA -- The South African Police [SAP] on Sunday [17 March] welcomed the Inkatha Freedom Party's decision to postpone its planned march on Monday through Johannesburg. "The South African Police appreciates the responsible decision taken by the IFP Youth Brigade not to conduct their demonstration on Monday. "In view of the IFP's decision to postpone the demonstration, it must be stated that any intention to conduct the demonstration on any other day should be negotiated and any application will be considered according to its merits and the prevailing circumstances at the time," police liaison officer Col Dave Bruce said. The postponement of Monday's planned IFP Youth Brigade march through Johannesburg was announced on Sunday by Brigade Executive Committee Chairman Sipho Mathobela. He said however rolling mass action would continue at a later date, possibly Tuesday. The issue was being discussed at the brigade's Executive Committee and the IFP National Executive Committee. Col Bruce said: "In the light of events on March 28 (when 53 Zulu marchers were killed in Johannesburg), there remains a distinct possibility that any demonstration in the CBD [central business district] could be disrupted. "This poses a definite danger to public order and saftey," he said. The police would consider any application by the IFP to hold another march, but "the possibility of police allowing thousands of demonstrators (into Johannesburg) was minimal". A demonstration was not bannned because it was organised by a particular political party. Considering the events of March 28, other elements were present during a march in the city centre. An IFP march through benoni on the East Rand was allowed to go ahead on Saturday because the IFP there had a history of non-violence and police did not expect any trouble there, he said. In the run up to the election, Col Bruce continued, police regional commissioner Lt Gen Koos Kalitz decided police would maintain high visibility. Police would conduct crime prevention operations despite the demonstration's postponement.
