FBIS3-59788 "jpjst004__l94029" JPRS-JST-94-004L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 27 January 1994 Factory Automation, Robotics Toyota's `Caelum' Subsidiary To Market CAD/CAM System Expertise 43070020A Tokyo NIKKEI WEEKLY in English 20 Dec 93 p 9 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 43070020A Tokyo NIKKEI WEEKLY Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Masato Ishizawa, staff writer: ``Toyota Sells the Secret of Its Success''] [Text] Toyota Motor Corp.'s world-renowned production system has helped it sell more passenger cars than any other automaker. Now, the company has decided to sell some of the secrets of this key process. In late October, Toyota joined with Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding Co. to set up a subsidiary, Toyota Caelum Inc., to market computer-aided design and manufacturing systems (CAD/CAM), which allow engineers to not only design products but to control manufacturing processes. Toyota Caelum -- which has been formed from Toyota Motor's Caelum division -- is also negotiating with Ford Motor Co. to sell graphic displays, which are used to make blueprints of car bodies and engines, said the subsidiary's president, Iwao Isomura. The computer systems, run on engineering workstations or personal computers, were originally developed by Toyota's systems engineers and have been used at the automaker's domestic and overseas plants as well as at its parts suppliers. Choice of Dimensions The systems offer both two- and three-dimensional software. The 3-D version, of course, allows easier design of machinery and electric appliances and can be linked with computer-aided engineering, computer-aided manufacturing and computer-aided testing software. Toyota says the systems allow users to readily grasp the design process, from development through production, and encourage quality control, allowing structural and material changes to be incorporated without having to rework the entire process. The systems also have allowed engineers from both Toyota and its parts suppliers to directly exchange data and cooperate in the development of passenger cars. Said Hiromi Araki, chief executive officer at Toyota Caelum, ``Our system is different from other CAD/CAM software because it accounts for factors peculiar to stamp-pressing and molding, such as the resiliency of materials to shrinkage.'' He also said that unlike other CAD/CAM systems, many of which have been designed for the production of small volumes of airplanes, the Toyota Caelum system can be used in the manufacture of large volumes of products of uniform quality. Not the least of the new subsidiary's goals is earning money through the sale of computer systems. ``We have separated the computer-system division from Toyota and started to aggressively sell the system to non-group firms in order to generate funds to develop (even more) upgraded systems,'' Araki said. Because revenue from the Caelum division was only a small part of Toyota's huge sales, the division has been unable to acquire sufficient funds and talented systems engineers. Actually, Toyota began selling output from Caelum -- which stands for Computer-Aided Engineering Leading Ultimate Manufacturing -- to other firms in electric appliance and machinery industries in 1989. With the growing need in Japanese industry to cut research and development costs, sales of the computer system grew more than 20% year on year. In the next five years, the subsidiary plans to boost sales to firms outside the Toyota group from 20% of all sales to more than 50% and expand annual sales from ¥5.5 billion to ¥10.5 billion, the company said. Through the subsidiary, Toyota will also offer consulting services to improve production efficiency. But many Toyota officials are concerned that some of the company's key technology may be leaked with the sale of the computer systems.
