FBIS4-61243 "drsov087_g_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-087 Daily Report 4 May 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Kebich Accused of Usurping Radio, TV in Campaign Kebich Accused of Usurping Radio, TV in Campaign LD0405150294 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1402 GMT 4 May 94 LD0405150294 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Presidential Bulletin" feature No. 85 (575); compiled by Nikolay Zherebtsov, Andrey Petrovskiy; edited by Vladimir Shishlin] [Text] Prime Minister Vyacheslav Kebich's campaign officers have succeeded to collect signatures of more than 100,000 voters and 150 deputies, which is more than is needed to stand as presidential candidate. The Central Electoral Commission [CEC] is due to register him as such in the next few days. Kebich is free to choose whether he wants to be nominated by parliament or the voters, a CEC source told INTERFAX IF Note: Under the election law, a presidential candidate is expected to collect 100,000 signatures on the ground or 70 signatures by Belarussian deputies to qualify for the race. As many as 19 candidates seek nomination in a signature collecting campaign due to end on May 14. Many of the contenders are about to collect the required number of signatures. Among those collecting 70,000 signatures are former Speaker Stanislav Shushkevich, Communist Party and People's Front Movement leaders Vasiliy Novikov and Zenon Pozniak as well as head of the now-abolished anti-corruption commission Aleksandr Likhashenko. Critics of the Prime Minister have accused him of usurping radio and television ahead of the presidential campaign. Shushkevich's campaign managers issued a statement saying "the government's propaganda machine for Kebich's nomination was switched on long before the election itself." They said "any provision of air time to Kebich's rivals carried the risk of a journalist's dismissal" adding that perpetual appearance on radio and television by Kebich and his team was unfair. Campaign managers of two other candidates have also accused the Prime Minister of using central and local government staff in his presidential campaign. In the meantime, President of the National Bank Stanislav Bogdankevich told Interfax that all of the heads of NBB branches had been warned against financing any of the presidential candidates. In this connection, the Bank will also tighten control over commercial bank operations, he said. IF Note: Representatives of nine pro-democracy groups and movements set up a public supervisory commission to make sure that the forthcoming election is free and fair.
