FBIS3-6139 "dreas050_h_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Malaysia Two Assemblymen Resign; New Sabah Party Formed BK1503064894 Kuala Lumpur Voice of Malaysia in English 0600 GMT 15 Mar 94 BK1503064894 Kuala Lumpur Voice of Malaysia Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Two more Parti Bersatu Sabah [Sabah United Party, PBS] state assemblymen today quit the party which has now lost its majority in the state legislative assembly. Deputy Chief Minister Datuk Chau Tet Onn and the assemblyman for Sembulan, Encik [Mr.] Chau Chin Tang, who announced their resignations from the PBS at a press conference at the Istana Hotel in Kuala Lumpur, said they will join Barisan Nasional [National Front, BN]. Chau, the assemblyman for Api-Api, said he was joining the Liberal Democratic Party, LDP, a component of the BN. They were the latest two defections of the three-week old PBS state government led by Chief Minister Datuk Joseph Pairin Kitingan, who lost its majority in the state assembly made up of 48 elected representatives and six nominated assemblymen. The defections of PBS assemblymen since Saturday reduced the PBS majority of 25 elected representatives and six nominated assemblymen to 24 seats -- five of them nominated members compared with 40 for BN. The PBS, which won 25 seats in the state election on 18 and 19 of last month giving it a simple majority, formed the new government on the 22d and appointed six more assemblymen as provided for under the state constitution. Meanwhile, Datuk Dr. Jeffrey Kitingan has confirmed that he will lead the newly formed Parti Bersatu Rakyat Sabah [United Sabah People's Party] and which is to be launched in Kota Kinabalu today. He told newsmen before leaving Kuala Lumpur for Kota Kinabalu that the new party will be a multi-racial party and will apply to join the Barisan Nasional. Datuk Dr. Jeffrey will explain to the people of Sabah as to why he is taking such a move. He will also brief his brother, Datuk Joseph Pairin Kitingan, of his intention to leave PBS and join the new party.
