FBIS3-58628 "drweu012_a_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 AUSTRIA Klima Concludes Economic Talks in Southeast Asia AU1801180794 Vienna WIENER ZEITUNG in German 18 Jan 94 p 8 AU1801180794 Vienna WIENER ZEITUNG Language: German Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Good Chances in Southeast Asia"] [Text] There are good prospects for Austria's export trade to the Southeast Asian threshold countries. Transportation Minister Viktor Klima, who visited Vietnam, Malaysia, and Indonesia, accompanied by a delegation of leading industrialists and business managers, describes the region as a promising growth market with very tough competition. In order for Austrian exporters to be successful on these markets, the state should grant them the same competitive conditions their foreign competitors enjoy, said Klima in a report on his talks. Specific projects worth approximately 5 billion schillings were negotiated, Klima told Austrian radio correspondents following his visit. Klima is expecting the talks to yield tangible results within the next two or three years. There is particularly great interest in equipment for local infrastructure programs, such as special rails, rail production machinery, locomotives, and freight cars. In Vietnam, a bilateral railroad cooperation program is in the offing, and in Malaysia, a relevant railroad agreement, including the Austrian Rail Engineering (ARE) company, was discussed. In addition, Klima said deliveries in the area of power plant engineering and sewage treatment were discussed. However, real successes require soft loans. Klima said he would discuss this in the government. Austrian suppliers will also set up, step-by-step, local production facilities in Indonesia and Malaysia. In Kuala Lumpur, the extension of the current air transport agreement with Malaysia and MAS was discussed. Detailed negotiations are scheduled to begin in the next few weeks. The talks will be aimed at offering Vienna Airport increasingly as a bridgehead for Far East air connections. At present, MAS supplies a Kuala Lumpur-Vienna service twice every week.
