FBIS4-694 "drafr072_c_94024" FBIS-AFR-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Goldstone Announces Inquiry Into Eskom-KwaZulu Case Goldstone Announces Inquiry Into Eskom-KwaZulu Case MB1304134894 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1311 GMT 13 Apr 94 MB1304134894 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Johannesburg April 12 SAPA -- The Goldstone Commission announced it will hold a public inquiry on Friday [15 April] into illegal purchases or attempted purchases of arms from the electricity supplier Eskom. The inquiry comes in the wake of revelations by Eskom that there had been an attempt by a staff member to sell arms to a dealer who intended passing them on to kwaZulu. "With regard to that incident, Eskom promptly launched an efficient and thorough investigation which has reached an advanced stage. The information thus far gathered has been made available by Eskom to the commission. It has been ascertained that these arms were destined for kwaZulu," Commission Chairman Mr Justice Richard Goldstone said on Wednesday. "After consultation with Eskom, the commission has decided to hold a public inquiry into the matter on Friday, 15 April 1994." He said the inquiry will centre on any unauthorised purchases or attempted purchases from Eskom to any organisation or person and into their purposes. The investigation will cover the period from July 1, 1989 to the present time. The commission has requested several parties to furnish it with all relevant information at their disposal at the inquiry on Friday. They are: Eskom; the kwaZulu government; the kwaZulu Police; the South African Police; the National Intelligence Service; J Garb and Co (PTY) LTD; Soyeh International (PTY) Limited; Shotgun Willies; Gintans Security; National Union of Mineworkers; National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa; Iron and Steel and Allied Industries Union and other trade unions; South African National Civic Organisation. The inquiry will be held on the ground floor Sandpark Building 24 Fredman Drive, Sandton.
