FBIS4-47585 "jpust013___94139" JPRS-UST-94-013 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 23 June 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Cytogenetic Characterization of Children Affected by Cytogenetic Characterization of Children Affected by Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant Accident 947C0178B Moscow MEDITSINSKAYA RADIOLOGIYA in Russian Vol. 38 No. 10, Oct. 93 pp. 25-28 947C0178B Moscow MEDITSINSKAYA RADIOLOGIYA Russian CSO [Article by I.Ye. Vorobtsova, S.N. Kolyubayeva, M.V. Vorobyeva, D.V. Korotkov, V.Ye. Komar, Central X-ray and Radiology Scientific Research Institute at the Russian Federation Ministry of Public Health, St. Petersburg] [Abstract] Reports that a decrease in hereditary stability raises the carcinogenesis risk and that irradiation destabilizes the hereditary chromosomal system and, in a long-term, increases the cells' sensitivity to mutagenic factors, and evidence that a human organism irradiated at the parental gamete stages becomes postnatally more sensitive to subsequent mutagenic and carcinogenic factors prompted a comparative investigation of the stability of the chromosomal system of the Chernobyl clean-up crew children in order to predict their likely mutagenesis and carcinogenesis risk. To this end, a cytogenetic examination of several groups of children from the St. Petersburg region irradiated due to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident and control group children was carried out. The children were divided into seven groups: postnatal irradiation (A), evacuated children (A') from Gomel and Bryansk oblasts, intrauterine irradiation (B), prezygotic irradiation (C), negative control (D), positive control (E), and clinical control (F). The chromosomal system stability was assessed by the spontaneous chromosomal aberration and micronuclei level in the lymphocytes and by the chromosomal radiosensitivity under an in vitro exposure of these cells to a 1.5 Gy dose of [.sup]60[/] Co _g_-radiation. The findings demonstrate that the use of the comprehensive hereditary system stability assessment may probably produce more objective criteria for identifying the risk groups while the use of in vitro test irradiation may be recommended as a procedure for evaluating the chromosomal stability. The results also make it possible to draw the preliminary conclusion that low-dose irradiation of children is a factor which destabilizes the human genome. Tables 3; references 7: 2 Russian, 5 Western.
