FBIS3-25203 "drafr028_c_94013" FBIS-AFR-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA South African Press Review for 10 Feb MB1002135294 MB1002135294 Article Type:BFN [Editorial Report] BUSINESS DAY Call for Removal of Exchange Controls--"Ahead of the election, insecurities are far more likely to grow than to recede, and that is likely to persist unless absolutely clear policies are specified by our next government," warns a page-10 editorial in Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English on 10 February. "The confidence needed if we are to attract the investment to create jobs and develop the economy would be restored more easily if a new government shows it has shed the fears that hobbled our economy under the National Party." BUSINESS DAY urges an "immediate removal of exchange controls." Argentinians and Egyptians that took the exchange controls leap of faith "have responded by redirecting their foreign funds back home." "South Africans seeking security have exported more than their capital, more than fistsfull of Krugerrands. Many have taken themselves and their skills abroad and are probably congratulating themselves on their foresight as this country descends into apparent confusion. A clear commitment on a timetable for removing exchange controls would be among the soundest confidence-boosters the ANC could provide." SOWETAN Need for More Accessible Education -- A new government should "increase subsidies for tertiary institutions" advises Johannesburg SOWETAN in English on 10 February. "The country will suffer if the state does not embark on an aggressive programme to make education more accessible." CAPE TIMES Campaign To Drive White Teachers From Black Schools -- "The campaign to drive white teachers out of traditionally black schools has graduated from being sadly misguided to decidedly dangerous," points out a page-6 editorial in Cape Town CAPE TIMES in English on 8 February. "Given the shambles in black education in South Africa, urgent efforts are clearly needed to train, retrain and upgrade the skills of black teachers. Efforts to demonise whites and run them out of town may pander to the racist instincts of some politicians, but they will not help black schoolchildren pass their exams."
