FBIS3-11061 "drlat052_c_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 MEXICO Guatemala's De Leon Pays Official Visit Discusses Commercial Ties With Salinas PA1603201694 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 16 Mar 94 PA1603201694 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 16 Mar 94 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Jaime Guerrero from the "Early Morning" newscast] [Text] At a state dinner honoring Guatemalan President Ramiro de Leon Carpio, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari affirmed peace is essential in Mexico and all Latin America to ensure development, economic development, and civilized coexistence. [Begin Salinas recording] There is no possibility of development without peace. That is why it is essential to protect peace as an unbreakable value of unity, as a requirement for civilized coexistence. [end recording] Guatemala has experienced 30 years of violent confrontation, and Mexico experienced a social outburst in Chiapas State. The Mexican president said peace and social justice constitute the best legacy to future generations of the region. De Leon asked the Mexican people for their solidarity so his country can finish the peace and reconciliation process this year, a process under negotiation in our country. De Leon commented on the painful reality of underdevelopment, mainly among Indian groups. [Begin De Leon recording] This way, it is clear a gap exists between Indian and ladino sectors, with the former experiencing the worst educational, economic, and political indexes. [end recording] The anthems of the two countries set the tone of the official reception. In the National Palace central courtyard, the two presidents spoke in favor of giving a new boost to economic and political relations. [Begin De Leon recording] We came to promote cultural, economic, and social cooperation, and to agree on the grounds for an equitable commerce accord. [end recording] The two governments issued a joint communique pledging to make the fund for the development of Indian peoples operational soon.
