FBIS3-18691 "drweu045cc_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 March 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS EU Threatens U.S. With GATT Reprisals AU0803090994 Paris AFP in English 0054 GMT 8 Mar 94 AU0803090994 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Brussels, March 8 (AFP) -- The European Union [EU] threatened here Monday [7 March] to retaliate against alleged deficiencies in U.S. tariff-reducing offers in the final days of the Uruguay Round of GATT trade talks. EU foreign ministers said in a statement that the Union should reduce its tariff offers on items important to the United States in retaliation at deficient offers made by Washington. They said the United States had made disappointing offers in tariff-cutting schedules that are to be included in the final Uruguay Round agreement of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to be signed in Marrakesh on April 15. An EU official, citing U.S. tariffs on trucks and copper, said the Union might in retaliation reduce its tariff-cutting offer in products such as nonferrous metals. The ministers said such reprisals should target products where the United States supplied 90 percent of EU requirements, and should be carefully calibrated so that they could not be blamed for unravelling the Uruguay Round. The meeting also expressed alarm at last week's decision by the United States to reactivate its Super 301 trade regulation to force open the Japanese market. The statement said the trade measure would be carefully scrutinised to make sure it did not violate EU trade rights. A spokesman for EU Trade Commissioner Leon Brittan quoted him as saying that Super 301 was viewed with concern as a unilateral trade reprisal that went against the GATT tide of multilateral dispute settlement. French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe stressed France's demand that the effect on trade of environmental, social and monetary issues should be spotlighted at the Marrakesh conference, where a new World Trade Organisation is to be set up. The French demand aims at preventing countries profiting from cut-price exports through poor environmental and social standards, and monetary manipulation. There was some suport for establishing an environmental committee at Marrakesh. "But let's not cloud the Uruguay Round with other issues now," Brittan's spokesman said.
