FBIS3-19970 "drweu058__a94016" FBIS-WEU-94-058-A Document Type:Daily Report 25 March 1994 ANNEX Germany Kanther Seeks `Deportation Agreement' With Turkey AU2403162694 Hamburg DPA in German 1525 GMT 24 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2403162694 Hamburg DPA Language: German Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] Bonn -- The Federal Government wants to conclude an internationally binding agreement with Turkey under which rioters deported from Germany must not be punished by death. Interior Minister Manfred Kanther said on Westdeutscher Rundfunk [radio station] on Thursday [24 March] that he has spoken to Foreign Minister Kinkel about negotiating a "deportation agreement" with Ankara. In this agreement, the Turkish government is to promise that deported Kurds will not face death sentences for previous offenses committed in Turkey. With such an agreement, which he thinks Ankara will keep, the German law on foreigners could be enforced "much more intensively," Kanther said. Yekta Guengoer Oezden, president of the Turkish Constitutional Court, told DPA in Ankara, that Turkish justice guarantees "the right to defense, including the right to look for appeal, no less than German law does." If cases of torture occur "now and again," the "ignorant persons responsible" are tried for undue use of authority and punished, Oezden said. Onur Oeymen, Turkey's ambassador to Bonn, speaking on Deutschlandfunk radio, confirmed his country's willingness to fight terrorists with the means of a constitutional state. In spite of these promises, the church charity Caritas and Alliance 90/Greens warned against tightening deportation practices. Following the decision by the federal and laender governments to use all means of deportation for violent Kurds, Caritas President Hellmut Puschmann called on the state to "be moderate and renounce revenge." Greens politicians Angelika Beer and Claudia Roth demanded that deportations be halted "as long as there is no sign of rule of law and human rights in Turkey." After the promise not to use any arms from Germany against Kurds, everybody knows what Turkish promises are worth. [passage omitted]
