FBIS3-15754 "drsov047bb_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 March 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Call for Middle East Peace Conference Supported LD0903175294 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1555 GMT 9 Mar 94 LD0903175294 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: reports by diplomatic correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboinikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy, and others] [Text] Russia's call for convening another international conference on the Middle East in Madrid gained support from the conflicting sides and from the other cosponsor of the peace process, the USA. This statement was made at Wednesday's briefing in Moscow by Russia's First Deputy Foreign Minister, Igor Ivanov, who had just returned from a tour of Mideast countries. According to him, "the well-planned action" in Hebron, where an Israeli settler discharged a submachine gun and killed about 60 Palestinians, "disrupted the entire negotiating process and inflicted a mortal wound on the emerging understanding." "The tragedy in Hebron gave rise to a wave of activity among those who oppose the peace process," the diplomat stressed. The goal of his mission, he explained, was to evaluate the situation that took shape in the wake of the tragedy in Hebron, and discuss the possibility of "reciprocal compromises". "In the course of contacts the issue of security guarantees in the occupied territories rose to the foreground," Ivanov said. The diplomat called for adopting by the U.N. Security Council as soon as possible a resolution that would guarantee safety for the population in the occupied territories, and stipulate conditions for international presence there. "It's impossible to resume the negotiating process there at a stroke. A tragedy has occurred, and old conditions are no longer satisfactory. What is needed is actions designed to guarantee that such things will not happen again, and conducive to the implementation of agreements already reached," he pointed out.
