FBIS3-50148 "dreeu016_k_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 CROATIA Krajina Warns UN of Croatian Aggression LD2401185094 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1816 GMT 24 Jan 94 LD2401185094 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Belgrade, Jan 24 (TANJUG) -- The foreign minister of the republic of Serb Krajina (R.S.K.) Slobodan Jarcevic Monday [24 January] warned the U.N. Security Council that Croatia wishes to occupy the R.S.K. by military aggression and that it is striving to get the approval of the international communty to this end. Jarcevic said that the R.S.K., republic proclaimed in 1991 by the Serbs in the territory of the former Yugoslav Republic of Croatia where they are in majority, will defend its independence with determination. He underlined that the U.N. must help the just struggle of the R.S.K. and the right of its people to self-determination, guaranteed by the U.N. Charter. Already in 1990, through terror and ethnic cleansing, Croatia caused the creation of two purely national states in the territory of the former Croatia : the Republic of Croatia and the R.S.K., Jarcevic said in a letter to the U.N. Security Council chairman. Jarcevic was reacting to a letter addressed on January 22 to the Security Council by Croatian Foreign Minister Mate Granic, demanding that the international community help Croatia annex R.S.K. territory. Croatia believes that the joint declaration of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (F.R.Y.) and Croatia on the normalization of their relations gives it the green light to occupy the R.S.K., he said. Croatian President Tudjman Saturday warned that Croatia would recover the R.S.K. territory by other means if not through an agreement. The F.R.Y. has signed the declaration in order to normalize relations with the Republic of Croatia, and not to help Croatia annex the R.S.K. as the Croatian minister claimed in his letter, Jarcevic noted. F.R.Y. and Croatian representatives signed on January 19 in Geneva a joint declaration on the normalization of their relations. Since the former Yugoslav Federation disintegrated, the two states have had no economic or political relations.
