FBIS4-35913 "drnes107_m_94007" FBIS-NES-94-107 Daily Report 29 May 1994 JORDAN Minister Stresses Government's Economic `Openness' Minister Stresses Government's Economic `Openness' JN2905065494 Amman JORDAN TIMES in English 29 May 94 pp 1, 5 JN2905065494 Amman JORDAN TIMES English BFN [Article by Nirmin Murad] [Excerpt] Amman -- The government of Prime Minister 'Abd-al-Salam al-Majali is moving ahead with its policy of removing legal and bureaucratic obstacles that stand in the face of new investors who wish to enter the previously protected sectors of the Jordanian economy, Minister of Trade and Industry Rima Khalaf said during a business luncheon with journalists and writers Saturday. The minister said that the government's controversial amendments to the insurance law was the first step in that direction, and that this particular sector was chosen because it was the only one that was "legally protected" against the entry of new companies and investors. Other sectors, the minister said, have become restricted "not because of legislative protection" but because the issuance of licences for new investors was a "dual responsibility" shared by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the concerned government department or ministry which often has its own considerations and protection policies. "The problem is that some of the industries which were protected in the years before 1988 were accorded protection against local competition and not only foreign competition," Ms. Khalaf said, adding that the government would gradually ease the restrictions and will terminate protection contracts when they expire. "The policy of this government is openness. On the industrial level competition is the basis of our economy," Ms. Khalaf said, adding that Jordan should reach a point where "the market decides what stays and what goes." "The banking sector, for example, was restricted because of Central Bank regulations and not because of trade and industry laws," Ms. Khalaf pointed out in response to a specific question on that sector. [passage omitted]
