FBIS3-5004 "dreas042_d_94028" FBIS-EAS-94-042 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Mar 1994 South Korea President Urges Nation To Form Security Vision SK0203072394 Seoul YONHAP in English 0633 GMT 2 Mar 94 SK0203072394 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, March 2 (YONHAP) -- President Kim Yong-sam said Wednesday that Koreans should start forming a vision for a unified Korea in the 21st century while striving to maintain collective security in the Asia-Pacific region. In an address at the commencement ceremony of the Korea Military Academy's 50th class, Kim said a unified Korea would not be a burden to the peace and prosperity of the Asia and Pacific region. Rather, it would be a promoter of such ideals, he said. Kim is the first civilian president to give a commencement address at the military academy in more than three decades. "Responding to the demands of the times, our military has to develop into an efficient, scientific, future-oriented and internationalized Armed Force," Kim said. "We have to build an Armed Force of quality rather than quantity," the president said. The military must undertake reform and change not because of demands from the outside, but in its own best interests, he said. "As the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of this country," Kim said, "I will try to do my best not to betray the love and trust of our officers and men." "I'll take a deep interest in building up an elite force and improving conditions for professional soldiers," Kim said. The president noted that North Korea is now standing at an important crossroads and the world community is gravely concerned about its actions. "North Korea will have to guarantee transparency of its nuclear safeguards and make sincere efforts to solve the nuclear problem peacefully," Kim said. Unless South Korea maintains a strong security setup, it cannot expect to attain true independence, Kim said. "We have to maintain a defense system that can meet any change in security and be alert at all times in this transitory period."
