FBIS3-42195 "jptot005__l94010" JPRS-TOT-94-005-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 2 February 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA EGYPT Hamas Support to `Terrorists' Detailed NC2501175894 Cairo AL-AHRAM AL-MASA'I in Arabic 20 Jan 94 p 1 NC2501175894 Cairo AL-AHRAM AL-MASA'I Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Muhammad 'Abd-al-Bari] [Text] Investigations by the security organs have revealed that Samir Isma'il Salih, a Palestinian student attending al-Azhar Institute in al-Zaytun, had strong links with Hamas [Islamic Resistance Movement]. "Coded" messages issued by the Hamas leadership in the occupied territories were found in Salih's possession. The messages contain instructions from Hamas for suicide operations to be waged against policemen in retaliation for what the group called repressive measures against brothers in jihad in Egypt. A responsible security source told AL-AHRAM AL-MASA'I's legal editor that preliminary information indicates a foreign security service has infiltrated Hamas and is steering it toward supporting terrorists locked in armed confrontation with the Egyptian security organs, in an effort to destabilize Egypt. The security source said that Hamas, while involved in supporting Egyptian terrorists, remains unaware of being infiltrated by the foreign security service. The source disclosed that the raid on a terrorist stronghold in al-Ma'sarah [a southern suburb of Cairo] came after investigations showed that a number of individuals living in that area had been involved in attacks against policemen. One notorious terrorist, Tharwat Hajjaj, however, managed to escape the police dragnet, together with his wife and three children. Two others, Muhammad Ahmad Farhan and Samir Salih, were captured. The source added that the Egyptian security service had information showing Hamas's support of terrorists but lacked material evidence. The arrest of the Palestinian student provided us with that evidence, he stated. [Cairo AL-JUMHURIYAH in Arabic in a related report published on pp 1, 4 of its 22 January issue says: "A high-ranking security source has denied a press report on the involvement of a certain Palestinian organization in terrorist acts in Egypt. The source said that terrorist Samir Salih has been living in Cairo for some time and that terrorists succeeded in recruiting him."]
