FBIS4-37757 "drnes122_k_94005" FBIS-NES-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 IRAQ KDP Denies `Secret' Talks With Government KDP Denies `Secret' Talks With Government PM2306154094 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 23 Jun 94 p6 PM2306154094 London AL-HAYAH Arabic BFN [Unattributed report: "Barzani's Party Denies Negotiation with Baghdad"] [Text] London, AL-HAYAH -- The unified Kurdistan Democratic Party [KDP], led by Mas'ud Barzani, has affirmed that it "has no intention of holding secret negotiations with Baghdad. If it became convinced that negotiations would serve the interests and aims of our people then it would hold negotiations openly as it had done in the negotiations with successive Iraqi governments." It emphasized that it "saw no point in negotiating with the regime." A statement by the KDP's spokesman, which AL-HAYAH received yesterday, said that the report published by AL-HAYAH on Tuesday under the headline "Barzani resumed negotiations with Baghdad" was "unfounded" and that the report was "leaked for selfish partisan and political purposes by a party to the recent dispute" in Iraqi Kurdistan "with the aim of casting doubt on the KDP's position in the Iraqi opposition." The statement added: "That is confirmed by the fact that the KDP has obtained a Patriotic Union of Kurdistan [PUK] secret internal bulletin number 24, dated 19 June 1994, containing the same information published in AL-HAYAH's report. That source was the only source, referred to as reliable Kurdish Iraqi sources. We do not believe that such practices would help the current peace process and reconciliation in Iraqi Kurdistan following the containment of the destructive crisis. "To clarify the truth we also say that the members of the KDP's alleged delegation which was supposed to include Yunis Ruzbayani and 'Izzat Sulayman Bik and to have visited Baghdad on 11 and 12 June, actually never left the Kurdish area at all in that period. In addition to being a member of the Central Committee, Ruzbayani is also the interior minister in the regional government and he was in his office in Irbil during that period as many employees can testify. As for 'Izzat Sulayman, he was grieved when his son Aram was killed in the recent fighting, and he never left the area in that period because of the tragedy and the condolences procedures. No other official went to Baghdad. The unified KDP has no intention of holding secret negotiations with Baghdad. If it became convinced that negotiations would serve the interests and aims of our people then it would hold them openly as it has done with successive Iraqi governments, but the party sees no point in negotiation with the regime and it is committed to the policy and objectives of the Unified Iraqi National Congress, which are: promoting a democratic alternative and fulfilling the Kurdish people's aspiration to a federation within a peaceful, united, and democratic Iraq."
