FBIS4-39914 "drsov113_a_94026" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Latest Moldova Talks `Constructive;' Differences Remain Latest Moldova Talks `Constructive;' Differences Remain PM1006144394 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 10 Jun 94 p 3 PM1006144394 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Russian BFN [Sergey Knyazkov report: "Constructive Talks Held. But Differences in Timetable for 14th Army's Withdrawal From Moldavia [Moldova] Have Remained"] [Text] Informing readers in yesterday's issue of KRASNAYA ZVEZDA on the progress of the Russian-Moldavian negotiations, at which the timetable for the withdrawal of the Russian 14th Army from the territory of Moldavia was discussed, we presented some preliminary details. The delegation heads' news conference to a large extent clarified the sides' positions. According to the Russian delegation's leader, Vladimir Kitayev, on the basis of military experts' conclusions and calculations a period of four, not three, years will be required for the troops' withdrawal. Russia is prepared to look into the possibility of reducing this period, but it will be greater than Kishinev [Chisinau] expects -- the latter considers that the 14th Army should be withdrawn no later than 1 January 1996. Nevertheless, it was stated at the news conference that this question has already been resolved as far as possible, and it is likely that the sides will come to a final decision at the negotiations' 10th round. Indeed, not a single document was initialed in the negotiations' ninth round, but the outward "tardiness" of these negotiations going back to 8 August 1992 mask an inner tension. "We do not want the troop withdrawal to be accompanied by mass actions on the part of Dniester Region inhabitants, rallies, pickets, and other excesses," Colonel Eduard Vorobyev, head of the Russian delegation's military side, explained. "We wish to take all aspects of the problem into account, and I believe the withdrawal will proceed in an organized manner when full mutual understanding between the Russian and Moldavian delegations is reached and the Dniester Region's interests are taken into consideration to such an extent that the leadership and the bulk of the population of the Dniester's left bank will participate in guaranteeing this process." It is worth reminding readers that since the start of the negotiations three Russian units have been withdrawn from Moldavia and 18 have been disbanded on site; also, eight interstate agreements have been concluded and are being implemented successfully.
