FBIS3-52247 "drnes001_s_94001" FBIS-NES-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 Iran Turkmen President, Delegation Arrive on Visit LD0201113894 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 1030 GMT 2 Jan 94 LD0201113894 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Language: Persian Article Type:BFN [Text] The president of Turkmenistan, Saparmurad Niyazov, arrived this morning in Tehran for a five-day visit at the head of a delegation, and was officially welcomed by President 'Ali Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani. Our correspondent reports: [Correspondent] After arriving in Tehran, Niyazov praised Hashemi-Rafsanjani as a distinguished international political and cultural figure and spoke about the depth of friendship, the strength of brotherhood, and the scope of cooperation between the two countries. The president of Turkmenistan spoke of Hashemi-Rafsanjani's trip to his country as an unforgettable event for the people of Turkmenistan and said: Iran is a powerful and influential country in the world, and Turkmenistan, through an emphasis on its relations with the Islamic Republic, uses the experiences of the Iranian Government and people in development. He emphasized that cooperation between the two countries is not to the detriment of other countries, and that the countries of Central Asia and member countries of the Commonwealth, in their recent session in Ashgabat, stressed their interest in expanding relations with Iran. In turn, Hashemi-Rafsanjani spoke about the process of cooperation between the two countries and said: [Begin Hashemi-Rafsanjani recording] In the name of God, the compassionate, the merciful. I think cooperation between Iran and Turkmenistan, is an example of good relations between two sincere neighbors. We have achieved good progress since Turkmenistan achieved independence and the process of cooperation continues. During my recent trip to Turkmenistan we made important decisions. The people of Turkmenistan showed that they have extraordinary interest in cooperating with Iran. Turkmenistan's presidenct, His Excellency Mr. Niyazov, ministers, and other officials extended their best regards and following our invitation, Niyazov, accompanied by a high-ranking and wide-ranging delegation, has now come to Iran. The composition of their delegation indicates their wish to work with Iran in all fields, and this we welcome. They have also put aside sufficient time to stay in Iran, again indicating the importance of this relationship. They also intend to visit various parts of the country, again indicating their interest in Iran. We did the same while in Turkmenistan. I think this could be a good example for the world, of relations between two countries. God willing. [end recording] [Correspondent] This is the third time that Niyazov is visiting Iran in the past three years since Turkmenistan achieved independence. He is being accompanied by 14 senior government officials, including vice presidents, ministers, and governors.
