FBIS3-53016 "drnes007bb_94002" FBIS-NES-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 Inter-Arab Affairs Damascus Declaration States Conclude Meeting Al-Shar' Comments on Geneva Summit JN1001142294 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1215 GMT 10 Jan 94 JN1001142294 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] [passage omitted] The Damascus Declaration foreign ministers held a closed meeting this morning, during which they continued their discussion of the topics listed on the agenda. In a statement to reporters this morning, Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shar' said: We are satisfied with the deliberations taking place among the foreign ministers of the Damascus Declaration states. The ministers expressed interest in the declaration and the need to activate it and implement its provisions in the various domains, particularly the political and economic ones. Moreover, all the ministers expressed a great deal of interest in the anticipated summit between Presidents Hafiz al-Asad and Bill Clinton. Al-Shar' stressed that the anticipated summit is very important, as admitted by several countries and nations in the region. Al-Shar' said: We look forward with optimism to the summit meeting in order to achieve results and successes that would help establish a just and comprehensive peace in the region on the basis of the resolutions of international legitimacy and the land-for-peace principle. He added: The topics the two presidents will discuss in Geneva are the peace process and the way to achieve a just and comprehensive peace, in addition to bilateral relations. An extensive discussion will be held on the overall situation in the region. In a statement to reporters today, Egyptian Foreign Minister 'Amr Musa stressed the need to implement the Damascus Declaration provisions, indicating that the current meeting of the declaration states' foreign ministers will boost the Syrian position on the restoration of the Golan. He called for seeking the best ways and means to serve the Arab economic situation. Musa paid tribute to the fraternal relations between Syria and Egypt and described them as strong. He said: Bilateral coordination exists and continues. Qatari Foreign Minister Hamad Bin-Jasim Bin Jabr Al Thani said the Damascus Declaration is not a bloc disconnected with the Arab League, but a group of principles agreed on by the eight states to provide an appropriate atmosphere for joint cooperation under all circumstances. In a radio statement today, Shaykh Hamad said he hoped that the Damascus Declaration will continue to exist and serve as a model for the other Arab states. The Qatari minister said that it is joint interests that determine cooperation among states. Hence, he said, the Damascus Declaration was ratified. He stressed his country's commitment to the joint Arab action regarding the Arab boycott of Israel.
