FBIS3-60195 "jptdd004__l94045" JPRS-TDD-94-004-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 26 January 1994 NEAR EAST & SOUTH ASIA PAKISTAN `Jihad' Planned To Combat Drug Mafia 94WD0140G Peshawar MASHRIQ in Urdu 6 Dec 93 p 6 94WD0140G Peshawar MASHRIQ Language: Urdu Article Type:CSO [Editorial: "Forceful Campaign Against Drug Mafia"] [Text] The operation against growing and smuggling narcotics that Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has announced is equivalent to a jihad against the trade involving this deadly addiction. The prime minister has directed in the high-level meeting of the Anti-Narcotics Task Force to arrest all major narcotics smugglers at any cost, and not to accept any kind of political pressure in this context. Under this campaign not only the major crocodiles in this dirty pool will be arrested but cases against them will be heard in a special court. The government will provide all the necessary resources for this important campaign. The prime minister has combined all the small and large agencies related to drug control at the federal level to form an effective agency. All related officials have been instructed to present a special report immediately. No doubt that production, trade, and smuggling of heroin is a major curse in Pakistan. While it has given a bad name to Pakistan at the international level, it has also poisoned our new generation. It is unfortunate that no government from Ziaul Haq to Nawaz Sharif took any effective step to end this curse. The main reason for this neglect was the lobbies formed by the drug Mafia in every political party. All the anti-narcotics laws were ineffective, and even in the law enforcement agencies responsible for curbing this curse, there were persons who protected the Mafia interests. However, some major narcotic smugglers were arrested during the caretaker government. The present government passed the law to give death sentences and confiscate property of arrested drug smugglers. Now a solid campaign is being launched against these death-dealers. The people are hoping that no major drug dealer will be able to escape the long arms of the law. Still, in addition to this legal campaign, it is important to stop poppy cultivation in tribal areas and to take all necessary steps to protect the youth from this deadly habit with the help of reform agencies. Special far-reaching efforts must be made to treat and rehabilitate the chronic addicts.
