FBIS4-11182 "drlat079_c_94012" FBIS-LAT-94-079 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 MEXICO Commerce Commissioner: Capital Departure Temporary Commerce Commissioner: Capital Departure Temporary PA2404164594 Mexico City LA JORNADA in Spanish 20 Apr 94 p 46 PA2404164594 Mexico City LA JORNADA Spanish BFN [Report by Nestor Martinez] [Text] On 19 April, Carlos Sales Guerrero, president of the Senate's Commerce Committee, said money is leaving the country because of an "instability which I hope will be temporary." During an interview, Sales expressed his confidence that political and economic stability will soon "improve the situation in the country." Nevertheless, he said he neither rules out nor disregards Mexico's serious problems. He denied this movement is a "flight of capital." The phrase, he said, is currently being used to describe an uncontrolled departure of people afraid of losing their assets, which they try to protect at all costs. "We are dealing with a movement of capital; this is to say, a financial market instability caused by internal and external factors." Sales is in charge of negotiating NAFTA as the legislative branch delegate. He said it is evident there are very marked "financial fluctuations" everywhere and higher federal fund interest rates in the United States, all of which have repercussions on the yield of all stock exchanges in the world. "We have additional problems, and this brings about adjustments. I cannot predict the extent and duration of those adjustments. I can only say that, fortunately, those stock market fluctuations never last long." Asked whether there is any connection between a recurring drop in the stock exchange indexes and the country's pre-electoral situation, Sales replied that many factors are involved in this situation. "To deny the influence of any one of them would be like trying to shield the sun with one finger. To regard the effect of one of them, however, would be an oversimplification." He summed up the situation by saying: "There is indeed instability, which I hope will be temporary. In the world's history, however, there has not been one single permanent downward trend. An upward movement always follows. This is why I think the degree of political and economic stability in the country will soon reassure us. I neither rule out nor disregard the problems affecting us."
