FBIS3-17780 "drsov060_a_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Nazarbayev Explains Eurasian Union Proposal LD2903122194 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1030 GMT 29 Mar 94 LD2903122194 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev told the staff of Moscow University that politicians were lagging behind their people's wish to unite. To quote Nazarbayev, a new state entity -- the Eurasian union with supra-national bodies for coordinating economic and military policies -- might be created. Such a union should have a single parliament, council of defense ministers and defense complex, and an inter-state secretariat appointed by the heads of state. Nazarbayev also said that such a union might pursue a single economic policy, have common borders, and use a supra-national currency retaining the member-states' national currencies. The member-states would maintain good-neighborly relations with other former Soviet republics. Nazarbayev announced that this problem had been discussed in Moscow with President Yeltsin. Speaking about the talks, Nazarbayev emphasized that the end must be put to the tendency of accusing Russia of all mortal sins. He also said that the well-being of his republic was inextricably linked with Russia. He pointed out that the Russian-Kazakh summit marked a new stage in the two countries' economic unification and represented an example to be followed by the other CIS countries. The agreements signed in Moscow provide for setting up financial and industrial groups and joint ventures. They also envisage measures to facilitate the movement of capital and labor between Russia and Kazakhstan, said Nazarbayev. To quote the Kazakh president, the Russian and Kazakh defense ministries would conclude an agreement on joint planning and interaction. "In fact, a single defense system is being created," he said. The Russian and Kazakh governments have been instructed to conclude an agreement on the utilization of military testing grounds located in Russia and Kazakhstan, said Nazarbayev.
