FBIS3-30310 "dreeu021__a94018" FBIS-EEU-94-021-A Document Type:Daily Report 1 February 1994 ANNEX Hungary SZDSZ Chairman Views Party's Position AU3101100594 Budapest MTI in English 1722 GMT 29 Jan 94 AU3101100594 Budapest MTI Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Budapest, 29 January (MTI) -- The Alliance of Free Democrats [SZDSZ] has become a modern people's party, Chairman Ivan Peto said on Saturday [29 January], the second day of the program forming delegate assembly, in the Budapest Convention Center. Peto was of the opinion that the SZDSZ is clearly in the middle of the political arena, the Federation of Young Democrats is somewhat to its right, with the parties of the government coalition still farther right. The Hungarian Socialist Party is to the left of the party. The chairman of the largest opposition party spoke in detail about the party's election strategy. He mentioned as the first and most important basic principle to safeguard the cleanness of the elections. Peto also said the SZDSZ would refrain from a negative campaign and mud-slinging, focussing on the party's program instead of criticizing the programs and political activity of the other parties. The SZDSZ chairman said the 1994 elections will basically be of a different nature and content than in 1990, at which time the change in political system was at stake, while this spring voters will have to choose between democratic parties, by considering the success rate of governmental work over the past four years. The most important goal for the SZDSZ is to achieve a liberal majority, and with this to take over from the current government coalition. As regards political cooperation with other parties, the agreement concluded with the young democrats remains guiding for the SZDSZ, and it will definitely respect it, Peto said. The Hungarian Socialist Party is a political and election opponent of the free democrats, he added, who must be defeated at the elections. With respect to the situation in the public service media, Peto said the SZDSZ is not ready to participate in a "media law show" that sanctifies the current condition.
