FBIS4-46605 "jpuma027___94022" JPRS-UMA-94-027 JPRS Central Eurasia Military Affairs 1 June 1994 STATE AND LOCAL MILITARY FORCES UKRAINE Ukraine's Crimea Concerns Aired, National Guard Involved Ukraine's Crimea Concerns Aired, National Guard Involved National Guard Facility Harassed 94UM0467E Kiev NARODNA ARMIYA in Ukrainian 1 Jun 94 p 2 94UM0467E Kiev NARODNA ARMIYA Ukrainian CSO [Article from press service of the NHU [National Guard of Ukraine] commander and Ukrinform under the rubric "In the National Guard": "Can You Have Forgotten That We Are Brethren?"] [Text] The military compound of the subunit of the National Guard in the city of Sevastopol has been under the vigilant attention of persons unknown lately. Individuals armed with firearms have repeatedly penetrated the NHU facility, which is protected only by an unarmed day detail, at night. Tactical classes of Marines from the Black Sea Fleet are being conducted immediately adjacent to the premises where the Guardsmen are based. The operation of the Guardsmen's electronic-warfare (REB) systems was suppressed for several hours, while telephone communications were cut and were restored only with the aid of internal-affairs bodies. Unknown persons in civilian dress but a clear military bearing are constantly near the checkpoint of the subunit. It has moreover been ascertained that someone has prepared 200 meters of the common roadway leading to the military compound for demolition--the locations for the placement of explosives are linked by an electrical network. A joint police and Guard patrol that was assigned to guard this area on the night of May 25 set up an ambush close to the NHU unit. Soon, around 1:30, the sentries noticed an unknown person who, seeing people in uniform, threw something away and took to his heels. But in vain. The detainee had on himself military kit, a pistol holster and the special matches of reconnaissance personnel. Five kilograms of TNT and a TT pistol were found at the scene of the incident. The unknown person was ascertained to be citizen D. Yoho, and was transferred to the proper authorities. An investigation is underway. The press service of the National Guard of Ukraine is calling on all soldiers who are serving on the Crimean peninsula not to permit such acts of provocation among themselves, and to resolve problems in an evenhanded and friendly manner in the name of peace and harmony in the region. Can it really be permitted that the servicemen of Ukraine and Russia fight, that mutual hatred fill our hearts? Think about it--to whose advantage is this?
