FBIS4-34189 "drlat116_t_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-116 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 Venezuela Authorities Suspend Classes in Zulia Authorities Suspend Classes in Zulia PA1506161894 Caracas Union Radio Network in Spanish 1100 GMT 15 Jun 94 PA1506161894 Caracas Union Radio Network Spanish BFN [From the "Union Radio News" newscast] [Text] An incident between a Venezuelan Army unit and Zulia University students has intensified the wave of violence reported over the past few days in the capital of Zulia. As we were the first to disclose, an Army jeep escorted by a National Guard jeep knocked down two University of Zulia students and two high school students who were immediately taken to the Maracaibo University Hospital. The incident took place when the jeep was transiting University Avenue and the students attempted to stop it and set it on fire. The Army troops increased their speed and the incident ensued, resulting in four students being injured. The two university students most seriously hurt received traumatic injuries and were transferred urgently from the University Hospital to El Varillal clinic in Zulia, where they are undergoing emergency surgery. Due to this circumstance, the rectorial council of the University of Zulia decided to suspend classes indefinitely and the Secretariat of Education in Zulia ordered the suspension of classes at the largest high schools in the Zulian capital. Angel Lombardi, rector of the University of Zulia, commented on the situation. [Begin Lombardi recording] After consulting with the deans, various authorities, and the student leadership, we decided that it would be wise to suspend all academic activities today and tomorrow. During these two days the University Council will assess the situation. We believe our decision might help to reduce the violence of the past few days, but I agree with the assertions that I have heard. I believe that on Friday there was reason for indignation--Friday was a day of indignation and anger--over a death which was truly unnecessary and very regrettable. [end recording] Classes have been suspended because the disturbances over the past few days ended in the burning of 15 vehicles and losses estimated at 200 million bolivares. On Tuesday, the largest demonstrations were staged in Cabimas, where a vehicle was burned. In Maracaibo, high school students staged riots despite the suspension of classes. They burned tires and closed streets, but no major incidents were reported.
