FBIS3-18103 "drweu039_b_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 BENELUX Belgium Editorialist on Postelection Developments BR2502155694 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE in French 25 Feb 94 p 5 BR2502155694 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE Language: French Article Type:BFN [Marie-France commentary: "Rwanda: A Different War"] [Text] The dirty tricks which for several months have been aiming at giving the opposition or the presidential circles the control over the government and the provisional assembly in Rwanda are actually one thing: The carrying out of the war with other means. International pressures were essential in reaching a peace agreement in 1993. Are they clear enough today? Several Rwandan sources said that Belgian Foreign Minister Claes did not mince words [during his visit] in Kigali. The UN envoy did so too. However, in the name of nonintervention -- probably --, those diplomats do not clearly point at the most serious responsibilities involved in the crisis. It must be said that the manipulations of the lists of deputies and ministers from two parties (the four other are ready) which block the establishment of the institutions are not justified: Within the Liberal Party, the splitting only took place after the prefectorial congress meetings elected their deputies. The votes were checked by a notary public and the elected officials cannot be contested. Within the Republican Democratic Movement, the polls can only be contested for two deputies from two prefectures where double party congress meetings were held; the nine regular officials should be elected. For the two others, as for the ministers, a political compromise will probably be necessary -- but no one can afford to wait until then to establish the institutions. The Patriotic Front maintained self-control and did not resume warfare after the murderous attacks of Tuesday [22 February]. The Rwandan population showed maturity and did not engage in the inter-ethnic killings that some people might expect: There were assasinations in Kigali but no general movement of violence from the population. The MRND [National Republican Movement for Democracy and Development], the presidential party, rightly stresses the responsibility of the (opposition) prime minister who no longer convenes any meeting of his ministers, thus making chaos even worse. The international community will have to clearly lend its support to those Rwandan leaders who bring their fair share to the peace agreement and bring them to the foreground. Otherwise, today's insidious war will become tomorrow's blaze.
