FBIS3-49658 "dreeu009_i_94012" FBIS-EEU-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Contradictory Reports on Sarajevo Attacks LD1201213694 Belgrade TANJUG in English 2023 GMT 12 Jan 94 LD1201213694 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Belgrade, January 12 (TANJUG) -- Seven people were killed and 49 wounded in Tuesday's artillery attacks in Sarajevo, UNPROFOR [UN Protection Force] reported on Wednesday. Three civilians were killed in the Serb suburbs of Grbavica and Lukavica on Tuesday, Bosnian Serb Army sources said. Commander of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) in the former Yugoslav Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, General Francis Briquemont on Tuesday evening accused the Moslem forces loyal to Alija Izetbegovic of being the first to open artillery fire on Serb parts of the city immediately after U.N. envoy Yasushi Akashi had left the city. However, foreign news agencies on Wednesday quoted his spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Bill Aikman as saying that the Moslem forces had only returned fire. UNPROFOR reports show that the Moslem side on Tuesday fired 200 shells while the Serb side responded with 600 grenades. The Moslem side fired a great many shells from artillery positions in the vicinity of civilian objects in central Sarajevo, the French news agency AFP quoted Aikman as saying. Bosnian Serb army sources have recently warned that the Moslems are using civilian facilities as military positions for attacks on serb positions. The sources believe that the Moslem plan is to provoke the Serb forces to neutralize those positions in order to accuse the Serbs of shelling civilian facilities, including hospitals. At the NATO summit in Brussels on Monday and Tuesday, the German delegation said there were proofs that the Moslem artillery had shelled the city airport late last week in order to prevent the departure of their leader Izetbegovic to Bonn for talks with President of the former Yugoslav Republic of Croatia Franjo Tudjman. In the area of Sarajevo, Moslem units continued unprovoked attacks on all Serb suburbs from various weapons, the Bosnian Serb army sources said.
