FBIS3-59744 "jpjst003__l94037" JPRS-JST-94-003L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 18 January 1994 Physics Science and Technology Agency Proposes Laws for Use of Spring-8 94FE0029B Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 27 Aug 93 p 5--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0029B Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] The SPring-8 Large Scale Light Emission Facility Will Be Open To Foreign and Domestic Researchers, and Specialists Will Be Trained The Science and Technology Agency (STA) has consolidated the basic concepts for the management of the Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute (JASRI, Osamu UNO, director) which is responsible for the management and operation of the large scale light emission facility ``SPring-8'' which is under construction at the Harima Science Park City in Hyogo Prefecture. Specialists in emitted light facilities, who are few in number worldwide, will be trained, and new ways of utilizing emitted light will be developed by focussing on a flexible research system in which the facility will be opened to researchers both from Japan and abroad. JASRI was established in 1990 in order to unify the management of Spring-8; the beginning of operations is scheduled for 1997 when a part of the equipment will go on line. The basic kinds of research will include: 1) development of new fields for the utilization of emitted light; 2) research to advance the equipment; and 3) support for the experiments of extramural researchers who will use the facility. In order to heighten the efficiency of research, research themes are being studied by a committee that includes extramural specialists. The fluidity of researchers will be increased by setting time limits for research themes. A utilization system is being prepared which will be truly open to extramural researchers. The STA has taken a course of creating legislation in order to smoothly promote the management and operation of this facility. Spring-8 is a circular accelerator with a circumference of approximately 1.4 kilometers, and it can heighten the energy up to 8 giga-electron volts. By bending this electron beam with magnets SPring-8 can generate light emissions that are about 1,000 times brighter than that of conventional equipment. It is expected that, in addition to basic research in physics, the facility will play a role in a wide variety of research fields such as the diagnosis of blood vessels in the heart, and the analysis of semiconductor materials on the atomic level. Test operations will begin from 1997. The facility will be of a larger scale and will have a higher performance than similar equipment that is being built in Europe and the United States.
