FBIS3-58364 "drweu008_q_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 TURKEY Ankara Reportedly Takes Measures Against Moscow, Athens NC1101191394 Istanbul HURRIYET in Turkish 8 Jan 94 p 18 NC1101191394 Istanbul HURRIYET Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Report by Selin Caglayan: "Military Measures Against Moscow and Athens"] [Text] Ankara--It has been reported that Turkey has taken military measures to deal with any possible threat, particularly from Moscow and Athens. The officials have said that Turkey has been worried by Russia's move to quickly convert its cumbersome military forces into an army capable of taking swift action and by the steps Greece has taken in the same direction. Stressing that Turkey is also restructuring its military forces, the officials asserted: "An effort is being made to establish a smaller army that will be capable of taking quick action with very high fire power." It has been ascertained that the summit held on security discussed the threat to Turkey the day before yesterday. It also agreed on the need to convert the Turkish Army into a military force capable of taking quick action. There was a decision to strengthen the Turkish Armed Forces when the cold war ended, but that decision was not pursued. Recalling that Turkey has not made significant changes in its threat concept for many years, several sources said that the threat to Turkey comes from all sides -- from the north, south, east, and west. That, they said, was also the case in the past. Anxiety Caused by Russia The Turkish experts on strategy have been worried by Russia's recent move to change its doctrine and base several of its air force units in the southern part of the Caucasus. Meanwhile, the Papandreou Government's disclosure that Cyprus and the Aegean Sea are "Hellenic regions" has created a tense atmosphere between Ankara and Athens. Greece's claim that it has the right to fortify the Greek islands in the eastern part of the Aegean Sea has compelled Ankara to take certain measures.
