FBIS3-11020 "drlat051_r_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Peru Fujimori Discusses Need for Dialogue With Chile PY1503230594 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1850 GMT 14 Mar 94 PY1503230594 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Santiago, 14 Mar (EFE) -- During an interview published today by ESTRATEGIA, which specializes in the economy, Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori asserted that Chile and Peru must remove "remnants of the past" and work toward a bilateral dialogue. The Peruvian president, who was in Chile to attend the inauguration of President Eduardo Frei, said: "What we need is a bit more dialogue and communication and to cast away ultraconservatism and the arms race that have caused so much damage." Fujimori said Peru has taken concrete steps to create a climate of confidence and has withdrawn "entire battalions" from the Chilean border. He added: "I do not think border problems will prevent development between the two countries," and reiterated his government's will to negotiate an economic cooperation agreement with Chile. During the interview Fujimori said: "I believe in the future of the integration process," and that in this sense concrete steps must be taken. "This would be a good step to be taken, and we are willing to do so now that there is a rapprochement with Chile at all levels." According to Fujimori, the two countries can successfully complement each other in the agro-industrial and metallurgical fields. During his stay in Santiago, Fujimori and Frei agreed to work on an economic cooperation agreement that will provide for actions in the investments field, and include custom tariff lists and telecommunications and transportation agreements. Fujimori also disclosed that his country is interested and getting ready to join the Free Trade Agreement (TLC) with the United States. In his opinion, "our economy now is quite open compared to that of other Latin American countries because we have made a lot progress... We believe that we soon will be fully competitive to join the major blocs." Fujimori said his government's goals for this year are to reduce inflation to 25 percent and reach economic growth of more than 5 percent. The Peruvian president did not dismiss the possibility of running for reelection but asserted that he will make a decision in this regard next October.
