FBIS3-15813 "drsov047_a_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Italian Foreign Minister Arrives in Moscow LD0903210994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 2037 GMT 9 Mar 94 LD0903210994 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Dmitriy Polunin] [Text] Moscow March 9 TASS -- Italian Foreign Minister Beniamino Andreatta arrived in Moscow on Wednesday to discuss a wide range of topics with Russian leadership. In a short interview with ITAR-TASS upon arrival at the airport, Andreatta said he had come to Russia in the capacity of chairman of the CSCE Council. While in Moscow, the Italian diplomat is scheduled to meet Russian President Boris Yeltsin and Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev to consider prospects for cooperation in Europe and ways of settling conflicts in hotbeds of tensions -- in former Yugoslavia and the Nagorno-Karabakh enclave. The talks will also deal with preparations for a high-level meeting of the Group-of-Seven (G-7) highly industrialized countries scheduled to be held in Naples this coming summer. As compared with the previous forums of this kind, Russia will be a more active participant in the upcoming meeting. Thus, it will be paid more attention during the meeting itself and not only outside it, as it was usually done before. The most important problems facing the present-day world are to be discussed in the presence of the Russian president. According to Andreatta, Italy as organiser of the Naples summit intends to see to it that these changes be reflected in the forum's final documents. All this is to help Russia become a G-7 full- fledged member and to pave the way for transforming such forums into G-8 meetings. As chairman of the CSCE Council, the Italian minister will also exchange views with the Russian leadership on Russia's relations with the Baltic republics. Andreatta plans to discuss this issue in Tallinn and Vilnius as well, where he will be going after the Moscow talks.
