FBIS3-39360 "drweu032_h_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 GERMANY Dailies Comment on U.S.-Japanese Trade Dispute U.S. Stance `Unwise' AU1602132294 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT in German 16 Feb 94 p 2 AU1602132294 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT Language: German Article Type:BFN [Commentary by Erich Reyhl: "William Tell in the GATT"] [Text] A few snags of the GATT agreement of 15 December 1993 have shown up faster than expected. What has contributed to it are the massive attempts by the Americans to threaten and exert pressure on the Japanese in terms of economic and trade policy. However, according to the result of a first examination of the legal situation, the methods applied by the Americans seem to be legal, even under the new accords of the Uruguay Round and the rules of the new World Trade Organization, WTO. Still, what is not unlawful may still be unwise. The U.S. position might destroy the main illusion of the eight-year GATT negotiations, namely that the law of the jungle will be replaced by a proper law once the GATT agreement comes into force in 1995 and that a "peace order" will begin to rule trade policy. Threats alone and evil words are not banned under the new world trade order, not even in an extremely explicit form such as the threat with a "trade war" and similar things. What might be forbidden, however, could be putting the threat into practice, that is to say the action itself. Moreover, negotiators in Geneva were horrified to discover that it was particularly the United States that did not accept some fundamental former texts of international law on compliance with treaties and arbitration decisions or accepted them only with reservations. Hence, not even a GATT or WTO decision would be absolutely binding or enforceable. These weaknesses and loopholes of the treaty, of course, do not mean that one could not act more reasonably and peacefully in future practice. This was what everybody was hoping for. However, the U.S. policy toward Japan is seen as trend-setting and it is far from pointing to the desired direction but to the opposite one. This is where the great danger lies. Not enough was quite obviously done in the GATT negotiations for conflict prevention and protection against emerging trade conflicts. Proof of this lies in the fact that, in the current stage of the Japanese-American conflict, the GATT has nothing to say. Even the new WTO will not be better prepared. At the most the new GATT head, Sutherland, could say a few words of warning out of his own responsibility. It is no wonder that Japan is seen as a William Tell by many small GATT members, mainly from the Third World, who fights against the evil governors. The small GATT countries are automatically telling themselves: "What is being done to the Japanese can be done to us much more easily. Therefore, we must back the Japanese in this case, regardless of whether, emotionally, we like it or not." Washington has taken its own desire too much as reality, namely that the Japanese are generally and universally seen as troublemakers who have the sympathy of nobody and who can, thus, be treated roughly. Europe should not make the same mistake.
