FBIS4-5549 "dreas070_c_94052" FBIS-EAS-94-070 Daily Report 10 Apr 1994 North Korea New Delhi Hosts International Chuche Seminar New Delhi Hosts International Chuche Seminar `Large Attendance' Reported SK1004092594 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0856 GMT 10 Apr 94 SK1004092594 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN [Text] Pyongyang, April 10 (KCNA) -- An International Chuche Idea Seminar on Independence, Peace and Friendship opened with a large attendance in New Delhi Friday [8 April] on the threshold of the birthday of the great leader President Kim Il-song. It was attended by delegations and delegates from 20 countries, delegates of international and regional chuche idea study organisations and political, public and academic figures of India, more than 500 in all. A delegation of Korean social scientists and a delegation of Korean social scientists in Japan were also present. Indian personages including former President Giani Zail Singh made congratulatory addresses at the seminar. They highly praised His Excellency President Kim Il-song as the great leader who embarked upon the road of revolution in his early years and has performed immortal feats for the cause of independence of mankind and sincerely wished him a long life in good health for the accomplishment of this cause. Hwang Chang-yop, secretary of the Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Korea and chairman of the Association Korean Social Scientists Association, conveyed a joint message of congratulations from the Central People's Committee and the Administration Council of the DPRK to the seminar. Introduced at the seminar were congratulatory messages from Indian President Shankar Dayal Sharma, Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao and high-placed officials of India, Cambodian King Norodom Sihanouk, the chairman of the International Disarmament Committee, the UNDP [United Nations Development Program], the UNESCO and other international organisations and chuche idea study organisations of different countries. Prof. and Dr. T.B. Mukherjee, president of the Asian Regional Institute of the Chuche Idea and vice director general of the International Institute of the Chuche Idea, made a report titled "Chuche Idea Is a Scientific Doctrine Indicating the Road of Independence, Peace and Friendship." The seminar continues.
