FBIS3-50542 "drlat002_a_94011" FBIS-LAT-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 January 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Raul Castro Attends FAR Promotion Ceremony FL0301024294 Havana Tele Rebelde and Cuba Vision Networks in Spanish 0100 GMT 3 Jan 94 FL0301024294 Havana Tele Rebelde and Cuba Vision Networks Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] On the occasion of the 35th anniversary of the triumph of the Revolution, 33 Revolutionary Armed Forces [FAR] officers were promoted to colonel and ship captain. The ceremony was presided over by FAR Minister Army General Raul Castro. Army Gen. Raul Castro and Commander of the Revolution Juan Almeida, president of the Cuban Revolution Veterans Association [ACRC], presented the promotions. Officer Rene Corredera Brito, an internationalist pilot who has received the Antonio Maceo Medal of Valor, spoke on behalf of the officers who were promoted. He thanked everyone for the trust placed in them and for the promotion they received, which is a sign of recognition for their work. Brito reiterated the officers support for the cause of the defense of the fatherland and their loyalty to the commander in chief, whose example a FAR officer should follow, always ready to confront the enemy and always filled with the belief that our noble ideals of national independence and socialism will triumph. Division General Nestor Lopez Cuba, chief of the FAR political directorate, closed the event with a dynamic speech. Div. Gen. Lopez Cuba described 1993 as the most difficult year since the triumph of the Revolution, and he described the special period as a hard test that the patriots and revolutionaries are confronting with courage, loyalty, and the belief that it is possible to resist and win. Lopez Cuba told the officers that: We have absolute trust in you because we know you will be worthy bearers of the title of colonel of the Armed Forces founded by our invincible commander in chief, Fidel Castro, 37 years ago. He will continue to lead us, as always, through the most difficult and glorious moments.
