FBIS3-1117 "drafr054_c_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Retiring Police General Criticizes de Klerk MB2103123394 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1129 GMT 21 Mar 94 MB2103123394 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by W Blumenfield] [Text] Cape Town March 21 SAPA -- State President F W de Klerk had lost a lot of white support and was doing something dramatic to gain black support, police public relations head Maj-Gen Leon Mellet said on Monday [21 March]. He was commenting on a report released by the Goldstone Commission implicating South African Police officers, including three generals, of being involved in "third force" activities. "The way it was made public came as a shock to all of us," Gen Mellet said at his farewell function in Cape Town. He is retiring. Gen mellet said he disputed the implications. "The whole thing is worrying. It's unsettling, because it was done unfairly. I am upset about the way it was made public." He said he felt the perception was being created that those named in the report were guilty. "They have been found guilty before the investigating team has arrived in South Africa." He went on: "Do you really think a general would start a third force? Whatever the finding about those involved in the so-called third force, let it be known very soon with the same haste in which the allegations were made public." Gen Mellet said he was asking only for fairness and the truth. "Be reasonable and be fair. Don't be overhasty in crucifying these men. If they broke the law, it's a different story." Gen Mellet called for public support for the police, adding that pressure on the force was bound to increase in the run-up to the elections. Police would be out in force at polling booths. "We also have 5,000 reservists to call up and slightly more than 3,000 retired policemen." He accused Bophuthatswana policemen of plundering during the uprising in the homeland. They had smashed automatic teller machines to get at their contents, he said. "Those police will be our colleagues in the next couple of weeks. If that is an example, then the SAP do not wish to be part of that force."
