FBIS4-47475 "jpust013___94028" JPRS-UST-94-013 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 23 June 1994 PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS Pattern Recognition and Data Processing in Remote Laser Pattern Recognition and Data Processing in Remote Laser Sounding of Earth Surface and Geosystems 947J0030E Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK: SERIYA FIZICHESKAYA in Russian Vol. 58 No. 2, Feb. 58 pp. 185-195 947J0030E Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK: SERIYA FIZICHESKAYA Russian CSO [Article by T.A. Trifonova, A.A. Nazaryan, L.T. Sushkova, and S.M. Arakelyan, Vladimir Polytechnic Institute; UDC 551.501] [Abstract] Comprehensive studies of the environment covering specifically the populated territory of Armenia, had been made by these and other authors using optical methods. The purpose was to explore the interaction and interdependence of three factors: 1. ecological state of the still natural part of the geosystem, 2. human agricultural and industrial activity, 3. indirect transitory technogenic action on the geosystem. The method used in these studies was laser-fluorescent remote sounding of the earth surface and appropriate subsequent processing of the data. The conventional correlation coefficient was used for simplest and fastest rough identification of objects. Pattern recognition algorithms were used for a more informative but also more laborious identification of their spectra, which included use of four already known vegetation spectra as reference: 1. herbaceous monocotyledons, 2. herbaceous dicotyledons, 3. arboreal pinophyta (needle trees), 4. arboreal magnoliophyta (leaf trees). Natural objects contributing to global transitory contamination of the environment, specifically rocky river beds and water basins forming along their paths, were of particular concern. The creation and evolution of these objects were simulated with the aid of aerial photographs, the role of geometric factors also being accounted for. The thus constructed ecological model is a rather universal model describing the physics of destruction of solid bodies and particularly of their breakdown by laser action. References 34.
