FBIS3-56654 "drsov012_c_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 Federal Assembly Rybkin Comments on Role as Chairman of Duma LD1401174994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1645 GMT 14 Jan 94 LD1401174994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Pavel Kuznetsov] [Text] Moscow, 14 Jan -- "The chairman of the State Duma absorbs the opinions of all the deputies and no proposal made by a deputy should be left unnoticed," Ivan Rybkin, the chairman of the lower chamber of the Federal Assembly, stated today at a news conference. "The speaker should rise above his party allegiance, otherwise he is simply not ready to occupy this post," he added. In Rybkin's opinion, the chairman of the Duma should organize the work of the lower chamber in such a way as ensure that the most topical problems receive sufficient legislative support. He believes that our legislation does not keep pace with life. The speaker of the Duma said that putting our economic legislation in line with realities of life should become its priority task. He also stressed that it is necessary to study proposals prepared by the Commission for Legislative Proposals attached to the Russian President. "It made many valuable proposals," believes Ivan Rybkin. Apart from that, the chairman of the Duma sees its task in solving the question of the state financing of the parties via their factions in the lower chamber of the Federal Assembly, as well as maintaining interaction with those parties whose representatives were not elected to the parliament. "The main committees of the Duma should be formed in proportion to factions' numbers," believes Rybkin. At the same time, he noted that "leaders of the deputies' associations today are unlikely to agree to act as heads of the committees because they already have enough organizational work to do in the factions and deputies' associations." Speaking about the economic reform in the country, Ivan Rybkin stressed that they need some corrections. "We should be searching for more intelligent solutions that suit the Russian realities," he believes.
