FBIS4-31620 "dreeu113_i_94018" FBIS-EEU-94-113 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Serbs Reprotedly Stop Civilians Returning Home Serbs Reprotedly Stop Civilians Returning Home AU1306111994 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 1000 GMT 13 Jun 94 AU1306111994 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by Enes Musovic from Gorazde] [Text] This morning at 0730 some 300 citizens of (Cazagici) and (Hudjer), districts within 3 km of the Gorazde center, started off by themselves toward their properties and homes. As they said, they could no longer bear to listen to daily misinformation about the chetniks having withdrawn from their homes. They could no longer wait for someone else to solve their problems, particularly as the UN Protection Forces [UNPROFOR] has not tried to do this in the only correct way. However, they were stopped in front of the (Cazagici) district by a group of chetniks armed with machine guns, Osa and Zolja portable rocket launchers, and hand grenades, who started to abuse and provoke them while at the same time cocking their guns. Very soon UNPROFOR positioned in Gorazde intervened with transporters and a large number of soldiers, thus barring the citizens of (Hudjer) and (Cazagici) from reaching their homes. The situation turned very tense, but the [word indistinct] authorities prevented the unarmed people at the last moment from charging at the chetnik barrels. It is obvious to everyone in Gorazde that the zone of three km from the city center has not been cleared, that the Serbian civilians are in fact Serb soldiers, and that they have remained in all their positions within this zone. All in all, the situation here is very tense and the likelihood of incidents and bloodshed seems to be increasing by the minute. Victor Andreyev, chief of the UNPROFOR civilian section in Bosnia-Herzegovina, was informed about this on 7 June when he visited Gorazde. However, UNPROFOR has done nothing about it, and is still deceiving the world with tales that the Serbian soldiers, Serbian police, and Serbian civilians have left the 3-km zone from the center of Gorazde.
