FBIS4-42298 "drweu106_a_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-106 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 AUSTRIA Poll Shows Decline in Haider's Popularity Poll Shows Decline in Haider's Popularity AU0106125594 Vienna DER STANDARD in German 1-2 Jun 94 p 5 AU0106125594 Vienna DER STANDARD German BFN [Report by Conrad Seidl: "Bad Marks for Joerg Haider for the First Time"] [Text] Vienna -- While all the other top politicians are thought to have increased their technical competence, Joerg Haider has had to accept unfavorable rating for the first time: While in December, one out of three Austrians thought he had "a clear concept for Austria's future," the May poll of the OGM [Austrian Society for Marketing] now says that this is no longer thought by even one-fourth of those polled. This is also reflected in the question on the direct election of the chancellor, which was reported by DER STANDARD last week. Haider is now clearly behind Busek. OGM opinion researcher Christina Matzka sees one possible explanation in the policy of obstruction by the Freedom Party of Austria [FPOe] in Carinthia and in the topic of the European Union [EU]: "This was perhaps a tiny bit too much." Vranitzky Continues To Gain Chancellor Franz Vranitzky was able to further increase his excellent result of 70-percent approval rating, which he had gained in September: Now, 73 percent of Austrians say he has a clear program, 22 percent deny this. With 91 percent, the voters of the Social Democratic Party of Austria [SPOe] support their top man more cohesively then ever. He earned the best results in small villages. Busek Is Catching Up Austrian People's Party [OeVP] Chairman Erhard Busek has been able to turn around his negative result of December (at that time only 42 percent thought he had a clear program, 44 percent did not think so): 47 percent now think he has a clear program and 43 percent do not think so. Busek received his good results from OeVP voters (65 percent approval) and SPOe voters (50 percent). A total of 70 percent of FPOe voters rejected him. Haider Plummeting Only 24 percent of those polled still think FPOe Chairman Joerg Haider has a clear program; even in his own party, the approval of his concept has declined from 88 to 75 percent. While in December Haider was particularly attractive to the less educated, he now gets approximately the same results from all strata of society. A total of 71 percent deny he has a clear program. Schmidt in Third Place Heide Schmidt of the Liberal Forum has clearly overtaken Joerg Haider regarding the question of her program: Approval rose from 27 to 30 percent, and rejection declined from 60 to 58 percent. Schmidt wins with her own voters, but she also received respectable results from Greens and SPOe voters, while she was rejected by FPOe and OeVP followers. Petrovic Gains Votes Greens Floor Leader Madeleine Petrovic has gained 2 percent since last December: 21 percent now think she has a clear program, and 60 percent deny that. Petrovic polarizes her supporters, in particular, between Greens and FPOe followers. Among the better educated approval of the Greens' program is skyrocketing.
