FBIS4-50088 "drchi093_a_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-093 Daily Report 12 May 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Coverage of Foreign Ministry News Conference Continues Coverage of Foreign Ministry News Conference Continues Can Meet GATT Requirements HK1205145494 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in Chinese 1210 GMT 12 May 94 HK1205145494 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE Chinese BFN [Text] Beijing, 12 May (ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE)--Foreign Ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin pointed out this afternoon at the press conference that China is fully capable of meeting GATT requirements, and it hopes that with the joint efforts of the GATT Secretariat and signatories, the negotiations for resuming China's membership can be speeded up. He said this in reply to a reporter's question. Wu Jianmin said: China's reforms in its economic and trade structure over the last 15 years, particularly its progressive establishment of a socialist market economic system, have put its foreign trade system on a market economic footing and have rendered the system more in line with GATT requirements. Therefore, most of the GATT signatories agreed that under these circumstances, an agreement on China's resuming its GATT membership can be reached. GATT Secretary General Mr. Sutherland has spoken a great deal on this issue, giving much active support to China's GATT bid. China appreciates and commends his efforts. Wu Jianmin said: China's reforms in its foreign trade system have greatly increased the transparency of its trade rules and regulations. In line with its resumption of GATT membership, China has done much work in ensuring the transparency of foreign trade policies and rules and regulations, making a good start. To guarantee the unity and transparency of foreign economic and trade policies, all rules and regulations concerning foreign economic activities and trade are promulgated by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation [MOFTEC], the National People's Congress, and the State Council only. MOFTEC has processed and released a total of 93 internal documents still in effect and announced the revoking of four batches of documents totaling 744. China will also shortly be unveiling its Foreign Trade Law. The above facts show that China is fully capable of meeting GATT requirements.
