FBIS3-39847 "drweu036_p_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 GREECE Political Parties React to FYROM Measures NC1902081594 Athens ATHENS NEWS in English 17 Feb 94 p 3 NC1902081594 Athens ATHENS NEWS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The goverment's sanctions of Skopje [The Former Yugoslav Repulic of Macedonia--FYROM] met with a mixed reaction from Greece's opposition parties, earning approval from parties to the socialists' right and disapproval from their left. The leaders of the three opposition parties were briefed before the cabinet meeting by the prime minister's aides. "We are determined to support the government precisely because we believe in a united foreign policy," said Miltiadhis Evert, leader of the main opposition New Democracy party. Mr. Evert took the opportunity of a previously scheduled working lunch with European Union ambassadors to express Greek fears that airstrikes against Bosnian Serb targets could lead to a Balkan conflagration. He also outlined a New Democracy proposal for a friendship pact among Balkan states. Political Spring leader Andonios Samaras, a former conservative foreign minister who resigned from New Democracy over its position on the Skopje issue, expressed his party's full support for the decision. "We had suggested that the prime minister could either fight or give up... Today he took the decision to fight -- which we have persistently asked," he said in a statement. "Our support is implicit as long as our national struggle be waged responsibly, consistently and soberly at all levels and without being undermined by defeatist consciences." Greece's two main left parties, the Communist Party (KKE) and the Coalition of the Left and Progress, the latter not represented in the current parliament, criticised the government's decision in separate statements. Describing the measures as an "adventuristic distraction", KKE leader Aleka Papariga said they would only serve to raise tensions in the region and "facilitate the plans of the United States and NATO." She added that she had sent a letter to Mr. Papandreou requesting a parliamentary debate on developments in the Balkans. "The measures that the government has decided to take imprison us in the logic and tactic of tension that only serve others' interests," said the Left Coalition's leader Nikoalos Konstandopoulos. "We become a part of the crisis...and we are in danger of being blamed for the tension and losing everything in the Skopje issue."
