FBIS4-68485 "jpusr050___94021" FBIS-USR-94-050 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 31 March 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Kabardino-Balkaria Communists Support Membership of RF Kabardino-Balkaria Communists Support Membership of RF 944F0616A Nalchik KABARDINO-BALKARSKAYA PRAVDA in Russian 31 Mar 94 p 1 944F0616A Nalchik KABARDINO-BALKARSKAYA PRAVDA Russian CSO ["Statement of the Communist Party of the Kabardino-Balkar Republic Executive Committee"] [Text] Dear Comrades! The appeal of the republic assembly of representatives of the Balkar community to the peoples, political parties, and public associations was perceived by the Communist Party of the republic with approval. The communists of Kabardino-Balkaria consistently advocate with all patriots and internationalists the integrity and unity of the republic within the indivisible Russian Federation. The centuries-old friendship and fraternal unity of the Kabarda, Balkars, Russians, and all other peoples of our republic is the most valuable property of all that was bequeathed us by our forefathers. These relations helped us endure in the years of the wartime adversities, famine, and repression. Only by preserving them will we overcome the present serious situation also. The communists support the efforts of the president, parliament, the government, and all parties and national movements aimed at preservation of the unity of the Kabardino-Balkar Republic. We condemn the irresponsible statements of individual leaders of the National Council of the Balkar People concerning the division of Kabardino-Balkaria and regard them as an attempt to destabilize the peaceful situation and to incite interethnic strife in the republic. The Communist Party of the Kabardino-Balkar Republic Executive Committee calls on the working people, communists, parties, and movements to make every effort to preserve the unity of Kabardino-Balkaria and peace and tranquillity in our native home. [Signed] Communist Party of the Kabardino-Balkar Republic Executive Committee. Nalchik 29 March 1994
