FBIS3-10326 "drlat044_f_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 El Salvador Bodies Agree Human Rights Violations Increasing PA0603160794 San Salvador Radio Farabundo Marti Network in Spanish 1800 GMT 4 Mar 94 PA0603160794 San Salvador Radio Farabundo Marti Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Nelda Alvaragenga; from the "Facing the Moment" newscast] [Text] Human rights organizations concurred on Friday with UN expert Pedro Nikken that human rights violations have increased in the country. Reynaldo Blanco, of the Salvadoran Human Rights Commission [CDHES], has affirmed violations of fundamental rights are becoming a rising trend. [Begin Blanco recording] I must say there is an upward trend. We have not reached the level that existed before the peace accords were signed. By comparing the period from the time the peace accords were signed to date, say, comparing the first half of 1992 with the second half of that same year, we begin to notice, however, an increase, chiefly regarding the right to live. [end recording] According to Blanco, the increased violations are the result of the impunity with which the state intelligence corps continue to operate, despite the terms established in the peace accords; in this respect, the CDHES representative reiterated the need for the United Nations to keep monitoring the country. Lutheran Bishop Medardo Gomez has concurred, saying death squad-style human rights violations increased during recent months. [Begin Gomez recording] As Salvadorans can attest, people are found murdered in the streets everyday. Taking a closer look at those bodies, we find they show signs of torture, something that reveals the existence of death squads; for that reason, Mr. Nikken is correct in saying human rights are still violated in the country. We cannot remove the country from the list of human rights violators. [end recording] CDHES and the Lutheran Church stated the peace accords and the Truth Commission recommendations should be complied with to achieve stability in the country.
