FBIS3-11957 "drlat060_b_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 Caribbean Affairs Haiti Telephone Company Faces Energy, Line Problems FL2503191494 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole in French 1700 GMT 22 Mar 94 FL2503191494 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] The telephone lines in Port-au-Prince were seriously disrupted over the weekend. Hundreds of telephone lines remained silent. Those disruptions in the telephone lines were caused by a lack of electricity for the various stations, according to a company spokesman. [Begin recording] [Unidentified spokesman in Creole] The problem was mainly in exchange number 45 which is a channel to which other satellite exchanges, such as exchange numbers 46, 55, 49, are connected. Whenever this exchange has a problem, the other exchanges cannot function either. [Reporter Francois] What kind of problems did exchange number 45 have? [Spokesman] It is a secret that no one in the telephone company has the same difficulties as everyone else because of the electricity problem in the country. It is a power problem due to the rapid decay of the company's generators, which are by definition some spare generators now working an average of almost 24 hours a day. Therefore the generators get worn out very quickly and break down easily. We had a problem with the generator which caused exchange number 45 to break down. This caused the other exchanges to break down. As soon as the problem was identified, the technicians spent the night working. The service was reestablished as quickly as possible and is working now at almost 100 per cent. [end recording] [Announcer] The general manager of the telephone company, Mr. Pierre Lissade revealed other difficulties that the company is currently facing: fuel problems, difficulties in purchasing spare parts. Let us listen to Mr. Pierre Lissade: [Begin Lissade recording] We do not just have problems with the exchanges. We also have repairs because we are in the rainy season. The repair work has increased. If we maintain the exchanges without keeping up the repair work, the customers will not pay. We are already struggling to make the service acceptable since we have great difficulties getting spare parts and we have a saturation of the exchanges. We are struggling, however, to maintain acceptable service. We have about $90 million frozen and we must live with the means that we have. [end recording].
