FBIS3-36918 "drsov028_b_94016" FBIS-SOV-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Media Issues `Vesti' Announcer Bemoans Transmitter Strike LD1002122494 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1100 GMT 10 Feb 94 LD1002122494 Moscow Russian Television Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Vesti" newscast] [Text] [Announcer Tatyana Khudobina] Today, probably for the first time, we go on the air without knowing who is able to watch our program. Transmission of TV programs ceased in Krasnoyarsk, Barnaul, Khabarovsk, Krasnodar, Irkutsk, St. Petersburg, Nizhniy Novgorod, Penza, Tver, Kostroma, and Belgorod after the morning news from Moscow. Islanders on Sakhalin and the Kurils have also been cut off from Russia's information network. No doubt the list will have increased by the end of the day. Valeriy Belyayev, the managing director of the Sakhalin TV and Radio Company, says the artificial creation of an information vacuum could have serious political consequences, when viewed against the background of the oblast Duma election campaign underway on the islands. The strike has gone ahead despite the urgent meeting held yesterday evening with Russian Federation Communications Minister Vladimir Bulgak and Aleksandr Yakovlev, the head of the VGTRK [All-Russian State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company] and Ostankino, during which Viktor Chernomyrdin, the chairman of the Russian Government, instructed the Finance Ministry to find funds for stage-by-stage repayment of the 80-billion debts owed by the state TV and radio companies to transmission enterprises. In spite of this, the telecommunications workers have acted on their threats. Can one really restore order in a country where the prime minister's word means nothing, and the roost is ruled by the person whose finger is closest to the off button? I feel that this subject will provide serious food for thought throughout the day. Meanwhile, we continue "Vesti" for those viewers who can still see and hear us.
