FBIS3-22621 "jptep007___94031" JPRS-TEP-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 11 March 1994 EAST EUROPE YUGOSLAVIA Organizations Move To Halt Typhoid Fever Epidemic in Shtime AU0302082894 Tirana TVSH Television Network in Albanian 1900 GMT 2 Feb 94 AU0302082894 Tirana TVSH Television Network Language: Albanian Article Type:BFN [Text] Announcer: The Prishtina Medical Commission of Kosova League and the Red Cross are mobilized to avoid the epidemic of typhoid fever that, as you have been informed, has lately reached distressing proportions. Let us follow our reporter, Skender Durmishi: Durmishi: Some 56 persons became sick during the epidemic of typhoid fever that broke out in Shtime over the last two months. Of these, 26 are handicapped persons, while the others are citizens of Shtime and near-by localities. So far, 37 persons effected by typhoid fever have been hospitalized, while the others are under medical supervision, however, even those need hospital treatment due to the danger of the disease. These associations [Medical Commission and Red Cross] ascertain that the main cause of the epidemic is the polluted water in the Shtime wells, which were locked in the two nearest quarters, as well as defects in the canalization network. At communal level, a disease-prevention staff has formed since the outbreak of the first signs of the epidemic. While, in some quarters, commissions have been formed so as to advise on the medical situation of the population, and particularly that of the families of the sick. The present competent institutions have warned the population to boil wellwater and to take drinking water only from safe sources. In cooperation with the Mother Teresa Humanitarian Association, it became possible to ensure a considerable amount of soap, disinfection equipment, and necessary antibiotics and to inform the Federation of the International Red Cross and the World Health Organization. A communique on the disease mainly ascertains the present situation, but at the end obliges the Medical Faculty epidemiologists to rapidly present concrete proposals on urgent measures to overcome the grave situation created by typhoid fever in Shtime.
