FBIS4-38394 "drsov104_f_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-104 Daily Report 27 May 1994 National Affairs Kravchuk Decree on Reorganizing Crimea Security Illegal Kravchuk Decree on Reorganizing Crimea Security Illegal LD2705172594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1501 GMT 27 May 94 LD2705172594 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS special correspondent Sergey Karmalito] [Text] Simferopol May 27 TASS -- The decree of Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk to reorganize the Crimean security service into the Ukrainian security service's main department in the Crimea and subordinate it directly to Kiev "is illegal in all respects," Chairman of the Crimean Security Service Vladimir Lepikhov told ITAR-TASS today. In his opinion, the decree will not help to raise the efficiency of the department or ensure security of the law-governed democratic Crimean Republic. Judging by official statements of the Ukrainian side, the Ukrainian Security Service does nothing to destabilize situation in the Crimea, said the service chairman. At the same time, movement of materiel and deployment of hospitals claimed by Kiev as an arrangement planned for the first half of the year run counter to the striving to preserve tranquility in the Crimea and give grounds to mass media for stirring up tension. The ongoing reinforcement of the Ukrainian National Guard units in the Crimea both with materiel and personnel does the same. All these steps provoke concern of Crimean residents, parliament deputies and republican heads, said Lepikhov. It would be better to abstain from these actions or change their form, he added. In the opinion of Lepikhov, the only civilized way out is boosted negotiations with the Crimea. The intensive dialogue should aim to settle disputable issues related to the restored validity of the Crimean Constitution of May 6, 1992, coordination of this decision with Ukraine at all levels, and conclusion of corresponding treaties and agreements and delegation of powers. All efforts should aim to reach a consensus, he stressed.
