FBIS4-55344 "dreeu093_i_94011" FBIS-EEU-94-093 Daily Report 13 May 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Army Captures Strategic Point Near Gracanica Army Captures Strategic Point Near Gracanica AU1305092894 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 0800 GMT 13 May 94 AU1305092894 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by Izudin Durakovic from Gracanica] [Text] Over the last few days the chetniks have been intensively shelling the defense lines and civilian targets in the theater of operations of Operative Group Gracanica. Yesterday they shelled Malesici, Gracanica, Brijesnica, Klokotnica, Lukavica, and Lukavac. They tried to infiltrate a sabotage group into the village of [word indistinct] but it was intercepted in time and forced to disperse. The enemy has also been intensively moving its armored and mechanized forces, concentrating them mostly toward the defense lines in the the 117th Lukavac Brigade's theater of operations. During all this, the Serbian media keeps broadcasting unscrupulous lies intended to keep up the shaky morale of the chetniks. The Serbian media keeps talking about the clashes for Vijenac, and the chetnik's successful defense of this strategically important point. The truth, however, is that Vijenac has been under the control of the Bosnia-Herzegovina Army for three days now, following a fierce counteroffensive when it captured Vijenac after just a few hours of fighting. Five more villages, stretching across some 9 square km, were liberated in the process. In this operation -- which was carried out in accordance with the strictest military criteria -- the Lilies [Bosnia-Herzegovina Army soldiers] of [Commander] Osman Puskar and the 119th Brigade captured 21 chetniks, and killed twice as many. As a result of this battle, the Serbian aggressor again violated the arms embargo against our forces, leaving our army better equipped by a T-34 tank, a self-propelled gun, eight mortars, a (PSP-type) Vis, four antiaircraft machine guns, three antiaircraft guns, and lots more besides. In retaliation for this defeat on the front, the enemy has indiscriminately [words indistinct] of all calibers on civilian targets. However, this will not check our fighters in their defense leading to final liberation from the chetnik phalanx.
