FBIS3-26682 "drchi030_h_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 West Europe Paris Embassy Marks 30th Anniversay of Sino-French Ties OW1102050694 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1433 GMT 3 Feb 94 OW1102050694 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By reporter Liang Guihe Liang Guihe (2733 6311 0735)] [Text] Paris, 3 Feb (XINHUA) -- Chinese Ambassador to France Cai Fangbo gave a banquet on the evening of 2 February to mark the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and France. Pierre Mehaignerie, justice and keeper of the Seal of France; his wife; noted figures of France's political, industrial, and commercial circles; and high-ranking government officials numbering more than 50 attended. In a warm and friendly atmosphere, Cai Fangbo and Mehaignerie proposed their toasts, respectively. Both sides agreed that the historic decision, made with the foresight and sagacity of a great politican 30 years ago by Chairman Mao and General de Gaulle, to establish diplomatic relations between China and France had not only laid the foundation for developing sincere friendship between the two countries, but also had had a far-reaching impact on international affairs. After recalling the exchange of visits by leaders of the two countries and the course traversed by the friendly and cooperative relations between the two countries in the past 30 years since the establishment of diplomatic regions, Cai Fangbo pointed out: After undergoing a period of difficulties and setbacks, China and France issued a joint communique on the improvement of relations, thus opening a new page in bilateral relations. He said: Both China and France, as permanent members of the Security Council, bear great responsibilities for international affairs. Moreover, they share many identical or similar views in many international issues. Both sides should strengthen consultation and coordination. He said: "The maintenance of stable relationship of friendship and cooperation between China and France on a long-term basis not only conforms to the fundamental interests of the two countries, but is an important factor for maintaining balance and stability in the world." In his toast, Mehaignerie warmly lauded China's reform and open policy and its vigorously growing economy. He also noted that "France hopes to contribute to China's success in reform." He noted: France and China should develop bilateral economic cooperation, particularly cooperation in energy, transportation, and telecommunications. French enterprises are ready to become China's cooperation partners. He expressed the conviction that the upcoming visit of French Premier Balladur to China will certainly bring new and greater development of French-Chinese relations. Also attending the banquet were former French Premier Delmas; the wife of former French President Pompidou; (Peilefti) and (Altsoke), government ministers of De Gaulle's era; Admiral Philip de Gaulle, son of De Gaulle; and several former French ambassadors to China.
