FBIS3-7544 "dreas060_h_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Malaysia Editorial Notes Reforms at UN `Overdue' BK2703125694 Kuala Lumpur NEW STRAITS TIMES in English 25 Mar 94 p 12 BK2703125694 Kuala Lumpur NEW STRAITS TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Reforms at the UN Overdue"] [Text] Only the severely myopic would contend that the United Nations, born out of the ashes of the Second World War, is serving all its 184 members effectively and satisfactorily and should therefore be left alone to conduct its business undisturbed. There is no question that the world body is showing its age and urgent reforms have to be carried out to bring it more in tune with the current scenario and be more responsive to its members' aspirations. Indeed, it is a wonder that while nations are rising and falling, governments and societies are changing and history written and rewritten since its founding, an organization supposed to be at the forefront of these developments has been allowed to retain and be saddled by the relics of its past. The first anomaly which might have served its purpose in the past but which should have been discarded once it outlived its usefulness and which has been found to be inimical to the interests of the majority of its members is the Security Council and the composition of its members. It is the heart of the organisation as it has been given powers far greater than the General Assembly to which all members belong. In matters involving world peace no action can be contemplated without the agreement of the Security Council. Its members of 15 countries literally can, and in many cases, have ignored the wishes of the majority in the General Assembly. Of the 15, five are permanent members dating back to the day of its formation and 10 are rotating members elected every two years from the rest of 179 countries. As if that is not anomalous enough the permanent members have assigned to themselves the veto power. If just any one of them, acting on sectarian and narrow national interests, choose to exercise it, it could effectively frustrate and paralyse the organisation. This has happened so often in the past that in due course it has goaded many nations to press for reforms of the world body. For this very reason Malaysia and many other reform-minded countries have targeted the Security Council. Our permanent representative has called for the restructuring of the council to bring equitable representation and ensure fairness to all nations which in turn should forge a new consensus on power and burden- sharing. The current over-representation -- seven members in the council from the Western and European group of 47 countries and the remaining eight seats from the rest of 132 countries from Asia, Africa and Latin America -- is unacceptable. While the question of the equitable representation, which will mean an increase in the membership of the Security Council is important, equally important are issues pertaining to permanent members and the veto power they wield. Are these relevant at all and should not they be done away with for good in these days of democratic rights and equality? By right, the proposed reforms to make the United Nations more democratic should be welcomed and readily accepted by nations which have otherwise appointed themselves champions and guardians of democracy but who seem to be singing a different tune when their narrow self-interests are being questioned. Malaysia and other reformers should not be discouraged by the opposition shown by the big powers and slacken their efforts. In time, an unreasonable stand, however stubborn, against what is right and just surely will be embarrassed into acceptance.
