FBIS3-38872 "drweu027_e_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Ulster Peace Proposals To Remain `Secret' PM0802144494 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 8 Feb 94 p 7 PM0802144494 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Phillip Johnston, political correspondent, and Richard Savill in Belfast: "Ulster Peace Ideas To Be Kept Secret"] [Text] Proposals aimed at pushing forward the search for a political settlement in Northern Ireland are to remain secret while ground for possible agreement is explored, it emerged last night. Senior Government sources said the three parties involved in bilateral talks would be given an assessment of them in the next 10 days. But they will amount to "thoughts" rather than a blueprint for action and will not be published. Last week, Sir Patrick Mayhew, Northern Ireland Secretary, disclosed he intended to "float" ideas for devolving powers to the province and setting up cross-border policy groups to demonstrate that the political process was not waiting upon an answer from Sinn Fein and the IRA to the Downing Street declaration. The proposals, thought to include a new assembly for Northern Ireland, are aimed at giving "focus and direction" to the debate. It is hoped that Sinn Fein will accept the declaration as a basis for entering the democratic process. But it was stressed in Whitehall last night that they would not be able to unravel any agreements made once talks between the Government and the various parties have resumed on the new basis. A "taking stock" meeting Between Mr Major and Mr Albert Reynolds, Ireland's Prime Minister, will take place in London on Feb 19, some two months after the declaration was signed. Speaking in Dublin yesterday Mr Reynolds said that an early commitment to peace was now the test of true Irish patriotism. He warned republicans that the nationalist community as a whole stood to suffer most and risked losing ground if the declaration was rejected and IRA violence continued. The time for a decision on peace was approaching, he said. "Nobody should succumb to the dangerous illusion that there is much more that can be offered at this stage of the peace process. Democratic governments will not be influenced by the threat of continued violence." The Sinn Fein annual conference at the end of the month is increasingly being seen as a watershed for the Republicans. Mr Dick Spring, Irish Foreign Minister, said there were no fixed deadlines for a response but the conference seemed "a date of importance." Sir Patrick, speaking in Londonderry, said the Government was prepared to move to the next stage without Sinn Fein or Mr Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party, which has boycotted recent discussions because of its opposition to the Downing Street declaration.
