FBIS3-32437 "drlat026_j_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-026 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Feb 1994 Panama Endara Swears In New Cabinet Members PA0802011694 Panama City Circuito RPC Television in Spanish 2300 GMT 7 Feb 94 PA0802011694 Panama City Circuito RPC Television Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "RPC Television News" newscast] [Text] The new ministers of President Guillermo Endara Galimany's cabinet took office today. The ceremony took place in the Yellow Hall of the Presidential Palace in the presence of President of the Republic Guillermo Endara Galimany and Vice President Guillermo Ford. The main changes in President Endara's work team affected the Government and Justice Ministry, the Finance and Treasury Ministry, the Labor Ministry, the Health Ministry, and the Housing Ministry. This restructuring takes place after the members of the Molirena [Nationalist Liberal Republican Movement] party decided not to support the Arnulfist Party's presidential candidate, Mireya Moscoso de Gruber. [Begin recording] [Education Minister Marcos Alarcon, identified by caption] You cannot govern with your enemies. I think the president's decision was correct. He has surrounded himself with those whom he believes due to the commitment they have to the history and memory of Dr. [Arnulfo] Arias. They are willing to give the best of themselves so that President Endara's administration can end with great achievements. [Planning and Economic Policy Minister Delia Cardenas, identified by caption] Believe me when I tell you that the president's request that I remain in my office as planning minister has definitely flattered me. And that request was made because at the Ministry we are dealing with affairs of the utmost importance for our country. [end recording] Three members of Molirena and two Arnulfists were replaced in President Endara's government team. Jacobo Salas was appointed to the Government and Justice Ministry; Jose Raul Mulino was appointed to the Foreign Ministry; Marcos Alarcon to the Education Ministry; Jose Antonio Dominguez to the Public Works Ministry; Victor Juliao to the Finance and Treasury Ministry; Gregorio Ordonez to the Labor Ministry; Jose Remon to the Health Ministry; Ricardo Fabrega to the Commerce and Industry Ministry; Rodrigo Sanchez to the Housing Ministry; Delia Cardenas to the Planning and Economic Policy Ministry; Cesar Pereira Burgos to the Agricultural Development Ministry; and Ivonne Young to the Presidency Ministry.
