FBIS4-23801 "drafr116_c_94004" FBIS-AFR-94-116 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Minister Naidoo Discusses Implementation of RDP Minister Naidoo Discusses Implementation of RDP MB1506175594 Johannesburg THE STAR in English 15 Jun 94 p 19 MB1506175594 Johannesburg THE STAR English BFN [Interview with Minister Without Portfolio Jay Naidoo by Shaun Johnson and Kaizer Nyatsumba] [Text] On being Minister Without Portfolio. The RDP [Reconstruction and Development Programme] had to be driven by the president, to be made a major flagship of the GNU [Government of National Unity]. The president had to be assisted by someone of ministerial status to ensure the programme was implemented -- that's what I wanted to do. On the Reconstruction and Development Programme. The RDP is an integrated and coherent growth and developmental strategy that spans different ministries. My function is really to be the back-up for the president in terms of making sure that the goals of the RDP are implemented. On the RDP and the Cabinet. You have a government that has accepted the RDP -- all parties in the GNU. We are in the process of finalising an RDP Special Committee of Cabinet, which will look at how to ensure that we build co-operation in an integrated way. On the RDP as an ANC policy. The RDP is a programme. The document as it developed is not a Bible. What the ANC agreed was a framework: a million houses over five years; two-and-a-half million jobs through a public works programme; 10 years of basic, high-quality education; and so on. The Government has adopted that. On Inputs to the RDP. We are looking at inputs from all government departments, parastatals, State institutions, provincial and local government, civil society, the private sector, trade union movement, etcetera. That process has now started. On whether he is the RDP's `policeman'. I never wanted to be a policeman in my life, and the way I approach my work is that whether you are a National Party person or IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party] person or ANC, you have been elected, so that you deliver the goods and services to the people. The only coherent vehicle through which you can deliver goods and services is the RDP. On the RDP and the rest of government. The RDP is not just something located in this office, in isolation from what is going on in the rest of Government. Take the RDP fund. It has two objectives. One is to leverage within government departments the ability of those departments to allocate resources to new priorities, and the second is to kick-start an RDP programme. Ministers must start defining a five-year strategy linked to RDP priorities. I work with a number of key Ministers who present on a regular basis reports to Cabinet that measure the goals we have set. On provincial involvement. I am in regular contact with all the premiers. There are meetings that I attend with the regional premiers that involve provincial affairs and local government, together with Public Administration and with Finance (Ministers). The core of the RDP is driven by a very tight working together of (the ministries of) Public Administration, Finance and State Expenditure, the RDP office here and Provincial and Local Government Affairs. We include as well the Public Works Minister. On longer-term change. In terms of infrastructural programmes, that requires more time (than the 100-day programme). You can't make an ad hoc decision about whether you start at Orange Farm or at Tokoza. We are ready to put into place a major project and are sitting down with local government MECs [member executive council] to try and work out some programme. Not all provinces have the same priorities. On whether regular RDP updates will be issued. Absolutely. Part of our duties is communication strategy. I am very keen (to see) that there is a public way in which the RDP gets assessed. On the cost of implementing the RDP. People did not understand how we approached this issue. When we (the ANC) talked about funding the RDP, remember, we argued consistently that the major source of funding must come from the way you reorganise government expenditure towards new priorities. We are wanting to get away from the idea of the RDP being an add-on programme. On others' role in implementing the RDP: The RDP is not just a Government programme. When it is driven by people and centred around people's needs, it will succeed. Government needs to build a genuine partnership with the trade union movement, organised business, civic movements, rural-based movements, women's movements, etc. On private sector involvement in the RDP. I think we have achieved a great deal of (consensus) that the RDP represents a coherent and stable strategy towards rebuilding the country. The next issue is to put your money where your mouth is. The one important area is to get private sector investment in the economy. Because the following investment is going to come in from overseas (only once) private sector investment is coming from South Africa. It really needs to be brought to the public's awareness. There is potential for a major housing boom, linked to infrastructural development, and the private sector really needs to get involved. On his new lifestyle and position as Cabinet Minister. My current lifestyle is very much like my old lifestyle. I spend my time meeting with trade union representatives, civil organisations, the different Ministers, etcetera, around issues which have always interested me -- developmental issues. In a sense it has been quite a smooth transition from running Cosatu [Congress of South African Trade Unions], where my major role was co-ordination and development programmes, to being involved in reconstruction programmes. On sitting in the Union Buildings. How do I feel about sitting in the Union Building? I feel phenomenal. It is an amazing feeling to sit here and think that not so long ago there used to be a government that plotted against us. It's a really ironic twist of fate. It's an amazing feeling that we can now actually do things that Government needs to do, and in a way that is democratic. On his personal relationships with De Klerk and Keys. Obviously my relationship with the Deputy President (De Klerk) in the past has been a turbulent one. We were protagonists in a battle where we sought to establish democracy. But we fought an election and we have agreed on a GNU. And we have agreed now on the RDP. At a personal level, I never hold grudges against anyone. In fact, among the people I respect most are those that have been among my foes. In terms of Derek Keys, I never locked horns with him; I locked horns with his predecessor (Barend du Plessis).
