FBIS3-54625 "drnes019_w_94001" FBIS-NES-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Jan 1994 Sri Lanka Opposition Group Condemns `Fraudulent' Elections BK2801101194 Colombo VIRAKESARI in Tamil 20 Jan 94 p 8 BK2801101194 Colombo VIRAKESARI Language: Tamil Article Type:BFN [Text] Batticaloa -- At a press conference held in the party office in Batticaloa, E. Durairatnam, Central Committee member of the Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front [EPRLF] said: In today's context, the Tamils want a political solution and not elections. After a ten-year conflict, if an election is the answer for the Tamils and if we accept it, it will weaken us. Former provincial council members N. Nesarasa and K. Parameswaramoorthy were also present at the news conference. Durairatnam further said: This election is the first step to dividing the Northeastern Province. By holding a separate election for the Eastern Province after a referendum there, the government is now working with the aim of smashing the traditional (?fort) and motherland of the Tamils as well as dividing and destroying their region through a planned Sinhalese settlement. Several irregularities have taken place in fielding the candidates. By force, the Army has fielded candidates against their will. Is it possible to hold free and fair elections under these circumstances? One can guess the government's planned move to bolster its views in an atmosphere of strife by adopting fraudulent methods in the elections. Why do certain groups who say that they contest the elections only to defeat the United National Party not condemn the outrageous acts in fielding the candidates and keep quiet? It is doubtful whether the local bodies will be able to function independently in today's atmosphere today, where it is not possible to run the civil administration even amid military intervention. We should not forget the legitimate demands of the Tamil people by involving ourselves in the election process and should give up our struggle for power only. All the organizations should unite together and fight for a political solution. The experiences we gained by our participation in the northeastern provincial elections tell us that the Tamils are not going to reap any immediate benefits from the local body elections. At the same time, we will fight for boycotting the elections in a democratic way. We will not hesitate to strongly condemn anybody who works for or against the elections at gunpoint.
