FBIS4-12831 "drnes072_s_94009" FBIS-NES-94-072 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 Iran Commentary Says Hadera Shows Palestinian Determination Commentary Says Hadera Shows Palestinian Determination NC1404074294 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0345 GMT 14 Apr 94 NC1404074294 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Commentary prepared by the News Research and Commentaries Group] [Text] The martyr-seeking attack by Palestinian mujahidin on a bus carrying Zionists in the Hadera area of Tel Aviv, the capital of the usurping Zionist regime, shows again the firm determination of the Palestinian uprising to continue the struggle until the occupied territories are liberated. The attack, which left over 30 dead and wounded Zionists, is the second martyr-seeking operation within a week and comes within the framework of a promise of five attacks by the Islamic Resistance Movement, Hamas, to avenge the blood shed unjustly by the worshippers at the Ibrahimi Mosque in al-Khalil. Political analysts believe that two major processes have been reigning over the Palestinian crisis. The first is the process of compromise between the politically bankrupt organizations abroad and the Zionist regime, a process that entered a new phase six months ago with the signing of the Gaza-Jericho self-rule compromise. This compromise is part of a greater plan based on bilateral and collective talks between Arab governments and the Zionist regime, which started two years ago in Madrid and are continuing in Washington. The second process that reigns over the Palestinian crisis is the Intifadah, which is based on expanding the collective struggle of the Palestinian Muslims inside the occupied territories. In this all-aspected jihad, the Muslim Palestinians resort to various methods of struggle and retaliate against the suppressive and terrorist methods used by the aggressive and usurping Zionist regime. The same political analysts add that the process of compromise that rules the Palestinian and Middle East crisis has faced extensive problems because it is imposed and illogical. The Madrid-Washington talks, which, according to their engineers, should have yielded results within two years, have achieved no perceptible result even though four months have passed since the deadline and they are at an impasse. 'Arafat's compromise with the Zionist regime is facing a similar fate and the implementation of the Gaza-Jericho self-rule plan, which was to start with the withdrawal of the aggressive Zionist forces from these areas, has thrice been postponed. Because of its roots in the Palestinian territory and nation, the intifadah has intensified such that the Zionist leaders no longer hide their concern. The success scored by the Muslim Palestinian combatants in planning and carrying out jihad operations shows that contrary to what the Palestinian and Arab compromisers think, the equation that rules the Middle East crisis is not unilateral and that if a nation insists on its rights, the enemy must inevitably surrender.
