FBIS4-10736 "drlat074_j_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-074 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 Panama Change '94 Candidate Comments Further on Video Change '94 Candidate Comments Further on Video PA1604012694 Panama City Circuito RPC Television in Spanish 2300 GMT 15 Apr 94 PA1604012694 Panama City Circuito RPC Television Spanish BFN [From the "RPC Television News" newscast] [Text] Professor Ruben Dario Carles, Change '94 presidential candidate, has said he was moved by President Guillermo Endara's video clips broadcast via national network last night. [Begin Carles recording] Last night in Chitre, I interrupted two important meetings scheduled with area doctors and teachers. I watched the documentary on television. I confess I was horrified and shocked, and I cried out of shame. What I watched and all Panamanians saw as well was the confirmation of what we all knew: the disaster and corruption of the military dictatorship and their civilian clerks in the PRD [Democratic Revolutionary Party]. It matters little that Mr. Perez Balladares now wants to downplay the presented documents. Panamanians know this is how it happened. The most surprising thing is these individuals who appear in this documentary are Ernesto Perez Balladares' closest aides today in his desire to deceive democracy and return to power. What we Panamanians heard was disaster, inefficiency, and corruption, which confirm the efforts we made from the Comptroller General's Office to impose fiscal discipline and order in the handling of public property, and funds are what was needed in the face of PRD actions. Events have proved me right, and the Comptroller General's Office was correct. Today, in the face of the embarrassment that affects not only Panamanians but all citizens of the world, we must think these events can never be repeated. Those individuals who want to distance themselves from these criminal and immoral acts cannot change, because they and their closest allies worked together before and will work together again. We cannot allow ourselves to be deceived. Civilian and democratic Panamanians who fought together against the military dictatorship and against the PRD and all their corrupt practices should encourage unity among civilian parties to work together and prevent the return of shame and dictatorship. We must work together to find a solution to the problems that afflict Panamanians, especially those that mean poverty and social and economic inequality. This is something we should do together. [end recording]
