FBIS4-3241 "drchi075_t_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-075 Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 Northwest Region Cable TV Stations Hook Up Networks in Xinjiang Cable TV Stations Hook Up Networks in Xinjiang OW1804134794 Urumqi Xinjiang Television Network in Mandarin 1330 GMT 23 Mar 94 OW1804134794 Urumqi Xinjiang Television Network Mandarin BFN [From the "Xinjiang News" program] [Text] A contract-signing ceremony marking the network hookup of the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps' Cable Television Station and the Xinjiang Cable Station was held at the Xinjiang Television Station yesterday. In accordance with the guiding spirit of the 12th order issued by the Ministry of Radio, Film, and Television that each region should have only one cable television network so as to avoid unnecessary investment, the two stations decided to cooperate in a new venture to promote cable television undertaking in Urumqi area. The Xinjiang Cable Station was built in early 1993. It uses American technology and equipment which has a MMDS [preceding abbreviation in English; expansion unknown] multichannel microwave transmission system, with 22 channels. After one year of operation, the station now broadcasts its programs in Uygur, Chinese, and Kazak languages. It has more than 50,000 subscribers. The Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps' Cable Television Station was built in 1992. It uses a high-quality 450-M cable transmission system, with 47 channels. The hookup provides Urumqi area with an air-and-underground transmission system, which helps improve both the content and quality of the programs. Sha Ming, vice chairman of the autonomous regional committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and director of the Department of Radio and Television under the autonomous regional government, spoke at the meeting. He said: Cable television stations are a component part of television undertaking, whose equipment is expensive to purchase and maintain. It is a new and effective way for the two stations to hookup their networks to avoid network overlapping and reduce cost. He expressed his hope that the two stations will work hard together to improve the cable television network in Urumqi area.
