FBIS3-53610 "drnes011_s_94012" FBIS-NES-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Iran Tehran Begins Mediation Efforts on Tajik Conflict NC1501183494 Paris AFP in English 1413 GMT 15 Jan 94 NC1501183494 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tehran, Jan 15 (AFP) -- Iran has launched mediation efforts to end the conflict between the Islamic opposition and the government in Tajikistan, Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Maleki [spelling as received] said Saturday. Iranian officials had already held talks with Tajik opposition representatives and were due to meet with Tajik government officials on January 24 or 25, he said. The initiative followed a request from four Moslem Central Asian states -- Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan -- for Iran to play a more active role in ending the conflict, during a visit to the region by Iranian President 'Ali Akbar Hashemi- Rafsanjani in October. Maleki said Iran was concerned about the situation and was determined to use its influence to restore security to Tajikistan. The results of the discussions would be conveyed to the four Central Asian states, Maleki said, and if necessary a summit meeting would be held. Pro-communist forces seized power in Dushanbe in December 1992, toppling the ruling coalition of democratic and Islamic forces. Uzbek President Islam Karimov has called for direct talks between the communist-dominated Tajik government and the opposition, mediated by "influential Moslem states such as Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan." During Rafsanjani's regional tour Kyrgyz President Askar Akayev also asked Iran to help end the crisis in Tajikistan. However, Iran has adopted a low profile toward the conflict to avoid antagonising the former Soviet Central Asian countries, with which it has been trying to boost economic and cultural ties. A Russian special envoy, Yevgeniy Primakov, visited Iran in August for talks with Iranian officials on defusing tension on the Tajik-Afghan border. A UN special envoy also visited Iran for talks on the conflict last August.
