FBIS3-44236 "drafr018_c_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-018 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Jan 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Government Chief Negotiator `Optimistic' About Talks MB2601213294 Johannesburg SABC TV 1 Network in Afrikaans 1800 GMT 26 Jan 94 MB2601213294 Johannesburg SABC TV 1 Network Language: Afrikaans Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] A last-minute effort to reach an agreement with the Freedom Alliance over the transitional constitution will be made tomorrow. An attempt to arrange such a meeting is being made. The government's chief negotiator, Roelf Meyer, told the media tonight that the constitutional differences between the three parties involved are not unbridgeable. [passage omitted] [Begin recording, Meyer in progress] ...the differences are in fact very small, and I really hope that tomorrow -- if the talks do take place -- we will eliminate those things that are still in the way. It is all about formulation of the relevant items which deal with powers and capabilities of provinces in the new dispensation. As far as the government is concerned, we have made a proposal on how the problem can be solved, but if we get the ANC's cooperation and Freedom Alliance's on this, then there should be no problem. [Reporter] Mr. Meyer was more optimistic about the negotiations with the Afrikaner National Front on a homeland for whites and about talks with the kwaZulu kingship over the role of the Zulu king in a future dispensation. [Meyer] The talks during the last week with the National Front and the Zulu king's representatives went off well. There are positive signs, and I think that on both of those aspects we could come to an agreement as early as tomorrow. The most important assurance from our side to the supporters of a homeland -- and that is what has surfaced in our previous discussions -- is that the homeland idea has to be accepted as a possible solution for self- determination for the Afrikaner. And we are now trying to find a formula on how that fact can be assured and be continued even after the election. [end recording]
