FBIS4-12818 "drnes072_v_94008" FBIS-NES-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 Pakistan Wrapup of Reports on Visit of Iranian Parliamentary Speaker Wrapup of Reports on Visit of Iranian Parliamentary Speaker Further on Activities in Lahore LD1304212894 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 1930 GMT 13 Apr 94 LD1304212894 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Excerpt] [passage omitted] Our correspondent, Khamene, reports from Islamabad on the activities of the speaker of the Islamic consultative Majlis on the fourth day of his visit to Pakistan: [Khamene] Continuing his visit to Pakistan, Mr. 'Ali Akbar Nateq-Nuri, Majlis speaker, arrived in Lahore and attended a ceremony in which more than 250 Pakistani scholars and spiritual leaders from various Islamic sects, ministers, deputies, and personalities from Punjab were present. In the ceremony, Mr. Nateq-Nuri referred to the hostile attitude of America towards Islam and Muslims and stressed: The Islamic community should set aside factionalism and safeguard its vigilance and preparedness in order to foil American ploys and conspiracies. The Majlis speaker mentioned that the increasing trend of support for Islam and pro-Islamic activity in various parts of the world has petrified the enemies of Islam and particularly America. He added: The world arrogance and the devourer America design a conspiracy against the world of Islam and Muslims each day. Under such circumstances, any person who causes discord among Muslims, under any pretext, has betrayed God and is an American lackey. The Majlis speaker condemned oppressive measures and aggressive acts which take place against Muslims in Bosnia, Kashmir, and Palestine and said: America and arrogance do not care who is a Shiite or a Sunni. It is enough for a person to believe in prayers and the Qiblah to be killed or subjected to assault. He honored the memory of the Muslim Pakistani martyrs who protested against the apostate Salman Rushdie and said: We must expand unity among Muslims, shun sectarianism, and hold hands to protect Islam and Muslims. During the ceremonies, Mowlana Aslam Salimi, Pir Asef Ali Shah Gaylani, Mowlana Abdolqader Azad and Mowlana Abdol Rashid, who are among the prominent Sunni scholars of the Pakistani Punjab, applauded the high status of Imam Khomeyni and praised decisive stances adopted by the late Imam and the Islamic Republic of Iran to confront problems faced by Muslims and the world of Islam.
