FBIS3-33400 "drlat037_a_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Concludes Official Visit FL2402010194 Havana Cuba Vision Network in Spanish 2320 GMT 23 Feb 94 FL2402010194 Havana Cuba Vision Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] After an official six-day visit to Cuba, Manuel Hermoso Rojas, the president of the government of the autonomous community of the Canary Islands, and his delegation departed today for Venezuela. At the Jose Marti International Airport, the Canarian delegation was greeted by Jose Ramon Fernandez, vice president of the Council of Ministers, and Vice Foreign Minister Isabel Allende Karem. Jose Antonio San Gil, Spanish ambassador to Cuba, and other Cuban personalities were also present at the ceremony. [passage omitted] The last day of President Manuel Hermoso Rojas' official visit to Cuba began early in the morning at the Ministry of Foreign Relations. The visitors were met by Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina, who conversed with the visitors. President Manuel Hermoso Rojas thanked him for the hospitality shown during his visit and expressed a desire to meet with Robaina in the Canary Islands. Afterwards, Manuel Hermoso Rojas and Jose Ramon Fernandez signed a letter of intent which, among other items, includes the development of bilateral trade and the search, by Canarian authorities, for financing for financial projects in Cuba. In that area, next month, the Canarian Government will send a group of specialists to evaluate possible schemes of cooperation with Cuba. In a news conference, President Hermoso Rojas referred to the possibility of cooperation between the governments of Cuba and Canary Islands: [Begin recording] The Canary Islands is an enclave with very important ties with all of Europe. We believe that the Canary Islands can be an important platform of distribution to Latin America and Cuba of not only Canarian production but all products that could be received from Europe. The Canary Islands have industries that, because of the traditional characteristics of the Cuban and Canarian people, will allow for good contacts and business relations, especially in the agricultural-industrial sector. [end recording]
