FBIS4-23346 "drafr107_c_94011" FBIS-AFR-94-107 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Provincial Governments Allocated 200 Million Rand Provincial Governments Allocated 200 Million Rand MB0206171794 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English 2 Jun 94 p 2 MB0206171794 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY English BFN [By Greta Steyn] [Excerpt] Only about R200m [million rand] would be allocated specifically to the new provincial governments in the Budget this month to finance their administrations, state expenditure director-general Hannes Smit said yesterday. Since the old administrations would continue running regional government functions in the short term, the usual allocations to the four provinces, the TBVC [Transkei, Bophuthatswana, Venda, Ciskei] and the self-governing territories would be made, he said. "The Budget will have exactly the same format as in previous years, except for a supplementary spending proposal to finance the provincial cabinets," he said. The amount -- less than R200m -- would not add to overall spending totals. The total allocation to each region would be linked to functions, such as education, at present performed by those governments in the TBVC. As functions were formally handed to the new provinces, they would use the finance allocated to the old administrations -- as well as central government allocations. One exception was housing, where central government's allocation went to the national housing fund, which would distribute it to the regions, Smit said. At present, there is a national housing board and four regional housing boards with access to central government funds. The relationship between the regional boards and the provincial governments has not yet been defined. Sources said the boards were operating in terms of National Housing Forum policies, but that could change if regional housing ministers disagreed with the policies. Smit said a law would be passed soon to establish the reconstruction fund, which would kick off with R2.5bn [billion] from government. Sources said the first direct allocations to the new regional governments were likely to come from the reconstruction fund. These allocations might be made before the fiscal and financial commission -- to be appointed before the end of the month -- had decided on formulas for sharing revenue. [passage omitted]
