FBIS4-26462 "drchi121_a_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-121 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Foreign Ministry Holds Weekly News Conference Foreign Ministry Holds Weekly News Conference Cites `Important Act' on Korea Issue HK2306095894 Hong Kong AFP in English 0810 GMT 23 Jun 94 HK2306095894 Hong Kong AFP English BFN [Text] Beijing, June 23 (AFP)--China welcomed Thursday the resumption of talks between Washington and Pyongyang over the North Korean nuclear crisis, hailing the move as a "turning point." "We are happy to see these positive developments... and appreciate the wise attitude and cooperative efforts by the various parties concerned for the peaceful settlement of this issue," Foreign Ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin said at a weekly press conference. President Bill Clinton announced Wednesday that North Korea had agreed to freeze its nuclear programme, opening the door to high-level talks with the United States in Geneva next month. During negotiations, Washington will suspend efforts to pursue UN sanctions against North Korea for refusing to allow inspection of its nuclear facilities. "We sincerely hope all the parties concerned will treasure and grasp this hard-won turning point," Wu said, adding that dialogue, rather than sanctions "is the most fundamental way for a peaceful and proper settlement of the Korean nuclear issue." China has repeatedly opposed the idea of UN sanctions and Wu clearly indicated that Beijing felt the latest developments were a vindication of that stance. "Ever since this North Korean nuclear question cropped up, China has resolutely insisted that it be resolved through dialogue instead of through exerting pressure," Wu said. "I believe this is an important act China has done." He also welcomed Pyongyang's agreement to preparatory talks with Seoul for a summit between North Korean President Kim Il-Song and his South Korean counterpart, Kim Yong-Sam. Asked whether China was satisfied that North Korea is not following a nuclear weapons programme, Wu would only reiterate China's commitment to the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula. "China does not wish to see the emergence of nuclear weapons on the Korean peninsula, whether from the North of from the South or any other countries," Wu said.
