FBIS4-54454 "dreeu083__a94004" FBIS-EEU-94-083-A Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 ANNEX Albania Agriculture Ministry To Sell Pesticides Abroad Agriculture Ministry To Sell Pesticides Abroad AU2904112994 Tirana ATA in English 0812 GMT 29 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2904112994 Tirana ATA English BFN [Text] Tirana, April 29 (ATA) -- Albania will sell abroad a part of pesticides through open auctions. The pesticides were brought in Albania as credits in favourable conditions during the last three years. The Albanian Government has commissioned the Ministry of Agriculture for selling the pesticides initially to the producing companies and later on through open auctions. "A special commission of the Ministry of Agriculture will follow all the international laws in pesticides sale", Hasan Halili, minister of agriculture told an ATA reporter. Mr. Halili said he considers pesticides selling to be the only acceptable solution for avoiding the grave ecological and environmental repercussions the pesticides might bring about when they expire. Last October, the government permitted the sale of the pesticides inside Albania but according to the data of the Ministry of Agriculture and food the sold quantity has been insignificant. Mr. Halili said the very companies which brought the pesticides in Albania has continually made requests for retaking them. "If the producing companies would not evade in a proper time the pesticides, we will put them to auction after we have got the approval of the organisms which financed their transport", he said. The European Union, through the Picu office in Tirana, has been the first organism which offered its assistance for treating the pesticides brought in Albania in the context of the PHARE [Economic Reconstruction Aid for Poland and Hungary] program. The specialists say they are worried about the pesticides problem. 480 tons of pesticides were brought in Albania during the 1991-1993 period through the Italian credit, PHARE program and the World Bank credit.
