FBIS3-19507 "drweu053_h_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 GERMANY Rexrodt Urges Access to Asian-Pacific Markets AU1803115494 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT in German 18 Mar 94 p 11 AU1803115494 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT Language: German Article Type:BFN ["bid"-signed report: "Closer Cooperation in Asian-Pacific Area"] [Text] Bonn, 17 Mar -- Federal Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt has reiterated his request for more political support and better access to the Asian-Pacific markets for German enterprises. Rexrodt on Thursday [18 March] discussed the issue of closer economic cooperation with the ambassadors of ASEAN [Association of Southeast Asian Nations] countries Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. In the spheres of infrastructure, energy supply, telecommunications, and environment, in particular, Rexrodt sees opportunities to appear in Third World countries of the Asian-Pacific area hand in hand with the ASEAN countries. These potentials have so far been only insufficiently used, the minister emphasized. He briefed the ambassadors on the provision of FRG Hermes export guarantees and the federal capital investment guarantees for the support of direct investments. Further focal points in the talks were the extension of information and consulting facilities and the participation in foreign trade fairs. In the federal economic minister's view, the ASEAN countries determine to a large degree the economic situation in the Asian-Pacific area. Between 1987 and 1992, German foreign trade with the six countries doubled to 25.7 billion German marks [DM]. According to preliminary figures, exports to the ASEAN countries increased 7-9 percent, which is consistent with the average annual economic growth achieved by these nations. In late April, the minister is scheduled to visit Malaysia, Thailand, and Taiwan. In Bangkok, he will take part in the Asia-Pacific Conference. Rexrodt expects important impulses from this conference for extending economic relations with the Asian-Pacific countries. In Germany, Rexrodt is due to meet the prime minister of Singapore and government members from Brunei and the Philippines. Indonesia will be the partner country at the 1995 Hannover Fair. An Asia-Pacific Forum at the fair is intended to serve as a meeting place for business people from Asia and German business representatives.
