FBIS4-391 "drafr069_a_94025" FBIS-AFR-94-069 Daily Report 10 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda Council of Ministers Urges RPF To Resume Talks Council of Ministers Urges RPF To Resume Talks EA1004185594 Kigali Radiodiffusion Nationale de la Republique Rwandaise in French 0430 GMT 10 Apr 94 EA1004185594 Kigali Radiodiffusion Nationale de la Republique Rwandaise French BFN [Monitored in progress] [Excerpts] ...because of the insecurity that has prevailed lately, the first meeting of the Council of Ministers today made decisions on this issue. Concrete measures and decisions were made. By 11 April at the latest, there will be a meeting of all the prefects of prefectures which will be presided over by the interior minister upon his return from a mission abroad. If he has not returned, the meeting will be chaired by the prime minister, Jean Kambanda. [passage omitted] Today's Council of Ministers also expressed regret over the unilateral decision of the Rwandan Patriotic Front [RPF] to resume the war. Because this decision has been made, preparations are under way on the Rwandan Government side. That is why the Council of Ministers called upon the national Army to redouble its vigilance to eventually counter the attacks and advances of the RPF, if it persists in adopting this war mentality that we thought we had buried with the signing of the Arusha Accord last August. That is why the Rwandan Government urges the RPF to abandon this war mentality which benefits nobody, certainly not the RPF. The government urges the RPF to readopt the logic of peace and to resume discussions with the Rwandan Government which is the other signatory to the Arusha peace accord. In this way the broad-based transitional institutions as provided by the Arusha peace accords can be put in place in the coming six weeks, to meet the deadline given by the UN Security Council on 5 April when it rediscussed the Rwandan case on whether or not to maintain UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda in our country. [passage omitted]
