FBIS3-34068 "drnes023_s_94002" FBIS-NES-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 Iran Reaction to Attack, Shootings During Celebration Noted CIA, Mosad Blamed LD0202190094 Tehran IRIB Television First Program Network in Persian 1620 GMT 2 Feb 94 LD0202190094 Tehran IRIB Television First Program Network Language: Persian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed commentary] [Excerpts] The news of the shooting incident at the immaculate mausoleum of Imam Khomeyni, may God be pleased with him, on the first day of the glorious celebration of the 10 Days of Dawn of the Islamic revolution while the beloved president of the nation was making a speech, immediately caused a wave of concern among the faithful people of Islamic Iran. [passage omitted] Hashemi-Rafsanjani is the comrade-in-arms of the eminent leader of the revolution and reminds us of the late imam. That is why that prominent revolutionary figure has always been the target of the enemies of the revolution in various forms. Today the enemy is focusing all its efforts on dealing blows against the holy system of the Islamic revolution and weakening the presence of the people in the arenas of the defense of the revolution. The attempts to instill despair in the people, propagated in the past few months by the horns of world arrogance and international Zionism and spread in the society in various forms, contained the message that the enemies of the revolution are hatching an extensive plot to deal blows at the revolution and its foundations. The incitement to revolt by certain saboteurs in Zahedan, which took place at the same time as the anti-revolutionary move at the immaculate mausoleum of Imam Khomeyni, may God be pleased with him, cannot be a coincidence. Such incidents can only be the work of organizations such as CIA and Mosad. They are the ones who, from the first day of the victory of the Islamic revolution, have girded their loins to destroy the Islamic revolution. But thanks to Almighty God, since the Islamic revolution and its movement has enjoyed divine support, once again the efforts of the conspirators failed and the leader and the ummah were joyful to hear that the beloved president is safe. The shouts of greetings to Hashemi were the people's crushing response to those who hatched that evil plot. [passage omitted]
