FBIS4-42434 "drweu107_j_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-107 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Prime Minister Welcomes President Clinton Prime Minister Welcomes President Clinton LD0206162094 Rome RAI Due Television Network in Italian 1430 GMT 2 Jun 94 LD0206162094 Rome RAI Due Television Network Italian BFN [Opening address by Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi at joint news conference with U.S. President Bill Clinton in Rome on 2 Jun] [Text] I would like to begin by thanking President Clinton for beginning his stay in Europe--during which he will commemorate the liberation America brought to us, the liberation from fascism and from Nazi totalitarianism--here in Italy. We had an interesting meeting in which I was able to explain directly the situation in Italy: the new government and its program, the background behind our new electoral law, as well as Italy's willingness to continue with our international treaties and obligations. I told President Clinton that Italy has always sought a climate of closeness with the United States specifically, as well as with international organizations. Next, we discussed international political issues. We will be honored to have President Clinton as our guest in Naples for the G-7 summit. Economics will be the key theme at the summit; above all the question of employment, which is difficult to link with the issue of technological development. This question affects every country in the West. We then viewed the current world scene and discussed the necessity of international organizations being able to intervene more quickly and efficiently in the various regional crisis that bring so much pain and suffering to the local populations. I then expressed to President Clinton our gratitude for that which the United States, along with its allies, accomplished 50 years ago. These 50 years for us have meant freedom. To put it bluntly, without that freedom which President Clinton sees here today in Italy, there would not have been a rebuilt Italy, which came with the sacrifice of so many young American lives. We remember this and it is because of this sense of commemoration and friendship that we have given this welcome here to President Clinton and his entourage.
