FBIS4-57668 "drlat099_l_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-099 Daily Report 19 May 1994 Bolivia Under Secretary on Military Activities in Chapare Under Secretary on Military Activities in Chapare PY2005140994 La Paz Television Nacional Network in Spanish 0100 GMT 19 May 94 PY2005140994 La Paz Television Nacional Network Spanish BFN [Passages within quotation marks recorded] [Excerpts] Military troops are patrolling Chapare Region. Social Defense Under Secretary Mario Soliz confirmed this. He stated, however, that the military troops are not involved in the struggle against drug trafficking. "Right now military troops, like any ordinary citizens, are circulating in the Chapare zone and some of them are carrying out training exercises. They are also investigating the possible existence of narcoterrorism." Soliz said the troops in El Chapare are subject to the Defense Ministry and not the Social Defense Undersecretariat. The under secretary said many peasants oppose the presence of the Leopardos [Mobile Police Unit for Rural Areas, UMOPAR] because they are involved in drug trafficking. "Operation Amanecer was carried out in Sinahota, and within two hours some six kg of cocaine were seized. Moreover, 45 maceration pits and 32 cocaine factories were found during the course of the day. This is really frightening because the average number of maceration pits UMOPAR members usually find ranges from six to eight per day." Recently the government approved a decree referring to the industrialization of coca leaf, which was not welcomed by the leaders of the coca farmers. "There is a surplus coca leaf production that is illegal; these are illegal plantations. Therefore, the government can, by no means, authorize the industrialization of something that is illegal, as this would be illogical; it would mean violating laws and, I repeat, this makes no sense." [passage omitted] Mario Soliz asserted that the said decree cannot be modified as the Chapare leaders have requested. In turn, he asked them to fulfill the commitment to voluntarily eradicate part of the surplus production. "What we want to say to them, in the first place, is: Gentlemen, let us eradicate 3,000 hectares because if we do so, the country will receive $20 million which it needs. We are not talking about compulsory eradication. The law clearly states that we must eradicate between 5,000 and 8,000 hectares, but we want to reach a consensus." Soliz then said that with or without a consensus, the alternative development plans and the voluntary eradication of coca plantations will in any case be implemented in Chapare. "We do not want to resort to violence because, after all, the government has the necessary tools to see to it that the law is respected, but we believe that interdiction is not the best alternative at this moment if we are able to reach a consensus."
