FBIS3-22693 "jptep008___94053" JPRS-TEP-94-008 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 27 February 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Advice on Hepatitis B Immunization Ignored 94WE0212A London THE SUNDAY TELEGRAPH in English 27 Feb 94 p 4 94WE0212A London THE SUNDAY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Victoria Macdonald: "Chance To End Hepatitis B Deaths `Ignored'"] [Text] The Government is resisting expert advice and a recommendation from the World Health Organisation to introduce a national immunisation programme against hepatitis B, a virus 1,000 times more infectious than AIDS. Health ministers claim the incidence is too low to be of significance, even though it kills one in five carriers and more than 600 people a year die of it in Britain. In response to a written question from Dawn Primarolo, Labour health spokesman, Tom Sackville, junior health minister, said last week: "Immunisation strategy is kept under review." But sources at the health department said ministers were concerned at the cost of such a programme. The WHO first recommended national immunisation in 1991 and this was endorsed by the World Health Assembly the following year. Experts in Britain have told the health department that an immunisation programme targeting infants or teenagers -- or both -- could effectively wipe out the virus. They have also called for more effective notification of the disease because they fear it is being vastly under-reported. The United States, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore and Canada are among countries that have already followed the recommendations. Professor Arie Zuckerman, of the Royal Free Hospital, an adviser on viral diseases to the health department and the WHO, said last week: "This is an infection which is preventable. It is also a very important public health issue." Like AIDS, hepatitis B is transmitted sexually or by infected blood or contaminated medical instruments. The WHO estimates that one in 20 people in Europe alone have or have had the virus. But Prof. Zuckerman said the problem here was the lack of epidemiological data. "The official view is based on the notification rates to the Public Health Laboratory Service. But I do not buy that, because in most cases the symptoms are not recognised and not all cases are reported," he said. It could affect 15 to 20 per cent of the population rather than the less than one per cent cited by the health department. "Eradicating hepatitis B by immunisation is an achievable target and the UK should participate in the WHO programme," Prof. Zuckerman said. "If you compare the costs of treatment with prevention, then there is no question about which is cheaper."
