FBIS4-40389 "drsov116_a_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-116 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev Criticizes UN Draft Resolution on Korea Kozyrev Criticizes UN Draft Resolution on Korea LD1606113094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1018 GMT 16 Jun 94 LD1606113094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Dmitriy Gorokhov] [Text] Moscow, 16 Jun -- Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation Andrey Kozyrev today levelled criticism at the Security Council draft resolution released by the American delegation to the United Nations, on a settlement of the situation on the Korean peninsula. In his words, the draft resolution contravenes the accords reached in the course of the conversations beteen the presidents of Russia and the United States. One can only express perplexity at the fact, he said, that "the American diplomats have released in New York a draft resolution containing a list of specific sanctions." Andrey Kozyrev said this was done by the American side despite the fact that during the telephone conversation between Presidents Boris Yeltsin and Bill Clinton, and then during the Russian Federation foreign minister's telephone conversation with U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher "it was agreed absolutely clearly to act jointly, to work out a draft resolution jointly and not to put forward unilateral unitiatives." "The release of such a draft resolution unilaterally will cause us serious difficulty in examining this document," A. Kozyrev stated. "We will not in any event support the range of sanctions which is being put forward without previous agreement with us." For its part, Moscow, as indeed the heads of the two states agreed, A. Kozyrev announced, conveyed confidentially to the American side its own proposals on a draft resolution. They include both the idea of sanctions and specific ideas on an international conference on questions of security and the nuclear-free status of the Korean peninsula. In keeping with the accords of the presidents and of the heads of the foreign policy deparltments of the Russian Federation and the United States, in the resolution both these elements should be contained on an equal footing. Expressing the opinion that "the work will be continued," A. Kozyrev at the same time stressed that "the unilateral actions of the American diplomats in New York only complicate the matter."
