FBIS4-64324 "drweu085_a_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-085 Daily Report 2 May 1994 AUSTRIA Poll Shows Greater Determination of EU Opponents Poll Shows Greater Determination of EU Opponents AU0205123694 Vienna DER STANDARD in German 2 May 94 p 7 AU0205123694 Vienna DER STANDARD German BFN [Report by Conrad Seidl: "EU Opponents More Determined Than in the Past"] [Text] Linz -- The opponents of membership in the European Union [EU] are now more determined in their negative attitude than in December. This was discovered by Market Institute expert Astrid Koller when she compared two polls about the date of accession to the European Union. The Market Institute has repeatedly conducted polls for the European Barometer of DER STANDARD, asking when the most appropriate date for accession to the EU would be. In the M-35 poll last December only one out of two EU opponents said that Austria should "not at all" join the European Union -- in the M-39 poll now, after the negotiations, already two-thirds of the EU opponents are committed to a definite "no." "A classical case of polarization," Koller says. The other results make it clear that 46 percent of the population are still of the opinion that Austria should join the EU in 1995 at the latest. A potential postponement of the referendum and of the date for accession is favored by about 15 percent of the followers of the Social Democratic Party of Austria and the Austrian People's Party [OeVP] respectively. The "never into the EU" is advocated by 28 percent of Freedom Party of Austria [FPOe] followers and 21 percent of OeVP followers. The Liberal Forum, which is close to the FPOe but in favor of the EU, warned last week against making the EU referendum a referendum on the government; Bruno Kreisky made this mistake in 1978. The bill will be presented to the government only at the Nationalrat elections. This week the issue of the EU and the date of accession will be dealt with by the parliaments, by the European Parliament in Strasbourg and by the Nationalrat. Austria will not have the opportunity to join the European Union at any time, Salzburg Governor Hans Katschthaler stated. If membership is rejected now, he expects a delay of 10 to 15 years.
