FBIS3-24471 "jpust006___94002" JPRS-UST-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 09 March 1994 CHEMICAL SCIENCES CHEMISTRY Ion-Selective Electrodes Based on Neutral Carriers as Sensors of Organic Cations. Membraned Octylammonium-Selective Electrodes Based on Phosphoryl-Containing Podands 947M0012A Moscow ZHURNAL ANALITICHESKOY KHIMII in Russian Vol 48, No 12, Dec 93 pp 1974-1982 947M0012A Moscow ZHURNAL ANALITICHESKOY KHIMII Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by N. B. Shvedene, I. V. Pletnev, M. Yu. Nemilova, O. D. Sinenko, N. M. Sheina, and V. Ye. Baulin, Moscow State University imeni M. V. Lomonosov; UDC543.257.1] [Abstract] Plasticized electrodes having a membrane containing a neutral carrier (crown-ester, as a rule) are being used more frequently for the potentiometric determination of amines. These electrodes are selective and have useful operational features. The mechanism of their functioning includes a ``guest-host'' complex formation stage, where the protonated amine cation becomes bound to the carrier molecule with hydrogen bonds and ion-dipole interaction. It may be supposed that macrocyclic polyesters are interchangeable with ionophores having an open chain, particularly podands--compounds in which the polyester chain has basic terminal groups (phosphine oxides, for example) attached to it. These reagents, similar to crown-esters, are capable of interacting with metals, and possibly also with amines. The procedures for synthesizing podands are more accessible than those of cyclic polyesters, thereby facilitating structural variations in the search for the most effective ionophore. The relative conformational lability of non-cyclic molecules ensures satisfactory kinetic characteristics of electrodes made from them. In the present work podands having diphenylphosphine oxide terminal groups and a lengthy polyester chain were synthesized and tested as electrode-active materials. For comparison, a study was also made of the properties of triphenylphosphine oxide, an analog of an ``isolated terminal group'', and the classic crown-ester dibenzo-18-crown-6. An ion selective electrode having a plasticized membrane based on an acyclic polyester having diphenylphosphine oxide terminal groups was developed and used to determine octylammmonium ions in aqueous solutions. The basic electrode characteristics were found to be a function of the nature of the electrode active component of the membrane. Ion-selective electrodes based on podands having three polyester oxygen atoms had optimum properties. An electrode having an o-nitrophenyloctyl ester as plasticizer manifested the longest service life (about 3 months). A method was also developed for the ionometric determination of octylammonium ions in model solutions under stationary conditions and in a counter-current mode. Figures 3; references 13: 5 Russian, 8 Western.
