FBIS4-1351 "drafr082_e_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 WEST AFRICA Liberia Further on Cabinet Further on Cabinet AB2704191694 Gbarnga Radio ELRL in English 1400 GMT 27 Apr 94 AB2704191694 Gbarnga Radio ELRL English BFN [Text] Two NPFL-[National Patriotic Front of Liberia] nominated officials, Information Minister Joe Mulbah and Agriculture Minister Dr. Roland Massaquoi, have appeared before the Transitional Legislative Assembly [TLA] at the Capitol Building in Monrovia for confirmation hearing. The appearance of the two ministers is in line with the position of the leadership of the NPFL to have all of its nominated officials formally seated on the LNTG [Liberian National Transitional Government]. Outlining the program of his ministry, the information boss spoke of plans to strengthen the government media system, particularly LIBERIA NEWS AGENCY. Minister Mulba spoke of plans to reactivate the radio and television facilities of the government-owned Liberia Broadcasting System. He said all public media institutions will be made available to the public, political parties, and interest groups during the transitional period, and repeated his commitment to uphold press freedom. The information boss said he would be launching a government-sponsored newspaper called the TRANSITION. On his part, Agriculture Minister Dr. Roland Massaquoi said he would seek international support to upgrade Liberia's agricultural sector. Dr. Massaquoi described agriculture as the lifeblood of the Liberian economy. Meanwhile, it is still not clear why the NPFL newly nominated minister of foreign affairs, Mrs. D. Musuleng-Cooper, has not been confirmed by the TLA in Monrovia. Mrs. Cooper was appointed by the leadership of the NPFL over the weekend to replace Counselor Momolu Sirleaf, after reservations by some Monrovia politicians of Counselor Sirleaf holding the post. At the same time, NPFL members of the Transitional Legislative Assembly have taken their seats at the Capitol Building. The assembly members were welcomed by TLA Speaker Morris Dukuly, who said their participation in the LNTG signals the beginning of the end of the country's civil conflict.
