FBIS3-29067 "dreas031_q_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 AUSTRALASIA Australia Editorial on Reduction in U.S. Airline Flights BK1402135994 Sydney THE AUSTRALIAN in English 3 Feb 94 p 8 BK1402135994 Sydney THE AUSTRALIAN Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] The suspension of most flights to Australia by the American carrier, Northwest Airlines, will mildly embarrass both the airline and the Clinton administration which supported it in last year's aviation dispute with Qantas and our Government. American threats worked in that dispute. Now Northwest's need to trim costs has achieved what Australian diplomacy (and litigation) could not. Yesterday the airline was forced to announce the end of two of the three Detroit-Osaka-Sydney services Washington was so determined to protect. But it would be unwise to declare a belated victory for Australia. Rather, Northwest's departure may only make more room for the larger American carrier, United Airlines. Of the four US airlines active in Australia at the beginning of 1992, two have now withdrawn altogether, and Northwest will be reduced to one weekly service from April. United, by contrast, is expanding its Australian flights. [passage omitted] Northwest entered the market after signing agreements by which at least half the seating capacity would be taken by passengers originating in the US. The deal was supposed to minimise Northwest's impact on Japanese and Australian airlines servicing the Japan-Australia route. But Northwest flagrantly ignored the "50 per cent" rule. Last year Australia, with Japan's support, threatened to reduce Northwest's service unless the agreement was honoured. However, Washington retaliated with threats to cancel several direct-flight Qantas services to the US, Canberra capitulated, and Northwest continued to pick up most of its Australia-bound passengers in Japan. Even so, Northwest was unable to turn a sufficient profit. But American eyes are still fixed on the profit potential of Asia, the world's fastest-growing aviation market. US interests conflict with those of countries in the region, including Australia, whose own carriers hope to dominate the market. So far, however, Australia has not come up with an effective answer to America's bullying but successful tactics.
