FBIS3-18921 "drweu047__a94008" FBIS-WEU-94-047-A Document Type:Daily Report 10 March 1994 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs UK Formally Challenges EU Working Time Directive BR0803124394 London HERMES Database in English 7 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0803124394 London HERMES Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Announcement by David Hunt, secretary of state for employment, on UK "Formal Challenge" to the EU Working Time Directive on 7 March: "Britain Challenges Brussels in European Court Over Working Hours"] [Text] "I have today issued the Government's challenge to the Working Time Directive in the European Court. The UK strongly opposes any attempt to tell people that they can no longer work the hours they want. This measure is not about health and not about safety, it is a flagrant abuse of Community rules. It has been brought forward as such simply to allow majority voting -- a ploy to smuggle through part of the Social Chapter by the back door. ``We have a very strong case. The rules in the Directive on annual holidays, working on Sunday, the 48-hour week, and the rest are totally irrelevant to the proper control of health and safety at work. The European Court should throw out the Directive lock, stock and barrel. ``Although in long and hard negotiations we won very substantial concessions on all our key concerns, the Directive would still introduce bureaucratic rules and restrictions where none are needed. ``There can be no question of us implementing any part of the Directive in advance of our case being decided. ``The United Kingdom has one of the best health and safety records in Europe. We have never considered it necessary to place arbitrary limits on working hours on health and safety or any other grounds. ``Europe must turn its back on unnecessary and unjustified regulations. The real problem is unemployment; getting people back to work. We won't create jobs with more red tape or by introducing rigidities into the world of work. There is only one way to get unemployment down and that is to free up the labour market and discard unnecessary controls.'' Notes To Editors: The Working Time Directive was proposed by the European Commission in 1990 under Article 118a of the Treaty of Rome as a health and safety measure, which means that unlike other Directives dealing with employment terms and conditions it is subject to Qualified Majority Voting. The Directive includes measures for minimum daily and weekly rest periods (which are to include Sunday "in principle"), 4 weeks annual paid holidays, a limit on the working week to 48 hours except by voluntary agreement, and restrictions on night work. It excludes transport, work at sea and doctors in training from scope and allows for derogations from its requirements in certain circumstances, for example under collective agreement arrangements, or when there is a need for continuity of service or production. During negotiations, the UK achieved major changes: Member States may now follow a voluntary approach to the 48 hour week, and can decide whether to include Sunday in the weekly rest period. Derogations would also be allowed for local or enterprise level collective agreements as well as national level agreements. The Directive was formally adopted by the Commission in November 1993 and Member States have three years from that date to implement it. The government has made it clear that there is no question of implementing the Directive in advance of the legal challenge being decided.
