FBIS4-11109 "drlat078_i_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-078 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 Nicaragua Demobilized Fighters Block Entrances to Quilali Demobilized Fighters Block Entrances to Quilali PA2104170594 Managua EL NUEVO DIARIO in Spanish 21 Apr 94 p 7 PA2104170594 Managua EL NUEVO DIARIO Spanish BFN [Report by Henry Vargas and Irma Franco] [Text] Ocotal, Nueva Segovia -- In an attempt at rebellion, 150 former members of the 3-80 Northern Front blocked the entrances to the city of Quilali for one hour. They said it was a peaceful seizure to protest the government's noncompliance with an agreement to distribute land before the beginning of the current agricultural season. The seizure occurred at 1100 on 20 April, and they decided to withdraw from the city when they found no support from the local population. The former fighters said their main demand is the distribution of land, as stipulated in the demobilization agreement recently signed by the government of Violeta Barrios de Chamorro and El Chacal [Jose Angel Talavera], their leader. During the brief seizure of the city, they also demanded bank financing for the planting of basic grains, as the government had promised. According to a military report, this seizure had no significance because it did not have the people's support. The townspeople say they have faith in the agreements signed with the government, indicating that peace and harmony with the former fighters and good harvests in the coming agricultural season depend on the fulfillment of the agreements. "Esteban" Explains Situation Salvador Talavera, alias "Esteban," confirmed that a group of sympathizers and members of the 3-80 Northern Front, who had demobilized in 1990, gathered at midday yesterday near Quilali's park to demand that the government fulfill the agreements signed four years ago. "Esteban" added that this group of demobilized individuals wanted to take advantage of the dialogue that is currently taking place between the government and the 3-80 Northern Front General Command to publicize their demands. However, at their first attempt at gathering, the police and former 3-80 Northern Front Commanders "Pajarillo" [not further identified] and "Cascabel" [Jose Santos Sanchez] arrived. The two former commanders are currently in charge of the demobilization in Quilali. "Esteban" reiterated that the group gathered spontaneously and on their own, without any authorization. He said that the CIAV [International Commission of Support and Verification]-OAS was the first organization to learn about the action and that it immediately reported it to the Government Ministry. Salvador Talavera, El Chacal's brother, said "the alleged seizure only exists in the complete disinformation irresponsibly released by certain media."
