FBIS3-52164 "drnes001_l_94006" FBIS-NES-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 ISRAEL Israel Sends Reply to Tunis TA0201184194 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1800 GMT 2 Jan 94 TA0201184194 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1800 GMT 2 Jan 94 Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Political correspondent Gadi Sukenik report] [Excerpts] Israel is not prepared to resume the political talks with the PLO under the conditions created by 'Arafat. A letter to this effect signed by Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres was faxed this evening to the PLO leaders. The prime minister stated today: I have time, let the guys in Tunis start sweating a little now. In the meantime, cabinet ministers have begun floating new ideas. For example, in an internal session today, Minister Moshe Shahal said he believes we should halt the deliberations about an interim arrangement and proceed directly to discuss the permanent arrangement in the territories. Our political correspondent Gadi Sukenik reports: [Begin recording] [Sukenik] [passage omitted] Israel today sent its reply to the heads of the Palestinian delegation in Cairo and Tunis by fax, as the Palestinians did. The principle stated in the Israeli message: Changes in the understandings may be discussed, but not ignored. In other words, 'Arafat should get off his high horse. [passage omitted] Rabin and Peres today told cabinet ministers they decided to resume the economic talks with the PLO in Paris at once. They conveyed their impression that 'Arafat is not bothered by the situation in the territories. At the same time, they reiterated that the PLO's standing in the territories has been deteriorating and that the money promised to it has not been coming through. The new situation is leading to new ideas. In an internal session today -- and only in such a forum at this point -- Minister Moshe Shahal said: We should drop the deliberations about the interim arrangement and proceed directly to a discussion about the permanent arrangement in the territories. [end recording]
