FBIS3-2538 "drchi047_k_94026" FBIS-CHI-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Xie Fei Interviewed on Guangdong's Plans OW1003120694 Beijing Central People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 9 Mar 94 OW1003120694 Beijing Central People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [From the "Special Program on the NPC and CPPCC Sessions"] [Text] As a frontier province in China's reform and opening up, Guangdong has achieved remarkable progress over the past 15 years. However, as the Central Committee's policy of reform and opening up is being implemented in depth throughout the country, overseas investment is gradually moving inland. Moreover, other coastal provinces and cities have also opened up in an all-round way. Consequently, Guangdong has been steadily losing many of its former advantages. In these circumstances, what can Guangdong do to create new advantages and advance its economy to a new level? In an interview with station reporter Zhao Yihong, Xie Fei, NPC deputy and secretary of the Guangdong Provincial CPC Committee, spoke about Guangdong's plans for the future and its strategic goals. [Begin recording] The general idea is to lay a foundation. There are three aspects to this foundation. For short we call them three mountains -- all for the purpose of laying a foundation. First, the institution of three mechanisms. The first is the mechanism of the socialist market economy, a mechanism of broad significance. The second is the legislative mechanism, and the third that of democratic supervision. These three mechanisms, we believe, will be crucial to the accomplishment of our future goals. They are economic as well as political mechanisms. In other words, we will simultaneously promote reform of two types of mechanisms that promote one another. Third [as heard], making improvements in three areas: 1. Optimizing the industrial structure. Guangdong is developing industries based on high and new technology; there should be a reasonable ratio between the primary, secondary, and tertiary industries; and industry should change in a way that lays greater emphasis on economic efficiency. 2. Improving the environment. In achieving modernization, we should try to avoid the problems that developed countries have encountered before -- that is, pollution of society and the environment brought about by modernization. We are studying ways to avert these problems. Our goal is to achieve modernization and industrialization without polluting the environment. 3. Improving the quality of the population. It has a two-fold meaning. One is family planning, the second is related to education. It is important to improve the quality. [end recording]
