FBIS4-57241 "drlat094_e_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-094 Daily Report 15 May 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA Costa Rica Nicaraguan EPS Capture 2 Tourist Fishing Boats Nicaraguan EPS Capture 2 Tourist Fishing Boats PA1505181694 Panama City ACAN in Spanish 1655 GMT 15 May 94 PA1505181694 Panama City ACAN Spanish BFN [All names as published] [Text] San Jose, 15 May (ACAN-EFE) -- Costa Rican Security Minister Juan Diego Castro reported that the Costa Rican Government has asked Nicaragua for "explanations" on the capture of two motor boats carrying tourists by a Sandinist People's Army (EPS) patrol on Saturday in Costa Rican Caribbean territorial waters. The two boats captured off the Barra del Colorado coast, 240 km northeast of San Jose, had a Costa Rican crew and were carrying foreign tourists engaged in deep-sea fishing, when they were intercepted and towed to the port of Bluefields, in Nicaragua, the minister said. Castro said the Costa Rican Government asked the Nicaraguan Government for "explanations" and the "immediate return of the boats and their crew." The Costa Rican Government also sent the Nicaraguan Government a report drafted by witnesses who observed the EPS maneuvers from a small airplane. The boats were towed to Bluefilelds in Nicaragua, "and so far, we have not received any news on the whereabouts of the tourists or the boats' crews," Castro said today. The minister added that the EPS soldiers went about 1,500 meters inside the high-seas territorial waters, where they stayed for approximately two hours inspecting identity documents of several boats anchored off the Barra del Colorado coast. The boat "Bull Shark" was piloted by Costa Rican citizens Luis Torres and Wallace Bryan and their passengers were identified as Erick Beacker, Brian Broheart, and Jean Carl Becquer. The other captured boat is the "Guapote," which was piloted by Captain Roberto Brown. It was carrying foreign tourists who were identified by the police as Frank Vanbenbourgh and Ted Mosinut. The authorities did not reveal their nationalities.
