FBIS4-57847 "drlat102_j_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-102 Daily Report 24 May 1994 Panama Comptroller Calls for End of Corporations' Secrecy Comptroller Calls for End of Corporations' Secrecy PA2505000794 Panama City LA PRENSA in Spanish 24 May 94 p2a PA2505000794 Panama City LA PRENSA Spanish BFN [Report by Jose Quintero De Leon] [Text] Comptroller General Jose Chen Barria has asked all of the country's lawyers and members of the Supreme Court of Justice to establish something that was already done in 1991 -- to remove secrecy protection from corporations so that offenses can no longer be committed under this system. His proposal was prompted by the scandal involving the Homsany Group, which the National Bank of Panama [BNP] and the Comptroller General's Office accuse of stealing millions of balboas from the BNP. "We cannot let corporations' secrecy serve to commit crimes," Comptroller Chen said. He said that in this particular case, his office is using a precedent set by Panamanian law regarding corporations. It would be up to the courts to determine if it is possible to remove the cover of secrecy from corporations, he said. Regarding meddling by the Comptroller General's Office in this case, he said the office acted according to its responsibility and the law through the Directorate for the Recovery of State Property. In those instances, the delegated District Attorney's Office continues gathering evidence, which clearly proves a crime was comitted. The Homsany Group is trying to evade justice by using the veil of corporations. "I hope the courts will do their work and that the proofs, which are categorical, will be sufficient for justice to prevail in Panama." Chen Barria described what the Homsany Group did -- using 38 companies to steal 5.6 million balboas -- as detrimental to the BNP's funds, which belong to all Panamanians. In fact, 33 of these 38 companies were never in business, but their legal representatives and those who signed as loan debtors were employees earning between $200 to $250. "All of this shows a duly structured and planned crime," Chen Barria commented. The companies involved in this crime are not operating, but the comptroller general revealed that the Homsany Group is running these companies under other corporations.
