FBIS3-43494 "drafr005_d_94017" FBIS-AFR-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Zambia Resignation of Foreign Minister Examined MB0501121594 London BBC World Service in English 0600 GMT 5 Jan 94 MB0501121594 London BBC World Service Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Network Africa" program] [Text] Zambia's Foreign Minister Vernon Mwaanga has resigned. He says he had to go to allow the government to investigate allegations against various cabinet ministers of drug trafficking and corruption, but he denies that he has been involved in any wrongdoing whatsoever and there is still pressure on President Frederick Chiluba to dismiss other ministers. Our reporter in Zambia, (Anias Nyakuthemba), has been watching the reaction to the scandal: [Begin (Nkyakuthemba) recording] Many Zambians and some Western diplomats have welcomed the decision by Zambia's foreign affairs minister, Vernon Mwaanga, to resign, saying it would [words indistinct] precedent and a better government image. Mwaanga (?officially) resigned yesterday morning, but his action was not entirely unexpected. It follows several weeks, if not months, in which pressure from the donors, the opposition, and the local media has been piling up on President Frederick Chiluba to sack ministers allegedly involved in drug trafficking and corrupt practices. Mwaanga said yesterday that he was bowing to public pressure to resign his post and to allow the government to prove allegations of his involvement in drug trafficking even though, he said, he was clean. Mwaanga also urged what he called corrupt ministers to resign as well. Many Zambians I interviewed yesterday evening described Mwaanga's decision as courageous, (?honest), and an excellent example. Others told the BBC that ministers who were allegedly corrupt should resign and that, if they (?did not), President Chiluba should sack them to repair Zambia's tattered image. Some Western diplomats I talked to also described Mwaanga's decision as the right step in the right direction, but added more action was needed to restore donor confidence. [end recording]
