FBIS4-36522 "drnes112yy_94003" FBIS-NES-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks Meeting Said To Lead to `Breakthrough' Meeting Said To Lead to `Breakthrough' TA0906180494 Jerusalem New Channel 2 Television Network in Hebrew 1700 GMT 9 Jun 94 TA0906180494 Jerusalem New Channel 2 Television Network Hebrew BFN [Interview with Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin by correspondent Yaron Deqel on 9 June; place not given -- recorded] [Text] Our political correspondent 'Imanu'el Rosen reports that high-level sources have confirmed that Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin held a secret meeting with King Husayn a few days ago. It was that meeting which led to the breakthrough in the talks between Israel and Jordan. Our correspondent Yaron Deqel today asked the prime minister about the secret contacts. Yitzhaq Rabin neither confirmed nor denied the meeting. [Begin recording] [Deqel] Mr. Prime Minister, has progress with Jordan been achieved in the wake of some type of secret talks which were held recently? [Rabin] I will not address myself to the reasons that led to this progress. I think there are many reasons, the main one being Jordan's willingness to make slow moves toward a peace treaty. Will this treaty be signed before progress is made with Syria, or not? I do not have an answer. [end recording] [Later during the broadcast, political correspondent 'Imanu'el Rosen relays a live report from Tel Aviv, stressing that "the recent breakthrough with Jordan was surely not accidental. A process of several weeks, of three weeks at least, involving secret contacts, away from the media, had taken place. The details of the recent meeting in Washington were concluded more than two weeks ago. Incidentally, even some of the delegation members were not aware of the nature of the agreement. In short, we were told by high-level sources that a meeting did take place between Yitzhaq Rabin and King Husayn. The prime minister's bureau refuses to confirm this meeting, but states that very high-level contacts indeed took place."]
