FBIS3-59404 "jpeer001__s94002" JPRS-EER-94-001-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 10 January 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Krajisnik Rules Out Further Concessions 94P20191A Belgrade BORBA in Serbo-Croatian 27 Dec 93 p 4 94P20191A Belgrade BORBA Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:CSO [Article by Z.R.: "No More Concessions"] [Text] Kragujevac--"The Serbian and Croatian sides have made a proposal promising to give 33.5 percent of Bosnia-Herzegovina territory to the Muslims. This was not easy; great sacrifices were made. However, supported by the world's great centers of power, the Muslims have rejected even this proposal. They, in fact, want all of Bosnia-Herzegovina. They hope to achieve this by retaining the union, which would then be abandoned by the Serbs and the Croats," Momcilo Krajisnik, president of the assembly of the republic of Srpska, said yesterday. Krajisnik pointed out that, "by retaining the union, the Muslims hope to acquire Neum and an exit to the sea. They also maintain that Sarajevo cannot be divided into two cities, and they demand new territorial concessions in eastern and western Bosnia." ``The Muslims are making all these demands hoping they will get to keep all of Bosnia-Herzegovina. We cannot make any further territorial concessions, but the Muslims persist with their demands so that the Serbs will be blamed again for the failure of negotiations. For this reason, on 15 January we will have to make the Muslims aware that this leadership is taking them to destruction. In the meantime, prior to 15 January we will have a session of the assembly of the republic of Srpska where we will ask for the establishment of a new platform for future negotiations. ``This will conclude the third round of our struggle for freedom; in the pending fourth round, we will have to make the international community aware of what the Serbs want. And if this does not produce any results, we will have to take our own course,'' said Krajisnik, adding that "the Muslims are prolonging the war with the intention of first purging central Bosnia of Croats, and then, in the spring, turning against the Serbs. This is why they want to open the airport in Tuzla, in order to get arms through."
