FBIS3-60882 "jptot001__l94130" JPRS-TOT-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 7 January 1994 WEST EUROPE REGIONAL AFFAIRS Kurds Arrested in Attack on Turkish Targets in Denmark 94WT0004A Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 27 Nov 93 p 2 94WT0004A Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Language: Danish Article Type:CSO [Article by Hans Moller and Mikkel Thrane: "New Arrest in Bombing Case"] [Text] Terrorism: At a closed hearing yesterday a 31-year-old Kurd was ordered held in solitary confinement for 13 days. Security police in Copenhagen yesterday arrested a man suspected of having participated in one of three attacks against Turkish targets in Copenhagen on 4 November at 1130. This attack apparently was carried out in coordination with other terrorist bombings in different places of Europe. The 31-year-old Kurd, who is a Turkish citizen, was arrested Thursday [25 November] at the asylum center in Auderod after his fingerprints were found on a lighter recovered near the Turkish Economic and Trade Center on Borger street in Copenhagen. He pleads not guilty. On the day after the attacks a 19-year-old Kurd, who has applied for asylum, was arrested, admitting to throwing rocks at the Turkish Airline. Having arrested the 31-year-old, the Danish police are the only ones in Europe to have in custody two suspects who can be connected to the wave of terrorist attacks. No organization has stepped forward claiming responsibility for the attacks attempted in Copenhagen and directed against the Turkish Information Office, the Turkish Airline, and the Turkish Economic and Trade Center. However, the Kurdish rebel movement PKK [Kurdish Workers Party] and the Kurdish Labor Party are suspected of being behind it, because, among other things, the attacks in Copenhagen coincided with the movement's attacks in a number of other places in Europe. Yesterday the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs declared PKK and 33 other Kurdish organizations illegal effective immediately; however, the Danish minister of justice, Erling Olsen, refuses to take such a drastic step.
