FBIS3-31923 "drlat020_m_94011" FBIS-LAT-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 Brazil Two Commissions Created To Promote Ties With Argentina PY2901023694 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL in Portuguese 28 Jan 94 p 5 PY2901023694 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Maria Helena Tachinardi] [Text] Brasilia -- Brazil and Argentina will create two new commissions: one for economic and commercial affairs and one for integration and cooperation affairs. In addition, they will study other ways to promote contacts between lawmakers, academicians, and entrepreneurs. Diplomatic teams from Brazil and Argentina ended a meeting on Tuesday in Rio de Janeiro. The main issues addressed at the meeting were the political, economic, and commercial relations between the two countries; Mercosur [Common Market of the South] affairs; the coming into force of NAFTA; Argentina's intention to create a peace operations center; and the Brazilian desire to study a similar initiative for the purpose of promoting the approach between the military of the two countries. The Brazilian team was headed by Foreign Ministry Secretary General Roberto Abdenur, whose interlocutor was Argentine Vice Foreign Minister Fernando Petrella. The meetings were also attended by officials in charge of the economic and political planning areas of the two foreign ministries. According to Abdenur, the idea is to create a true system of consultation so that integration reaches not only the governments but also other social sectors. In order to show the degree of proximity between the two governments, Abdenur said that presidents Itamar Franco and Carlos Menem have already met seven times. Warren Christopher Argentine and Brazilian diplomats also agreed on the significance of the conference of nations of the hemisphere that the U.S. Government has proposed for this year. Concerning the postponement of U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher's visit to Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Colombia, and Venezuela, Abdenur said that no specific date had been established for the tour, and that it should be made in the near future.
