FBIS3-22953 "jptot008__l94054" JPRS-TOT-94-008-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 1 March 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Hizballah Leader Urges People To `Destroy' PLO Leadership PM1402155094 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 14 Feb 94 p2 PM1402155094 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Nasrallah Urges the Palestinian People To `Destroy 'Arafat'"] [Excerpts] Beirut, AL-HAYAH -- Hizballah has commemorated the second anniversary of the assassination of its Secretary General 'Abbas al-Musawi and the 10th anniversary of the death of Shaykh Raghib Harb. It held a speech rally in Bi'r Hasan attended by an Islamic Republic of Iran delegation represented by its ambassadors to Lebanon and Syria, Homayun 'Ali Zadeh and Mohammad Akhtari-Forughi, and by Lebanese and Palestinian deputies and religious, military, and partisan figures, and others. [passage omitted] Dr. Fathi al-Shaqaqi, secretary general of the "Islamic Jihad Movement in Palestine," made a speech in which he said that the "resistance men insist on defeating Israel." He criticized those "who drink toasts with murderers and who speak of future normalization." [passage omitted] At the end, Hizballah Secretary General Hasan Nasrallah spoke. He said that "the resistance, whose leaders they killed in order to destroy it, is now stronger, firmer, and more solid." He reaffirmed that "our firm choice and absolute conviction is that the resitance is the only way to regain the territories and the holy places and to make real and precious peace. We will complete that journey most strongly and will not be deterred by Zionist terrorist methods or the continuous threats of a new war or annihilation of Hizballah." He asked "is it not time for everyone to give up their bet on negotiations which can only produce an Israeli peace on Israeli terms?" He criticized the United States for reneging on the commitments announced at the Geneva summit, and he also criticized the "Gaza-Jericho first" and Cairo agreements. He charged that Israel "has not abandoned the option of separate solutions so that it would move quickly to impose its terms on the Palestinian side with the presence of a traitor like (Palestinian President) Yasir 'Arafat who is making endless concessions." He urged "the Palestinian people to intensify their revolution and uprising and to work seriously for the downfall of the treasonous Zionized leadership of which 'Arafat is the black symbol, and even to destroy it and, by doing so, abort all the humiliating agreements." He called on all the peoples of the region to "uphold the great resistance option in order to put an end to the occupation, especially in Lebanon." He appealed to "all the Lebanese to join the ranks of the resistance." He thanked Iran and Syria for their positions and criticized the "Lebanese Government and the official silence" about what is taking place in the south. He said: "That government is the biggest absentee in relation to all national issues." He added: "Did you not notice the great official interest shown in the incident of the execution of the murderer who had committed his abominable crime in Ba'labakk (Husayn 'Awwadah) carried out by agreement among the families concerned which adhered to a known Shari'ah rule and carried it out immediately to prevent sedition, at a time when there was terrible official silence about the horrible Israeli aggressions in the south and in western al-Biqa'? Is that government performance not considered to be an encouragement and a complementary factor to the aggression?" He criticized the way the government addresses the steadfastness of the southerners and the economic and social issues as well as the issue of the return of the evacuees. He also criticized it for "keeping in flux the investigation into the 13 September massacre" (the al-Ghubayri incident) and he challenged the government to hold a referendum to determine its popularity.
