FBIS4-3007 "drchi073_k_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-073 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Court of Appeal Upholds Xi Yang 12-Year Jail Term Court of Appeal Upholds Xi Yang 12-Year Jail Term HK1504091494 Hong Kong Commercial Radio in Cantonese 0830 GMT 15 Apr 94 HK1504091494 Hong Kong Commercial Radio Cantonese BFN [Text] MING PAO has been informed by its lawyers in Beijing that after hearing Xi Yang's appeal, the court upheld the guilty conviction and the 12-year jail sentence. MING PAO workers will hold a massive protest tonight. Cheung Sau-wan reports: [Beginning recording] [Cheung] After deliberating on all the details of Xi Yang's appeal this morning, the Beijing Municipal Higher People's Court upheld the original sentence, that is, the 12- year jail term and the deprivation of all political rights for two years. The written decision has been handed to Xi Yang. The Beijing Municipal Higher People's Court spokeswoman, a Miss Fan, said that the court had examined all the evidence and arrived at the decision on the basis of law. [Fan, in Mandarin] The Beijing Municipal Higher People's Court on the morning of 15 April made a public announcement about its decision on the Xi Yang case. The result was to uphold the guilty conviction, the reason being that, after examination and a hearing, the court judged that the intermediate court's verdict complied with the law. [Cheung] The spokeswoman also said that Xi Yang was present when the decision was read out this morning and learned of the result right away. She also said that because Chinese law takes the second trial hearing to be the final appeal, the defeat of an appeal against conviction means that no more appeals can be lodged. After the written decision was announced, Xi Yang was immediately whisked away to a penal institution to begin serving his sentence. [Fan, in Mandarin] After the decision was announced he was sent to a penal institution to serve his sentence. The whole thing ended after the decision had been announced. [Cheung] MING PAO learned of the failure today through its Beijing lawyers and has decided to hold a massive protest tonight. Cheung Sau-wan, Commercial Radio. [end recording]
