FBIS4-59611 "drnes094_s_94001" FBIS-NES-94-094 Daily Report 15 May 1994 SOUTH ASIA Iran Commentary on Christopher Visit to Syria, Israel Commentary on Christopher Visit to Syria, Israel LD1505122094 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 1000 GMT 15 May 94 LD1505122094 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Unattributed commentary: "Christopher's Visit to Syria"] [Text] U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher arrives in Damascus today. He will be meeting with Zionist authorities tomorrow after his talks with Syrian officials. During his visit Christopher will convey the views of the Zionist regime's authorities to Syrian officials and take their response back to Tel Aviv. The aim of Christopher's visit is to bring closer the two sides' positions on the Zionist regime's proposal for a withdrawal from the Golan Heights by shuttling between Damascus and Tel Aviv. During an earlier visit to the region by Christopher, the Zionist regime proposed promoting a spirit of compromise in the region. The proposal tried to eliminate the obstacles in the way of talks with Syria. Syria has linked any talks with the Zionist regime to that regime's withdrawal from the occupied Golan Heights. The Zionist regime has proposed a gradual withdrawal from the Golan Heights, with the withdrawal carried out over a 10 year period rather than in a single step. Syrian officials responded by describing the proposal as a plan for postponing rather than resolving the issue. Stressing their constant stance, they emphatically called for a swift and total withdrawal from the Golan region. At the moment, after the signing of the accord between 'Arafat and the Zionist regime, officials of the Zionist regime and the White House expect Syria to display more flexibility about starting talks and announce its agreement with the proposals that have been put forward. Syria, however, taking into account the expansionist nature of the Zionist regime, is doubtful about the proposed plans, which defer a withdrawal from the Golan Heights. The Zionist regime has always discussed expanding its borders by making pretexts such as maintaining its security and self-defense, and raises the issue as a vital and strategic objective. That is why it is futile to hope for that regime's withdrawal at a time when it has received all the concessions. On the other hand, although the U.S. is ostensibly exerting pressure in a responsible way for talks to begin between the Zionist regime and the Syrian authorities, the Syrians are not sure that after the talks the necessary pressure on the Zionist regime will be exerted for its withdrawal from the Golan Heights, even for a gradual withdrawal. That is why the Syrians are as doubtful of the U.S. guarantees that any agreements will be implemented as they are suspicious of Israel professed willingness to carry out its undertakings. The liberation of the occupied areas is among Syria's vital objectives. For reasons of security as well as of honor, Syria is compelled not to agree to any postponement of the liberation of the occupied territories.
