FBIS3-13952 "drnes055_o_94001" FBIS-NES-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 SYRIA Rabin Remark on `Concessions' Seen as `Manuevering' JN2203092594 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0545 GMT 22 Mar 94 JN2203092594 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [From the press review] [Text] Under the headline "Rabin Is Maneuvering Anew," the newspaper AL-BA'TH writes: As part of Israel's policy of evading the requirments for peace--and whenever the international community tightens the grip on this policy of maneuvering and tampering with words--Israel makes statements on so-called concessions to this or that party. Rabin has talked a great deal about concessions in return for peace with Syria. He reiterated this notion of concessions after he returned from Washington, supposedly seeking to learn about the nature of peace that Syria wants. AL-BA'TH adds: Rabin's remarks are part of an attempt to search for a way out of his isolation. At the same time, these remarks are a mere semantical game, a much feigned desire for peace attempting to cover a strong adherence to occupation. The paper points out that anyone who talks about concessions should first possess legitimate property or a legitimate right to the thing he wants to relinquish. Rabin, as well as the former Israeli rulers, do not have any right whatsoever to the occupied Arab territories, and thus their alleged concessions are sheer falsehood. The paper stresses that the territories are Arab lands with legitimate owners whose legitimate rights to these lands have been unanimously recognized by the resolutions of international legitimacy. The most important of these resolutions are the ones on which the peace process was established. Israel, however, is evading these resolutions by all ways and means. Concluding, AL-BA'TH says: Rabin is continuing his maneuvers and procrastination. This method, however, will not last long in view of the available opportunity for peace. This opportunity should achieve its objective.
