FBIS4-43321 "drweu114__a94024" FBIS-WEU-94-114-A Daily Report 14 June 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Unions React to Government's Labor Market Proposal Unions React to Government's Labor Market Proposal BR1006125994 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 1450 GMT 9 Jun 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1006125994 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "Unions on Government Labor Market Proposals"] [Text] (ANSA) Rome, June 9 -- The decision by the government yesterday to delay approval of a decree setting new rules for the labor market met with approval from the three major trade unions Thursday [9 June] but union officials warned they would not give ground on some measures now under study. Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, said CISL [Italian Confederation of Trade Unions] union leader Sergio D'Antoni, "showed wisdom" in deciding to meet the three union federations before putting the final touches on the jobs decree; "he acknowledged the role of the unions, which have good arguments to make." But the head of the CGIL [Italian General Confederation of Labor] federation, Bruno Trentin, said that Berlusconi's was "an electoral move" because "it would have been dangerous to face disagreement from the unions at this time. I think the government must take our observations into account." Another CGIL official, Guglielmo Epifani, warned that Berlusconi "must say clearly whether he intends to take our requests into consideration or whether his (meeting unions) is purely a courtesy." Trentin and other CGIL officials were all unanimous in rejecting the government's plan that would allow companies to pay lower wages to youths at their first job and long-term unemployed, saying that this would do away with the "equal work equal pay" principle and eliminate job security for thousands of workers. D'Antoni also labelled the plan draft as presented by Labor Minister Clemente Mastella "a mess." The plan for the first time would allow the creation of temporary workers' agencies. Epifani said the unions do not challenge the principle of a flexible work force but that the same workers will have different wage brackets and rights: "It is unacceptable in a civil country, it will create conflicts in the work place and will undermine the negotiating rights of the unions, young workers will be permanently blackmailed." In substance, he concluded, "we will have a more precarious and less qualified labor force, exactly the opposite of what we need."
