FBIS4-61198 "drsov087cc_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-087 Daily Report 4 May 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS Leaders Hold Talks on Nagorno-Karabakh in Bishkek Leaders Hold Talks on Nagorno-Karabakh in Bishkek `Latent Tension' Mars Bishkek Meeting LD0405150194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1346 GMT 4 May 94 LD0405150194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [Report by KYRGYZKABAR correspondent Albert Bogdanov for TASS] [Text] Bishkek, 4 May -- The talks on ways to settle the Azerbaijani-Armenian conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh began today in Kyrgyzstan's capital in the atmosphere of latent tension. The sides were ready to take issue on any minor point. Since Nagorno-Karabakh representatives were absent from the reception staged by President Askar Akayev before the start of the talks and its delegation did not get an opportunity to state its position at the morning session, one can understand the harsh assessment of the conference from Karen Baburyan, acting chairman of Armenia's Supreme Soviet, who said: "It could not be worse. If they make some decisions without Nagorno-Karabakh, all right, let them. But who then is to return the conquered territories?" The first to speak was deputy chairman of Azerbaijan's Supreme Soviet Afiyaddin Dzhalilov, who categorically demanded an immediate cease-fire and the withdrawal of troops from the occupied territories. The Armenian side reacted negatively to the fact that the chairman of Azerbaijan's Supreme Soviet did not turn up and that the meeting was attended by his deputy instead. [Armenian] Parliament Speaker Babken Ararktsyan stated in no uncertain terms that this strongly undermined the authority of the present meeting. He said it is hard to understand why Azerbaijan has not accepted measures proposed by Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh to settle the conflict, even though it is to receive territories in return. He reiterated the words of President Levon Ter-Petrosyan, contained in his message to the participants in the talks, to the effect that the sides' frequently repeated statements about peace do not bring peace and quiet to the area.
