FBIS3-50569 "drlat003__a94004" FBIS-LAT-94-003-A Document Type:Daily Report 5 January 1994 ANNEX Argentina Navy in `Difficult Situation' Because of Promotions PY3012150093 Buenos Aires LA NACION in Spanish 29 Dec 93 p 1 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY3012150093 Buenos Aires LA NACION Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] It was learned last night at the Defense Ministry that both Defense Minister Oscar Camilion and President Carlos Menem signed the request for promoting two Navy officers without having been informed about some controversial aspects of their backgrounds. This situation was denounced by human rights organizations. According to a report published by the newspaper PAGINA/12, both Navy officers, Captains Antonio Pernias and Juan Carlos Rolon, have allegedly been charged with human rights violations during the military government. Defense Ministry sources have told LA NACION that there is no doubt that "someone will have to pay" for this situation, thus implying that there were problems with the screening mechanisms, which should have duly informed Defense Minister Camilion about the delicate issue in question. Defense Ministry sources have said that these promotions would not prosper. The same was said in the Senate, which will today review several promotions, but not those of Pernias and Rolon. When consulted, Navy sources admitted that the Navy is experiencing a difficult situation because these two officers were handed their respective insignias last week. It has been learned that the names of those up for promotions were submitted to the Senate with some delay because the Navy chief of staff was visiting Germany. In addition, it was learned that the Navy did not consider informing the executive branch about some controversial details about the officers' backgrounds. Obviously unaware of the situation, Menem yesterday denied that his administration had proposed "promotions of such magnitude." Navy sources admitted that the promotions of Pernias and Rolon were proposed "in compliance with the Constitution" and that their records were previously reviewed by the Superior Promotions Board.
