FBIS4-42693 "drweu109__a94004" FBIS-WEU-94-109-A Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs Brussels Review Recommends Improving Trade Benefits Brussels Review Recommends Improving Trade Benefits PM0306091094 London FINANCIAL TIMES in English 3 Jun 94 p 6--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PM0306091094 London FINANCIAL TIMES English BFN [Report by Lionel Barber: "Brussels Recommends Trade Benefits Overhaul"] [Text] Brussels -- The European Commission yesterday recommended an overhaul of trade benefits for around 60 developing countries, with new incentives for improving environmental and labour standards. The guidelines are part of a review of the generalised system of preferences [GSP] which grants tariff advantages to developing countries to help them export to the EU [European Union] market. The GSP review, which takes place every 10 years, is part of a wide-ranging Brussels effort to update trade policy toward the developing world. The Commission is waiting to hear views from EU ministers and the European Parliament before it decides on how to apply the new GSP scheme to specific countries and sectors. But the broad outlines of reform are already clear ahead of the Commission's ambitious deadline of January 1 1995 for starting the new scheme. First, the Commission wants to offer extra trade benefits to encourage countries to pursue sound environmental policies and follow international labour agreements on the lines of the ILO [International Labour Organisation] convention. Brussels officials argue that this amounts to "positive" discrimination which should not therefore arouse opposition from GATT. Mr Pierre Defraigne, senior Commission official in charge of North-South relations, added that Brussels had deliberately underlined the link between social and environmental policies and trade. Second, the new guidelines are supposed to be simpler to manage. Starting with GATT's Most Favoured Nation [MFN] status as a baseline, Brussels wants to offer new flexible rates which will decline progressively from 50 per cent, 75 per cent and 100 per cent of MFN. Third, the goal is to reduce the number of countries eligible for GSP, with "super-competitors" such as fast-growing East Asian economies dropping out of the running. The criteria for GSP eligibility will be per capital GDP and the proportion of manufacturing for exports which directly competes with European products in the EU market. Fourth, the Commission wants to introduce a safeguard clause which will be "very close to the GATT safety clause," said Mr Defraigne. This would operate against as yet unidentified "sensitive" products.
