FBIS4-21835 "jptot014__l94135" JPRS-TOT-94-014-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 30 March 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM IRA Announce Three-Day Cease-fire IRA Announce Three-Day Cease-fire LD3003193594 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 1904 GMT 30 Mar 94 LD3003193594 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By Ian Graham, PRESS ASSOCIATION] [Excerpt] The IRA tonight announced a three-day ceasefire from Tuesday next week as Prime Minister John Major arrived in Northern Ireland for a visit. Speculation had been rife that a ceasefire was imminent and that it could be open-ended. In the end, they said they were suspending offensive military action for 72-hours from midnight Tuesday, 5 April to midnight Friday, 8 April. The IRA said: ``Our statement of March 13 reiterated our continued willingness to be positive and flexible in exploring the potential for moving the situation forward. As further evidence of this, we will unilaterally suspend offensive military action for 72 hours from midnight Tuesday, 5 April until midnight Friday, 8 April. There are no conditions attached to this unilateral initiative, but we hope that the British government will accept this further opportunity in the spirit in which it is offered and utilise it to the best advantage of the British and Irish people.'' The IRA made it clear that what they wanted was clarification of the Downing Street declaration signed by Mr. Major and Albert Reynolds on December 15 and not immediate negotiations. It is understood the thinking behind the statement was that the IRA wanted to make what they considered to be a gesture of goodwill in an effort to break the current impasse. The Government has repeatedly insisted that there can be no talks with Sinn Fein until the declaration was accepted and a permanent end to violence called and seen to be in operation. The IRA statement also said: ``Making peace is a difficult business for all involved but the difficulties must be overcome. That too is the responsibility of all involved, but particularly the British Government. We hope that the further opportunity here provided is used to that purpose and effect.'' Mr. Major, arriving in Belfast shortly before the IRA's announcement tonight, said he thought a ceasefire over the Easter period would be cynical. What people wanted was a permanent end to violence, not just a brief public relations gesture. [passage omitted]
