FBIS3-10417 "drlat045_b_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 Haiti Deputies Meet With Army Staff FL0703190594 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole in French 1145 GMT 4 Mar 94 FL0703190594 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole Language: French Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Following the vote by the deputies approving a settlement plan for the political crisis, the Senate of the Republic will soon be called to take a stand on the document. Meanwhile, questions are being posed regarding the position of the military whose chief, General Cedras, must go into retirement according to the fifth point of the plan elaborated in Washington by the legislators. Edner Jean tried to question deputies who met with the members of the Army General Staff on the eve of the vote on the plan to resolve the crisis: [Begin Jean recording] The parliamentary delegation sponsoring the settlement plan for the crisis met on 1 March with the Army General Staff for a three-hour meeting. The objective was to submit the plan to the approval of the military through the commander in chief, a signatory to the Governors Island accord. According to a generally reliable source, the discussions were very keen. The Army General Staff allegedly reproached the parliamentary delegation for having involved the military institution in a plan without its previous agreement. The members of the General Staff, still according to the same source, allegedly told the deputies clearly that they could not foresee the consequences of this plan. To ascertain the truth of those reports, we questioned the members of the parliamentary delegation. Duly Brutus, one of the co-signers of the plan, thinks that it is too early to make public the nature of the contacts they had with the Army General Staff. Neither did he deny the reports. Duly Brutus prefers to speak of reservations on the part of the military. [passage omitted] Deputy Antoine Joseph, the godfather of the plan, expresses reserved optimism following his meeting with the Army high command. The MIDH [Movement For the Establishment of Democracy in Haiti] legislator believes that the Army has no interest in blocking the solution to the crisis, as proposed by the deputies -- a plan that Joseph called efficient, realistic, and peaceful. The former president of the lower chamber, however, expressed the hope that Haiti's Armed Forces will not again miss the chance to emerge honorably from the crisis, while protecting the institution from a new political adventure. [passage omitted] Talendier Desjardins, author of a draft resolution for the indictment of President Aristide, a month ago, was also part of the delegation that traveled to Washington, then to Army Headquarters. For the deputy from Tiburon, it is still early to say that the Army has rejected this plan. [passage omitted] Since 2 March, this plan has become a resolution. Today, we await whatever comes next. [end recording]
