FBIS3-33571 "drlat038_o_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Colombia Reportage on Official Visit by Argentina's Menem Remark on Chiapas Noted PY2202152494 Buenos Aires LA PRENSA in Spanish 20 Feb 94 p 3 PY2202152494 Buenos Aires LA PRENSA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] President Carlos Menem, who is resting in Cartagena de Indias with Colombian President Cesar Gaviria, said there is no subversion in Argentina and "what happened in Chiapas cannot happen in Argentina." In an interview published today in the Spanish newspaper ABC, Menem said: "Some kind of subversion has taken place in Santiago del Estero, but measures were adopted and the incidents are being investigated." "The problem in Chiapas is ethnic and religious, something that does not happen in Argentina. There is no possibility of subversion here," Menem said. "The incidents in Santiago del Estero were motivated by infiltrators, which explains the statements made by Daniel Ortega a few days ago in Cuba, in which he vindicated the armed struggle and mentioned the events in Chiapas and Santiago del Estero as an example." "If Daniel Ortega mentioned Santiago del Estero as an example, it is because people have been infiltrated there by these elements, death traffickers, because subversion is without doubt traffic in death." When asked what the solution will be to the Aerolineas Argentinas conflict with Iberia [Airlines], Menem said: "If the problem is not solved by the day I arrive in Spain, of course we will talk about it with the Spanish Government." He also added that "of course" the Argentine Government wants Spain to continue, through Iberia, its participation in Aerolineas. "That is why we privatized the company. We are trying to transfer the shares the government has (43 percent) in Aerolineas. We will transfer 28 percent of the shares and keep 15 percent," Menem said. He added: "If it is possible to privatize all the shares we will do so, but meanwhile, since the adjudication of shares to Iberia, the transfer of shares represents a form of capitalization for the Spanish company, thereby allowing it to continue operating in a more positive and fluent manner."
