FBIS4-28249 "dreas111_a_94010" FBIS-EAS-94-111 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Further on Continued Reaction to DPRK Issues Further on Continued Reaction to DPRK Issues Hata: Nuclear Issue `Critical' OW0906041894 Tokyo KYODO in English 0407 GMT 9 Jun 94 OW0906041894 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, June 9 KYODO -- Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata said Thursday the tension over North Korea's refusal of international inspections at its nuclear reactor is in a "very severe" state, expressing deepening concerns about the deteriorating dispute. Hata told a session of the House of Councillors Budget Committee that global apprehension is rising because of North Korea's failure to respond to the international call for a full inspection of its nuclear facilities. "Japan should make the proper, possible response, keeping in step with the international community. The current state is very severe," he said. North Korea has been recalcitrant in its refusal of inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) at the nuclear complex at Yongbyon to determine if nuclear fuel has been diverted to make atomic bombs. Hata said Japan should play an active role in solving the issue. At the committee session, Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa said Japan will continue to seek a peaceful solution. Frustrated by North Korea's stubborn stance, the United States is now seeking sanctions against the country, either by the UN Security Council, or if such a move is thwarted by a China veto, in coordination with its allies like Japan and South Korea. "North Korea seems to have no intention to resort to a military counterattack (against sanctions)," Kakizawa said. "It is important to try to persuade North Korea to change its stance...While avoiding any provocative language," he added. Kakizawa also said he will try to talk China into toeing the international line on the issue during his forthcoming visit to Beijing. "I hope for joint action with China's participation," he said.
