FBIS3-33066 "drlat033_o_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 Colombia Additional Reportage on Fujimori's Official Visit Gaviria Pleased by OAS Candidacy Support PA1602185494 Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 2233 GMT 15 Feb 94 PA1602185494 Mexico City NOTIMEX Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Santa Fe de Bogota, 15 Feb (NOTIMEX) -- Colombian President Cesar Gaviria said today he was pleased by the support he has received for his possible candidacy for OAS general secretary. Gaviria commented he will soon announce whether he will run. "I am pleased and thankful for President Alberto Fujimori's anticipated support of a possible candidacy for the post," Gaviria said during a tour with his Peruvian colleague through the crowded Ciudad Bolivar neighborhood, south of this capital. Gaviria's still unofficial aspiration to the OAS post has gained momentum in recent days as former Bolivian Foreign Minister Carlos Irurralde withdrew his candidacy, while concomitantly announcing his support for the Colombian president. The executive noted: "I must weigh the opinions and requests of friendly nations in order to make a decision in the next few days." At the conclusion of a visit to Washington, Colombian Foreign Minister Noemi Sanin was "more optimistic than ever," stating that if OAS elections were held now Gaviria would win. Colombia's political opposition, which has criticized Gaviria's aspirations for this post, called President Alberto Fujimori "Gaviria's OAS campaign manager." At the beginning of his two-day visit on Monday to Colombia, the Peruvian president made public his support for Gaviria's candidacy, arguing that the Colombian president's vitality and youth make him the best choice for the post. Both presidents toured Santa Fe de Bogota's poverty-stricken neighborhoods, according to Fujimori, to "see how the Colombian Government faces problems with public services with a view to possibly transplanting this experience to Peru." The visitor, who ended his stay in Colombia on Tuesday, awarded his host the "Sun of Peru" order in the "Large Cross With Diamonds" grade. Diplomatic sources see a complicated scene for Costa Rican Foreign Minister Bernd Niehaus, Gaviria's main opponent, while noting that only Oscar Arias, former president of that same Central American nation, could pose a challenge to Gaviria for the post. Media reports from Miami, Florida, indicated on Monday that Arias would be willing to accept the OAS candidacy if Niehaus withdraws and if this would guarantee Central America a place in the OAS General Secretariat.
