FBIS3-29365 "dreas033_d_94022" FBIS-EAS-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 South Korea Government `Pushing' To Strengthen PRC Ties SK1702094894 Seoul YONHAP in English 0736 GMT 17 Feb 94 SK1702094894 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, Feb. 17 (YONHAP) -- The government is pushing to conclude an industrial cooperation agreement with China in a bid to strengthen economic links when President Kim Yong-sam visits Beijing in March, Trade, Industry and Energy Ministry officials said on Thursday. The government is also forging comprehensive measures for economic advancement into China, including expansion of trade, promotion of investment and strengthening of industrial cooperation. During the president's visit, the first joint committee for industrial cooperation will meet to discuss the fundamental principles of industrial cooperation and ways to push ahead with priority cooperation projects, according to the Ministry. The top projects will include automobiles, airplanes, time division exchange (TDX), a type of electronic telephone exchange, and technology market plans, Ministry officials said. The government will also increase financial support for the deferred payment export fund of the Export-Import Bank of Korea, designed to aid export businesses here, and ease conditions of such support to expand bilateral trade with China. Within this year, the Ministry will designate the types of industries which can benefit from the government's financial and administrative support when they invest in China, officials said. The Ministry is also studying establishment of trade offices in the Chinese cities of Dalian and Chongqing in addition to the current offices in Beijing and Shanghai, as well as prudent management of the adjustment tariff and anti-dumping tariff systems to remove possible sources of trade friction. South Korea's exports to China increased 165 percent in 1992 and 90 percent last year, and China has become an important trade partner. China is now attracting the most South Korean investment, recording 1 billion U.S. dollars as of last year's end, officials said.
