FBIS4-18348 "drweu064_o_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-064 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 CYPRUS Government `Ready' To Purchase Modern Arms Systems Government `Ready' To Purchase Modern Arms Systems NC0104133594 Nicosia O FILELEVTHEROS in Greek 1 Apr 94 p 1 NC0104133594 Nicosia O FILELEVTHEROS Greek BFN [Report by Sotiris Mikhail] [Text] Within the framework of a budget submitted to the House of Representatives and the new Greek-Cypriot defense doctrine, the government is ready to purchase new, modern arms systems, including heavy battle tanks. The purchase of heavy weapons, which will cost several million pounds, falls within the framework of increasing the country's defense capabilities to bring them in line with Greek capabilities. According to exclusive information, the purchases may be made directly and from new sources because many countries are now willing to sell heavy weaponry. The Cypriot Government has already sounded out several countries that are willing to sell Cyprus the most modern arms at very competitive prices. A senior official said that there is great competition today in the arms industry sector and many countries are trying to sell their arms systems. We have been informed that Cyprus began discussing the possibility of purchasing arms systems from France, Italy, Spain, South Africa, Singapore, and the former socialist countries. It appears that Russia has been contacted about the purchase of a specific modern arms systems by the method of counterbalance trade. That is, Russia is willing to sell arms in exchange for products it needs, such as citrus fruit and grapes. The same officials added that the prospects are very good and it is hoped that the two countries will reach an agreement. The Procedure The House of Representatives Defense Committee yesterday discussed the new procedure for purchasing arms systems that has been prepared by the Defense Ministry. The defense and finance ministers attended the meeting. The new procedure provides for the establishment of a Senior Design and Programming Council, which will make suggestions about the needs of the National Guard at a ministerial committee. The Finance Ministry will become directly involved because it will be handling the payments for the arms. For the first time it was asked that the National Council's consent not be necessary for the purchases. An advisory committee will be established for all issues.
