FBIS3-1616 "drchi039_n_94011" FBIS-CHI-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 Economic & Agricultural XINHUA Articles View New Shares Issue Views Stock Issued in Hong Kong OW2502190494 Beijing XINHUA in English 1453 GMT 25 Feb 94 OW2502190494 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, February 25 (XINHUA) -- The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) today expressed satisfaction over the experiment for the first group of domestic enterprises to issue stocks on the Hong Kong market. Nie Qingping, vice-director of the international department of CSRC, said that the issuance and transaction of "H" shares were "satisfying". Last year, China securities authorities approved nine large domestic enterprises to issue stocks in Hong Kong. So far six of them have been listed in the Hong Kong market. Nie said that the six "H" shares were warmly welcomed when issued. Demands for each one far exceeded the planned issuance. The required number of stocks of Qingdao beer, Maanshan steel and Shanghai petrochemical were about 110 times, 68 times and 1.77 times the originally planned amount of issuance. Transaction of "H" shares was encouragingly active in the Hong Kong market. The daily transaction volume of "H" shares occupied about one-tenth of the total. The present prices of "H" shares are averaging 50 percent increases over issuing prices. Despite the undulating wave overshadowing the Hong Kong market recently, "H" shares maintained an upward trend. The average price earning ratio (per) of "H" shares now stands at 25 percent. Nie Qingping attributed the success to overseas investors' confidence in China's fast-growing economy. "They want to share the benefits yielded by China's opening to the outside world and economic development, through investing in "H" shares," Nie said. According to him, overseas investors were also encouraged by strict checking and supervision of listed companies. Nie also disclosed that so far the seventh batch of "H" shares -- for the Jiangsu Yizheng chemical fiber company -- are promoting sales of stocks worldwide. The company plans to issue one billion Hong Kong dollars worth of "H" shares.
