FBIS3-15061 "drsov041_a_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS `Spy' Said To Plead Guilty MK0203092094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 2 Mar 94 p 1 MK0203092094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Maksim Isayev report under the "Arrest" rubric: "The Federal Counterintelligence Service (FCS) Has Caught a British Spy. Neither the West nor Russia Intend To Scale Down Intelligence Activity"] [Text] It has transpired from reliable sources that the Russian special services have marked the beginning of the current year by yet another successful large-scale operation, although this time around it was related to intelligence, not counterintelligence activity. On 15 January, FCS officers detained a high-ranking staffer of a large organization in the Russian military-industrial sector on suspicion of spying. The name and post of this person have not been identified so far for the purpose of the investigation. The Russian Main Military Prosecutor's Office has brought a criminal lawsuit in connection with the matter; on 25 January the suspect was indicted on Article 64(a) of the Russian Federation Criminal Code for high treason in the form of espionage. According to the source, the defendant has pleaded guilty on all counts. During the preliminary investigation, FCS officers managed to obtain evidence proving that the detainee was recruited by British special services. In order to perform his spy mission he was given specialized cryptographic equipment, instructions on methods of communicating with secret agents from the British Embassy in Moscow through "dead drops," and so forth. On instructions from the British agents he gathered and handed over to them secret military and economic information about the latest developments in the area of weapons models, their specifications and performance characteristics, the funding of defense and research-and-development programs, and the prospects for the organization of military- technical cooperation between Russia and foreign countries. The investigation continues.
