FBIS4-56845 "drlat090_k_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-090 Daily Report 8 May 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina Vice Foreign Minister on Pharmaceutical Patents Law Vice Foreign Minister on Pharmaceutical Patents Law PY0905160094 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1845 GMT 8 May 94 PY0905160094 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS Spanish BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, 8 May (NA) -- Today, Vice Foreign Minister Fernando Petrella warned that Argentina "cannot maintain a rigid position" regarding the draft Pharmaceutical Patents Law, at least "on the basis of the current situation." He made it clear that his evaluation is "entirely personal." Petrella told a radio station that Brazil reached "an agreement, which has yet to be formalized, with U.S. authorities with an eye to making its position more flexible." He added: "This topic must be decided by the incoming Brazilian Government." Regarding "concrete points," Petrella warned that "the interests of local laboratories must be taken into account as they have been operating in accordance with a modus vivendi that is permitted by the current law. The interests of the consumer have also been considered." He ratified his "confidence" that the Argentine Congress "will come up with a law that will harmonize all interests." Referring to Argentina not being included on the list of nations to be sanctioned, Petrella stressed that the U.S. Government "made an important political gesture that reveals its good relations and rapport" with Argentina. He said: "This is an important topic, but it is not extremely important," while emphasizing that "these excellent relations must not be impaired, especially at this time when they are based on strategic viewpoints that are much more difficult to achieve." He added: "These are small steps that Argentina can take to attenuate the situation." The vice foreign minister stressed that our country "has a well-defined position" regarding the conflict over the continental glaciers, adding that "the idea of arbitration" has reached Chile. "From what I know and from Argentina's viewpoint, there have been no feelers regarding this new possibility," Petrella said. Finally, regarding the sending of Argentine Border Police to the former Yugoslavia, Petrella said: "There are a number of UN demands of which Argentines can be very proud, especially the Armed Forces."
