FBIS3-21044 "jpest007___94041" JPRS-EST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 17 March 1994 WEST EUROPE DEFENSE R&D France, UK Research Active Array Airborne Radar 94WS0154C Stuttgart FLUG REVUE in German Dec 93 p 38 94WS0154C Stuttgart FLUG REVUE Language: German Article Type:CSO [Article by K. Schwarz: "Radar for the Next Fighters" first paragraph is FLUG REVUE introduction] [TEXT] Although the radar systems for the Eurofighter and the Rafale are still undergoing testing, European electronics giants are already busy with the next generation. In mid-October 1993, the British-French firm GEC Thomson Airborne Radar received a contract to develop a system with active send/receive elements such as that which will soon be available in the United States. The European product could be operational by 2010, at which time it could be utilized in new tactical aircraft or for a modernization of the fighter aircraft currently under development. Thomson CSF and GEC Marconi Avionics have already completed a great deal of preliminary work for the AMSAR (Airborne Multirole Solid-state Active-array Radar) over the past three years, and will invest approximately 25 million more German marks [DM] of their own funds. The contract awarded by the French Delegation Générale pour l'Armement amounts to nearly DM50 million. This sum should enable scientists to conclude the preliminary work necessary for the construction of the active-array radar. The most important prerequisite is the processing of the gallium-arsenide, which is the most important component in the 1,500 to 2,000 send/receive modules. Additional studies are also needed on the assembly and cooling of these components. Last but by no means least, it must be ascertained how the system can be manufactured at an acceptable price. The AMSAR program is divided into two phases. The year 2005 is the approximate target date for the production and test flight of a fully operational system. The total cost will amount to more than DM400 million. This investment is essential, however, if Europe is not to fall behind in the field of radar technology. "This level of development is only possible through European-wide cooperation," explains Bernard Rocquemont of Thomson-CSF. Consequently, talks are already ongoing with the German government and German industry concerning the participation of Deutsche Aerospace (DASA) and/or Siemens.
