FBIS4-14418 "drsov062_a_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Deems Hungary `Promising' Economic Partner Deems Hungary `Promising' Economic Partner LD3103143694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1359 GMT 31 Mar 94 LD3103143694 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS special correspondents Sergey Zhirnikhin, Ivan Ivanov] [Text] Budapest March 31 TASS -- Russia views Hungary as a promising economic and trading partner in Central and Eastern Europe. The widening of commercial and economic ties that has begun now should become a stable tendency. Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin said this at Hungarian-Russian intergovernmental negotiations in Budapest on Thursday. The negotiations of the delegations in an enlarged composition was preceded by a one-on-one conversation between the Russian prime minister and his Hungarian counterpart Peter Boross. Special attention was given at the talks to the development of cooperation between the two countries under the principles of genuine equality, trust and respect for each other's interests, ITAR-TASS learned from sources in the Russian delegation. Chernomyrdin and Boross informed each other of the political and economic situation in their countries and the pace of transformations and reforms. During the exchange of opinions of the development of bilateral relations and the implementation of arrangements reached at the summit level during Russian President Boris Yeltsin's visit to Hungary in 1992, the participants in the talks pointed to the need to step up joint efforts, to raise the level of commercial and economic cooperation in accordance with the potential of the two countries, to restore on new market principles traditional economic ties and to set in motion new financial and economic mechanisms. The Russian side raised the question of the expediency of concluding a free trade agreement between the two countries, as well as encouragement of mutual investment, establishment of cooperation introducion and of direct ties between enterprises and regions. Topical international problems, including the situation in Europe and processes of European integration, have also been discussed at the talks. Positively assessing the level of interaction between Russia and Hungary in foreign policy, Chernomyrdin said that the ensurance of stability and consolidation of security in Europe should become the main tendency of that interaction. Russia proposes the creation of an integrated European security system on a basis of cooperation and equality regarding the consolidation of cardinal political role of CSCE, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, as a top priority. During the negotiations the Russian side noted that NATO's initiative "Partnership for Peace" had become an important step in shaping universal European structure of military-political cooperation. A meeting of the Hungarian-Russian intergovernmetnal commission of commercial and economic cooperation was held in the parliament building on the same day. Bela Kadar, Hungarian minister of international economic relations, said in a brief remark after the meeting that ways to pay off Russia's trading debt to Hungary loomed large in the debate. An arrangement on problems discussed has in principle been reached.
