FBIS3-19058 "drweu048_n_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Denmark * Faeroes Expected To Ask More Funds 94EN0233E Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 7 Feb 94 p 5 94EN0233E Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Language: Danish Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article from RITZAUS BUREAU (RB): "New Multimillion-Kroner Loan To Rescue Faeroes' Unemployment Fund"] [Text] The Faeroes' unemployment fund needs additional capital again. The fund will be exhausted this month. The unions are threatening to resign from the administration of the fund if conditions worsen for the unemployed. Torshavn -- The Faeroes' depleted unemployment fund must be rescued by a new multimillion-kroner loan. This decision, reached by a committee set up in the Faeroes, could mean that within the next few days the Faeroese government will apply to the Danish Government for permission to take out a loan of between 40 and 50 million kroner for the purpose of supporting unemployed local inhabitants. There are so many jobless people in the Faeroes that the unemployment fund pays out far more money in support than it receives. In February the fund will once more be exhausted. The committee, made up of members of the Faeroes' coalition government parties, decided to recommend leaving the unemployment payment rules as they are and offsetting the shortfall by taking out a loan of between 40 and 50 million kroner. That should be enough to support the jobless in the Faeroes for the rest of the year. This assumes that the unemployed will continue to be allowed to remain enrolled in the fund for 24 months instead of cutting the enrollment period to 15 months, as some have proposed. Johannes Eidesgaard, the Faeroes' government member responsible for social and labor issues, said that he intends to start by applying to the local banks and savings institutions because they should assume their share of the responsibility for the jobless in the Faeroes. However, if the Lagting [Faeroese parliament] must also guarantee the loan, it will be necessary for both the Lagting and the Danish Government to give their approval. In connection with the loan agreements that Denmark and the Faeroes have reached, the Danish Government has stipulated not only that the accounts of the Faeroes' unemployment fund must be balanced, but also that the unemployment system must not be provided with money via the Faeroese budget. This requirement is one of the reasons why the unions in the Faeroes have proposed that local labor market issues be made a joint national affair so that Denmark has a responsibility to ensure that the unemployed in the Faeroes have the same conditions as Danes who are out of work. The trade unions in the Faeroes have threatened to resign from the administration of the unemployment fund if conditions deteriorate for unemployed people there.
