FBIS4-34991 "drlat124_i_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-124 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 Nicaragua Chamorro Rejects Rebel Leaders' Ultimatum Chamorro Rejects Rebel Leaders' Ultimatum PA2706190194 Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 24 Jun 94 p4 PA2706190194 Managua BARRICADA Spanish BFN [Report by Alfonso Malespin Jiron] [Text] After inaugurating the seminar entitled "Reflections on the Democratic Transition," held at the Olof Palme Conventions Center, President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro has rejected the ultimatum issued by rearmed rebels Charro and Northiel [not further identified] and asked them to "surrender their weapons and return to civilian life." Accompanied by Presidency Minister Antonio Lacayo, President Chamorro insisted that the two chiefs stop killing people and burning trucks, "because if they do not, not even they will be able to farm anything." Northiel threatened to burn any vehicle that dares to operate in Las Segovias and to murder the drivers in response to what he called "the government's failure to keep the agreements signed." Presidency Minister Lacayo denied this. "There is no agreement with him," Lacayo stated categorically. "They are the ones who often refuse to hold talks," Chamorro said, referring to the rebels' demands. "I am always sending the people who have to be there for talks." During the speech to open this event, which is hosted by the National Assembly, the president noted: "We have suffered deeply from the legacy of violence, intolerance, and confrontation." During an informal news conference, Chamorro reiterated that "as long as Violeta is in power, education will continue to be secular." "Let us respect one another," she noted, referring to the direct demand by the Nicaraguan Bishops Conference to include religion in public education. On another matter, the president criticized the killing of four children in Acoyapa, Chontales Department, at the hands of two teenagers and affirmed her support for every antiabortion activity, provided that "a religious march does not turn political." According to her, the mass murders are the result of a "lack of education," but insisted that this situation has to be overcome. "This is a time to build and a time for children to be educated. This is no longer the time to kill; this is the time for reflection," Chamorro noted.
