FBIS4-24279 "drafr124_d_94016" FBIS-AFR-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Editorial Looks at Post-Independence Economy Editorial Looks at Post-Independence Economy MB2806100394 Maputo MEDIAFAX in Portuguese 27 Jun 94 p 2 MB2806100394 Maputo MEDIAFAX Portuguese BFN [Editorial: "Chaotic Growth"] [Text] Nineteen years after independence, Mozambique is a case of chaotic economic growth. On one hand, there is a productive sector that is being increasingly pushed into activities that are typical of an informal economy. On the other hand, there is an "unstoppable" informal commercial sector which ends either at the doorsteps of the black market or of organized crime, though it starts precisely with the fast moving privatization of the state apparatus. Within the state sector civil servants behave more like mini private enterprises, using the taxes paid by the productive sector as the financial basis of their own businesses which, by and large, imply growing levels of extortion from the productive sector. The situation is becoming so rampant that if there is anything that can unite entrepreneurs of the so-called formal sector -- which has no businesslike solidarity -- it would be a common action against taxes, plunging civil servants into unemployment, including those who adhere to ethics in their jobs. In any case, some 60 percent of the General State Budget, including the payment of civil servants' salaries, already comes from foreign funds. In plain language, that means that 60 percent of our sovereignty needs to be reacquired. In other words, 19 years after its independence, Mozambique is far less independent than in 1975. The possibility of a recovery is today more viable than in October 1992 when the Rome accord was signed. It was sufficient to have a few months of peace and a good agricultural season (92/93) for the statistics to show a 19 percent growth. This figure does not give us a reason to celebrate -- the starting point being so insignificant -- but it is undoubtedly an indication of our real working capacities and sense of initiative. In cities today thousands of Mozambican households once again receive food from relatives somewhere in the rural areas, there are thousands of retailers doing business across the border, and hundreds of truckers are in business for most of the year. There is, therefore, an atmosphere of growth in terms of quantity and variety in business transactions. That atmosphere proves that it can withstand the political uncertainties of a country heading to multipartyism. Out of the chaos in which those transactions take place, and of the standards that gradually emerge, a system regulating the economy will eventually surface. It will be free of the claustrophobia that characterizes the colonial and socialist formal sectors, and of the dangers posed by the crumbling of a state as seen in Rwanda. Elsewhere, in a scenario that cannot be defined, the country will find a balance between central command and individual enterprise. The 19 percent growth is perhaps an indication that that may happen sooner than expected.
