FBIS3-23932 "jpusr022___94070" FBIS-USR-94-022 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 9 March 1994 CENTRAL ASIA TAJIKISTAN Abdulladzhanov Appointed Charge to Moscow 944K0752B Dushanbe NARODNAYA GAZETA in Russian 30 Dec 93 p 3 944K0752B Dushanbe NARODNAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO ["Edicts of the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan: `On the Opening of the Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan in the Russian Federation'; `On the Appointment of A.A. Abdulladzhanov As Temporary Charge d'Affaires of the Republic of Tajikistan in the Russian Federation'; `On Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Tajikistan A.A. Abdulladzhanov'"] [Text] Edict of the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan: On the Opening of the Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan in the Russian Federation With the aim of further expanding and deepening all-encompassing ties of friendship with the Russian Federation, the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan decrees: 1. To open the Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan in the Russian Federation, with location in the city of Moscow. 2. To establish that the position of ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Tajikistan in the Russian Federation is equivalent to the position of first deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Tajikistan. 3. That the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Tajikistan will undertake organizational measures and effect material-technical support for the Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan in Moscow. [Signed] Chairman of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan E. RAKHMONOV 18 December 1993, City of Dushanbe Edict of the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan: On the Appointment of A.A. Abdulladzhanov As Temporary Charge d'Affaires of the Republic of Tajikistan in the Russian Federation In accordance with Article 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Tajikistan, the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan decrees: 1. To appoint Abdumalik Abdullayevich Abdulladzhanov temporary charge d'affaires of the Republic of Tajikistan in the Russian Federation. 2. This edict enters into force as of the date of its signing. [Signed] Chairman of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan E. RAKHMONOV 18 December 1993, City of Dushanbe Edict of the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan: On Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Tajikistan A.A. Abdulladzhanov In connection with A.A. Abdulladzhanov's transition to diplomatic work and in accordance with point 14 of Article 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Tajikistan, the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan decrees: 1. To release Abdumalik Abdullayevich Abdulladzhanov from the position of chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Tajikistan. 2. This edict enters into force as of the date of its adoption. 3. To submit this edict for confirmation by the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan. [Signed] Chairman of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan E. RAKHMONOV 18 December 1993, City of Dushanbe
