FBIS3-23336 "jptot011__l94152" JPRS-TOT-94-011-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 11 March 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Failed Mortar Attacks on Heathrow Airport More Attacks 11 March; Runway Closed LD1103020094 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 0147 GMT 11 Mar 94 LD1103020094 London PRESS ASSOCIATION Language: English Article Type:BFN [By PRESS ASSOCIATION correspondents John Deane and Keith Manning] [Text] A number of incendiaries were fired at London's Heathrow airport tonight -- the second major security incident there in less than 36 hours. An airport spokeswoman confirmed incendiaries were fired in the vicinity of terminal four, but it appeared none had detonated. Damage appeared to be minimal. Heathrow press officer Anita Newcourt said: "It looks like the same as last night. Some incendiaries have been fired. There has been very little damage." London Ambulance Service said there were no reports of any injuries. A spokesman said the service was alerted at 12.11am when it was told of "an act of aggression" at Heathrow. Five ambulances, two paramedic units and a command unit have been sent to the airport. Four fire engines are also standing by. The ambulance spokesman said they had also received reports of two suspicious packages. The incident was centred on terminal four, which was evacuated as a full-scale alert went into operation. The southern runway has been closed down, but the northern runway remains open. Security services were alerted shortly after midnight when there were reports of a "bang or thud" close to the terminal, although not on any runway, said a spokesman. Anti-terrorist squad officers were combing the airport after a "metal object" landed close to terminal four. There were no casualties or any damage to any buildings, he added. A spokeswoman for the Hilton Hotel at Heathrow said police telephoned the hotel shortly after midnight asking staff to check the roof for anything suspicious. Nothing was found, she added. The Yard spokesman said at this stage there was no indication there were any warnings. The latest alert comes after the IRA fired four mortars packed with high explosives at the airport on Wednesday evening from the back of a stolen car left in a nearby hotel. They did not detonate. Scotland Yard said three mortars were recovered at the south-east end of the airport, close to terminal four. A number of non-specific warnings were telephoned to various news organisations from 5.25pm yesterday, Scotland Yard said.
