FBIS4-40046 "drsov114_i_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-114 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 CENTRAL ASIA Kazakhstan Vietnam's Vo Van Kiet Meets Nazarbayev Vietnam's Vo Van Kiet Meets Nazarbayev LD1306182594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1312 GMT 13 Jun 94 LD1306182594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [Report by KAZTAG correspondent Ivan Zakharchenko and ITAR-TASS correspondent Gennadiy Kulagin] [Text] Almaty, 13 June -- The two countries stand to mutually benefit most from cooperation between Kazakhstan and Vietnam in the sphere of agriculture, oil-extraction, mining, and textile industries. This was noted today during talks between Sergey Tereshchenko, the prime minister of Kazakhstan, and Vo Van Kiet, the prime minister of Vietnam, who is in Almaty on an official visit. Earlier in the day the Vietnamese prime minister was received by the President Nursultan Nazarbayev. The talks stressed that getting bilateral trade between Vietnam and Kazakhstan going promises prompt results. In the opinion of the head of government of Kazakhstan, when attracting foreign investors, both countries should take into account the interests of the third party. From his point of view, the creation of joint enterprises in both countries, the exchange of scientific potential and mutual assistance in training cadres in specialities in short supply would be of indubitable benefit. For his part, the Vietnamese prime minister proposed to set up an intergovernment commission for economic cooperation, this was perceived with interest. After the talks a joint intergovernment statement was signed. Today Kazakhstan-Vietnamese consultations were held within the framework of the premier's visit at the local foreign ministry. The heads of the foreign political departments of both countries, namely Kanat Saudabayev and Nguyen Manh Cam, reached an accord on interaction in the Asian process, in particular, for the purpose of implementing the initiative of President Nursultan Nazarbayev on ensuring security on the continent.
