FBIS3-40742 "jpnea006___94009" JPRS-NEA-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 2 February 1994 NEAR EAST ALGERIA Water Shortages: Better Management of Supply Urged 94WN0144Y Algiers LIBERTE in French 18 Dec 93 p 4 94WN0144Y Algiers LIBERTE Language: French Article Type:CSO [Article by Z. Aliou Salah: "First International Conference on Water: Sounding the Alarm"--first paragraph is LIBERTE introduction] [Text] A vital element, water is getting increasingly scarce. According to statistics, Algerian water consumption increased from 1,770 cubic meters [m[.sup]3[/]] per person per year in 1955 to 689 m[.sup]3[/] per person per year now. For future years, the most optimistic forecasts count on only 332 m[.sup]3[/] per person per year. The availability of this precious resource, essential for economic and social development, is therefore quite restricted and will become still more so if part of it becomes unavailable because of the urban, industrial, and agricultural population or again because of constant daily waste. Add to this runaway demographic growth. The mobilization, transportation, distribution of water, and the preservation of its quality require considerable financial resources, which the state cannot go on providing forever at the expense of other economic activities. Mr. Zebarene, general inspector at the Ministry of Equipment, told Channel 3 that if we are to achieve savings, "we cannot continue to manage our resources as we are doing now." "Economic tools that deter aggression against the water environment and provide incentives to save water and make the necessary investments," are essential, he said, adding that "everybody's good will alone is not enough." To finance the water sector, the Ministry of Equipment stated that it would be desirable to adopt rates reflecting Algeria's economic realities. For instance, faced with the increasing scarcity of what is considered as a source of life, optimum management of our water resources remains a must. To this end, a conference covering various themes will take place today and tomorrow at the headquarters of the National Data-Processing Systems Company [ENSI]. "Water resources, the fragility of water, water as an economic product, and the organization of the water sector," such are the four themes to be considered by the conference. This first conference, chaired by Mr. Mokdad Sifi, minister of equipment, and attended by the governors of the principal Algerian towns, will consider the management of the public service, the economics and organization of water production, and water distribution. In addition to these specific themes, the conference will also consider questions having to do with pollution, storage, the collection of underground and surface water, and the role of water in the national economy.
