FBIS3-568 "drafr047_a_94002" FBIS-AFR-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 March 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Burundi Prime Minister Outlines New Security Measures EA0903204794 Bujumbura Radio-Television Nationale du Burundi Radio in Kirundi 1700 GMT 9 Mar 94 EA0903204794 Bujumbura Radio-Television Nationale du Burundi Radio Language: Kirundi Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] After the events in Bujumbura, in Kamenge and what happened in Tangara, Ngozi Province where a serious breach of security took place resulting in many deaths, the prime minister, Anatole Kanyenkiko last night met security officials from all over the country. During the meeting many steps were taken to ensure a return to peace. [Begin Kanyenkiko recording] Following the meeting chaired by the minister of defense on 5 March and the meeting chaired by the head of state on 6 March and 8 March, I chaired a meeting of security officials from Bujumbura and from up-country to discuss the ever-deteriorating security situation in Bujumbura and the events that took place in Musenyi, Tangara Commune, and Ngozi Province on 7 March. [passage omitted] Before countrywide discussions on security and defense policy can lead to any concrete results, it is necessary to take the following immediate measures: 1. Security forces should work in cooperation with administration officials. They will operate from zone headquarters and other areas agreed upon with administrative authorities such as governors and communal heads. 2. If security agents need to rescue citizens in danger, they must inform the administrative authorities as soon as possible. 3. Security agents must rescue attacked citizens within the rule of law. Whoever does not respect the rule of law will be punished severely. 4. Wherever shots are heard, security personnel will have to identify quickly the location so that those who used the arms without permission can be arrested immediately so that people can see justice in action. 5. Roadblocks will be set up at night to prevent the movement of potential attackers. 6. The office of the state prosecutor has been called to investigate the recent killings in Kamenge, Musenyi, and Tangara as soon as possible so that the culprits can be identified and punished. 7. Administrative authorities are called to set up as soon possible security committees composed of men and women known for their impartiality who will work with the security officials in the suburbs and up-country areas. [end recording]
