FBIS4-11406 "drlat080_c_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-080 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 MEXICO EZLN Communique Lauds Peace Negotiator, Lifts Alert EZLN Communique Lauds Peace Negotiator, Lifts Alert PA2504171494 Mexico City LA JORNADA in Spanish 22 Apr 94 p 7 PA2504171494 Mexico City LA JORNADA Spanish BFN [Text of communique issued by the Clandestine Indian Revolutionary Committee-General Command of the Zapatist National Liberation Army in the Chiapas State mountains of southeastern Mexico on 20 April] [Text] Communique by the Clandestine Indian Revolutionary Committee-General Command (CCRI-GC) of the Zapatist National Liberation Army [EZLN], Mexico. 20 April 1994. To the people of Mexico: To all the peoples and governments of the world: To the national and international media: Brothers: The CCRI-GC of the EZLN addresses you to point out the following: First -- The EZLN acknowledges the honest and serious efforts by Manuel Camacho Solis, commissioner for Peace and Reconciliation in Chiapas, and mediator Bishop Samuel Ruiz to create favorable conditions that may lead to the continuation of the dialogue, the objective of which is to ensure a just and dignified peace. During the past days, the commissioner as well as the mediator have sought to solve several obstacles that block the peace process. The EZLN applauds the genuine disposition of these two Mexicans. Second -- The EZLN applauds the release of several civilians, unfairly charged with being members of our troops, and sees this as a good sign leading to the continuation of the dialogue for a just and dignified peace. Third -- In return, the CCRI-GC of the EZLN hereby orders the partial deactivation of the red alert in effect throughout its territory, and the return of part of its troops to their respective communities and ejidos as of 23 April 1994. Fourth -- If this favorable climate to a dialogue continues, the EZLN will renew the consultation process with its grass roots as soon as possible, at regular intervals and beginning with those less vulnerable territories. Fifth -- The EZLN reiterates its disposition to a true political solution to those just demands that motivates its struggle, and applauds the sincere efforts by the Mexican civilian society as well as all personalities to search for dignified solutions to crucial national problems through reason and not through force. Continuing with our popular demands for liberty, justice democracy for all Mexicans. Liberty! Justice! Democracy! Respectfully: [Signed] Clandestine Indian Revolutionary Committee -- EZLN General Command. General Headquarters. [Issued] Southeastern Mexican mountains, Chiapas State, Mexico, [no date as published] April 1994.
