FBIS3-38845 "drweu027aa_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS UK Ministers To Back NATO Bosnia Ultimatum PM0902115094 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 9 Feb 94 p 13 PM0902115094 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by George Jones, political editor: "Britain Is Ready, Major Confirms"] [Text] Mr Major signalled the Government's readiness last night to support a NATO ultimatum -- backed up by the threat of air strikes -- for the withdrawal of Serbian guns shelling Sarajevo. Shortly before an emergency meeting of the Cabinet's Overseas and Defence Committee to consider the options for military intervention, Mr Major told MPs the Government was prepared to see air power used "provided the commanders judge it appropriate." But he stressed at question-time in the Commons: "Ultimately, peace is only going to come at the negotiating table." Mr Major summoned senior ministers, including Mr Rifkind, Defence Secretary, who returned from visiting British troops in Bosnia yesterday, to Downing Street last night. They were briefed by the military chiefs of staff on the feasibility of air strikes to destroy Serbian guns which have been bombarding Sarajevo and are thought to have been responsible for the weekend's market massacre. Britain has previously adopted a cautious approach towards air strikes, fearing they would not prevent the shelling while leaving United Nations soldiers, including the British contingent of 3,000, open to reprisals from the Bosnian Serb forces. But ministers believe events have reached a "turning point" and that the UN's credibility will be damaged if it does not intervene to prevent the slaughter in Sarajevo. Military chiefs, while still dubious about the effectiveness of intervention, acknowledge that there may now be overriding diplomatic reasons to threaten air strikes. Mr Major acknowledged that the mortar and artillery attacks on Sarajevo could not await an overall settlement. The UN forces in Bosnia, with support from NATO, had to apply immediate and strong pressure to halt those attacks. The UN, he said, might need to use force for specific purposes, to carry out its mandate and protect its own people in Bosnia. "It may need tactical air support from NATO. We have always been prepared to see air power used for these purposes, provided the commanders judge it appropriate." Mr Major said NATO would meet today to consider what pressure can most effectively be applied. But he stressed that if air power was used, they must be very clear about the objectives of that action. The meeting of the Cabinet's Overseas and Defence Committee lasted two hours 20 minutes, much longer than expected. Although ministers agreed to back NATO plans for an ultimatum to the Serbs, there was a lengthy discussion over contingency plans for ensuring the protection of British and other UN troops in Bosnia against possible reprisals.
