FBIS3-11144 "drlat053_e_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA Costa Rica Figueres Announces Cabinet Structure PA1803030794 San Jose LA REPUBLICA in Spanish 9 Mar 94 p 4a PA1803030794 San Jose LA REPUBLICA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Yesterday, by publicly announcing the structure of his cabinet during an event at the National Museum, President-elect Jose Maria Figueres disclosed that his future government will function based on a system of five operational fields. The ministries will operate under specific fields in accordance with their respective disciplines in such a way that they may be able to tackle the country's problems as a team. Each of the ministries will be supervised by a general coordinator. Three of the fields will be institutional renovation, which will be coordinated by Rodrigo Oreamuno, second vice president-elect; the economic sector, which will be coordinated by Carlos Manuel Castillo (who is also Central Bank executive president); and the social sector, which will be coordinated by Rebeca Grynspan, first vice president-elect. The other fields will be sustainable growth, coordinated by Carlos Espinach; and security, supervised by Elias Soley, who has also been selected as minister of the presidency. "These fields do not cover all government tasks, but we will try to coordinate fundamental aspects of the country's reality and take advantage of this plan to implement mechanisms that will expedite government decisions despite current institutional limitations," Figueres commented. The president-elect warned that in selecting his ministers he tried to combine honesty, the ability to work as a team, inclination for sacrifice, professional excellence, public and private life qualifications, equanimity, the ability to reach agreements, loyalty, and commitment to the principles of government programs. "I am convinced that each one of those who have accepted their nomination as minister, will let their work account for the decision to appoint them as government ministers," the president pointed out. In concluding his speech, Figueres took hold of the same mallet which, 45 years earlier his father, Jose Figueres Ferrer, had held to strike the walls of what was then the Army General Headquarters and today houses the National Museum. Figueres, overwhelmed by emotion and with broken sentences, stated amid continuous rounds of applause: "Forty-five years ago in this same spot and with this same mallet given to me this morning by a friend... Don Pepe [Figueres Sr.] came to tear down some walls so that instead of armies we would have schools, universities, health, and welfare. Today with this same mallet in this same spot with all humility and enthusiasm, we come to tear down the walls of intolerance ... overtaken with fervor and eagerness to work, let us tear down the walls of parochialism and incomprehension in our country..." He called on all Costa Ricans to exercise their right to "healthy criticism and supervision of the government's performance," since he acknowledges the importance of exchanging opinions. "However, there is also a need for national unity so that the Costa Rican family, despite its political affiliation, can solve the [country's] problems and so that these next four years may be truly productive," Figueres concluded. Appointments Institutional Renovation Sphere Planning: Leonardo Garnier Culture: Arnoldo Mora Foreign Relations: Fernando Naranjo Social Sphere Health: German Weinstock Education: Eduardo Doryan Housing: Edgar Arroyo Rural Development (solving peasant problems): Ruben Solorzano Costa Rican Social Security Fund: Ana Gabriela Ross Economic Sphere Central Bank: Carlos Manuel Castillo Finance: Fernando Herrero Economy, Industry, Commerce: Marcos Vargas Agriculture: Mario Carvajal Foreign Trade: Jose Rossi Sustainable Growth Sphere Natural Resources, Energy, and Mines: Rene Castro Science and Technology: Roberto Dobles Public Works and Transportation: Bernardo Arce (minister) and Francisco Nicolas (vice-minister) Security Sphere Presidency: Elias Soley Information: Flory Rodriguez Government: Mauren Clarke Public Security: Juan Diego Castro Justice: Enrique Castillo Labor: Farid Ayales Ministers Without Portfolio Tourism: Carlos Roesch Special Projects (priority problems): Longino Soto Regional Coordination (presidency - cantons relations): Sergio Quiros Special Advisers Economy and Business Sector: Calixto Chaves Working Groups Coordination: Victor Ojeda Presidential Assistant: Roberto Hidalgo Trade Negotiator: Luis Diego Escalante Autonomous, INS [National Insurance Institute]: Alejandro Soto.
