FBIS4-4352 "dreas062_n_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 Vietnam Cambodian Co-Defense Ministers on Official Visit Cambodian Co-Defense Ministers on Official Visit Request To Replenish Stockpile Rejected BK3103023894 Bangkok BANGKOK POST in English 31 Mar 94 p 1 BK3103023894 Bangkok BANGKOK POST English BFN [Text] Vietnam has rejected Cambodia's request for weapons parts and ammunition to replace dwindling stocks used in the Cambodian government's offensive against Khmer Rouge bases at Anlong Veng and Pailin. A well-placed source said yesterday Hanoi "took note" of the request but made no commitment because it does not want to be seen as associating with any one Cambodian party. The source close to the leadership here said Vietnam also wished to avoid accusations of interfering in Cambodia's internal affairs. The request was put forward by Cambodian co-defence ministers Tie Banh and Tea Chamrat in talks here Tuesday. "Vietnam has to be very cautious," said the source. Hanoi has enough worries with domestic problems. He said the Cambodian defence ministers sought spare parts and ammunition for weapons ranging from machineguns to artillery pieces. The Cambodian ministers reportedly approached Laos before coming to Hanoi, but the Laotians did not oblige. As fellow recipients of military supplies from the former Soviet Union, Laos and Vietnam are the only possible sources of resupply for the Cambodian army. But Laos and Vietnam only have what they describe as "self-sufficient" reserves. The Cambodian defence ministers yesterday morning left Hanoi for Ho Chi Minh City where they were to meet with the commander of Army Region 7 and the region bordering Cambodia. The disclosure coincided with Hanoi's decision for Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet to go ahead with a planned visit to Cambodia. Mr Kiet is to arrive in Phnom Penh on Saturday and return to Ho Chi Minh City the next day. Mr Kiet will be returning a visit to Hanoi in August last year by Cambodia's co-premiers Norodom Ranariddh and Hun Sen. Mr Kiet will be accompanied to Cambodia by Vietnamese Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam, who went to Phnom Penh last month to lay the groundwork for the visit.
