FBIS4-23531 "drafr110_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Government, UNITA Teams Fail To Agree on Deputies Government, UNITA Teams Fail To Agree on Deputies MB0706140894 Luanda Radio Nacional Network in Portuguese 1200 GMT 7 Jun 94 MB0706140894 Luanda Radio Nacional Network Portuguese BFN [Report by correspodent Alves Antonio in Lusaka] [Text] Good afternoon. Representatives of the government and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] have been holding a meeting in the Mulungushi Conference Center since this morning in the search for solutions to the issue of swearing in deputies for Jonas Savimbi's organization in Parliament. The issue has been under discussion since 3 June. The outcome of this meeting, which is also being attended by the mediators and observers, is not known. We will give further details later on. Meanwhile, UNITA spokesman Jorge Valentim told the TIMES OF ZAMBIA today that his organization insists that the government grant UNITA key posts in the Foreign and Interior Ministries, as well as a number of posts at provincial government level, regardless of offers made by the Angolan authorities in a spirit of cooperation and national reconciliation. The TIMES OF ZAMBIA reports that diplomatic sources confirm UNITA's position. Moreover, Jorge Valentim also said that renewed military operations in the country are affecting the morale of his organization's negotiators. He also said that over the past few days the relationship with government representatives has become tense, and the two teams do not even shake hands before each working session as stipulated by the rules. Meanwhile, diplomatic circles have expressed concern about the fate of the Angolan peace talks between the government and UNITA and appealed to mediator Alioune Blondin Beye, the troika of observers, the United States, Portugal, and Russia, to do the utmost to put an end to clashes in Angola, so that negotiations may be successful and a peace agreement signed. The meeting between the government and UNITA teams has just been concluded. Unfortunately, after heated debates, the results are not the most desired ones. All that is known is that contradictions resulting from the UNITA team's ploys persisted in this working session. The negotiators will resume the talks this afternoon to continue discussing the abovementioned point which is becoming cantankerous.
