FBIS4-46231 "jptot023__l94017" JPRS-TOT-94-023-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 28 May 1994 LATIN AMERICA COLOMBIA Guerrilla Actions Frustrate Voting in Some Areas Guerrilla Actions Frustrate Voting in Some Areas Election Violence Takes Six Lives PA2805200094 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1813 GMT 28 May 94 PA2805200094 Madrid EFE Spanish BFN [Text] Santa Fe de Bogota, 28 May (EFE) -- At least six people, including one policeman, one soldier, and a civilian, were killed today in three different guerrilla actions in Colombia, the day before the presidential elections. At the same time the authorities decided to suspend elections in 12 small communities in the Simiti Municipality, Bolivar Department, in the northern Colombia, due to guerrilla threats. A Defense Ministry source said that the most serious incident took place in a rural area known as Caguan, in southern Colombia, when a group of insurgents attacked and murdered a policeman, a soldier, and a woman. In this clash one of the rebels was killed. He belonged to the communist Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). Near Baraya, in Huila Department, also in southern Colombia, a rebel was killed and two more were captured at a military checkpoint, when they tried to attack the troops. The same source reported that in the Uraba area, in Colombia's northeast, the Army foiled an attack against a police garrison in Carepa, where one guerrilla was killed. Electoral authorities decided to suspend elections in 12 small communities in the Simiti Municipality. Simiti Mayor Elias Escalante said that the decision to suspend the elections was made because the presence of guerrillas did not allow National Civil Registry (an organization in charge of the elections) delegates to go to these small communities. Simiti is located about 900 km north of Santa Fe de Bogota Colombians will elect on Sunday President Cesar Gaviria's successor among 18 candidates, even though runoff elections on 19 June will probably need to be held because it is unlikely any of the candidates will reach an absolute majority according to previous polls.
