FBIS3-30890 "dreeu028aa_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Croatia's Granic, Bosnia's Silajdzic Hold Talks Hostilities `Must End Immediately' LD0902152094 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 9 Feb 94 LD0902152094 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Report by Tihomir Vinkovic from Geneva] [Text] Mate Granic, Croatian deputy prime minister and minister of foreign affairs, and Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic ended their first round of talks at about 1300. Their tete-a-tete meeting took place in a constructive atmosphere at the Richmond hotel. The two ministers came to the conclusion that the hostilities between Croats and Muslims in Bosnia-Herzegovina must end immediately. Future relations will be determined on the basis of an agreement. The future status of Muslim and Croat people in Bosnia-Herzegovina appears to be controversial. Proposals have ranged from the organization of Bosnia-Herzegovina along cantonal lines to the setting up of republics within a Bosnia-Herzegovina federation. The talks, according to reports, were the first to be held in a completely frank atmospohere and could form a basis for a solution. Croatian Minister Granic explained the features and basic guidelines of the Croatian-FRY statement on the normalization of relations: It deals exclusively with humanitarian issues and those connected with communications and is in no way targeted against Muslims in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The negotiating circles say that the international community as well as influential countries have been putting pressure on both sides to reach an agreement. The talks held so far appear to have taken this course. Minister Granic will this afternoon meet the Austrian and Romanian foreign ministers who are attending the talks between Cochairmen Owen and Stoltenberg and representatives from the countries neighboring the former Yugoslavia. He is also expected to meet Silajdzic once again late this evening.
