FBIS4-61350 "drsov088__a94002" FBIS-SOV-94-088-A Daily Report 6 May 1994 ANNEX Russia International Affairs Kozyrev Comments on Bosnian Peace Settlement Kozyrev Comments on Bosnian Peace Settlement LD2704154694 Moscow RIA in English 1509 GMT 27 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY LD2704154694 Moscow RIA English BFN [Text] Geneva, April 27, RIA. There is "the will and the opportunity" for a realistic partnership aiming to attain political settlement in Bosnia. Now is the time for joint action, said Russia's Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev at a press conference upon the completion of his talks with Alain Juppe, foreign minister of France, who arrived in Geneva today. Said Kozyrev in reply to a RIA question: "The main conclusion after the talks is that there is the need to unite efforts for a political settlement in Bosnia in order to preclude a new wave of violence in the region. My partners and I are optimistic: we believe there is a realistic opportunity to attain settlement. We would like to hold - in the near future - a working meet of foreign ministers to prepare a summit meeting with the participation of the UN." On the possibility of new NATO strikes in the former Yugoslavia, the minister said that everything depended on specific circumstances. If there are new barbaric shellings of civilian targets, everything will depend on a specific situation. "The main thing is that we have made NATO's military plans not so much the plans of that organization, but the plans of the UN Security Council to be applied in the worst situation," Kozyrev noted. The procedure for the decision-making on the issue is well known: all operations should be seen as being within the framework of the UN Peace-keeping effort. M. Juppe said that he accords "exceedingly great importance" to the talks with the Russian minister. He called them rather productive and said that they would continue soon. He plans to visit Moscow on May 19. France has always maintained close contact with Russia on the issue of the Bosnian settlement, Juppe said. Today's talks are seen as very important in the light of the situation there. Today, Andrey Kozyrev had a telephone conversation with UN Secretary General's Envoy Yakusi Akashi. The two officials noted the normalisation of the situation around Gorazde, which lays the ground for the processes of a peaceful settlement in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
