FBIS3-4939 "dreas041_d_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 South Korea Reaction to Hubbard Remark on Security Law Washington Embassy at `Loss' SK0203024694 Seoul YONHAP in English 0218 GMT 2 Mar 94 SK0203024694 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, March 1 (YONHAP) -- A senior U.S. State Department official has publicly expressed his desire to see South Korea repeal its controversial National Security Law. Thomas Hubbard, deputy assistant secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, made the remark at a seminar on U.S.-South Korean relations in the Pacific era, sponsored by American University on Feb. 25. In a keynote speech, Hubbard praised South Korea for making "heartwarming success in establishing democracy and marked improvement on the human rights front." "Despite (these) successes -- or perhaps because of them -- the United States still wishes the Republic of Korea would repeal the National Security Law," Hubbard said. Hubbard acknowledged that friction exists between the United States and South Korea stemming from extensive interaction between nations. But such friction really results from the "problems of success," he said. In any event, it was the first time that any senior U.S. Government official has publicly expressed a desire to see South Korea's National Security Law repealed. The remark is attracting even more interest since it was made by the American representative to a recent series of Washington-Pyongyang working-level contacts held in New York to resolve the North Korean nuclear issue. Contacted for clarification on Tuesday, a State Department official confirmed that Hubbard's remark reflects "the official position of the U.S. Government." The official also confirmed that the U.S. Government has been urging the Seoul government to undertake "additional measures" to solidify "democratization" in South Korea. The official, however, took pains to stress that Hubbard's comment has nothing to do with the ongoing discussions between the United States and North Korea on the nuclear and other issues. Officials at the South Korean Embassy in Washington admitted that the U.S. Government has urged Seoul to improve human rights. But they were at a loss to explain why Hubbard made such remarks when the North Korean nuclear issue has entered a critical stage. Many South Korean leaders including President Kim Yong-sam believe it is premature to repeal the National Security Law, which was enacted to deter espionage and other hostile activities by communists in North Korea aimed at overthrowing the Seoul government.
