FBIS3-51143 "drlat010_o_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 Colombia Sanin To Discuss Case of Downed Venezuelan Helicopter PA1301183494 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 1730 GMT 12 Jan 94 PA1301183494 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "National" newscast] [Text] Another of the mandatory issues Foreign Minister Noemi Sanin must address while in Venezuela is the case of the helicopter in Arauca. The Colombian Prosecutor General's Office has enough evidence to press charges against 10 members of the Venezuelan National Guard for their part in the border incidents. She will not be able to achieve a thing if there is no cooperation from Venezuela. The Prosecutor General's Office is investigating four specific crimes stemming from the helicopter incident involving 10 members of the Venezuelan National Guard. The Prosecutor General's Office now believes the helicopter was not shot down and that the Venezuelan officers violated Colombian territory. Theft, property damage, and attempted kidnapping are the other crimes under investigation. Given the situation, however, Colombia will be unable to act against those responsible as long as the Venezuelan Government does not cooperate. [Begin recording] [Unidentified reporter] What will the Prosecutor General's Office do next? Are you going to order the arrest of those involved? [Prosecutor General Gustavo de Greiff] Naturally, we will have to take measures to take the suspects into custody as well as press charges, determine which charges to press, and present our cases before the judge. [Reporter] Can these steps be taken by the Colombian Prosecutor's Office or will it have to be done by the Venezuelan Prosecutor General's Office? [De Greiff] It will have to be done by the Colombian prosecutor because the events took place in Colombia. Where we do need Venezuela's cooperation -- and we think we will get it -- is in identifying the suspects. [Reporter] Would these suspects be brought to Colombia? [De Greiff] Naturally. Again, this would be done with the Venezuelan Government's cooperation. [end recording] The issue is now in the hands of Minister Noemi Sanin and her protest action today in Venezuela, which is directed at getting the Venezuelan Government to second Colombia's legal actions and seeing these crimes do not go unpunished.
