FBIS4-62511 "drsov095_o_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-095 Daily Report 14 May 1994 Uzbekistan Germany to Provide All-Round Support for Economic Reforms Germany to Provide All-Round Support for Economic Reforms LD1605150694 Tashkent Radio Tashkent Network in Russian 0215 GMT 14 May 94 LD1605150694 Tashkent Radio Tashkent Network Russian BFN [Text] The concluding talks on economic cooperation between the representative of Uzbekistan's Government and a delegation from the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development was held yesterday [13 May] in the Uzbek Cabinet of Ministers. As is known, the German delegation, led by Berhard Schweiger, has been in our country for a week. The members of the delegation have familiarized themselves with the work of the first joint Uzbek-German enterprises and the activities of various ministries and departments. The members of the delegation also visited Bukhara, Urgench, Khiva, and Nukus. The results of the talks were discussed in the Cabinet of Ministers. An intergovernmental protocol and an agreement on financial and technical cooperation were signed. The documents were signed by Uzbekistan's Deputy Prime Minister Sultanov, and Berhard Schweiger from the German delegation. The protocol outlines cooperation in such areas as research, training of personell, joint implementation of projects in agriculture, increasing the effectiveness of the communication system, reconstruction of the airport in Tashkent, and cooperation in public health. We have found sincere and reliable people here, stated the head of the German delegation on the concluding day of the talks. I hope that our friendship will become stronger, not only in words but in actions. This is shown by the signed documents, which are aimed at stregnthening our cooperation. The German state will continue to provide all-round support for the economic reforms being carried out by the Government of Uzbekistan. We are confident that the Republic of Uzbekistan will become our most close partner in Central Asia. Doctor Karl-Heinz Khuna, plenipotentiary and ambassador extraordinary of Germany in Uzbekistan, participated in the talks.
