FBIS3-23739 "jpusr019___94002" FBIS-USR-94-019 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 2 March 1994 RUSSIA POLITICAL AFFAIRS Economic Freedom Party Holds Post-Election Meeting 944F0330B Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 27 Jan 94 p 2 944F0330B Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Indira Dunayeva, under the "Party Movement" rubric: "Economic Freedom Party Congress Held. Borovoy and Comrades Keep Secrets"] [Text] The Economic Freedom Party [PES] yesterday held a congress at which it evaluated the results of party activity, above all its participation in the parliamentary elections. Journalists were not allowed to attend the congress, but, as an NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA correspondent was told the day before the congress, changes in party leadership were to be made there: Instead of Konstantin Borovoy, its cochairmen would be Arkadiy Ankovskiy (Novosibirsk), Leonid Nekrasov (Yekaterinburg), and Oleg Tarasenko (Lipetsk). The party's general secretary (State Duma deputy Irina Khakamada) intended to become a cochairwoman with special status--the work of the general secretary involves material liability, and because of her status as a deputy, Khakamada cannot perform it. Ms. Khakamada, who was elected to the Duma as an independent deputy, thinks that she should have full independence as party cochairwoman. As Irina Khakamada told a NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA correspondent, "Konstantin Borovoy at the congress declared the need for stiff opposition to the president and the government, but I, as an independent candidate, am interested in constructive dialogue and not political squabbling." Khakamada stated that while working in parliament she would maintain close contacts with regional divisions of the PES and lobby for draft laws needed by Russian entrepreneurs, but she would have nothing to do with the political statements of the party leadership. In her opinion, the party must work more with regional divisions and not get involved with the individual declarations of its leader. The Yekaterinburg division of PES issued a statement in which responsibility for the party's loss in the parliamentary elections was placed largely on the party leadership.
