FBIS4-42211 "drweu105_e_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-105 Daily Report 31 May 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Sinn Fein's Adams Lists Conditions for Peace, Progress Sinn Fein's Adams Lists Conditions for Peace, Progress LD3105185894 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 1838 GMT 31 May 94 LD3105185894 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By Ian Graham, PRESS ASSOCIATION News] [Text] Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams tonight spelled out what he insists is necessary for peace and political progress in Ireland: - Any internal Northern Ireland political settlement was out; - Long-term prisoners should be speedily freed; - And the Unionist veto should be kicked out. He repeated that the clarification of the Downing Street Declaration recently provided by the British Government would not be examined until after the European elections. But he gave a shopping list of requirements at odds with the contents of the Declaration signed last December by the British and Irish premiers. He said Sinn Fein would have to ensure that there was no return to Unionist domination. "There can never again be an internal settlement," he added. The British Government should "write into new legislation" the right of the Irish people to national self-determination, he said in west Belfast. At the same time, the Government should legislate away provisions which provided Unionists with a veto over political and constitutional change. And he said that the "speedy release of all long-term prisoners, pending a full amnesty for all political prisoners, must be a matter of urgent concern." The Irish language should be given equality of status, including funding, he added. An effort should be made to end job discrimination and economic inequalities against Catholics -- and what he called the underlying sectarian bias against Nationalist areas in the allocation of economic investment must end. Mr Adams appeared to see no contradiction in calling for the Nationalist majority in Ireland to be given the right to decide the future at the same time as saying the Unionist majority in Northern Ireland should lose the right to say what happened. And he said: "The British Government must recognise that it cannot on the one hand assert its neutrality and say it is for no particular pre-determined outcome, while at the same time saying it will stand by the Union." His comments came hours after Democratic Unionist MP for Belfast East Peter Robinson warned that Unionist people felt so alieniated, marginalised and estranged by discussions over their head about their future that support for the use of violence was increasing.
