FBIS4-23779 "drafr116bb_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-116 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 INTER-AFRICAN AFFAIRS OAU Summit Ends With Speech by Tunisia's Ben Ali OAU Summit Ends With Speech by Tunisia's Ben Ali LD1506133494 Tunis Tunis-7 Television in Arabic 1200 GMT 15 Jun 94 LD1506133494 Tunis Tunis-7 Television Arabic BFN [Excerpts] The proceedings of the 30th OAU summit ended at noon today. The final session was distinguished by the keynote address given by President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, the current president of the OAU. The president confirmed that Tunisia would spare no effort during its OAU presidency to serve the interests of the continent. He expressed his firm hope that our continent would be saved from the destructive conflicts with which it is burdened. He pointed out that the steps taken by the Tunis summit to settle the conflict in Rwanda were a good sign of hope for all similar issues. President Ben Ali stressed that the consensus shown by the African continent over the charter of honor [mithaq al-sharaf] proposed by Tunisia was a civilized commitment arising from African civilization values based on tolerance and emphasizing the need for communal joint work. He lauded the eagerness shown by the delegations to implement the strategy of the Abuja agreement on African economic integration. The president insisted on the need for self-reliance in our African countries in order to get out of our current situation, stressing the need for Africans to establish their ability to be partners of advanced states and to deal as equals with all countries if they wanted those countries to be at their side. The president lauded the firm determination shown by our African countries in supporting the OAU in serving the continent's issues. [passage omitted] President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali officially announced the closing of the 30th OAU conference at noon. Yesterday afternoon's session continued until late at night. During the session the African leaders completed their examination of all the points on the agenda.
