FBIS4-41873 "drsov125_a_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-125 Daily Report 29 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS PRC's Qian Seen as Man of `Exceptional Qualities' PRC's Qian Seen as Man of `Exceptional Qualities' PM2906081794 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 29 Jun 94 First Edition p 6 PM2906081794 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Unattributed report: "PRC's Top Diplomat in Moscow"] [Text] Qian Qichen, deputy premier of the State Council and PRC foreign minister, arrived on an official visit to Moscow Monday evening. The main aim of the trip is to prepare for the Russo-Chinese summit. It is planned that PRC Chairman Jiang Zemin will be coming to Moscow in September. "China and Russia," Qian Qichen stated at the airport, "are neighbors with common borders. It is quite natural for us to maintain constant contacts. I am confident that my current visit to Russia will be very successful." The 66-year-old Qian Qichen, who speaks Russian, English, and French, is no newcomer to the Moscow dimension of PRC foreign policy. He made his "great leap forward" into big-time politics in 1982, when he became China's special representative at the intergovernmental political consultations with the USSR. Five years later, a year before being appointed foreign minister, Qian headed the delegation at the bilateral border talks. In the memorable year of 1989 he was already quite at home in the top diplomat's office -- and the process of normalizing Soviet-Chinese relations was completed with his direct participation. Qian Qichen has displayed exceptional qualities in the field of diplomacy, primarily a purposefulness and an analytical way of thinking. He is given a lot of the credit for the fact that, following the suppression of the student demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in 1989 and the introduction of anti-Chinese sanctions by the West, the PRC nonetheless did not remain internationally isolated, and the situation regarding China did not turn into a new "cold war." Any high-ranking Chinese leader's personal life is reliably hidden from prying eyes. All we know for sure is that Qian is a man of routine -- he never gets up later than 0600 and retires precisely at 2300. He loves going for walks.
