FBIS3-3789 "drchi056_w_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong NPC Reportedly Postpones Attack on HK Political Structure HK2003055394 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA SUNDAY MORNING POST in English 20 Mar 94 p 2 HK2003055394 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA SUNDAY MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Linda Choy in Beijing and Dick Chan] [Text] China's legislature yesterday decided to postpone scrutinising a hard-line statement that denounces Hong Kong's three-tier political structure as set up under British rule. The National People's Congress (NPC) presidium suggested the statement--proposed by Hong Kong delegate Cheng Yiu-tong, and supported by more than 30 delegates--be referred to the legal committee, rather than being passed during this plenary session. It appears the move is to cool the atmosphere created by the row with Britain as China accelerates efforts to unite the people of Hong Kong. Mr Cheng proposed using legislation to defy the Legislative Council, district boards and municipal councils set up in Hong Kong if Britain and China failed to agree on democratic reform. His proposal states China has a right to re-organise the government under the Basic Law and the decisions of the Congress and its Standing Committee. Mr Cheng said yesterday his proposal was not dismissed and suggested the Congress chairmen might have felt it was "not the best timing" to make such a statement. In a separate move, Britain's ambassador to Beijing, Sir Robin McLaren, dismissed Chinese suggestions that introducing the single-seat, single-vote election system was a "backward step" in democracy for Hong Kong. He was responding to comments made last week by China's top official on Hong Kong affairs, Lu Ping, who is the director of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office. Sir Robin said: "That is not the view of either the British Government or the Hong Kong Government, and I don't think it is the view of Legco, since it has frequently supported the single-seat, single-vote system. It does not seem to me that 60 constituencies for a population of six million is excessive."
