FBIS3-29351 "dreas033_d_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 South Korea U.S., DPRK Reportedly `Near Agreement' on Talks SK1702013994 Seoul YONHAP in English 0130 GMT 17 Feb 94 SK1702013994 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, Feb. 17 (YONHAP) -- North Korea and the United States again met unofficially early Thursday (Korean time) in New York after meeting a day earlier, when Pyongyang reversed its past hard-line position on accepting international nuclear inspections, and are reportedly near agreement on scheduling the next round of high-level talks and other issues. U.S. officials briefed South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu on the meeting upon his arrival in Washington earlier in the day after traveling to Canada and meeting with United Nations Secretary-General Butrus Butrus-Ghali in New York. After coordination with South Korea, U.S. officials are to meet again with North Korean negotiators as soon as Friday, Seoul officials said. In Thursday's meeting, the two sides reportedly discussed the schedule for an International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspection team to enter North Korea, resumption of inter-Korean contacts to discuss an exchange of envoys, announcement of the suspension of the South Korea-U.S. "Team Spirit" military drill, and the third round of high-level talks, while agreeing in principle to exchange a memorandum of understanding on a "small package deal" this week. North Korean officials said an IAEA team may be able to initiate inspections early next week, adding they will propose a fourth round of working-level talks with South Korea to discuss an exchange of envoys. The talks have been stalled since last October. But the two differed somewhat on the timing of the Team Spirit suspension announcement and on future bilateral relations, Seoul officials said. It is true there was some disagreement over setting exact dates, but the two would have no trouble reaching agreement within the week, a government official predicted. Washington reported the results of the meeting to Foreign Minister Han and asked for Seoul's opinions on the non-agreed issues, he said.
