FBIS4-40516 "drsov117_f_94017" FBIS-SOV-94-117 Daily Report 11 Jun 1994 National Affairs `Idealists' Blame Jews for Situation in Crimea `Idealists' Blame Jews for Situation in Crimea AU1606195594 Lvov ZA VILNU UKRAYINU in Ukrainian 11 Jun 94 p 1 AU1606195594 Lvov ZA VILNU UKRAYINU Ukrainian BFN ["Statement Adopted by the Meeting of the Organization of Ukraine's Idealists"; place and date not given: "They Do Not and Will Not Succeed"] [Text] The situation in the Crimea was created artificially. It was instigated by secret "activists," who, by stirring up interethnic conflicts, in particular, between Russians and Ukrainians, are trying to accomplish their hidden plans. We know well who (at any rate, during World War II) dreamed about an "autonomous republic" in the Crimea. It would be an illusion to see the present situation on the peninsula outside the context of those dreams. To push the two great peoples -- Ukrainians and Russians -- into a confrontation and gain from that -- these are the schemes of internationalists hiding the signboard of the Meshkov [Crimean president] quandary. They do not and will not succeed. Every Cossack, who arrived from Don, Kuban, or other places to give support to the president of cossack extraction, must know that he is fulfilling the role of that proletarian, who, in 1917, brought to power the Marxist-Leninist mafia, which then drew the peoples of the czarist empire into the terrible turmoil of self-destruction -- terror, civil wars, famines, concentration camps, and the all- embracing economic and political devastation. We call upon all the peoples of the world that are exploited by Jews [zhydy] to unite in the noble cause against the servants of the Devil and localize them in their national state -- Israel. Let them show, to their full extent, the talents of the people chosen by God. We are convinced that, as soon as they get together in their own home, genuine brotherhood will prevail on our planet, and benevolence and peace will reign among all peoples. The policy of Ukraine and Russia in the Crimean issue must be unambiguous: Not a single armed Ukrainian or Russian in the Crimean conflict. Our slogan: "Free Ivan Demyanyuk, or Rid Ukraine of Jews!" helped release our fellow countryman from the Israeli prison where he had been tortured for seven years. Our slogan: "Peace to the Ukrainian Crimea, or Rid Ukraine and Russia of Jews!" will caution the two Christian peoples against the confrontation, which will be pernicious for them, and which has been provoked by enemies of Christ. Jews make a charming impression when they live in their national state and honestly and conscientiously earn their bread. We call upon all clergymen of Ukraine and Russia to hold sermons for peace in the Crimea and pray to God so that He would instruct Jews to take care of Israel on their own territory and to pray for the triumph of a single holy United Apostle Church. We call upon all political parties, public organizations, and all people of good will to hold rallies: "Peace for the Ukrainian Crimea! Away With Insidious Provocateurs!" "Down With Jewish Communo-Fascism!" Let all states of the world cherish their national values, their national spirit, and moral traditions proceeding from the principles of humanism and good, and purify themselves from the international evil. Mykhaylo Mankovskyy, chairman of the leadership of the Lvov Oblast Organization of Ukraine's Idealists.
