FBIS4-46656 "jpusp005___94007" JPRS-USP-94-005 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia: Space 21 June 1994 SPACE SCIENCES Possibilities for Remote Diagnosis of Auroral and Aeronomic Possibilities for Remote Diagnosis of Auroral and Aeronomic Characteristics From Spacecraft Using New Type of Spectrophotometric Imaging System 947Q0121C Moscow KOSMICHESKIYE ISSLEDOVANIYA in Russian Vol 32 No 1, Jan-Feb 94 (manuscript received 30 Nov 92) pp 126-142 947Q0121C Moscow KOSMICHESKIYE ISSLEDOVANIYA Russian CSO [Article by A. K. Kuzmin and K. N. Chikov; UDC 523.64] [Abstract] New methodological possibilities are described for using satellites to ascertain the glow characteristics of auroras and the electrodynamic characteristics of the polar ionosphere which are afforded by an on-board imaging system when using the new "Monochromatic Eye" objective; two annotated optical diagrams of this objective (for the visible and vacuum UV spectral ranges) accompany the text and serve as a basis for the detailed textual description. One of the variants for constructing a system of wide-angle quasimonochromatic imaging cameras for a low-apogee satellite of the "Meteor-3M" type is analyzed and the different advantages which it affords for studying processes in the polar ionosphere are considered. Another diagram shows the geometry of spectrophotometric measurements of auroral characteristics from a satellite when using wide-angle monochromatic imaging cameras, fully explained in the text. The aeronomic characteristics of the upper atmosphere are determined more precisely when using these satellite- borne instruments. The possibilities of satellite registry of the influence of seismic effects on the glow of atmospheric emissions are examined. Such observations would be invaluable in active coordinated experiments. The premises for further development of an imaging system for studying the atmospheres and ionospheres of other planets from space vehicles, as well as for surface panoramic photometric observations of auroras, are discussed. A series of tables gives all pertinent technical specifications. Figures 3; references 53: 45 Russian, 8 Western.
