FBIS4-39895 "drsov113_a_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 12 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Atomic Official Doubts DPRK Nuclear Potential Atomic Official Doubts DPRK Nuclear Potential LD1206182094 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1600 GMT 12 Jun 94 LD1206182094 Moscow Russian Television Network Russian BFN [From the "Vesti" program] [Text] North Korea can produce 65 kg of plutonium a year, the influential Japanese newspaper YOMIURI writes today quoting a statement by a senior CIA official. [Begin G.Kaurov, department head in Russian Atomic Energy Ministry, recording] According to IAEA information, North Korea is in possession of grams or kilograms of unregistered plutonium. But grams or even one or two kilograms of plutonium are not enough to develop nuclear weapons, not even a single warhead. [end recording] [A.Peslyak] The Ministry's official believes that the conflict between Korea and the IAEA [International Atomic Energy Agency] started at a level of several grams of plutonium going unaccounted for. [Begin Kaurov recording] In Japan 70 kg of unregistered plutonium-239 have been discovered, and the IAEA did not follow this with some special sanctions, in this case. [end recording] [Peslyak] Although following an agreement concluded in the 60s, the USSR built a nuclear center near Pyongyang, with a research reactor, a chemical lab, and betatron and trained about 60 specialists. As of 1992, according to Kaurov, nuclear fuel deliveries and visits of specialists were suspended. On the other hand, according to Kaurov, as recently as 15 year ago U.S. journals openly published documents showing the structure of nuclear weapons. So it is difficult to say which actions could help in creating explosive devices. In order to develop weapons, however, Kaurov stressed, such actions are needed which would have been discovered by the technical intelligence services of many countries. This has not happened. It is necessary to ensure that North Korea stays covered by the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty but, according to the Ministry's official, one should not get carried away. A diplomatic way toward nuclear control, sovereignty and universal security should be found.
