FBIS4-14111 "drnes082yy_94013" FBIS-NES-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks Israel Demands Meeting Between Peres, Al-Shar' Israel Demands Meeting Between Peres, Al-Shar' TA2704141594 Tel Aviv 'AL HAMISHMAR in Hebrew 27 Apr 94 p 3 TA2704141594 Tel Aviv 'AL HAMISHMAR Hebrew BFN [Report by Pinhas 'Inbari] [Text] Israel is demanding that Syria make possible a meeting between Foreign Ministers Shim'on Peres and Faruq al-Shar'. It believes that Rabin's recent statements regarding the evacuation of settlements from the Golan Heights justifies a Syrian acquiescence in this issue. Such a meeting is vital for convincing the Israeli public to accept the price of peace. These messages are being relayed to Syria via the United States. Israeli diplomatic sources briefed our correspondent about some of the ongoing contacts. It is likely that Rabin relayed similar messages via Russia as well. According to the sources, Israel is not only demanding to upgrade the talks, but also to open a secret, informal channel of talks between trusted representatives of Rabin and al-Asad. These talks are supposed to be conducted in the following fashion: Suppose Israel withdraws from the entire Golan, what, in your opinion, will Syria give Israel in return? This is what the Israeli representative will ask his interlocutor. According to the sources, Syria claimed it cannot open such a secret channel despite the fact that Israel believes talks conducted without official minutes being taken are immune to leaks. Syria has also differentiated between what it termed "peace," and "the results of peace" -- thus expressing its unwillingness to implement normalization immediately after the agreements are signed. As far as the withdrawal timetable, Syria is talking about one year, whereas Israel wants the withdrawal to be phased out over a 10 year period. The sources said that tactical differences have surfaced between the United States and Israel. While Israel is against facilitating talks on the Syrian track as long as the talks with the PLO are still going on, the United States is claiming there is no connection between the two tracks and it is inadvisable to wait until the agreements with the PLO are signed. The sources claim this is the reason why Christopher retracted his earlier decision to wait for the Israel-PLO signing ceremony. They add he has no intention of intervening in the Israel-PLO negotiations. The sources noted that the date for the resumption of the Washington talks will be determined only after there is an agreement with Syria regarding the framework and the contents of the talks.
