FBIS3-15517 "drsov044_d_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Regional Affairs More on Leaders' View of Khasbulatov MK0503132994 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 5 Mar 94 p 3 MK0503132994 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Natalya Gorodetskaya, Vladimir Todres report in the "North Caucasus" column: "Chechnya Welcomes Its Hero"] [Excerpt] On 11 March the State Duma will discuss the situation in Chechnya. Sergey Shakhray is expected to make a report. His position is well known: Chechnya can be de facto brought back into the Russian Federation by concluding a treaty with it based on the Russian-Tatarstan agreement. An obligatory condition for the start of negotiations, however, must be free elections in Chechnya -- with the participation of the anti-Dudayev opposition. At present, according to the minister, "not a single political force controls the situation in the republic" and therefore there is simply no one to come to terms with. Yet even if elections are held, this will hardly make things easier for Russia: according to local observers, none of the local politicians can match Dzhokhar Dudayev's authority. No one -- except Ruslan Khasbulatov, who has returned to his mother's home. In spite of the fact that on 15 September 1991 Ruslan Khasbulatov, who was then chairman of the Russian Supreme Soviet, blessed Dzhokhar Dudayev to lead the Chechen Republic, now the ungrateful Chechen leader is in no hurry to meet him. As Chechnya Vice President Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev told INTERFAX, no official meetings have been planned with the former speaker of the Russian parliament, but if Mr. Khasbulatov insists, such meetings could be arranged. Furthermore the vice president was rather skeptical over the prospect of Ruslan Khasbulatov's working in Chechnya as an economist: "He has never dealt with economics. It is another matter that he has studied the political economy of the West, but these are quite different things." In his opinion, the former Russian Federation Supreme Soviet speaker will not engage in politics, let alone join the Chechen opposition. [passage omitted]
