FBIS4-59963 "drnes097_r_94009" FBIS-NES-94-097 Daily Report 17 May 1994 India Commentary Examines Scope for U.S. Investment Commentary Examines Scope for U.S. Investment BK1705055894 Delhi All India Radio Network in English 0245 GMT 17 May 94 BK1705055894 Delhi All India Radio Network English BFN [Commentary by All India Radio correspondent M. Rama Rao] [Text] If Davos had set the stage three years ago for projecting India as a new destination for investment, Houston, the number two city for business in the United States, has taken the campaign into the drawing rooms of the multinational chief executives. This is evident from the response at the round table session organized in honor of the prime minister, Mr. Narasimha Rao, by the Greater Houston Partnership, an umbrella trade body of over 2,600 U.S. companies. The other indicators of improving India's (?option) are numerous requests for a meeting with Mr. Narasimha Rao soon after he landed in New York. The questions to him and the finance minister reflect the upbeat mood among the U.S. business and financial companies which are trying to diversify into the Asia-Pacific and the Southeast Asia region. They find the Indian Government's liberalization program and incentives quite attractive for investment. They now consider India as number one for new investments. The Indian side once again tried to project the infrastructural sector as a priority area. Houston is called the energy capital of the world with industries dealing with power, hydrocarbons, electronics, computers, medicines, and food processing. One power and oil major has already entered the Indian scene and some others are on the way. The power company's chief executive, Mr. Kenneth Lay, says his Indian experience proves to the world the old maxim that investments are also a matter of good faith. The statement made apparently in good faith as his company was the first to enter the untested waters when the power sector was thrown open. Computer-related materials, aluminum production, technology transfer projects relating to rail transportation, information and health are among the areas that may be resulting in a lot of investment activities in the wake of the prime minister's visit to Houston. For a change, the business community also seems to be equally concerned about the poor and is anxious to join our efforts in poverty alleviation programs.
