FBIS4-11711 "drnes062cc_94002" FBIS-NES-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 Islamic Affairs Political Islam Review: AL-SHA'B 22 Mar Political Islam Review: AL-SHA'B 22 Mar NC3003154094 NC3003154094 BFN [Editorial Report] The following review of the 22 March issue of Cairo AL-SHA'B summarizes articles that are Islamic in nature. CONTENTS: 1. Freedom of the Press Violations Criticized 2. Shaykh 'Abd-al-Kafi Banned From Preaching 3. Islamist Detainees Go on Hunger Strike 4. Clinton's Double Standards Policy Criticized 5. Religious Scholar Warns Against Cultural Invasion 6. Union Criticizes Clinton's Jerusalem Remarks FREEDOM OF THE PRESS VIOLATIONS CRITICIZED Under a banner headline, the paper features a front-page 400-word statement by the Labor Party's Political Bureau in which it decries the action of the state prosecution organs in summoning the officials and writers of the newspaper AL-SHA'B for questioning concerning "unfounded accusations" about what the paper published in connection with the al-Ibrahimi Mosque massacre. The statement says that the "State Security Investigations Department is considered a police organ responsible for maintaining security and order, and cannot assume the role of a press censor." In a related unattributed 150-word report on this issue's front page, AL-SHA'B says that the "Egyptian Human Rights Organization has called on the authorities to stop the ongoing investigations by the Supreme State Security Office against officials of the Labor Party and AL-SHA'B newspaper regarding articles the paper has published in protest against the Israeli massacre in the al-Ibrahimi Mosque." A 2,500-word editorial by Majdi Ahmad Husayn on pages 1 and 2 highlights the authorities' disregard for the freedom of the press and defends AL-SHA'B's reports and coverage of the al-Ibrahimi Mosque massacre and its stories of corruption. On pages 1 and 7, the paper publishes a 300-word report that Dr. Muhammad Hilmi Murad, deputy leader of the Labor Party, has been summoned for questioning regarding an article he wrote in the 8 March issue of AL-SHA'B under the headline: "This Popular Awakening Must Continue in Order To Correct Our Internal Conditions." The report says that Murad is accused of inciting hatred of the regime, preventing the state authorities from exercising their powers, and supporting the ideas of the fundamentalist groups. SHAYKH 'ABD-AL-KAFI BANNED FROM PREACHING A 150-word front-page report by 'Amir 'Abd-al-Mun'im notes that "the security services have banned Shaykh Dr. 'Umar 'Abd-al-Kafi from preaching in his Asad Ibn-al-Furat Mosque in al-Duqqi and from giving religious lessons. The mosque has been placed under the control of the Awqaf Ministry." ISLAMIST DETAINEES GO ON HUNGER STRIKE A brief 30-word report on page 1 says that "the imprisoned Islamist detainees have declared a hunger strike in protest against ill-treatment, denial of visitation rights, confiscation of blankets and clothing, and the torture of some detainees on a regular basis in the Abu-Za'bal Prison. The strike began a few days ago in the al-'Aqrab, Abu-Za'bal, and Turah prisons." CLINTON'S DOUBLE STANDARDS POLICY CRITICIZED In an 1,800-word article on page 5, Mustafa Mashhur, a Muslim Brotherhood leader, strongly criticizes U.S. President Bill Clinton for his remarks on Jerusalem and his Middle East policy, assertomg Clinton has double standards favoring Israel. He calls on the Muslims and the Muslim rulers to close ranks and face these challenges. RELIGIOUS SCHOLAR WARNS AGAINST CULTURAL INVASION In a 300-word article on page 12, religious scholar Muhammad al-Ghazali warns against the West's cultural invasion, which he says has created bands of apostates who are destroying the religious heritage. He says that these "apostate bands are deliberately mixing freedom of thought and freedom of disbelief." He concludes: "We must confront these apostate bands with the necessary contempt and hostility, and unveil the parties for which they work so that the people can beware of them." UNION CRITICIZES CLINTON'S JERUSALEM REMARKS On page 12, Al-SHA'B publishes a 350-word statement by the Union of Scientific Professions about the U.S. President's statement on Jerusalem. The statement says that "contrary to all diplomatic norms and international laws and treaties, and under pressure from the Zionist lobby, U.S. President Bill Clinton made a press statement in which he in effect recognized Islamic Jerusalem as the eternal capital of world Zionism, which has usurped Palestine." The statement adds that the union sees in this "irresponsible statement a clear threat to the Muslims and the Arabs and a declaration of war against our nation by the U.S. President."
