FBIS4-42307 "drweu106_h_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-106 Daily Report 31 May 1994 GERMANY Government Leaders Attend BDI Annual Meeting Government Leaders Attend BDI Annual Meeting BDI President Predicts Economic Recovery AU0106164394 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT in German 31 May 94 p 3 AU0106164394 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT German BFN ["sm"-signed report: "Necker Calls For Strategy To Improve Germany as Industrial Center"] [Text] Bonn, 30 May -- The German economy is recovering slowly but steadily. This is how German Industry Federation (BDI) President Tyll Necker described the cyclical situation a day before the BDI annual meeting begins. According to Necker's analysis, recovery is primarily attributable to orders received from abroad. He said he was glad that orders received increased 12.9 percent. This was, however, no reason for euphoria. Investment at home and consumption continued to be slow, he said. Regarding investment, the slow-down had ended, but there was still no improvement. Necker said that this was attributable to high taxes and charges and to the fact that in many areas, existing capacities were not fully utilized. He said the production level was currently less than 10 percent below that of 1991, the year of economic boom. Necker: "If you come from the dark, gray is a light color." The BDI president believes that a slow and steady upward trend, which is currently taking shape, is better than a flash in the pan. According to Necker, the change of mood in industry is attributable to the moderate wage policy. A change of thought has also taken place among policymakers. The decrease of public debt has at least been envisaged as a long-term goal. The BDI president said the cost reduction programs in companies were taking effect, so that wage unit costs had decreased. Low interest rates and price increase rates were also having a positive effect. Even though the conclusion of the GATT round had not yet borne fruit, business and industry were glad that a trade war had been averted, said Necker. Commenting on the situation of individual branches, he said the automobile sector should show more interest in orders received than in the number of registrations. An increasing demand would also lead to a production increase. In the engineering sector and in electrical engineering, the cycle was stimulated by foreign demand. In the chemical sector, orders received and employment had considerably increased. Necker appealed to politicians, trade unions, and employers to continue to improve the competitiveness of Germany as a production center. In his view, such a strategy includes the following points: - Germany must reduce costs, instead of redistributing them. This holds true not only for industry, but also for the public sector. - The innovative ability of industry and society must be increased. - Deregulation must be carried out wherever possible. Necker: "The brake blocks must be removed!" - Unemployment must not be combated with defensive strategies. It is necessary to create more jobs, instead of distributing the shortage by other means. Necker said that owing to changes inside and outside the German borders, management conditions in Germany had changed. Companies, politicians, employers and employees, and the whole society had to take this into consideration. Not only products and services but also the framework conditions for production and management were facing international competition. If it was necessary to create new jobs, instead of jeopardizing existing ones, these changes had to be met in an offensive way. Necker said that at its annual meeting, the BDI wanted to conduct an open discussion with all democratic forces. At the meeting today, Federal Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt (Free Democratic Party), Social Democratic Party Chairman Rudolf Scharping, Federal Chancellor Helmut Kohl (Christian Democratic Union), and IG Metall Metal Workers Union Chairman Klaus Zwickel will speak.
