FBIS3-34690 "drnes030_m_94004" FBIS-NES-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 JORDAN Paper Lauds Husayn-'Arafat Meeting JN1102110794 Amman AL-DUSTUR in Arabic 11 Feb 94 pp 1, 19 JN1102110794 Amman AL-DUSTUR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "The Husayn-'Arafat Meeting"] [Text] The quick working visit of Palestinian President Yasir 'Arafat to Jordan to brief his brother, His Majesty King Husayn, on the outcome of the Palestinian-Israeli negotiations held in Cairo, comes as a reaffirmation of the vital historic relations between the Jordanian and Palestinian political leaderships. This visit also stressed the deep and strong bilateral understanding and coordination between them. The Jordanian leadership has always been eager for coordination, particularly with the Palestinian side. Moreover, Jordan has continued to call incessantly for increasing the level of coordination on every occasion, including the Palestinian president's visit yesterday. His Majesty King Husayn once again emphasized the importance of continued coordination and consultations among all Arab parties, especially since such coordination will enable the Palestinian side, in particular, to consolidate its negotiating position and regain its rights. Jordan welcomed the Palestinian-Israeli Declaration of Principles that was signed approximately four months ago. While maintaining its adherence to the option of a just and comprehensive peace, Jordan can only express its support for the recent Cairo agreement. This is because the agreement is a strong mechanism for implementing the Declaration of Principles, and it will open the way for Israeli military withdrawal from Gaza Strip and some areas in the occupied West Bank. The Husayn-'Arafat meeting yesterday, and the deep fraternal talks the two leader held, were a good opportunity for Jordan to stress its constant position of extending full and absolute support for the Palestinian kinsfolk and brothers. At the same time, this meeting was another opportunity for the Palestinian president to express the Palestinian people's thanks and gratitude to His Majesty King Husayn for his courageous positions in sharing the Palestinians concerns and defending the causes of the one Jordanian-Palestinian family.
