FBIS3-2445 "drchi046_k_94021" FBIS-CHI-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Reportage on Eighth National People's Congress Meeting Deputies Arrive in Beijing OW0803091594 Beijing XINHUA in English 0840 GMT 8 Mar 94 OW0803091594 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 8 (XINHUA) -- Nearly 3,000 deputies to the Eighth National People's Congress (NPC) have arrived in Beijing by this afternoon to attend its second session due to start Thursday (March 10). The annual NPC session is an important event in China's political and economic life. During the coming session, deputies will deliberate Premier Li Peng's government work report, the national economic development plan, the state budget, and work reports of the Supreme People's Court, Supreme People's Procuratorate and the NPC Standing Committee. This year's NPC session comes about 10 days earlier than usual, and future sessions are expected to be convened still earlier in the year. Observers say this is to ensure better planning of government work for the whole year. Deputies know what business they will be doing during the session. In the past year most of them have made extensive investigations in their respective constituencies. Upon their arrival in Beijing, they start reading documents, preparing motions and exchanging information with one another. Punco, a Tibetan deputy from Monba, an ethnic minority in China with the smallest population, said participation in state affairs was beyond the dream of Monba people in the past. Though the "gexia" (parliament) of old Tibet held meetings every year, it had nothing to do with Tibetan serfs. Punco said he plans to raise a motion on developing Tibetan economy, especially its agriculture and animal husbandry. Wang Dazhong, a deputy from a big state enterprise in Shaanxi Province, said that, as the country is probing ways for the establishment of a modern enterprise system in 1994, he plans to express his opinions on the necessity of establishing standards for market behaviors and strengthening law enforcement. The Eighth NPC has 2,978 deputies. In the past year, five deputies passed away, one resigned, and two were disqualified. Standing committees of local people's congresses elected deputies for the vacancies according to law.
