FBIS3-55398 "drsov005_g_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Shushkevich Comments on Upcoming Meetings With Yeltsin, Clinton LD0601153494 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1420 GMT 6 Jan 94 LD0601153494 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By BELINFORM correspondent Vladimir Glod for TASS] [Text] Minsk, 6 Jan -- In an exclusive interview with a BELINFORM correspondent, Belarus Supreme Soviet Chairman Stanislaw Shushkevich confirmed the report distributed by TASS channels about his forthcoming meeting with Russian President Boris Yeltsin. The speaker of the Belarusian parliament said the meeting will take place next week. During the meeting, the two sides will adjust their positions before the forthcoming arrival in Moscow and Minsk of U.S. President Bill Clinton and will also discuss a wide range of problems of Belarusian-Russian relations. Stanislaw Shushkevich said that at the meeting with Boris Yeltsin "I will put forward not my own personal point of view but the united opinion of the members of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, who have thoroughly studied the proposals put forward by the government and the National Bank of Belarus." Stanislaw Shushkevich said the statement of the heads of governments of Belarus and Russia, which was signed yesterday but which has not yet been supplemented by the signing of documents specifying the mechanism for its implementation, is more like a declaration of intent. Concerning Bill Clinton's forthcoming visit to Minsk, the head of the Belarusian parliament noted that the talks between the Belarusian and U.S. sides "will be conceptual." "If we resolve conceptually such problems as disarmament, conversion, and the monetary question, then the subsequent signing of the relevant documents will be essentially a technical task." Stanislaw Shushkevich said he was very surprised to read in the media that Belarusian government head Vyachaslaw Kebich said that he "expects Belarus to be able to join NATO after Russia joins." The speaker explained that all of Belarus's most important documents specify its policy of neutrality and of not adhering to any blocs. "We have a totally different foreign policy doctrine centered on neutrality," Stanislaw Shushkevich said.
