FBIS3-55286 "drsov005_b_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Media Issues Shakhray's Party Concerned Over State Duma's Future LD0601172194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1552 GMT 6 Jan 94 LD0601172194 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Pavel Kuznetsov] [Text] Moscow January 6 TASS -- The Party of Russian Unity and Accord supports the position of the Inter-regional Association of Independent Deputies on the election of the State Duma leadership. Party leader Sergey Shakhray, who is also Russian vice-prime minister, told a news conference in Moscow on Thursday that there have been attempts by large election blocs to predetermine the fate of the State Duma behind the back of the majority of deputies. He stressed that the Party of Russian Unity and Accord is ready for forming a broad coalition in the Duma "at least on the basis of a common approach towards the principle of election of the Duma chairman." This would ensure the equality of all deputies, he added. Independent deputies of the State Duma warned on Wednesday that large election blocs are seeking to gain control of the State Duma. A statement issued by the Inter-Regional Association of Independent Deputies of the lower house of the Federal Assembly suggested reforming the house factions not only by the principle of their party orientation, but also by other principles. It also proposed forming ruling bodies of the house on a parity basis. The deputies believe that every candidate should be elected by secret ballot. They said that deputies of the State Duma chairman should be elected on a parity basis: One from the election blocs and the other from individual constituencies. Additionally, the house procedural regulations should be based not on a party principle, but on the principle of multi-factionalism which takes into account the interests of the whole deputy corps. As for the procedural regulations they should not violate the constitution or contradict the voters's will, the deputies said. Shakhray said his party believes that the government should raise the question of confidence in itself in the State Duma. This would be a "forestalling step by the Cabinet of Ministers to promote interaction between the government and the parliament." In any case "we will support Viktor Chernomyrdin as prime minister," Shakhray added.
