FBIS4-15198 "drsov067_a_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Troop Pullout Talks With Latvia Stalled Troop Pullout Talks With Latvia Stalled LD0604164594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1605 GMT 6 Apr 94 LD0604164594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Vladimir Taranov and Andrey Urban] [Text] Moscow, 6 Apr -- "At the Russian-Estonian talks the work of the delegations of the two sides has stalled." This appraisal of the 18th round of the talks was given by Vasiliy Svirin, Russian Federation ambassador-at-large, who heads the Russian delegation. "Numerous draft agreements and treaties are 'wandering' from one round of talks to another," he explained. "This means that a basis of relations, in the legal form of a treaty, between our states remains in embryo." Vasiliy Svirin said the only positive outcome of the round in Moscow was the Estonian delegation's consent to resume discussion of the draft treaty on questions of citizenship. He said that Russia is hoping that the discussion of this document at subsequent rounds of the talks would be more dynamic. The 18th round of Russian-Estonian talks was significant in that the Russian side extracted from the draft treaty on the withdrawal of troops from the republic's territory the date for the final withdrawal of the contingent of troops -- 31 August, without giving new timetables. This was stated today at a briefing at the Russian Foreign Ministry by Vaino Reinart, ambassador-at-large, head of the Estonian delegation at the talks. "We cannot allow the final date for the withdrawal of troops to be linked with the signing of an agreement on social guarantees for pensioners from among the former Russian servicemen," the head of the Estonian delegation said. He stressed that during the course of the 18th round of talks Russia took a tougher line regarding its demands on the position of the Russian "military pensioners" in Estonia. These demands, he believes, were put in the form of an ultimatum and there was virtually no businesslike discussion to seek compromises.
