FBIS3-40788 "jpnea007___94038" JPRS-NEA-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 7 February 1994 SOUTH ASIA INDIA Reserve Police Given Human Rights Course 94AS0175A Bombay THE SUNDAY TIMES OF INDIA in English 26 Dec 93 p 9 94AS0175A Bombay THE SUNDAY TIMES OF INDIA Language: English Article Type:CSO [Text] New Delhi, December 25--To make every serving personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) sensitive to violations of human rights, a special three-day capsule course has been introduced by its training branch. The course is to be conducted at regular intervals. Training is any day more beneficial than punishing the erring personnel, said the paramilitary force's officiating director general, Mr S.V.M. Tripathi, while addressing the annual press conference here. "That is why we decided to correct our men at the beginning itself. This capsule course will not only teach them the basics of human rights but even familiarise them with the international scenario," explained Mr Tripathi. Every personnel of this paramilitary force is also being supplied a booklet of guidelines regarding the human rights. "This booklet will tell the personnel about the dos and donts in particular situations," he added. As of now, our men at times do not know how to proceed in peculiar situations, said Mr Tripathi. He reiterated the organisation's attitude towards the errings officials as also the jawans. He said numerous men and officers were summarily dismissed from service or they suffered reduction in rank and pay and even compulsory retirement, in cases where charges of human right violations got substantiated against them. He said during the last year, there have been no reports of such violations by the CRPF. The paramilitary force, mainly deployed in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, the Terai region of Uttar Pradesh and north eastern part of India, has had significant success while handling counterinsurgency operations. Till November, this year, the CRPF liquidated 150 militants and caught another 645. Over 450 fire arms, including AK 47, 56 and 74 assault rifles and rocket launchers, were seized by the CRPF personnel during this period. Talking about the Rapid Action Force (RAF), Mr Tripathi said in another three months time the remaining five battalions of RAF too would be raised. At the time of its inception, RAF was to have ten battalions but due to commitments, only five could be raised. The CRPF has also taken over nearly 25,000 hectares of forest area in Orissa, where the organisation would not merely be responsible for the protection of it but even make efforts for its upkeep and maintenance, he revealed. The officiating director-general also disclosed the recent approval by the government of their proposal to convert two battalions into Training battalions. With this, the CRPF would now be in a position to give training to its men on rotational basis, which so far has not been possible because of pressures.
