FBIS4-45729 "jpten006__l94056" JPRS-TEN-94-006-L JPRS Environmental Issues 4 June 1994 INTERNATIONAL China Team Visits, Discusses Environment Cooperation China Team Visits, Discusses Environment Cooperation BR0606140394 Brussels RAPID Database in English 4 Jun 94 BR0606140394 Brussels RAPID Database English BFN [EC Document No. IP/94/487: "EU-China Environmental Cooperation"] [Text] For the two weeks from 23 May to 3 June 1994, a delegation of nine officials from the Chinese Government visited the European Commission. The group, headed by Mr. Gan Shi Jun, the director general for social affairs in the State Science and Technology Commission (SSTC) also included representatives from the State Planning Commission (SPC) notably Mrs. Chen Yu Lian, assistant director general in the regional department of the municipality of Beijing. The invitation to visit the Commission was made last November. Since the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, the global nature of many environmental problems has become even more evident. Cooperation between the industrialised countries needs to be complemented by co-operation with other major players, China in particular, so that a comprehensive approach to solving global environmental problems can be made. As well as visiting centres of environmental excellence in France and Germany, the visitors heard presentations on EU-China relations, scientific cooperation and from various units in the environment directorate general (DG XI). The main objective of the visit was to achieve effective and fruitful cooperation in the field of the environment between the Commission and China, especially in so far as the implementation of Agenda 21 (the medium term-plan for achieving sustainable development agreed at Rio) is concerned. A key factor in this process is the way in which environmental concerns are integrated in the planning and execution of economic development policy. Commissioner Paleokrassas said that "this visit marks a further step in what is expected to become a broader and deeper form of environmental cooperation between the Commission and China."
