FBIS4-19529 "drweu076_h_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-076 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 GERMANYY Bonn Warns EP on Obstructing EU Enlargement Bonn Warns EP on Obstructing EU Enlargement AU1904160794 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT in German 18 Apr 94 p 7 AU1904160794 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT German BFN ["wff"-signed report: "Bonn Clearly Reprimands European Parliament"] [Text] Brussels -- The Federal Government seems to be very concerned that the laboriously negotiated enlargement of the European Union [EU] by Finland, Norway, Austria, and Sweden, which has been promoted primarily by Bonn, could not be agreed by the European Parliament [EP]. German diplomats in Brussels think that this could result in a crisis within the EU. The mood in the Parliament does not reflect reality, they said, referring to critical voices in the Strasbourg assembly. There have even been voices saying that German commitment to the European unification process could decrease, if the European Parliament refuses its consent. The Parliament must also ask itself whether, in the event of its refusal, it will be granted additional rights during the conference scheduled to discuss further improvements of the Maastricht Treaty in 1996. Without the approval of the European Parliament, which has to decide with the absolute majority of its 260 delegates, accession agreements cannot come into force. The ratification process will begin this week, with the EU Commission, the Council, and the Parliament meeting to discuss enlargement and the delegates addressing questions to the Commission and the Council afterwards. The 700 pages of the agreements were only presented to Parliament last week. The plenum will vote on them during its last session in May, before a new parliament is elected in mid-June. Over the past few days, criticism within the European Parliament has increased. It not only concerns the late presentation of the texts, which makes assessment difficult for the delegates, but also the compromise on the voting procedure agreed to by the EU foreign ministers, which removed the last obstacles for enlargement. For some delegates, such as the French socialist, former Foreign Minister and EU Commissioner Claude Cheysson, the Ionnania compromise on the voting procedure is intolerable. Politicians of the European People's Party EVP (Christian Democrats), such as Belgian Fernand Herman or French Jean-Louis Bourlanges, pointed out that an agreement on enlargement might be difficult to achieve after the compromise. Guenter Rinsche, chairman of the Christian Democratic Union/Christian Social Union in the European Parliament, on the other hand, said that the historic opportunity of EU enlargement should not be missed. Also, he does not consider the compromise on the voting procedure to be the best solution, because it can make controlling the Community under exceptional circumstances difficult. Klaus Haensch, deputy chairman of the Social Democratic group, pointed out that the Parliament will make sure that there is no loophole opened for the right of veto to return.
