FBIS4-52467 "dreas091_n_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-091 Daily Report 9 May 1994 Vietnam Government Issues Administrative Reform Resolution Government Issues Administrative Reform Resolution BK1005095494 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network in Vietnamese 2300 GMT 9 May 94 BK1005095494 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network Vietnamese BFN [Text] The government has just issued a resolution on reforming administrative procedures. The resolution said that administrative procedures, especially those related to resolving the problems of citizens and organizations, problems are not uniform and sometimes cumbersome. It said that responsible agencies trend to arbitrarily resolve these problems by focusing on their conveniences rather than paying attention to the people's interests and aspirations. The resolution stressed that many state organizations have incorrectly implemented regulations on receiving and resolving complaints while adopting an attitude of deferring work to other agencies. This has resulted in a stalemate. Some agencies even establish procedures and fees in an arbitrary fashion beyond the boundaries of their authority, while others collect fees higher than the permissible rate set by the state. Many organizations do not make various state administrative procedures public, as they fail to train cadres to handle tasks effectively in this regard. Many civil servants fail to show courtesy toward the people and adopt a self-conceited attitude. Worse still was that some even asked for a bribe to help people resolve their problems. These negative practices have not only wasted time, effort, and funds of various agencies and units, but have encouraged corruption, created indignation, and diminished confidence in the state. As a result, it is necessary for us to urgently reform administrative procedures to meet the people's legitimate aspiration. It is also an important step in further reforming the national administration system. The government resolution set forth eight concrete tasks to be implemented in the second quarter, which are aimed at fundamental change in resolving work and problems between state agencies and other organizations and between state agencies and the people, especially in receiving and resolving problems. The government also asked various echelons and agencies to strive to urgently improve their work and performances, especially members of the cabinet, directors of government organizations, chairmen of people's committees of provinces and municipalities directly subordinate to the central government, ministers, deputy ministers, and organizations at ministerial level.
