FBIS4-34354 "drlat118_g_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA Guatemala Minister on Transfer of Military Men to Police Minister on Transfer of Military Men to Police PA1906225994 Guatemala City SIGLO VEINTIUNO in Spanish 15 Jun 94 p 12 PA1906225994 Guatemala City SIGLO VEINTIUNO Spanish BFN [Report by Carlos Castanaza] [Text] Nearly 1,800 military men could be transferred to the civilian security forces once they are trained to protect the people, Defense Minister General Mario Rene Enriquez, said yesterday. According to the minister, the number of police members should be increased, and the police have to be properly trained and equipped to meet society's demands for protection. He also said the reorganization plan devised by the Army for those times when there is no counterinsurgency work to do includes the relocation of units. For instance, seven military detachments could be deployed in Peten Department to protect natural resources. A reduction in the number of men would also improve their training, because for many soldiers the standard of living is very low, and many of them are considered needy. We cannot put ourselves, however, behind many countries of the region. For this reason, a commission is studying the balance of arms. Guatemala is worse off than Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and even Costa Rica, because although Costa Rica says it does not have an army, it does possess a well-trained police equipped with mortars and howitzers, he said. The minister believes Guatemala is ceasing to be a springboard for international drug trafficking. A positive sign is the use of drugs is not as common as in other countries. We have not captured a single plane, from Colombia or wherever, carrying cocaine during the past few months. The drug capos have apparently departed for another country, he said. The minister said drug trafficking continues over land and sea, albeit at much lower levels, as the result of the security forces' coordinated efforts. Concerning arms trafficking, the minister said an arms cache recently discovered in Suchitepequez with 22 AK-47 rifles in perfect condition proves the URNG [National Guatemalan Revolutionary Unity] does not lack arms but, rather, militant members.
