FBIS4-67579 "jpten014___94046" JPRS-TEN-94-014 JPRS Environmental Issues 4 May 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA ARMENIA 1993 Ecological Yearbook Issued 1993 Ecological Yearbook Issued 94WN0271A Yerevan RESPUBLIKA ARMENIYA in Russian 4 May 94 p 2 94WN0271A Yerevan RESPUBLIKA ARMENIYA Russian CSO [Press release by Armenian Press Service: "Ecological Bulletin--93"] [Text] According to the Republic Environmental Monitoring Center the state of the air basin of the cities in Armenia last year created the following picture. In Yerevan of the 13 indices taken under control, four, including that on dust, exceeded established levels. By comparison with 1992, however, the average annual and maximum density of harmful substances decreased. This is reported in the annually issued "Ecological Handbook" of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Evaluating the pollution of the air basin of populated points with toxic emissions the handbook reports an overall comparative decrease in their amount in a number of other cities of the republic where measurements were taken at regular intervals. But with regard to specific compounds (carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and others) the indices are yet to reach acceptable levels. Samples for the analysis of water surfaces were not taken from all of the rivers in the republic because of the lack of transportation and fuel, which does not allow an accurate and comprehensive general characterization. Nevertheless it was established that permissible levels of ammonia ions, nitrites, petroleum products, and copper are being exceeded. At the same time changes in the average annual density of these substances are not noted. Inspection services of the ministry checked the work on environmental protection at 1,645 facilities in the republic and found 1,683 violations of environmental laws in connection with which 25 cases were forwarded to legal investigative agencies. The operation of three facilities was stopped. Demands for reimbursement of damages were prepared in connection with violations occurring at numerous enterprises, including Ararattsement, Armenergoprom, and the Yerevan TETs [Heat and Power Station]. The Administration for the Protection of Fisheries is conducting an inventory of artificial water reservoirs with the participation of interested organizations to establish a true picture of existing fish species and populations and also for the proper organization of state fishing. The administration recorded 231 cases of illegal fishing and fined 200 individuals. In the course of raids made at the Sevan National Park some 256 nets and three seines, along with eight rubber boats, and several thousand kilograms of fish were confiscated.
