FBIS4-57504 "drlat098__a94015" FBIS-LAT-94-098-A Daily Report 15 May 1994 ANNEX Cuba Colombian Aviation Agreement Signing Slated for 17 May Colombian Aviation Agreement Signing Slated for 17 May PA1705030894 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 2247 GMT 15 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA1705030894 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [By Javier Rodriguez] [Text] Havana, 14 May (PL) -- Cuba and Colombia will sign here on Tuesday an agreement that will permit the establishment of regular airline flights to link the capitals of the two countries. A Cuban civil aviation source confirmed to PRENSA LATINA today that the signing of the document will conclude the current negotiations under way between the Colombian Aeronautics Directorate and the Cuban Civil Aeronautics Institute (IACC) aimed at achieving the objective noted above. Fernando Zarama heads the Colombian delegation that will hold meetings with the IACC representatives on Monday in order to give the final touches to the agreement. Currently Cubana de Aviacion and Medellin Aeronautics Association (SAM) charter flights are made periodically between the two Latin American nations and contribute, among other things, to developing bilateral tourist trade, especially from Santa Fe de Bogota to Havana and Varadero. The agreement, which should conclude with the signing of the treaty this coming week, seeks to determine the frequency and characteristics of the regular flights, which will further increase permanent air transit between the two countries. In addition to SAM, the Venezuelan VIASA and Chilean LADECO companies have flights between Cuba and Colombia. The agreement that is about to be signed further strengthens Cuban-Colombian relations, which showed a great improvement early this year. The Colombian Naval Training Ship ARC GLORIA is scheduled to arrive this coming week in Havana on a goodwill visit and as part of the training that Colombian midshipmen receive. Colombian Foreign Trade Minister Juan Manuel Santos is also expected to visit Cuba to sign the expansion of the current partial agreement, which will expand bilateral commercial activities. A delegation of Colombian businessmen, who are interested in investing in Cuba, are also expected soon in Havana, Colombian Foreign Minister Noemi Sanin has announced.
