FBIS4-4161 "drchi083_b_94012" FBIS-CHI-94-083 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 United States & Canada U.S. Businessman Praises Information Network Plan U.S. Businessman Praises Information Network Plan OW2804221394 Beijing XINHUA in English 1415 GMT 28 Apr 94 OW2804221394 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, April 28 (XINHUA) -- A U.S. expert on data networking, today described China's "Golden Bridge" project to build up an information superhighway as a powerful tool for promoting administrative efficiency, fostering improved communications and co- ordination between the government, companies and people of the whole country. Concurrently chairman of the American Electronics Association's National Information Infrastructure (NII) task force. At a seminar on building information superhighway for the next century, Eric Benhamou, president of the U.S. 3COM Corporation, delivered a keynote speech to Chinese officials and engineers drawn from relevant ministries and research institutes. "A golden bridge that spans both government and private sector will elevate China to a major economic player on the world stage," said Benhamou, who is concurrently chairman of the American Electronics Association's National Information Infrastructure (NII) task force. He added that as information increasingly becomes the currency of international trade, the golden bridge will enable China to tap into global information flows, further integrating China into the global economy. Benhamou believes that by using the golden bridge to provide database access and facilitating electronic data interchange, China's society will rapidly enter the information age. It can also inform and educate by liberating resources and bring healthcare, scientific, commercial and financial data to the individual. He suggested that China should choose the best scheme in constructing an information project, so as to avert the setbacks that have been experienced by Western countries. At the same time, China should rationally balance the rules for informational market competition -- allow competition while maintaining macro control. He revealed that the 3COM Corporation will shortly set up a representative office in Beijing, in a bid to help develop a pool of networking expertise in China.
