FBIS4-9498 "dreeu082_b_94008" FBIS-EEU-94-082 Daily Report 26 Apr 1994 BULGARIA Zhelev, Gligorov Comment on Visit Zhelev, Gligorov Comment on Visit AU2604171094 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network in Bulgarian 1600 GMT 26 Apr 94 AU2604171094 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network Bulgarian BFN [Text] The Yugoslav embargo and its consequences for Bulgaria and Macedonia [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia -- FYROM], a more rapid association of the two countries with European structures, and a more active development of economic relations between Bulgaria and Macedonia were the topics that Macedonian President Kiro Gligorov discussed with Deputy Prime Minister Evgeni Matinchev and National Assembly Chairman Aleksandur Yordanov today. The Macedonian head of state and President Zhelyu Zhelev gave a concluding joint news conference. The historic character of the visit was stressed again. Here are some excerpts from the statements made by President Zhelev and President Gligorov during the news conference. [Begin Zhelev recording] We established diplomatic relations with the Republic of Macedonia first at the level of consulates general and afterward at the level of a diplomatic mission, in other words, an embassy. Trade and economic relations have developed rapidly. I will allow myself to recall that at the beginning of 1991 trade between the two countries amounted to $90 million, but by 1993 it had reached $290 million. The dynamic and irrepressible development of trade and economic relations shows, among other things, that our official interstate relations are lagging behind the natural process of development. [end recording] [Begin Gligorov recording, in Macedonian] I must say that we have had a good and serious exchange of views with the Bulgarian leadership on international issues and on cooperation in the United Nations and other international organizations, which are matters of common interest, and that signs of full trust and sincere cooperation are more and more evident. [end recording] The anticipated signing of documents between Bulgaria and Macedonia during this first official visit by the Macedonian president to our country was postponed because of a language problem that was raised by the Macedonian side. The official ceremony related to the departure of the Macedonian president began at the Boyana residence. The Macedonian head of state will depart from Bulgaria shortly.
