FBIS4-65551 "drweu097_i_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-097 Daily Report 17 May 1994 FRANCE Denies Disagreement with Juppe Denies Disagreement with Juppe LD1705205394 Paris France-2 Television Network in French 1800 GMT 17 May 94 LD1705205394 Paris France-2 Television Network French BFN [Text] The diplomatic stalemate is such in the Bosnia conflict that France is having doubts about its considerable contribution to operations aiming at keeping a peace which is so uncertain. Should we talk of a withdrawal of French UN troops or a redeployment? A nuance emerged between Defense Minister Francois Leotard and Foreign Minister Alain Juppe. The nuance has now disappeared, but what seems to be certain is the fact that there will be fewer French UN peacekeepers in Bosnia. Philippe Harrouard reports: [Harrouard] Things are now clear: France will concentrate its UN troops round Sarajevo. At the same time, it will bring home 1,000 men posted in Glina, in Krajina. This number corresponds to that of the extra troops sent provisionally last March at UN request. This means that we are back to the original figure. As for the battalion in Bihac -- that is, 1,500 men -- it will be withdrawn only if the peace plan which the belligerents have been invited to negotiate does not succeed. Therefore, there is no disagreement -- or there is no disagreement any more, as we originally believed was the case: [Begin Leotard recording] It is very natural for diplomats to use diplomatic jargon and for the defense minister to use a language which is more military; it is totally normal. There is no basic difference, no basic disagreement, I repeat, there is none. All these decisions were taken by the prime minister, with the consent of the president, and they were submitted to the United Nations as what France intended to do, which is the normal procedure. We told the United Nations about the battalion in Glina, and we are telling them about the battalion in Bihac. [end recording] [Harrouard] Right now, there are 6,858 French soldiers in the former Yugoslavia, including 5,000 in Bosnia. Eighteen French UN soldiers have lost their lives.
