FBIS3-19751 "drweu055cc_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 INTER-EURPEAN AFFAIRS UK's Hurd `Not Hopeful' for Agreement on EU Voting AU2203100394 Paris AFP in English 0940 GMT 22 Mar 94 AU2203100394 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Brussels, March 22 (AFP) -- British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said here Tuesday [22 March] that he was not hopeful of an early agreement in a row over voting rules which is blocking enlargement of the EU [European Union]. Speaking as he arrived for an urgent meeting of EU foreign ministers on the issue, he said: "I'm not very hopeful of reaching an answer today." But Hurd insisted that Britain had no intention of jeopardising the enlargement of the EU to take in Austria, Finland, Norway and Sweden. Greek European Affairs Minister Theodoros Pangalos was holding separate meetings with Hurd and Spanish Foreign Minister Javier Solana just ahead of Tuesday's meeting, the fourth in so many weeks to grapple with the issue. Spain is backing the British position that the enlargement of the EU should not dilute the power of the Union's bigger countries to block decisions they do not like. The rest of the 12-nation Union want the threshhold of blocking majorities raised from 23 votes out of 76 to 27 out of 90 to take account of the incoming members. But this would weaken the ability of the EU's bigger countries to block controversial decisions. The issue has caused a deep split in the EU, with most of its members accusing Britain and Spain of wanting to cripple the Union's decision-making ability. The four applicants, who completed their negotiations to join the EU earlier this month, cannot enter until the issue is resolved. Hurd said no compromises so far advanced were satisfactory to Britain. "We intend to work until we get satisfaction," he said. Failure to reach a decision this month could make it impossible for the four countries to join the EU on schedule on January 1, and could also dampen the enthusiasm of their electorates to endorse membership.
