FBIS3-40616 "jpnea004___94062" JPRS-NEA-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia PAKISTAN 28 January 1994 ECONOMIC Trade Deficit for Jan-Oct Reported at $2.6358 Billion BK2812085593 Islamabad THE MUSLIM in English 28 Dec 93 p 12 BK2812085593 Islamabad THE MUSLIM Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Islamabad, Dec 27 -- The National Assembly was told Monday that trade deficit during the last ten months (January- October) has reached at 2.6358 billion dollars. During this period imports were 8.123 billion dollars against the exports of 5.4872 billion dollars. In a written reply to a question by M Hamza, PML (N) [Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz], Minister of State for Commerce, Ch [Chaudhary] Mukhtar said the deficit of foreign exchange is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance which is met from sources other than exports. Ch Mukhtar said a number of measures have been adopted to boost the country's exports which are following: -- Import of textile machinery such as lap machinery, drawing or roving machinery and twisting machinery has been allowed without custom duty. -- Import of ramie, ramie yarn and lycra has been allowed free of duty and sales tax. -- Import of yarn of wool, silk, viscose, acrylic and dyed yarn of cotton wool required by manufacturers has been allowed free of duty, sales tax and Iqra [educational] surcharge. -- Import of machinery for dyeing of yarn has been treated at par with the import of processing and weaving machinery for import tariffs. -- Import of second-hand terry shuttleless looms and second hand looms for specialised textiles by industrial consumers has been allowed free of customs duty and sales tax. -- Manufacturers-cum-exporters of textile garments have been given the facility to import other raw materials and accessories without payment of duty upon furnishing an indemnity bond certified by the respective association dealing with textile garments both woven and knitted. Ten items required by the engineering industry and not manufactured locally have been allowed to be imported free of duty and sales tax both by the industrial and commercial importers. All parts and components required for use in the manufacture of capital goods and not manufactured locally have been allowed to be imported free of duty and sales tax. -- Machinery for quality control and for testing laboratories to be prescribed and not manufactured locally has been allowed to be imported against cash resources free of duty, sales tax and import licence fee.
