FBIS3-58012 "drweu000__a94010" FBIS-WEU-93-000-A Document Type:Daily Report 2 December 1993 ANNEX United Kingdom Hurd Criticizes Gaza Conditions, Unveils Aid Plans PM0601145294 London THE TIMES in English 6 Jan 94 p 11--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PM0601145294 London THE TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Richard Beeston: "Hurd Condemns Squalid State of Gaza"] [Text] Gaza -- Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, set aside his normally cool manner yesterday when he visited the Gaza Strip and spoke with emotion about the squalor and deprivation he witnessed. "Whether you know it well or are here for the first time, you can be sure of one thing, this is no way to run a community of this number of people," said Mr Hurd, whose Israeli police escort attracted a hail of stones from Palestinian youngsters. "There is built-in disease, pollution on a monstrous scale and violence which has not improved since the Israel-PLO agreement. These are getting worse. There is evidence of greater cynicism and frustration." To improve conditions, Britain is spending 70 million pounds in the occupied territories during the next three years; yesterday Mr Hurd also unveiled plans to help to set up a Palestinian government, including offering to help organise elections scheduled for the occupied territories in July and to train Palestinian civil servants. There was still no clear sign yesterday of when the Israelis and Palestinians would return to the negotiating table. Disagreements over future sovereignty, security and land have delayed the transfer from Israeli military control to Palestinian self-rule, which had been due to take place in Gaza and in the West Bank town of Jericho on December 13. The sense of crisis was compounded by attempts yesterday to resolve new splits between the PLO and Jordan and between the Palestinians. Mr Hurd said that the 26-year Israeli military occupation, which he described as a "denial of human rights", must come to an end and he asked opponents of the agreement what alternative they had to the deal signed in Washington last year.
