FBIS4-41422 "drsov122_m_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 Tajikistan Talks Pave Way for Progress Talks Pave Way for Progress LD2306130694 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0952 GMT 23 Jun 94 LD2306130694 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Text] The second round of Tajikistan's peace talks, which were held in Tehran, have increased the hopes for a peaceful and just solution to Tajik crisis. The talks have been held with the participation of government representatives and Tajik opposition groups in the presence of representatives from Russia and Central Asian countries and under the supervision of an envoy of the UN secretary-general. The aim of the talks is to find a formula to end the civil war that began in Tajikistan approximately two years ago. This crisis, which began after the collapse of the Tajik coalition government, not only resulted in the loss of lives and homes of thousands of Tajik people, but has also threatened regional security. It could involve the United States and other foreign countries, who are waiting for a chance to influence the region and create discord among the Muslim nations in the regional conflict. Although the participation by the government and the opposition groups of Tajikistan in the peace talks, by itself, is considered appropriate, true progress in the talks requires the official recognition of the Tajik people's right to determine their own fate and a response to their wishes for a democratic state based on accepted international norms and standards. The establishment of a real peace in Tajikistan will only be possible if the Muslim Tajik nation builds the foundations of its desired government based on its believed principles and national and Islamic culture. It seems this need has been accepted in general terms by the Russian Government and other neighboring countries of Tajikistan and its own government. In this regard the Islamic Republic of Iran in particular has played an important role in closing the gap between the stance of the government and the oppositions of Tajikistan. The Iranian Government began its efforts to seek peace at the outbreak of the Tajik civil war. At present Iran continues to play this sensitive and determining role by holding the second rounds of talks in Tehran. Without doubt the results of Tehran talks will pave the way for further developments in the third round of talks, which will be held in Pakistan.
