FBIS3-47617 "dreas010_m_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 Thailand Government, Army Say No Support to Khmer Rouge Spokesman Comments BK1301121194 Bangkok Voice of Free Asia in Thai 1030 GMT 13 Jan 94 BK1301121194 Bangkok Voice of Free Asia Language: Thai Article Type:BFN ["Special Report"] [Text] Prime Minister Chuan Likphai is currently on the second day of his official visit to Cambodia, scheduled for 12-14 January. At the beginning of the visit, certain senior Cambodian officials, during separate interviews, spoke on Thai-Cambodian relations in a negative way. In the latest incident, the spokesman of the Cambodian Information Ministry, Sieng Lapresse, made an observation to the media on the support by some Thai military officials for the Khmer Rouge. On this issue, Rawi Hongpraphat, the deputy director of the Foreign Ministry's Information Department and deputy ministry spokesman, said that he did not wish to make a rebuttal, adding that the prime minister's visit clearly demonstrated Thailand's stand: that is, Thailand wanted Cambodia to be confident in the former's attitude toward it, and it wanted to further strengthen relations with the Cambodian Government. To date Thailand has displayed its sincerity, Rawi said. Therefore, he could not understand the reason for the repeated negative news. If there was anything Cambodia had wanted to know, it could have made inquiries through the Thai Embassy, as agreed upon by both sides concerning the dissemination of information and news conferences. In any event, the deputy foreign ministry spokesman is confident that the prime minister's visit will promote a good climate and provide direction for Thai-Cambodian relations. This is because support for the Khmer Rouge is not the policy of the Thai Government or a basis of operations of the Thai armed forces. If there are allegations about any involvement by Thai military officials without the knowledge of the armed forces, it is the duty of the armed forces to investigate.
