FBIS3-31437 "dreeu034_i_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Karadzic: War `Is Finally Over' AU1702191494 Belgrade RTB Television Network in Serbo-Croatian 1830 GMT 17 Feb 94 AU1702191494 Belgrade RTB Television Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Statements by Vitaliy Churkin, deputy foreign minister of Russia, and Radovan Karadzic, leader of the Bosnian Serbs, at a news conference in Pale on 17 February; both statements are in English with superimposed Serbo-Croatian translation -- recorded] [Text] [Churkin] I have today brought to Belgrade and Pale a letter from President Yeltsin. This letter is addressed to President Milosevic, Dr. Karadzic, and other Serb leaders, as well as the Serbian people. It contains Russia's request that, in the interest of halting the bloodshed, the Serbian side withdraw its heavy weapons from Sarajevo. In that context, the Russian Federation would be prepared to send its troops to the Sarajevo area to participate in the UN peace operation. I am glad to state that this Russian initiative, which we believe is in the interests of both the Muslims and the Serbs and all the people of Bosnia-Herzegovina, has been accepted by the Serbian side. We hope that the acceptance of the Russian initiative will put an end to the crisis around Sarajevo and we know that this will be a major step toward the overall settlement of the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina. [Karadzic] I would like to say that we are very grateful to Russia for its involvement in the crisis. We have accepted the proposal put forward by Russia regarding the withdrawal of the heavy weapons. We also think that further Russian participation in the conference and the peace process will be welcomed and fruitful. We are going to do what we will do on the basis of, first of all, the Russian demands, which for us mean certain guarantees, and then on the basis of our agreement with Mr. Akashi of 7 February and the Serbian-Muslim agreement of 9 February. We think that the war in Sarajevo is finally over.
