FBIS4-39144 "drsov108_e_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-108 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Delegations Meet on `Final Resolution' of Fleet Issue Delegations Meet on `Final Resolution' of Fleet Issue LD0306132294 Kiev UNIAN in Ukrainian 1220 GMT 3 Jun 94 LD0306132294 Kiev UNIAN Ukrainian BFN [Text] Sevastopol [no date as received] -- Ukrainian and Russian expert working groups, led by Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Valeriy Shmarov and Feliks Gromov, the Russian navy commander in chief, met here on 3 June. At the meeting, the work of the experts on a final resolution of the Black Sea Fleet problem, which is to be achieved at a meeting in Kiev on 8-9 June, is being discussed. The Ukrainian delegation, including heads of the Ministries of Internal Affairs, Defense, and Foreign Affairs, the state property fund, and the Ministry of Economy, also plans to discuss Sevastopol's social and economic problems with the local authorities. At the start of the meeting, Valeriy Shmarov stressed that the Ukrainian side stands firm on the question of political and military cooperation between the fleets in the Black Sea region and in the South as a whole. He emphasized that the division formula "must respect Ukrainian legislation, otherwise it would be unacceptable to the people and parliament of Ukraine." The Ukrainian side expressed the hope that the division not only of ships but of the coastal infrastructure and the Black Sea Fleet aircraft would be discussed. Feliks Gromov said that issues concerning the infrastructure and the deployment of aircraft cannot be resolved without political decisions at the top level. Further discussion revealed that the Russian side has not yet provided an official list of its ships and that the ships are being divided, according to Ukrainian Navy Commander Volodymyr Bezkorovaynyy, "at random." While in Crimea, Valeriy Shmarov plans to visit Sevastopol docks and Donuzlav. Shmarov noted that the division of property is probably one of the key issues at the talks. He believes that the situation in the Black Sea Fleet "should not be described as a separation, since in the long run we are creating two friendly forces."
