FBIS3-11664 "drlat057_c_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 MEXICO Colosio Shot, Killed in Attack During Tijuana Campaign Stop PAN Suspends Campaign PA2403043994 Mexico City XEW Television Network in Spanish 0312 GMT 24 Mar 94 PA2403043994 Mexico City XEW Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Telephone interview with Carlos Castillo Peraza, president of the National Action Party, by Javier Zabludovsky -- live] [Excerpt] [Castillo] Mr. Zabludovsky. I want to officially communicate on the part of the National Action Party [PAN] that our party is suspending its presidential campaign until things return to normal, out of respect for political equality and in solidarity with the sorrow of Candidate Colosio's family and because of our desire to help national emotions calm down and so that sense and prudence will prevail. Also, I want to tell you that I am in contact with Hector Osuna, PAN mayor of Tijuana, who gave me the following report: Yesterday, those responsible for security for Mr. Colosio's delegation met with the mayor and with the person in charge of security and asked them for all their support for Candidate Colosio's tour. It was given immediately. The group charged with security for Mr. Colosio said they only needed four patrol cars because they did not foresee anything serious happening except for maybe some demonstrations by some dissidents or groups opposed to the PRI. Because of this, they were given four patrol cars to clear the way for the presidential candidate's delegation. This was confirmed this morning in a breakfast with some members of the Army also in charge of security and with Mr. Benitez, who is in charge of public security for Baja California. I am saying this, so that it will be clear that the PAN mayor of Tijuana offered as much help as was requested. The persons in charge of security were not anticipating anything serious except for perhaps some small demonstrations by dissidents of the PRI in Tijuana. [Zabludovsky] Do you mean that the scarce vigilance in Tijuana Municipality, whose mayor is a member of the PAN, was because the organizers of Mr. Colosio's rally felt that more security was not needed? [Castillo] That is right, sir. They only asked for four patrol cars when the mayor's office was willing to give them whatever they needed. They were given exactly what they asked for. [passage omitted]
