FBIS4-32719 "dreeu125__a94039" FBIS-EEU-94-125-A Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 ANNEX Romania `Growing Dissatisfaction' With Government Noted `Growing Dissatisfaction' With Government Noted AU2406184794 Bucharest ROMPRES in English 1520 GMT 24 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2406184794 Bucharest ROMPRES English BFN [Text] Bucharest, ROMPRES, 24/06/1994 -- The Romanian Polling Institute IRSOP conducted a June inquest to find out what people think about political personalities and topical issues of their daily life. The first three in the top appear to be Adrian Nastase, executive president of the ruling Social Democracy Party of Romania -- PDSR, and speaker of the Chamber of Deputies, Emil Constantinescu, president of the main opposition bloc, the Democratic Convention of Romania -- CDR, and Ion Iliescu, the president of Romania. Since March Senate President Oliviu Gherman has added some credit to his public image, forging a positive impression among 41 percent of the interviewed as against only 26 percent three months before. IRSOP manager Petre Datculescu said that although personalities affiliated or 'close' to the ruling party hold best positions, PDSR would lose to the convention should elections be called now. The `negative character' of the poll seems to be the government, whose activity causes growing dissatisfaction among people, who are equally grumbling against parliament and justice. The answers got under the chapter devoted to living standard reveal a feeling of insecurity among the polled persons. The ratio of those totally discontent with their living standard has risen from 15 to 25 per cent over the past three months. People are also growingly apprehensive of price increments and unemployment. The barometer of opinion has been conducted by IRSOP at the request of the Soros foundation for an open society and is focused on the major themes of social and political interest. The polling is run every quarter in the months of March, June, September and December alternately by two specialized institutions: IRSOP and IMAS, which devised their questionnaire jointly. The June survey selected a batch of 1,095 persons aged 18 and over and found representative for Romania's entire population, and its margin of error is three per cent.
