FBIS3-32287 "drlat024_i_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 Nicaragua Government `Unaware' of U.S. Human Rights Report PA0302224694 Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 3 Feb 94 p 10 PA0302224694 Managua BARRICADA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Maria Alicia Talavera and Jorge Katin] [Text] The Nicaraguan Government said yesterday that it is unaware of a 1993 U.S. State Department report on human rights that includes Nicaragua. The report claims -- among other things -- that this country "is still failing to persecute and punish those responsible for human rights violations." Presidency Minister Antonio Lacayo emphasized comments made last week by Alexander Watson, assistant secretary of state for inter-American Affairs, at a private meeting. Watson said it was "fascinating" that Nicaraguans had been on their way to solving their own problems in the past few months." "I am unaware of such criticism," Lacayo said regarding press reports on the U.S. State Department report, which states that "the Nicaraguan judicial system is jammed and often follows the guidelines of political parties." The report added that this system has helped maintain impunity, statements that are not in keeping with Watson's praise of the new membership of the Supreme Court of Justice [CSJ]. Lacayo had lunch yesterday with all members of the CSJ, which held a plenary meeting to incorporate new lawyers. For that reason, none of the magistrates was available for comment to BARRICADA on the U.S. State Department report. Claudia Paniagua, spokeswoman for the Nicaraguan Foreign Ministry, said that one must take into account that the report is for 1993. Paniagua focused on the statements made by the U.S. assistant secretary of state, who praised the fact that nearly all deputies have rejoined the National Assembly. America's Watch, Too U.S. Ambassador John Maisto described the report as "concrete, objective, and balanced." He added that it deals with human rights in more than 150 countries. "It is an annual report. I suggest you read it carefully. It is objective," the diplomat added, after meeting yesterday with Assembly President Luis H. Guzman. A report by the Americas Watch human rights group also states that the human rights situation in Nicaragua in 1993 continued to be characterized by a highly polarized political environment and a weak central government. That report makes a similar comment about the Nicaraguan judicial system. The Americas Watch report criticizes the "disproportionate and excessive" use of force on various occasions, especially against armed groups, labor strikes, and peaceful protests. Incidentally, Mrs. Cinthia Arnson of Americas Watch is currently visiting Managua. In the past two days she has met with government officials, military judge advocates, the government minister, and leaders of the main human rights groups.
