FBIS3-29766 "dreas036__a94008" FBIS-EAS-94-036-A Document Type:Daily Report 23 February 1994 ANNEX Japan Mutual `Misunderstanding' Causes Talks Failure OW2102023394 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN in Japanese 20 Feb 94 Morning Edition p 6 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2102023394 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] The Japan-U.S. economic framework talks ended in failure at the 11 February Japan-U.S. summit talks. However, a source close to the Japanese negotiators disclosed on 19 February that Japanese and American negotiators each attended consultations the day before the summit in the belief that the other side had made concessions, and this misunderstanding further intensified the conflict. According to the same source, the United States made a new proposal which suggested not adopting any numerical targets at the talks between Deputy Foreign Minister Koichiro Matsuura and Bowman Cutter, deputy presidential assistant for economic policy, on the evening of 9 February. The surprised deputy foreign minister immediately met with negotiators from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry [MITI] and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and informed them "the U.S. side has backed off [oritta]." Nevertheless, when the U.S. side called for "aiming at a goal" at the talks between U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor and Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata the following morning, Hata consented in his response. As a result, the situation further changed. While the Japanese side took "a goal" simply to mean "accord," Representative Kantor took it as "numerical targets" and believed that "the Japanese side had backed off." Thus, the two cabinet members "confirmed" that the other side had made concessions. Therefore, meetings on three sectors -- government procurement, insurance, and automobiles and auto parts -- were resumed at the vice-ministerial level. However, neither Japan nor the United States indicated any sign of making concessions. Maintaining that the Cutter proposal of the previous evening was merely a private plan, the U.S. side refused to talk about it. To make matters worse, the U.S. side threatened that "since the Japanese economic stimulus package seems rather insufficient, an expression of `disappointment' would be included in the part connected with macroeconomic issues in any joint statement issued." After the consultations, Japanese officials in charge of talks on these three sectors looked at each other in dumb amazement, saying it was quite a different story. The actual situation now indicates that while the U.S. side has intensified its offensive against Japan following the summit talks, Japan is quite at a loss as to how the framework talks can be resumed. Sources connected with the Japanese negotiators have complained: "We are not sure at which point things went wrong, but we certainly did miss a very good opportunity."
