FBIS4-64316 "drweu084_j_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Reactions to Berlusconi's Guarantors Plan Reactions to Berlusconi's Guarantors Plan BR2904140794 Rome LA REPUBBLICA in Italian 29 Apr 94 p 3 BR2904140794 Rome LA REPUBBLICA Italian BFN [Report by Barbara Palombelli: "`Here Come the Experts...' -- But They Are Already Being Challenged by the League and the Democratic Party of the Left"] [Excerpts] Rome -- Yesterday Silvio Berlusconi confirmed the plan to entrust three "wise men" with the task of studying the guarantees that have been insistently requested from him by allies and opposition alike. "Our legal system," the newly appointed prime minister explained, "already includes an antitrust law, which instituted the role of a guarantor of competition and the market, invested with the power to guarantee and control, as well as the power to sanction in order to protect the market and free competition. Also currently in force is Law 223 of 1990, which instituted the role of a guarantor for broadcasting and publishing, with specific powers to guarantee, control, and sanction in the press, television, and advertising sectors." [passage omitted] Reactions from the parties were icy. For Achille Occhetto [secretary of the Democratic Party of the Left, PDS], "Berlusconi's appointment is giving rise to deep concern. Fininvest's owner is bringing together, in his own person, political power, enormous economic power, and, above all, power over the media -- something which is unprecedented in history and has no parallel in other countries." The PDS secretary added that his party would advocate "a clear-cut, unequivocal, full separation between the prime minister's role and the ownership of the media. With the privatization of the major banks, three or four families will have a hold on the economy, and given that Mediobanca and Fininvest's interests are interlinked, with a view to rationalizing Fininvest, it will be difficult for the government to take any action against [Mediobanca Chairman] Cuccia. However, we believe that this is necessary in order to effectively deregulate the Italian market." Senator Ferdinando Imposimato found the guarantors' appointment "absurd: It is inconceivable that the controllers should be appointed by the person controlled." League floor leader Francesco Speroni said "PSI [Italian Socialist Party] European deputy La Pergola's appointment is very strange," while [League Secretary] Umberto Bossi remarked: "He has not given any guarantees, he could not give them. We lack the appropriate laws for this. If today we have someone like Berlusconi, the reason is that we did not have a serious antitrust law. However, he will have to do something about it before all reservations are put aside. The best guarantees for us consist of obtaining the right ministries for the League."
