FBIS3-19595 "drweu054_j_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Berlusconi Denies Collusion AU2003174794 Paris AFP in English 1729 GMT 20 Mar 94 AU2003174794 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Palermo, Sicily, March 20 (AFP) -- Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian press magnate and politician, Sunday [20 March] denied reports of collusion between his Forza Italia (Go Italy) party and the mafia. "All the votes for Forza Italia obtained in Sicily and in all Italy will be votes against the mafia," the rightwinger told a rally of 5,000 supporters, a week to the day before the next Italian legislative elections. "In parliament and in government we will use these votes to lead a vigorous support for the fight against organised crime," Berlusconi said, microphone in hand, as he spoke to the crowd. Leftwing politicians have accused Forza Italia of attempting to attract mafia support for its candidates, effectively giving it a large block vote. "Pure slander," said a party spokesman. However turncoats from the Cosa Nostra Sicilian mafia have accused one of the leading figures in Berlusconi's media empire, Fininvest, of having a money-laundering agreement with mafia bosses, the Italian press said Sunday. Marcello Dell'Ultri, manager of Publitalia, the advertising arm of Fininvest, has firmly denied the accusations. "Delirious accusations, completely unworthy slanders, without any foundation," he said Sunday. "I don't believe it, it's delirium, someone wants to stop me. They are trying to criminalise a movement entirely made up of new people," Berlusconi said here. The leader of the former communist Democratic Party of the Left, Achille Occhetto, told an electoral meeting in Naples Friday that Forza Italia had "got the declared support of the Piromalli boss," head of a southern Italian mafia family. During a radio debate with Berlusconi on Sunday, Occhetto renewed his accusations. "It is paradoxical to accuse a party, which presents itself for the first time, of collusion with the mafia," the media magnate responded. The Christian Democrat Minister of the Interior, Nicola Mancino, said in an interview with the Naples daily Il Mattino on Saturday, that there were "rumours which must be verified" that the mafia was preparing to vote for Forza Italia. Berlusconi said that remark was "way below the minister's role."
