FBIS3-27907 "dreas021_d_94031" FBIS-EAS-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 South Korea Former Philippines President Meets Kim Yong-sam SK2901091794 Seoul YONHAP in English 0826 GMT 29 Jan 94 SK2901091794 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, Jan. 29 (YONHAP) -- President Kim Yong-sam and former Philippine President Corazon Aquino exchanged opinions on democracy, reforms and Philippine workers in Korea during their meeting at Chongwadae [presidential office] on Saturday morning. "I know well that you've contributed much to the democratization process in your country," Kim told her, "and I gave my spiritual support to your democratization movement at the time. I was also in the democratization movement in Korea and I know well the difficulties you must have had in that movement." Noting that some 15,000 Philippine workers are in Korea now, Kim said he had instructed the cabinet to take steps to improve working conditions of foreign workers to the level of those for domestic workers, including a step for foreign workers to benefit from the industrial accident insurance system, Chongwadae Spokesman Chu Ton-sik said. "Our trade with China has exceeded the 10-billion-U.S.-dollar mark, though we established diplomatic relations only two years ago," Kim said, "but the trade between Korea and the Philippines is slow in growth, compared with a long history of relations between the two countries." The former Philippine president said she would tell President Fidel Ramos to take measures for increased trade with South Korea and asked for special consideration of Philippine workers, as there would be more and more foreign workers in Korea in the future. When Kim thanks her for Philippine support in the Korean war, she said her husband, the late Sen. Aquino, had been a war correspondent during the war, and added, "because of this he won many votes in elections." Many leaders of the world consider President Kim's political reforms as a model for them, she told Kim.
