FBIS3-4555 "dreas039_a_94010" FBIS-EAS-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 February 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Reportage on Monetary Regulation Continues BOJ Chief on Discount Rate OW2702040494 Tokyo KYODO in English 0336 GMT 27 Feb 94 OW2702040494 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Feb. 27 KYODO -- The Bank of Japan (BOJ) sees no big impact on the currency market but some market dealers expect the yen to rise next week after no clear affirmation for stable rates at the Group of Seven (G-7) meeting, BOJ and currency market sources said Sunday. Finance ministers and central bankers of the G-7 leading nations failed to produce a clear affirmation at their meeting in Germany Saturday of their past accord on stable currency rates reflecting economic fundamentals. "This has been already factored in by the currency market, and is unlikely to have a big impact on the yen rate," said a central bank source. But a market dealer said, "a stronger yen is expected next week as the U.S. side reiterated its hard-line stance" at a meeting between Japanese Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii and U.S. Secretary Treasury Lloyd Bentsen. "Speculations over the U.S. guiding the yen higher to solve the deadlocked issue of trade imbalance is receding," the BOJ source said. "A wild gyration is unlikely although the G-7 failed to make an accord on stable currency rates." Fujii reportedly called for reaffirmation of a past G-7 accord favoring stable currency rates reflecting economic fundamentals, but U.S. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen and other finance ministers said currency issue was not discussed much at the G-7 meeting. Bentsen told a press meeting in Germany that Japan must "put in place a substantial and effective program to strengthen domestic demand, reduce its large trade surplus and open its markets." Meanwhile, the central bank maintained its cautious stance over a further cut in the official discount rate as Japan's stimulus action. Speaking at a press meeting in Germany, BOJ Governor Yasushi Mieno stressed that the discount rate is at the "record-low level" of 1.75 percent. With Japan's long-term rates already turning higher, the BOJ source said that effects of a discount rate cut on the economy will be limited.
