FBIS4-23566 "drafr111_e_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-111 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 WEST AFRICA Liberia Council Rejects Taylor's Army Plan; Disarmament Halts Council Rejects Taylor's Army Plan; Disarmament Halts AB0806184594 London BBC World Service in English 1705 GMT 8 Jun 94 AB0806184594 London BBC World Service English BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] The peace process in Liberia seems, for all intents and purposes, to have been on the back burner for weeks now. Disarmament of the warring factions has come to a halt and clashes have continued. The peacekeeping forces had its hands tied to intervene but the last thing the ruling council wants is for the factions to continue to carry weapons a second longer than necessary. So Charles Taylor's suggestion two weeks ago that a transitional army should be set up with his NPFL [National Patriotic Front of Liberia] providing half the force, did not go down too well with the council. From Monrovia, Nii Nartey Allison telexed this report. Liberia's ruling council today rejected demands by NPFL leader Charles Taylor for the formation of a transitional army. State Council chairman David Kpomakpor said the council was adamantly opposed to such a proposal. Addressing his first meeting with reporters since assuming office in March, Kpomakpor said it is counterproductive and we don't consider the issue debatable. He went on to say while we were trying without success to take away guns from the various armed factions, he had proposed that we form another army with these same men and return their guns to them. This is wrong. Kpomakpor also called for a fresh meeting of the parties to the Cotonou Agreement to review the Liberian peace process and he threatened to resort to action if this proposal was not met. He blamed the slow pace of the peace process on a lack of will from the warring factions and said the situation rather than becoming better was, in fact, getting worse. Kpomakpor said the council is worried by pressure from the United States Government that as of the end of this month, if 30 to 50 percent of the arms have not been taken away from the warring factions, it would reconsider its position on Liberia but he did not elaborate. Kpomakpor said the United States has turned down requests to give recongnition to the transitional government because the government itself lacks control over the entire country.
