FBIS3-8915 "dreeu052_i_94009" FBIS-EEU-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Muslim, Croat Clashes Continue LD1603155094 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1459 GMT 16 Mar 94 LD1603155094 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Belgrade, March 16 (TANJUG) -- Clashes between the forces of local Muslims and Croats are continuing in the central and southern part of the former Yugoslav Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, despite the signed agreement on the creation of a Muslim-Croatian federation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the military agreement between the two sides. In central Bosnia-Herzegovina, the forces of local Croats, Croatian Defense Council troops and Croatian regular army troops opened on Wednesday sniper fire on the positions of Muslim forces in the surroundings of Gornji Vakuf. In the valley of the River Lasva Croatian forces are digging trenches and keep on shifting the line of separation, Muslim Radio Sarajevo announced. Over five thousand troops of the Croatian regular army are still fighting in the territory of Bosnia-Herzegovina, although the deadline fixed by the Security Council for their withdrawal -- February 17 -- has long passed. In the Mostar basin (southern Bosnia-Herzegovina) strong explosions resounded on Tuesday, with the occasional use of small arms and the air defense guns of Croatian and Muslim forces -- the military sources of Bosnian Serbs said. Muslim Radio Sarajevo reported that the Croatian Defense Council continued on Wednesday attacks on Muslim positions. Muslim military sources announced on Tuesday that Croatian Defense Council units opened sniper fire on passers by on the Mostar-Blagal road, so that representatives of the Spanish batallion within UNPROFOR [UN Protection Forces] were forced to intervene. The military sources of Bosnian Serbs report that Croatian Defense Council troops opened fire on Tuesday on the line of separation in Mostar. In Blagaj, south of Mostar, which is under Muslim control, two strong explosions were heard Tuesday evening, and a Croatian helicopter opened fire in the surroundings of Bijelo Polje north of Mostar Tuesday night. Representatives of Bosnian Croats and Muslims signed in Washington on March 1, under strong U.S. pressure, a preliminary agreement on the formation of a federation of two peoples in Bosnia-Herzegovina, which would later enter a confederation with Croatia. Washington's concept is to make possible, by a maneuver of a dual state for Muslims, the continuation, even though partial, of a unitary Bosnia, the extension of the territory under Muslim control, an outlet to the sea for Muslims, and finally to create a strong negotiating (and if possible a military) block against Bosnian Serbs in the coming phase.
