FBIS4-17998 "drsov083_n_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-083 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 Turkmenistan Niyazov Answers Question on Agricultural Reform Niyazov Answers Question on Agricultural Reform PM2904092794 Moscow SELSKAYA ZHIZN in Russian 29 Apr 94 p 3 PM2904092794 Moscow SELSKAYA ZHIZN Russian BFN ["Own Information" report: "Dialogue Which Helps Friendship"] [Excerpts] A meeting of leaders of the leading Russian mass media and Turkmenistan President Saparmurad Niyazov took place in Ashkhabad [Ashgabat] recently after the former had come to the republic at his invitation. Such meetings with leaders of CIS countries have already become a good tradition. A central place in the program for the Moscow guests' stay on Turkmen soil was taken up by a "roundtable" talk with the head of state. [passage omitted] The SELSKAYA ZHIZN representative was interested primarily in the agrarian reform which is being conducted in Turkmenistan. "Our policy, known as `the New Countryside,'" the president noted, "is of a balanced and gradual nature as regards changes in the agricultural sector. It proposes a diversity of forms of ownership and economic management of the land. Strong, flourishing collective and state farms will undoubtedly be retained. Unprofitable farms and farms operating in the red will be transformed into peasant and private farms and various associations of landowners. Some 150,000 hectares of land have been distributed for private ownership in the country. Every family has the right to 50 hectares. State support is being rendered to the development of the agro-industrial complex." The task of overcoming grain dependence on the foreign market is being resolved as a priority. The grain purchased from CIS countries is costing Turkmenistan very dear. That is why the aim of achieving self-sufficiency with regard to grain has been set. Areas sown to wheat are being expanded and this year 1 million tonnes of grain will be obtained. As of 1997, the Republic intends to switch to the population's free provision with bread. According to calculations, 164 kg of flour is needed per inhabitant. The talk, which lasted over two hours, was of a relaxed and congenial nature.
