FBIS3-23548 "jpuma009___94017" JPRS-UMA-94-009 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Central Eurasia Military Affairs 4 March 1994 STATE AND LOCAL MILITARY FORCES BALTIC STATES Estonia Ready To Produce NATO Caliber Ammunition 94UM0230A Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 11 Feb 94 p 3 94UM0230A Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Report by KRASNAYA ZVEZDA correspondent Valeriy Gromak: "A Big Batch of Weapons for Little Estonia, and the Estonians Will Produce the Ammunition Themselves"] [Text] Tallin--Several Estonian enterprises are ready to produce NATO standard-caliber cartridges. This was announced by Tarmo Melder, adviser to Estonia's minister of defense. According to him, the first, test batch should come off the assembly line at the beginning of March. The adviser did not name the manufacturing plant, stating that the ministry of defense and the main staff are engaged in talks with several enterprises. There are also counterproposals, however. The Arbadet joint-stock company, one of the co-owners of the Kaitseliit Fund, located in the city of Turi has provided its services to the ministry of defense. It has been learned from well-informed sources that the Tarkon state joint-stock company (formerly the Tartu Radio Equipment Plant) is also prepared to produce cartridges, as is the (Baliyes) enterprise (the former Baltiyets plant) in Narva. The cartridge boom certainly did not just happen. On 3 February Estonia signed the Partnership for Peace program, which apparently can absolutely not be implemented without NATO-model cartridges; particularly since the Israeli company Taas Israel Industries Ltd. recently provided Estonia with modern weapons conforming to NATO standards. The first ship from Israel delivered to the republic Galil assault rifles, (Nechev) machine guns, (Miniuem) submachine guns, sniper rifles, grenade launchers, 81mm mortars, 106mm guns, antiaircraft guns, missiles, guided projectiles and ammunition. These weapons are sufficient for the republic to arm 12,000 men.
