FBIS3-53415 "drnes010_p_94002" FBIS-NES-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 SOUTH ASIA Afghanistan Hekmatyar Meets With Kabul Commanders LD1301235694 (Clandestine) Radio Message of Freedom in Pashto to Afghanistan 0730 GMT 13 Jan 94 LD1301235694 (Clandestine) Radio Message of Freedom Language: Pashto Article Type:BFN [Text] Brother Hekmatyar, prime minister of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, received a large number of commanders of Kabul Province belonging to various parties. He met them yesterday afternoon at the temporary headquarters of the Prime Ministry. A radio-tv correspondent reported that topics concerning the current war in Kabul and the country's military and political affairs were discussed. The prime minister heard the (?opinions) of the commanders and stated the principled stand of Hezb-e Eslami [Islamic Party of Afghanistan] regarding the current situation. Our correspondent reports that the following commanders took part in the meeting: Lt Gen Abdol Karim Abed, Hezb-e Eslami commander. Amer Anwar, commander of Jamiat-e Eslami [Islamic Society of Afghanistan]. Anwar Khan Qarabagh, Ettehad-e Eslami [Islamic Union of Afghanistan] commander. Haji Abdorrazaq, Harakat-e Enqelab-e Eslami [Islamic Revolution Movement] commander. Mawlawi Sediqollah, Harakat-e Enqelabi Eslami commander. [Name indistinct], Ettehad-e Eslami commander. Haji Sher Alam, Ettehad-e Eslami commander. Moalem Sayforrahman, Jamiat-e Eslami commander. Amir Bashir Khan, Hezb-e Eslami commander. Haji Daud, Hezb-e Eslami commander. Shayda, Jamiat-e Eslami commander. Ehsanollah, Ettehad-e Eslami commander. Deputy to Amanollah Kochi, Tufan Zalmay, Ettehad-e Eslami commander. Pahlawan Qader, Hezb-e Eslami commander. Ajab Gol, Jabheh-ye Nejat-e Melli [National Liberation Front] commander. Wolaswal Mohammad Hakim, Hezb-e Eslami commander. Mola Abdorrazeq, Harakat-e Eslami [Islamic Movement] commander. Zalmay, Ettehad-e Eslami commander. Abdorrazaq, Jabheh-ye Nejat-e Melli commander. Mawlana Fazl Rahman, Ettehad-e Eslami commander. Amir Mohammad, Hezb-e Eslami commander. Representative of Mawlawi Abdol Manan, Hezb-e Eslami commander. Sayd Mskin, Hezb-e Eslami commander. Mia Mohammad Agha, Hezb-e Eslami commander. Arsala Khan, Hezb-e Eslami commander. Nur Agha, Hezb-e Eslami commander.
