FBIS4-8286 "dreeu070__a94054" FBIS-EEU-94-070-A Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 ANNEX Poland Bulgaria's Daskalov Arrives on Official Visit Bulgaria's Daskalov Arrives on Official Visit AU1204074294 Sofia BTA in English 1746 GMT 11 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1204074294 Sofia BTA English BFN [Report by Veselin Yankov: "Bulgaria, Poland Sign Important Documents"] [Text] Warsaw, April 11 (BTA) -- Bulgarian-Polish relations will continue to develop on a broad, balanced basis along the principles of cooperation for the mutual benefit. The official visit to Warsaw by Bulgaria's Foreign Minister Stanislav Daskalov ended on this note. He arrived here last night at the invitation of his Polish counterpart Andrzej Olechowski. The two foreign ministers signed a consular agreement, an agreement on the avoidance of double taxation and an agreement on reciprocal investment protection and promotion. President Lech Walesa received Mr. Daskalov to discuss a wide range of international issues, more specifically the two countries' relations with the European Union and the crisis in the former Yugoslavia. They agreed that bilateral political contacts are very good and economic cooperation should be intensified on this basis. Mr. Daskalov conveyed an invitation by Bulgaria's President Zhelyu Zhelev to President Walesa to make an official visit to Bulgaria. Mr. Daskalov met with Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak to discuss steps to expand trade and settle Bulgaria's debt to Poland dating to the time of the COMECON. It was said that a free trade zone could be set up in the near future. Mr. Daskalov held meetings with leaders of the Ministry for Foreign Economic Cooperation, the Polish Chamber of Commerce and the Senate. The Bulgarian delegation laid a wreath at the Monument to the Unknown Warrior in Warsaw. Tsvetan Simeonov, chief secretary of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and Andrzej Arendarski, President of the Polish Chamber of Commerce, today signed a cooperation agreement. Bulgarian businessmen met with Polish business representatives.
