FBIS4-47089 "jpusr066___94044" FBIS-USR-94-066 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 15 June 1994 CAUCASUS REGIONAL AFFAIRS Rail Link to Iran Planned Rail Link to Iran Planned 944K1468D Baku GUNAY in Russian 15 Jun 94 p 2 944K1468D Baku GUNAY Russian CSO [KHABAR-SERVIS report: "Railroad Will Link Azerbaijan to Iran"] [Text] Rafik Zeynalov, deputy chief of the Azerbaijan Railroad administration and its chief engineer, characterized as a matter of great strategic importance the construction of the Astara (Azerbaijan)-Qazvin (Iran) railroad, the possibility of which was discussed during negotiations between Azerbaijan President Geydar Aliyev and the head of the Iranian state. Construction of this line will make it possible to first and foremost establish a supply line to the Nakhichevan Autonomous Republic [NAR], weakened by the Armenian seizure of part of Azerbaijani territories and the blockade of the NAR. Second, it will link Azerbaijan with two neighboring states--Iran and Turkey, which will allow the republic a gateway to the Mediterranean and Asian countries. The Government of Iran also places great importance on this line, since it will bring to Iran metal and timber from Russia, which Iran acutely needs. At the same time, freight transit will bring huge foreign currency earnings into the Azerbaijani budget. As R. Zeynalov pointed out, the proposed route for the railroad is the optimal one. In particular, it is envisaged building a 100-meter-wide rail bridge over the border river Astarachay. The chief engineer of the Azerbaijan Railroad emphasized that the Russian Ministry of Railroads is already interested in this project. Foreign companies--the Canadian company Maple Wind, the largest European company M&M, and the Austrian A-Trade company--are willing to invest in the construction. The only condition set by foreign companies' representatives is President G. Aliyev's personal guarantee. The Azerbaijan Railroad's leadership recently petitioned the Cabinet of Ministers and Geydar Aliyev to consider this matter. The Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran is willing to fully finance construction of the line on its territory. On 2 June 1994 the head of the Azerbaijan Railroad received written assurance that the final decision on the matter of building a railroad between Azerbaijan and Iran will be made during the expected visit of G. Aliyev to Tehran.
