FBIS4-33759 "drlat113__a94020" FBIS-LAT-94-113-A Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 ANNEX Cuba Colombia Organizing Bilateral Meeting With Businessmen Colombia Organizing Bilateral Meeting With Businessmen PA0906033594 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 1350 GMT 7 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA0906033594 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [By Javier Rodriguez] [Text] Havana, 7 Jun (PL) -- Colombian Ambassador to Cuba Ricardo Santamaria said in Havana today that Colombia is organizing a conference for private businessmen to study future investments in Cuba, and he added that Cuban ministers and other ranking officials will be invited. In an interview with PRENSA LATINA, Santamaria explained that the Colombian Economic Development Ministry is preparing to hold this meeting in Santa Fe de Bogota in July. With this in mind, Colombian companies interested in trade and investment with the island are being consulted. This important meeting, along with the great progress achieved in relations between the two Latin American nations during the past few months, will provide greater knowledge of investment possibilities, existing legislation, and other important details concerning Cuba, the diplomat said. Santamaria said: The idea is to hold frank, direct conversations between businessmen and Cuban officials, especially representatives of businesses accepting foreign capital, because we believe that in tourism, trade, and some industrial fields there are still areas to be explored. The talks in Santa Fe de Bogota will be held independently of any agreements already reached by Colombia and Cuba, as well as independently of the specific advances made during visits by nine Colombian delegations that have traveled to Havana in recent months. The ambassador also stressed the work done by joint commissions in areas such as education, sports, culture, science, and technology, which have resulted in a number of agreements, including agreements between universities in the two nations and the corresponding heads of sports organizations. Regarding tourism, Santamaria noted the recent participation of Colombian tour operators and Prospero Carbonell, the president of Colombia's National Tourist Corporation, at the tourism convention in Varadero. He also highlighted the negotiations concerning the sale of multiple destination packages and other types of excursion packages. Colombian businessmen have already signed agreements with Cubanacan Corporation, which will lead to the construction of new hotels on the beaches of Varadero and Santa Lucia -- the latter of which is located in the central province of Camaguey -- and to the joint management of the Yagrumas Hotel on the outskirts of Havana. In another segment of the interview, Santamaria discussed the Colombian people and government's satisfaction with Colombia's recent designation as the site of the upcoming Nonaligned Movement summit and, consequently, its assumption of the presidency of the organization in 1995. Santamaria said: We view this as a recognition of Colombia's international policy and as an important challenge to the nation. Reviewing the responsibilities that will accompany this designation, the head of the Colombian mission in Cuba stressed the importance of coordinating the actions of the 110 countries that comprise the Nonaligned Movement. The new Colombian Government, which will begin its mandate on 7 August, will take on this enormous task, together with the entire nation, in light of the important role of the nonaligned nations in the new international scene, Santamaria concluded.
