FBIS3-16277 "drsov050_b_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Kola Nuclear Power Station in `Critical Situation' LD1403173694 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1315 GMT 14 Mar 94 LD1403173694 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Vasiliy Belousov] [Text] Murmansk, 14 Mar -- Two of the four generating sets at the Kola nuclear power station were shut down today because of various faults. A routine shutdown of another reactor is planned for 22 March. Bearing in mind that the station provides more than 60 percent of all the electricity generated in Murmansk Oblast, it is not difficult to imagine the consequences. It is not only enterprises on the Kola Peninsula that will suffer. In the first place, "supplies of electricity to neighboring Karelia and Leningrad Oblast will be halted," Vitaliy Meshkov, general director of the Kola power system said today at a meeting with the head of the oblast administration. Apart from purely technical faults, the work of Europe's northernmost nuclear power station has been affected by debts owed by consumers, including some in neighboring Karelia. The shortage of resources is preventing power engineers at the Kola station from carrying out maintenance work on time and recharging the reactors with nuclear fuel according to schedule. Although top Moscow ministry officials and the Russian Government know about the disastrous situation at the nuclear power station, the power engineers are not receiving any help from them. In addition, because of unprecedented customs tariffs, they cannot even obtain equipment provided as aid by firms in Scandinavian countries to ensure the safe operation of the nuclear power station. In view of the critical situation, senior officials from the station and the Kola grid will fly to Moscow tomorrow, in order to inform the head of government of this personally and to ask him to adopt measures.
