FBIS3-45588 "drchi014_b_94009" FBIS-CHI-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 United States & Canada U.S. Defense University Delegation Visits Nanjing OW2101043394 Nanjing Jiangsu People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 19 Jan 94 OW2101043394 Nanjing Jiangsu People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [From the "Provincial News Hookup" program] [Text] Lieutenant General Guo Xizhang, deputy commander of the Nanjing Military Region, cordially met with Lt. Gen. Paul Cerjan, president of the United States National Defense University, and his delegation at the Jinling Hotel in Nanjing yesterday evening. Present at the meeting were Ding Bingsheng, deputy chief of staff of the Nanjing Military Region, and Xu Fangting, dean of our country's National Defense University. The latter was accompanying the visitors. During the meeting, Deputy Commander Guo Xizhang said: The visit by President Cerjan and his party has brought to us the friendly sentiments of the American people their army. The Nanjing Military Region has, on many occasions, received delegations from the U.S. National Defense University. Through contacts, the two sides have deepened understanding and friendship. President Cerjan said: Since our arrival in Nanjing, we have been given a warm reception and welcome. In addition, we have witnessed the economic boom in this ancient city of yours. Through visits and calls, we have come into contact with the outstanding fighters and commanders of your army. Their operational skills have had a profound impression on us. Others who were present at the meeting included Zhang Jinbao, commandant of the Army Command Academy, and (Mu Yang), a responsible individual from the relevant department in the Nanjing Military Region. Lt. Gen. Cerjan and his party arrived in Nanjing from Beijing on the evening of 18 January. Yesterday the visitors paid visits to a an infantry division in the Nanjing Military Region and the Army Command Academy; they also toured scenic sites in the eastern suburbs.
