FBIS4-11577 "drlat083_k_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-083 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina Former Rebel Denies Arsenal Case Links Former Rebel Denies Arsenal Case Links PY2804124294 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1110 GMT 27 Apr 94 PY2804124294 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS Spanish BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, 27 Apr (NA) -- Colonel Mohamed Ali Seineldin [the rebel leader of the 3 December 1990 military uprising] has "categorically" denied that the arsenal found on an island in the Tigre District belongs to the "Painted Faces" former rebel Army group. He flatly denied that an "operation" was being prepared on the island to liberate him from the Magdalena prison. Seineldin's spokesman Santiago Cahil conveyed the former rebel leader's position to NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS, explaining that Seineldin characterized the report as "absurd and outrageous, totally lacking substance." Cahil was the Justicialist Party mayor of the town of Moron between 1993 and 1994. He said that Seineldin considers the theory that the arsenal discovered by the Buenos Aires police belongs to the "Painted Faces" to be "an aberration" that merely illustrates the existence of "an evil service that seeks to besmirch the Army." "To say that the `Painted Faces' have anything to do with this arsenal is a totally absurd and outrageous aberration. Seineldin told me that when he learned what was being said he did not whether to laugh or cry," the former Moron mayor said. The spokesman for the rebel leader of the 3 December 1990 uprising said: "All of them -- Colonel Seineldin and his comrades who are serving sentences with him -- have accepted their situation and decided not to leave (prison) through force. They never planned or even conceived anything like this." According to Cahil, Seineldin said: "Some groups are determined to besmirch" his "name" and "the Army." Seineldin added that "without doubt an evil service is involved in this." "No one in his right mind would ever believe (the painted faced rebels) built a training camp with a heliport in the delta, which is open to everyone," Cahil said. The former mayor added that Seineldin categorically rejected the idea that an operation was being prepared in the island to liberate him, adding that all remarks on those lines are "groundless."
