FBIS4-53820 "dreas100_j_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-100 Daily Report 24 May 1994 Indonesia Editorials Review Ramos Stand on E. Timor Meeting Editorials Review Ramos Stand on E. Timor Meeting BK2405081994 Jakarta Radio Republik Indonesia Network in Indonesian 0600 GMT 24 May 94 BK2405081994 Jakarta Radio Republik Indonesia Network Indonesian BFN [From the prees review] [Text] SUARA KARYA says the decision of Philippine President Fidel Ramos to bar foreigners from attending a conference on East Timor, which is scheduled to be held at the end of this month, has greatly appeased the Indonesian people. The daily, however, adds that the decision has not completely resolved the matter. If the conference does take place even without foreign participants, this will create an impression that the University of the Philippines as an academic institution has allowed itself to be reduced to a forum to conduct political campaigns, which may in turn trigger an international problem. Not a few of the Indonesian alumni of the University of the Philippines have contributed to efforts to enhance the bonds of friendship between the two nations and peoples. KOMPAS says the decision showed the courageous leadership of President Ramos because the Philippine president has put his popularity at risk. Ramos is convinced that national interests supersede the interests of a few of his fellow countrymen. According to the daily, Ramos is well aware that the decision was something unusual under the Philippines' democratic political culture which accords wide freedom to such institutions like campuses to discuss anything, including one critical of the government. Nevertheless, President Ramos as a leader wisely anticipated a greater controversy if he had done nothing to downplay the planned conference on East Timor. The daily BERITA BUANA says the Philippine Government should be aware of Indonesia's stand on East Timor. Even if the conference on East Timor does take place in the Philippines, the Philippine Government will have to actively offer a clear and detailed explanation on Indonesia's stand, the essence of which is that East Timor has become the 27th province of the Republic of Indonesia. The Philippines should at least dismiss the results of the conference on East Timor and prevent them from misleading public opinion.
