FBIS4-19885 "drweu079_p_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-079 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 GREECE Talks Mostly `Positive' Talks Mostly `Positive' NC2304190694 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA in Greek 23 Apr 94 p 8 NC2304190694 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA Greek BFN [The "Views" column: "Initial Appraisals"] [Text] Given the hitherto negative, almost hostile, atmosphere and our fear of a lack of U.S. understanding of Greek affairs, we must conclude that rather positive results, as well as some other disturbing puzzles for the Cyprus issue and Greek-Turkish relations, have emerged from the talks between Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou and U.S. President Bill Clinton. It is positive that President Clinton recognized that Greece's concern over the Skopje [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia--FYROM] issue was justified, stressing that these concerns "have their roots in ancient and modern history." It is positive that Clinton said "We are concerned about the Greek minority in Albania" and pointed out that Greece is addressing the problem "with wisdom and sound judgment." It is positive that President Clinton expressed his interest in the Ecumenical Patriarchate to the Turkish prime minister. It is positive that the road is open for Greek-U.S. economic cooperation aimed at their business infiltration into the Balkans. This cooperation is backed-up by the U.S. with $1 billion, which shows their recognition of Greece's role in the region and its possibilities for peace initiatives. It is not easy to appraise the practical results of these initially positive elements now because certainly things were said at the talks which were not announced at the joint news conference. The Cyprus issue remains a puzzle as President Clinton referred to the mediator for its solution, and Andreas Papandreou merely said that there is "good news" about the promotion of the confidence-building measures. Greek-Turkish affairs also remain a puzzle -- except for the Patriarchate issue. President Clinton expressed his wishes for Greek-Turkish cooperation; he pointed out the Turkish Government's concern over the increase of Islamism, and asked Greece to contribute to European assistance to Turkey and to cooperate with it. However, he did not say what Turkey, which constantly provokes Greece, should do. At any rate, the meeting showed that there are grounds for further understanding and development of Greek-U.S. relations and, with all the necessary reservations, this is rather positive.
