FBIS4-631 "drafr071_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-071 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola UNITA Reportedly Meets With MPLA Without Mediators UNITA Reportedly Meets With MPLA Without Mediators MB1304072594 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro in Portuguese 0600 GMT 13 Apr 94 MB1304072594 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro Portuguese BFN [Text] The National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] will continue to seek every possible path that can lead our country to freedom. Within that context, the UNITA team to the Lusaka peace talks yesterday went to the hotel where the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola-Labor Party, MPLA-PT, team is staying to discuss work-related issues. No details have been made available concerning the meeting, but diplomatic sources have described it as cordial and very encouraging. That meeting of yesterday appears to have surprised many and it took place without the presence of either the mediators or the observers. The Lusaka peace talks will continue until UNITA and the MPLA-PT have reached an agreement. In Luanda yesterday, UN Special Representative Alioune Blondin Beye said no deadline had been set for the talks. Asked to comment on whether four months of negotiation was not excessive, Blondin Beye replied that in view of the fact that the conflict had been going on for 18 years, four months should not be seen as a sign of despair. Through Dr. Jorge Alicerces Valentim, its spokesman in the Zambian capital, UNITA has made it known that it will not leave Lusaka without a peace accord. Meanwhile, UN sources have disclosed that the UN special representative in Angola could travel to the city of Huambo this week to hold talks with the UNITA leadership. Attentive observers believe that Blondin Beye must have received new guidelines concerning methods to deal with the marathon Lusaka peace talks. An adviser to the UN special representative in Angola said in Lusaka yesterday that there was no danger of the talks collapsing.
