FBIS3-2640 "drchi048_a_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 March 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Spokesman Views Charges of Religious Persecution HK1003025294 Hong Kong AFP in English 0226 GMT 10 Mar 94 HK1003025294 Hong Kong AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 10 (AFP) -- The Chinese government hit back Thursday at renewed foreign accusations of religious persecution and defended recent regulations aimed at restricting the religious activities of foreigners in China. "Foreigners in China should respect China's laws, refrain from harming the public interest of Chinese society and should not interfere in China's religious affairs through whatever means," a foreign ministry spokesman said. The spokesman was responding to comments made in Bonn on Tuesday by German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel, who said he was "concerned by the new Chinese laws on religion which have introduced a further restriction on freedom of belief and to the arrest of Chinese and foreign Christians." A stronger denunciation came from the chairman of the U.S. House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on human rights, Tom Lantos, when he called on Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who arrives here Friday, to "emphasise our revulsion and outrage at China's vicious campaign of religious persecution." Fearful of a possible challenge to its own authority, the Chinese government issued new regulations, which took effect January 31, to strengthen control over religious practice and limit ties between Chinese and foreign believers. The regulations "are not for the purpose of restricting religious freedoms," the spokesman said, "but fully show that the Chinese government respects the freedom of belief of foreigners in China and Chinese citizens." However, he also stressed that "China's religious bodies are not subject to foreign control." A group of American, Indonesian and Hong Kong missionaries were detained for five days last month for having "conducted illegal religious activities" in violation of the new regulations. The foreign missionaries eventually returned to Hong Kong, but the fate of three local Chinese Christians detained at the same time remains unknown. "We must protect normal religious activities and protect the cultural and academic exchanges in the field of religion between foreigners and the religious circles in China," the spokesman said.
