FBIS3-4283 "drchi060_d_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 Northeast Asia Kim Yong-sam Urges Improved PRC Infrastructure for Trade SK2803061294 Seoul YONHAP in English 0459 GMT 28 Mar 94 SK2803061294 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 28 (YONHAP) -- South Korean President Kim Yong-sam urged China Monday to try and establish the legal and institutional framework necessary for effective promotion of bilateral trade and investment. "It is my conviction that the China-Korea summit this time will lift economic cooperation onto a higher plane," Kim said at a luncheon hosted by Chinese business leaders. The president arrived in Beijing Sunday and began his official visit on Monday. Although Kim is expected to focus on the North Korean nuclear issue during his talks with President Jiang Zemin and other Chinese leaders, one of his main objectives is boosting economic and trade links. "Our two nations need to build a future-oriented and mutually complementary cooperative system through increased joint ventures in industrial and research projects as well as increased direct trade," he said. "If the resources of the two nations -- manpower, natural resources, technology, capital and development know-how -- are combined and utilized to promote our mutual interests, it will produce great results," Kim said. Kim said South Korean businesses have extensive experience in production and marketing, accumulated over the past 30 years. Korean businessmen, unlike their counterparts from advanced countries, are familiar with the business climate in developing countries like China, he said. Furthermore, Korean firms are stepping up investment in the technology-intensive industrial sectors of the Chinese economy, he said. Seoul will spare no effort in supporting the business activities of Korean enterprises in China, Kim assured the Chinese businessmen. He also expressed hope that businesmen from the two countries will promote a combined presence in third countries through joint investments in such sectors as construction, automobiles and aviation. Kim noted that the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum is being developed as an open cooperative body, and there have been rapid increases in inter-country investment and trade within the region. Furthermore, regional economic projects including development of the tumen river basin are being actively promoted, he said. "Once the North Korean nuclear issue is resolved and the North decides to pursue policies of openness and reform, regional cooperation in Northeast Asia wil be greatly facilitiated, in addition to economic cooperation between China and South Korea," he said.
