FBIS3-10972 "drlat051_f_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Mar 1994 El Salvador Justice Officials Accused of Playing Into U.S. Hands PA1503193094 San Salvador Canal Doce Television in Spanish 0300 GMT 12 Mar 94 PA1503193094 San Salvador Canal Doce Television Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "Up-to-Date Newscast"] [Text] Supreme Court President Mauricio Gutierrez Castro today accused Justice Minister Rene Hernandez Valiente and Nelson Segovia, the director of Salvadoran Legal Studies, of playing into the hands of the U.S. Embassy, which, according to Gutierrez, seeks judicial reforms even though they violate the nation's sovereignty. [Begin Gutierrez Castro] I will be very satisfied no matter who becomes president of the [Supreme] Court as long as that court president serves the country and not a foreign nation. [end recording] According to the Supreme Court president, Hernandez Valiente and Nelson Segovia are at the service of the U.S. Government which seeks major reforms to the judicial system. Reforms, such as those to the penal codes, remarked Justice Gutierrez, have been criticized by nationals as the nation's autonomy is lost. This harms the nation, the justice noted. [Begin Gutierrez Castro recording] Mr. Segovia makes up part of the group of attorneys linked none other than to the nation's financial sector; besides, he has extremely good relations with the U.S. Embassy in our country. Now as far as Mr. Rene Hernandez Valiente is concerned, there is nothing more to say. His work has been limited to implementing the laws paid for by the U.S. Government. [end recording] Mr. Gutierrez Castro is currently seeking to be reelected as a Supreme Court magistrate. He noted that his candidacy is in response to attorneys' support, but most of all because [words indistinct] judicial system's independence could be lost. [Begin Gutierrez Castro recording] I feel that the Judicial Branch's independence is in danger; this is why I am running. It is not simply to seek reelection. This could or could not happen. [end recording] The Supreme Court president once again received demonstrations of support for his reelection by the BAR association in Ahuachapan Department. On 12 March, more than 2,000 attorneys will participate in elections to choose the 42 candidates for justices.
