FBIS4-61828 "drsov090_a_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-090 Daily Report 9 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Nuclear Situation on Korean Peninsula Assessed Nuclear Situation on Korean Peninsula Assessed SK1005101994 Moscow Radio Moscow in Korean 1000 GMT 9 May 94 SK1005101994 Moscow Radio Moscow Korean BFN [Commentary by Aleksey Kondratyev from the "Focus on Asia" program] [Text] The current situation on the Korean peninsula can be compared to continuous cloudy weather. It is not the time to repeat the causes for the aggravating situation on the Korean peninsula and tension in Northeast Asia. However, we could derive a series of conclusions from the current situation. First, the International Atomic Energy Agency's [IAEA] pressure on the DPRK to accept full-scope inspections [chonmyon sachal] of its nuclear objects could not bring about any substantial results. On the contrary, it made the other party adhere to its position more. The IAEA inspection team keeps raising its conditions even though the visas for entering the DPRK are in its hands. Regarding this, a recent DPRK statement declared that if the IAEA does not withdraw its demand for full-scope inspections, the replacement of the fuel rods of the graphite-moderated reactor in Yongbyon will be carried on without the participation of the agency's inspection team. The threat of imposing international economic sanctions on Pyongyang is not working either. Second, the DPRK is demanding a resolution of the nuclear issue on the peninsula through DPRK-U.S. talks. Regarding this, the United States has raised some conditions for the resumption of the talks. Consequently, a resolution is not foreseen yet. Under current circumstances, Moscow has proposed an international conference regarding the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. Some countries are supporting the proposal. Whether through the DPRK-U.S. talks or an international conference, in any case, the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula must be resolved. The sooner the resolution of the issue comes, the better. As for the peninsula, tension around the peninsula may rise even more leading to an unpredictable result. All must show utmost effort and self-control not to turn a quarrel into an armed collision.
