FBIS4-67325 "jptdd022__l94090" JPRS-TDD-94-022-L JPRS Narcotics 15 May 1994 WEST EUROPE GERMANY Justice Minister Says Court Ruling on `Soft' Drugs Justice Minister Says Court Ruling on `Soft' Drugs `Completely Misunderstood' AU1805105494 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE SONNTAGSZEITUNG in German 15 May 94 p 5 (Tentative) AU1805105494 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE SONNTAGSZEITUNG German BFN [Interview with Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger by Cornelia von Wrangel; place and date not given: "One Cannot Put Everyone Into Detention Pending Trial"] [Excerpts] [passage omitted] [Von Wrangler] Apropos young people: Does the so-called hashish ruling pave the way for a more liberal drug policy? Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger: The ruling of the Federal Constitutional Court on soft drugs has been completely misunderstood by the public, because the Federal Constitutional Court just confirmed our law, according to which the possession of small amounts of drugs for one's own consumption is also punishable. Then the Federal Constitutional Court said that punishment may be unnecessary if small amounts are involved. Actually, this is precisely the situation that we have at the moment. Among the justice ministers of the laender we have dealt with the question of what is to be defined as a small amount. The Federal Constitutional Court has not answered this question. There are very different ideas, ranging from two to 30 grams. So far, we have not been able to agree on a uniform line and, therefore, we will meet again this year. Von Wrangler: Will you agree on an amount below 10 grams? Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger: Yes, I think so. Von Wrangler: Thus, the next political step will not be the complete release of hashish? Or the release of heroin, as North Rhine-Westphalia Justice Minister Krumsiek advocates? Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger: No, the legislature will not legalize soft drugs in the foreseeable future. What applies to soft drugs must also apply to heroin and other hard drugs. The ruling of the Federal Constitutional Court does not apply to the latter, which means that there is no suspension of punishment for the possession of small amounts of hard drugs. [passage omitted]
