FBIS4-35368 "drnes105dd_94012" FBIS-NES-94-105 Daily Report 31 May 1994 Palestinian Affairs Commander on Hamas Decision To Stop Killing Agents Commander on Hamas Decision To Stop Killing Agents NC3105211094 Jerusalem AL-QUDS in Arabic 31 May 94 p 4 NC3105211094 Jerusalem AL-QUDS Arabic BFN [Report by Zaki Abu-Halawah and Muhammad Abu-Khudayr] [Excerpts] Jericho -- Brigadier General al-Hajj Isma'il Jabr, commander of the Palestinian national security forces in Jericho, has welcomed the decision of the Islamic Resistance Movement, Hamas, to stop liquidating collaborators. He said: We view this decision with great appreciation. This decision will strengthen our national unity and mutual understanding to overcome the current problems and frustrate all those who are wagering on intra-Palestinian conflict. In an exclusive interview with AL-QUDS, Jabr said that this decision will restore to the Palestinian Authority its prestige, power, and respect. This is a positive decision that will ensure the success of the political process. He affirmed that the Palestinian forces will resort to law to bring to account any Palestinian who violates security, order, or the law. Anarchy will not be tolerated. Jabr expressed surprise at Israeli statements calling for moving Palestinian institutions from Jerusalem to the Palestinian self-rule areas. He said that such statements contradict the provisions of the Palestinian-Israeli agreement, which put off the discussion of the future of Jerusalem to the final stage. These statements are unilateral and unacceptable to the Palestinians. He said that preparations and construction are underway to complete the main passage way for the residents of Gaza and Jericho. The dignity of the Palestinians will be respected on this passage way. [passage omitted] Regarding the preparations for the arrival of Palestinian president Yasir 'Arafat in Jericho, Jabr said that preparations are going ahead. We are awaiting instructions on the arrival date. There are special security arrangements that cannot be divulged now, he said. [passage omitted]
