FBIS3-51785 "drlat016_i_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Jan 1994 Nicaragua Three Parties Unite in `Unity for Change' Project PA2501040694 Managua LA PRENSA in Spanish 23 Jan 94 p 3 PA2501040694 Managua LA PRENSA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Ariel Montoya] [Text] Alfonso Moncada Guillen, president of the Independent Liberal Party for National Unity, has said the party's new position is to search for the unity of liberalism, although "not necessarily with the current leaders of the other liberal parties." On 18 January at "La India" cafe, Moncada Guillen held a joint news conference with representatives of the Central American Unionist Party, chaired by party leader Blanca Rojas, and representatives of the National Justice Party (PJN), led by Jorge Diaz Cruz. These three parties issued a communique in which they pointed out that given the serious political, social, and economic situation Nicaragua is experiencing: "We have decided to join efforts to search for alternative solutions, hoping Nicaraguan society will accept them, and together we will struggle for their implementation." The three political leaders expressed that currently the nation is going through dramatic times as a result of poverty, the lack of moral values, the disparagement of its political leaders, "and the lack of specific projects" to solve Nicaragua's problems. In the communique, they also invited all Nicaraguans to participate in a project they called "Unity for Change," which adopts a "credible and trustworthy" political platform that renews the people's spirit to work and their hope in the future. At the news conference, Moncada Guillen, who is also a doctor, indicated this initiative was taken to create a new political culture, that turns its back on the past and looks toward the future. Meanwhile, PJN President Diaz Cruz asserted his organization had decided to form an alliance with other political forces "to generate new, reformed criteria in the political position we will present to society." Diaz Cruz added there are "mixed criteria and ideologies" in his party that unites evangelical sectors. Therefore, he noted, members of diverse political and ideological concepts can participate together. Diaz Cruz indicated his party is new, but he concluded by saying "it has great possibilities" for participating in the nation's difficult political road.
