FBIS3-1402 "drafr059_c_94023" FBIS-AFR-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Ramaphosa Says ANC To `Impose' Peace on Natal MB2603110994 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1002 GMT 26 Mar 94 MB2603110994 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Pierre Claasen] [Text] Cape Town March 26 SAPA -- The African National Congress [ANC] would impose peace and conditions conducive to free and fair elections on Natal, ANC Secretary General Cyril Ramaphosa, said on Saturday. He was the keynote speaker at a Western Cape regional reconstruction and development conference. "We know we are going to stamp freedom on Natal," he said. "Yesterday the biggest march in the country's history stated clearly that the people of Natal are going to the polls, come rain, come shine and whether (Chief) Buthelezi likes it or not." The march had brought a great deal of hope. "We are going to install a unique peace in Natal where our people can campaign securely. If (Chief) Buthelezi does not like it, we will impose it on him. We are the ANC -- We will call the shots in Natal as we call the shots in the whole country," Mr Ramaphosa said. He said the Independent Electoral Commission [IEC] was saying it was impossible to hold free and fair elections in Natal even before the election was held. "If the attitude of the kwaZulu government continues then it is not possible to hold free and fair elections there and the IEC will not be able to make such a declaration at the end." This had propelled the ANC to put pressure on State President F W de Klerk to take steps. "We had talks with him but he ducked and dived out of taking action." The ANC would nevertheless impose peace there. Mr Ramaphosa said the fact that the NP [National Party] had fielded totally discredited ministers to become `provincial premiers'showed it was not serious about transforming the country. It had nominated Law and Order Minister Hernus Kriel for the Western Cape, "while his whole department is deeply immersed in the murder of our people". In the Eastern Cape it had nominated Dr. Tertius Delport whose long relationship with the right wing had almost led him to defect from the NP. In Natal it was Mr George Bartlett. "The NP has no commitment to non-racism or reconstruction in this country." The ANC would expose the tactics and racist slogans it was using. The ANC was daily gaining support for its Reconstruction and Development Program -- the most comprehensive document on socio- economic issues ever developed in the history of the country. "One of the central reasons for people being attracted is because they can see we have a plan to address the ills and evils that have been visited on our people by apartheid. The entire leadership is behind this programme and declaring it will be implemented whether FW (de Klerk) and the NP like it or not."
