FBIS4-43530 "drweu118_a_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-118 Daily Report 19 Jun 1994 AUSTRIA Haider Reelected FPOe Chairman Haider Reelected FPOe Chairman AU1906185394 Vienna KURIER in German 19 Jun 94 p 2 AU1906185394 Vienna KURIER German BFN [Report by Magdalena Rauscher: "Haider's All-Out Attack in `the Thin Air'"] [Text] The beginning of the election campaign a la Joerg Haider: Overflowing with self-confidence and cynicism, he started an all-out attack against political opponents and critics from within his own ranks at the Freedom Party of Austria [FPOe] federal congress in Linz. The aftermath of the defeat in the European Union [EU] referendum was severe. Haider's criticism of the declared EU advocates in his party was veiled but unmistakable. During the FPOe's "steep climb to a fascinating summit" the air has already become thin and "some" people's "hearts have started to flutter and they are afraid" as a result. However, the FPOe does not need fearful persons and egotistical functionaries. Erwin Hirnschall, a president of the Vienna provincial legislature, who had celebrated together with the Industrialists' Association on the evening of the referendum, received verbal slaps from Haider and the secretary generals -- which he returned during the discussion in the afternoon. Hirnschall: A continuing massive anti-EU course is a "dangerous path" for the FPOe. Back to Joerg Haider: He does not see any EU advocates anymore. The people are "not pleased" about this vote. Political opponents were showered with verbal abuse: The Social Democratic Party of Austria has left a "heap of sociopolitical shards" with its policy. The Austrian People's Party [OeVP] is "degrading its own president." He even called OeVP Chairman Busek a "self-styled coalition idiot." When the chairman was elected in the evening, Haider's unambiguous call for cohesiveness showed effect: He was the only candidate and was reelected with 96.6 percent of the delegates' votes. Following his own proposal, he now has five deputies: Edith Haller (80.2 percent); Hans Achatz (81.8 percent); Karl Schnell (86.5 percent); Michael Schmid (86.9 percent); Susanne Riess (78 percent). An interesting aside: Haider asked Erwin Hirnschall to chair the election campaign-- "because he brings me luck."
