FBIS3-54711 "drsov001_s_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 Georgia Kavsadze Views Geneva Talks on Conflict LD3112210493 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1604 GMT 31 Dec 93 LD3112210493 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Denis Perkin] [Text] Moscow, 24 Dec [date as received] -- "Russia can and must resolve the problem of settling the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict," thinks Sandro Kavsadze, chairman of the Georgian State Committee for Human Rights and International Relations. He made the statement at a news conference on preparations for the second round of the Geneva talks on the settlement of the Georgian-Abkhazian conflict scheduled for 11 January 1994. "Our main aim is to settle the conflict by peaceful means. One cannot wait any longer because killings and deportation of people are still going on," Sandro Kavsadze stressed. Summing up some results of the first round of the Geneva talks which were held at the end of November and beginning of December, he appreciated Russia's assistance in holding the talks. Among the results was the memorandum on Mutual understanding which included an obligation by the parties to refrain from using force for the period of the negotiations, an exchange of POW's based on the principle of "everyone in exchange of everyone," and measures for resolving the refugee problem. The talks also covered the necessity for Abkhazia's economic revival and recognition of its autonomous statehood by the parties. As regards the second point, the Georgian spokesman clarified that "Abkhazia should have an autonomous statehood, but the question is what statehood." As for Russia's role in the conflict settlement, Sandro Kavsadze thinks the involvement of Russian armed forces under the aegis of the United Nations is necessary in order to create guarantees for security in the region. The Georgian spokesman stressed: "We are trying to convince Russia that there is no alternative."
