FBIS4-18983 "drweu070_b_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-070 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 BENELUX Belgium Claes Does Not Foresee Extension of UNAMIR Mandate Claes Does Not Foresee Extension of UNAMIR Mandate BR1104141394 Groot-Bijgaarden DE STANDAARD in Dutch 11 Apr 94 p 2 BR1104141394 Groot-Bijgaarden DE STANDAARD Dutch BFN ["LNS" report on interview with Belgian Foreign Minister Claes in Brussels; date not given: "Minister Claes Does Not Expect UN Mandate in Rwanda To Be Extended"] [Text] Brussels -- Foreign Minister Willy Claes does not expect the Security Council to extend the mandate of UN troops in Rwanda. "A debate in New York is inevitable," he said yesterday on television. He recalled that the UN troops were sent to Rwanda to help realize the implementation of the Arusha peace agreement. The murder of President Habyarimana has made the further existence of the agreement doubtful. Claes expected the United Nations to be very reluctant to grant another extension of the mandate. He emphasized that the Belgian soldiers in Rwanda would not intervene. "The UN soldiers are remaining within their mandate as peacekeepers, the paratroopers who went there have a clear humanitarian mission," the minister said on "The Seventh Day" television news program yesterday. Claes left no doubt about the need to send Belgian troops to Rwanda. "At the time both the president and the rebels asked us to send troops. The United Nations also urged us to send soldiers, because our UN troops have a good reputation," the minister said, admitting that the mandate and the arming of the UN troops could have been better. The minister thought it was correct that the Belgian UN troops had not intervened in recent days. They do not have antitank artillery and interference in the internal disputes would unavoidably lead to revenge attacks on whites. "The hostility of part of the presidential guard against the Belgians was due to the impartiality of Belgium, which supported the peace agreement and never chose sides," Claes said. "We have always told both sides that they must respect human rights," he said. "I would also note that the anti-Belgian attitude comes from extremists only."
