FBIS4-42402 "drweu107__a94038" FBIS-WEU-94-107-A Daily Report 3 June 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Berlusconi Lauds `Warm' Relations With U.S.; Reactions Berlusconi Lauds `Warm' Relations With U.S.; Reactions BR0306091294 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 2205 GMT 2 Jun 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0306091294 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "`Warm Relations' Between Clinton, Berlusconi; Fini Satisfied"] [Text] (ANSA) Rome, June 2 -- Visiting U.S. President Bill Clinton developed a "warm human relationship" with Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi on the first day of his two-day visit here, Berlusconi told the press on Thursday evening [2 June]. "Everything went well," Berlusconi told the press after a dinner in Clinton's honour this evening. "We have created a warm human relationship with Clinton and his wife." Equally pleased at this evening's function was Gianfranco Fini, secretary of the National Alliance, who said that there was no echo of foreign press concern over the presence of his party in the governing coalition. National Alliance was born out of the Italian Social Movement, the political heir to the Fascist Party. According to Fini, Clinton shook hands with the National Alliance leader and showed no reserve at all, "not even in the words he spoke when Berlusconi introduced me to him. Of course he knew perfectly well who all the people present were, and he was cordial with them all in exactly the same way." "To me, Clinton seemed perfectly at ease," Fini added. "If I had to say in a word what did not emerge either this evening or this afternoon on the Capitoline, I would say it was embarrassment. There was everything but embarrassment." Interior Minister Roberto Maroni, who replaced Northern League leader Umberto Bossi at tonight's dinner, explained Bossi's absence saying that the party chief had an appointment with his supporters which took precedence over a formal engagement. Also present this evening was Left Democrat Party Secretary Achille Occhetto who said "I am happy to have met Clinton, who is one of the most dynamic and human politicians around. He is a brave man."
