FBIS4-46251 "jptot023__l94037" JPRS-TOT-94-023-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 3 June 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Iran's Velayati To Visit Iraq, Discuss `Policy Against' U.S. Iran's Velayati To Visit Iraq, Discuss `Policy Against' U.S. PM0306135094 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 3 Jun 94 p PM0306135094 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Arabic BFN [Unattributed report: "Four Items on Velayati's Agenda During His Visit to Baghdad"] [Text] Tehran, London, AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT -- Tehran announced yesterday that Iranian Foreign Minister 'Ali Akbar Velayati has accepted an invitation to visit Iraq early next month. Velayati, who will be the first Iranian minister to visit Iraq since 1978, is expected to discuss "an important and deep change in bilateral relations," according to sources in Tehran. The agenda will include four issues: To achieve a phased settlement to the dispute over the Shatt al-'Arab waterway on the basis of the 1975 Algiers agreement. To coordinate to prevent the establishment of a semi-independent Kurdish state in north Iraq. Iran reached a separate agreement with Turkey on this issue, while Syria announced its commitment to Iraq's territorial integrity. To agree on a joint policy against Washington, and the two sides will work to set up a broader grouping that could include Jordan, Yemen, Sudan, and Libya; it could also include Qatar. To embark on a joint economic action to ease the effects of the UN sanctions imposed on Iraq, without violating the Security Council resolutions. Iran is already allowing the delivery to Iraq of huge quantities of food supplies, medicine, and "durable" commodities through operations across the border. But there are several sources of tension in relations between Tehran and Baghdad; most importantly, either side is financing and supporting the exiled groups opposed to the other. The arrest recently of two people in Tehran on the pretext that they are Iraqi intelligence officers is an indication that the two sides are continuing the hostile operations which were originally designed during the eight-year war between the two countries. Iraq is sheltering and financing several Iranian opposition groups, including the Mojahedin-e Khalq, the Kurdish Democratic Party [of Iran], and several Baluch groups. While Iran is supporting Shiite Iraqi organizations fighting the Baghdad regime.
