FBIS3-24432 "jpusr032___94011" FBIS-USR-94-032 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 22 February 1994 CAUCASUS AZERBAIJAN Solution Sought to Meat Supply `Crisis' 944K0926C Baku BAKINSKIY RABOCHIY in Russian 22 Feb 94 p 1 944K0926C Baku BAKINSKIY RABOCHIY Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by BAKINSKIY RABOCHIY correspondent G. Safarov: "Why Is Meat Rising in Price?"] [Text] Yevlakh--The situation in livestock raising has become quite strained lately, as we know. Of course, the sector can be revived once and for all only after the occupied territories are liberated. But is there a possibility the situation can be at least alleviated somehow? "I think we can," said F. Aliyev, director of the Yevlakh combine. He stressed that the economic ties that were broken with partners in the near abroad must be restored to overcome the crisis. In past years, Agdam and Yevlak provided mixed feed to livestock raising farms not only in Karabakh, but several dozen other rayons in the republic as well. Various components came from 20 cities in the former union republics--from special salt, chalk, and cottonseed meal to oats and fodder grain--to turn out the finished product. It has now been several years since the stabilized ties with suppliers were broken. Moreover, we cannot count on the Agdam combine for the present. And the production volumes in Yevlakh are now being measured in just hundreds of metric tons, not thousands. While mixed feed of five varieties was turned out here before, only one form of the product--a feed mixture from local raw material--is being prepared and delivered to the farms now. My interlocutor is undoubtedly right. But on the other hand, the repeated increase in prices for deliveries from the near abroad cannot be disregarded, either. Consequently, the prices for mixed feed will rise as well. Accordingly, the livestock raisers will be selling their product at a higher price. Well, it is possible that this is only the first stage in a solution of the problem--achieving definite saturation of the market for livestock products. And as far as the future is concerned, we have to ensure that prices for meat, milk, and dairy products are at least stabilized, if not quickly lowered. It is up to the market.
