FBIS3-56875 "drsov014_b_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues More on Shakhray Press Conference PM2101103394 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 21 Jan 94 First Edition p 1 PM2101103394 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed untitled report] [Text] Despite the fact that the president's edict on the composition of the government has not yet been signed, S. Shakhray has already announced that he has accepted an offer to fill the post of minister for nationalities and regional policy in the new cabinet. He made this statement at a press conference held on the morning of 20 January in the State Duma building. According to S. Shakhray, he is totally unperturbed at the reduction in his status from vice premier to "mere" minister. He sees his main task as being to ensure that the ministry he has been instructed to head works effectively. He also hinted at the possibility that the ministry will be directly subordinate to Chernomyrdin. S. Shakhray also disclosed that, together with his party and Duma faction colleague A. Shokhin, he has been subjected to strong pressure from the PRUA [Party of Russian Unity and Accord]. The party demanded that they remain in the government. If only as ministers. The PRUA leader confirmed that A. Shokhin has agreed to become economics minister. In this connection S. Shakhray unexpectedly sharply criticized Ye. Gaydar's departure from the government and the possible departure of B. Fedorov. In particular, he stated that the present complex situation in Russia "is in many respects their handiwork." In his opinion, difficulties within the government, which Ye. Gaydar cited as the explanation of his decision to go, are objectively inevitable and it is dishonest to quit because of them. In answering numerous questions about the consequences of the government reshuffle, S. Shakhray expressed confidence that no political force today will now be able to abandon reforms.
