FBIS3-18145 "drweu039_j_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Reactions to Fiat Agreement Noted BR2402122994 Rome LA REPUBBLICA in Italian 23 Feb 94 p 8 BR2402122994 Rome LA REPUBBLICA Language: Italian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "From Ciampi to Occhetto: Everyone is in Favor"] [Text] Rome -- Reactions to the agreement reached on Monday night [21 February] between the trade unions, Fiat, and Labor Minister Gino Giugni were characterized by a decidedly positive tone. For CGIL [Italian General Confederation of Labor] Secretary Bruno Trentin, "the Fiat agreement constitutes the best which could be achieved, in a situation which is both so serious and so full of unknowns, in particular after obtaining, at the last moment, the government's formal involvement in an extraordinary audit of the company's commitments." However, Trentin's reaction is offset by that of the Essere trade union in the CGIL which, in a memorandum, contests the agreement. A comment on the solution of the Fiat dispute also came from Democratic Party of the Left leader Achille Occhetto, for whom "the FIOM [Federation of Employees and Workers in the Metallurgical Industry] did a good thing in signing the agreement." "The FIOM," he added "has arrived at a new and significant position on the question of industrial policies, which demonstrates how the real problem today is that of having a government and a majority which can have this agreement applied as it relates to employment prospects." Prime Minister Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, who intervened directly on Monday to support a positive outcome of the agreement, yesterday expressed to Giugni "the government's appreciation for the intelligent work of mediation and for achieving the very important agreement in the Fiat dispute." For CISL [Italian Confederation of Trade Unions] Deputy Secretary General Raffaele Morese, "this is a victory for worker participation." "The agreement reflects," he added, "a fair amount of the CISL's philosophy." However, for former CISL General Secretary Pierre Carniti, the agreement "is a good thing, but the early retirements are the most senseless and expensive of all the social shock absorbers." Satisfaction was also expressed by Confindustria [General Confederation of Italian Industry] Chairman Luigi Abete. Abete described the accord as "a very important result, which demonstrates that when the institutions on the one hand and the competent social partners on the other hand are allowed to work calmly, it is possible to find balanced solutions which address labor's problems, but which also give major consideration to problems of competitiveness."
