FBIS4-38097 "drnes124_s_94007" FBIS-NES-94-124 Daily Report 26 Jun 1994 Iran Investigation of Mashhad Bombing Continues Investigation of Mashhad Bombing Continues Majles Speaker Blames U.S. LD2606110094 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0930 GMT 26 Jun 94 LD2606110094 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Excerpt] The Islamic Consultative Assembly [Majles] deputies, in a statement today during an open session, condemned the bestial act of the monafeqin [Mojahedin-e Khalq Organization, MKO] in violating Muslim sanctities and bathing in blood the innocent pilgrims to the immaculate grave of His Holiness Imam Reza, peace be upon him. In their statement, the Majles deputies, criticizing the silence of international forums regarding that atrocity, call upon world parliaments to condemn the perpetrators of the crime, especially America. The statement stressed the need for swift identification and punishment of the crime's perptrators. According to a report by our parliamentary correspondent, Majles speaker Nateq-Nuri considered the monafeqin's crime on the day of Ashura at the immaculate shrine of the Eighth Imam to stem from their despair and hopelessness regarding their future. He pointed out: Such incidents make our nation and government more united and determined in the fight with world arrogance and its mercenaries. The Majles speaker stressed: The crime in Mashhad does not only belong to the monafeqin; they are not the only ones to be condemned. They are tools in the hands of world arrogance and all governments that somehow support the process of creating discord. The monafeqin are involved in that atrocity. Criticizing the untrue statements made by Western authorities concerning the fight against terrorism, he added: Until the special UN committee for human rights and its representatives, including Galindo Pohl, make the Mashhad atrocity the axis of their investigation, we shall have no confidence in them. [passage omitted]
