FBIS3-21912 "jptdd012__l94037" JPRS-TDD-94-012-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 12 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA COLOMBIA Roberto Escobar Reportedly Planning To Revamp Medellin Cartel's `Terrorist' Network PA1403201794 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 1800 GMT 12 Mar 94 PA1403201794 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report from the "NTC News" newscast] [Text] According to a report that "NTC News" has obtained, Roberto Escobar plans to reorganize the Medellin Cartel's terrorist network from the Itagui jail. After Pablo Escobar's death, a struggle took place within the Medellin Cartel for its control. As a result, Roberto Escobar was attacked. It is believed a group under the leadership of Fidel Castano, alias Rambo, was behind this attack. Gustavo Tapia, alias Techo; Luis Carlos Molina Jepes; Miguel Angel Builen; and (Mickey Ramirez) comprise the group. The members of the splinter group hit by Pablo Escobar are demanding the return of their properties that was seized and $20 million. To meet these demands, Pablo Escobar's widow Maria Victoria Henao; her brother Fernando Henao, alias Hierbas; and those incarcerated in the Bogota jails, Carlos Mario Urquijo, Fernando Pozada Fierro, Luis Carlos Aguilar, and Gustavo Gutierrez Arrula have reached an agreement, through attorneys, to return all the properties. This group, under the leadership of Rafael Galeano and Mireya Moncada, are supported by the Cali cartel and Fidel Castano. In addition, they demand all the properties of all the cartel members who are incarcerated be returned as compensation for the deaths of their relatives. This agreement has been accepted by some of the incarcerated individuals and by Pablo Escobar's widow. Roberto Escobar, as successor to the Medellin Cartel chief, however, does not accept this agreement. Therefore, he wants the inmates to be transferred from Santa Fe de Bogota to Medellin to reorganize and reactive the militias and the gangs that have always operated with Medellin Cartel funds.
