FBIS3-8083 "dreeu043_i_94021" FBIS-EEU-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Army Captures Territory Near Gracanica AU0403121894 AU0403121894 Article Type:BFN [Editorial Report] Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian at 1100 GMT on 4 March carries in its regular 17-minute newscast two reports on the fighting in the republic. An unidentified correspondent reports from the 3d Corps Press Center and says that "over the past few days, the ustasha provocations have not been intense enough to provoke our army's troops, which have been consistently observing the orders of the military command. Yesterday was marked by mainly small arms provocations by the enemy side. Sniper fire at our defense lines in the regions of Nevic Polje and Ciglane on the Vitez front, and at our positions around Busovaca from the direction of Pabjak, Kula, Radenovac, Komar, and Donje Polje constituted the most frequent provocations. In Gornji Vakuf, the ustashas fired several Tromblon grenades in addition to small arms provocations, but our soldiers did not respond." He adds that "the chetniks from their artillery strongholds continue to shell civilian buildings sporadically. They fired several mortar shells at Zavidovici, and they fired a dozen artillery shells of various types at villages close to the defense lines. The chetniks also fired several shells at Bugojno from the direction of Donji Vakuf, which resulted in sizable material damage." An unidentified correspondent from Gracanica reports that "in a counterattack carried out on this front, our defenders liberated two dominant peaks where the chetniks had killed dozens of innocent civilians in the course of the war. Overnight, the aggressor from the direction of Bosansko Suho Polje used 82-mm and 120-mm mortars to shell civilian targets in Klokotnica [words indistinct] at Stefan Polje. During the night, the chetniks brought in fresh forces and equipment to the Trebava [River] front. Over 60 truckloads of men arrived in the areas of Paleznica and (?Sember) Rijeka, while five tanks have been deployed facing our defense lines. This implies that the chetniks will today launch an even fiercer offensive in these areas."
