FBIS3-10983 "drlat051_b_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 Haiti Aristide Demands Dismissal of Lt. Col. Francois FL1503232894 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio in French 1130 GMT 15 Mar 94 FL1503232894 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] The removal of General Cedras from the Army command is not sufficient for lifting the sanctions because [Lieutenant] Colonel Joseph Michel Francois is a torturer and can in no way be rewarded for his crimes, according to President Jean-Bertrand Aristide's spokesman, Jean-Claude Martineau, on 14 March. He called the plan by Haitian parliamentarians anticonstitutional and not in compliance with the Governors Island agreement. The plan contains nothing but flaws, Martineau explained. [Begin Martineau recording, in Creole] Another refugee boat sank off the Bahamas. According to the latest reports, there may be another 50 deaths. In Miami, Daniel Buron has been assassinated. The Keep-an-Eye-on-Them Organization [Veye Yo] and the entire community of Little Haiti in Miami are in mourning. In Haiti, lawbreakers are sowing death. Meanwhile, a plan is moving around the streets, promising to resolve the crisis like a magic wand. This plan does not comply with the country's Constitution. In addition, it does not comply with the Governors Island agreement, neither in what it says, nor in what it means to say. Since this plan came out, people have been hearing comments about it from time to time, but nobody has asked the Haitian people -- who voted for the Constitution and who voted for President Aristide -- what they think. So we, who are speaking on behalf of the president the people elected, think it would be good to recenter the ball: 1. When Gen. Cedras signed the Governors Island agreement, he did it on behalf of an institution called the Army. 2. The international community has imposed an embargo on Haiti because of the coup d'etat. So the embargo cannot be lifted if Gen. Cedras alone goes. The coup d'etat must be eradicated. 3. Lt. Col. Michel Francois has caused the deaths of many people in Haiti. He is not a soldier. He is a butcher. The Haitian people want justice. They do not want to reward him for his crimes. 4. The constitutional president is the head of the Army even though he is not directly in charge of it. The Army is not a state within the country. 5. It [not further identified] is so flawed that it allows people to say whatever they want. We want the international community to keep in mind that the crisis must be resolved in favor of democracy, not in favor of a coup d'etat. [end recording]
