FBIS4-35522 "drnes105_r_94007" FBIS-NES-94-105 Daily Report 29 May 1994 SOUTH ASIA India `Significant Achievement' Lauded `Significant Achievement' Lauded BK2905150694 Delhi All India Radio Network in English 0245 GMT 29 May 94 BK2905150694 Delhi All India Radio Network English BFN [Commentary by defense analyst Rahul Roy Chowdhury] [Text] The commissioning of the submarine INS [Indian Naval Ship] Shankul by the prime minister is a significant achievement for both the country and the navy. It demonstrates India's ability to indigenously build a highly complex and sophisticated warship along with the navy's resolve to adequately defend its maritime interests in the Indian Ocean. Both these issues continue to remain critical to Indian security. Shankul is only the second submarine to have been built in India. The first such submarine INS Shalki was commissioned into the Indian Navy just over two years ago. Both these vessels were constructed at the Defense Ministry's Mazagaon shipyard in Bombay. While a German (?sales) firm provided material packages and access to certain technologies, Indian workers carried out the bulk of the construction work on the submarine. This included the welding of the hulls and manufacture of various critical items and components. Through these activities they have been able to gain sufficient experience for the construction of similar vessels in future. Shankul is a modern and sophisticated submarine which is to be used primarily for antisubmarine and antiship operations in a situation of war. It has a standard displacement of 1,450 tons and is formally classified as a stretched and a heavier version of the German HDW class 209 type of vessel. While its level of (?self-noise) is relatively lower than other submarines of its class, its range of some 8,000 miles is considered to be a record one. Shankul is also well-armed with eight 21-inch Torpedo tubes and mines. In addition, it is equipped with advanced radar and solar systems. Amongst the submarines operated by the Indian Navy, Shankul and Shalki are unique as they possess an integrated (?escutcheon) for the entire crew at times of emergency. With the commissioning of Shankul, the strength of the Indian Navy's submarine force has risen to 18. Besides the two built in India, it comprises submarines acquired from Germany and the erstwhile Soviet Union. The acquisition of additional vessels in the last few years became necessary to replace an older class of submarines and to defend India's extended maritime interests in the Indian Ocean.
