FBIS3-35564 "drnes039_s_94010" FBIS-NES-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 SOUTH ASIA Iran President, Groups, Dailies Respond to Hebron Attack Muslims Urged To Show `Correct' Reaction NC2502194694 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Arabic 1730 GMT 25 Feb 94 NC2502194694 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Political report: "The Ugly Crime Committed by the Zionists in the Ibrahimi Mosque in Hebron"] [Text] The barbaric Zionist crime of the ugly massacre of fasting Muslims in Hebron martyred more than 60 persons and injured more than 300 others. The crime came at a time when Muslims were preparing to celebrate International Jerusalem Day. The Zionist entity officials -- who have failed to achieve their satanic objectives despite all their ruses, capitulationist solutions, and acts of violence -- are again trying their luck through fascist means, as they did in Dayr Yasin and Kafr Qasim. By committing massacres and spreading terror, they want to deter the oppressed Palestinian Muslims from continuing their just and legitimate resistance. The world is once again face to face with a barbaric and ugly crime that has no justification whatsoever. The Zionist entity and the White House leaders are in charge of these practices from behind the curtain. The Hebron massacre has put an end to the dreams of the bargain seekers and those who indulged the criminal leaders in Tel Aviv and called on the Palestinian people to make peace and bargain with them. Does not bargaining with such an entity lead only to the destruction of the Palestinian Muslim people? Are not those ignoring these crimes and calling on the Tel Aviv leaders to be friends partners in the crime? What crime has the innocent Muslim inhabitants of Hebron committed to be massacred? World public opinion and Muslims everywhere are angry with this ugly Zionist crime and are urged to show their correct and conscious reaction in order to prevent the Zionists from persisting with actions that aim to annihilate Muslims and Islam. If Muslims are lax and pay scant attention to this crime, the Zionists and their allies in Washington will certainly take the next steps. The main objective of the arrogant forces and the Zionists is the destruction of the Islamic resistance. The most prominent examples of this are seen today in the occupied territories and Bosnia. We are confident that Muslims will not allow such a satanic plot to pass.
