FBIS4-3201 "drchi075_k_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-075 Daily Report 10 Apr 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social National Meeting on Illegal Textile Trade Held National Meeting on Illegal Textile Trade Held HK1804120494 Guangzhou Guangdong People's Radio Network in Mandarin 1000 GMT 10 Apr 94 HK1804120494 Guangzhou Guangdong People's Radio Network Mandarin BFN [Text] The Fourth National Working Meeting on Cracking Illegal Textile Transit-Trade Activities, jointly sponsored by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, the General Administration of Customs, and the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities, was opened in Guangzhou today. Over the past year our government departments have adopted a series of measures to stop illegal textile transit-trade activities. Since 1990 our country has punished 14 domestic export enterprises and manufacturers, suspended trade contacts with three foreign enterprises, and closed the office of a foreign enterprise in China. The meeting participants published a bulletin on punishing four enterprises including Shengyang's (Dongmao) Industrial Company, and others which engaged in illegal textile transit-trade activities. The meeting will also study and solve several specific problems occurring in the course of cracking illegal transit-trade activities, such as exports of textile products without the country of origin noted, export permits for textile products, appeals lodged by relevant export enterprises, controversial places of origin, and falsification of place of origin. This year the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, General Administration of Customs, and the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities will form a leading group responsible for cracking illegal textile transit-trade activities. They will continue to carry out a nationwide investigation and formulate specific measures and methods. On behalf of Guangdong Province, Vice Governor Lu Ruihua addressed the meeting. He said: Guangdong has never supported, concealed, or covered up illegal textile transit-trade activities. It will make checks at all levels in terms of orders of goods, agents, and exports to put an end to illegal smuggling of textile goods. Shi Guangsheng, vice minister of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, attended today's meeting and spoke.
