FBIS3-41405 "jptdd008__l94113" JPRS-TDD-94-008-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 23 February 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM UK Signs Antidrug Memorandum With Italy, Joins `Teledrug' Computer System BR1102154094 London Hermes Database in English 10 Feb 94 BR1102154094 London Hermes Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Press release from the UK Home Office: "UK; Italy Link Up To Fight"] [Text] Information about illicit drug trafficking will soon be exchanged between the UK and Italy using Teledrug--a computer system developed in Italy. This latest Anglo-Italian initiative follows a successful joint operation on Christmas Eve where 263 kg of cocaine were seized in Felixstowe. A Memorandum of Understanding paving the way for UK/Italian cooperation on drug trafficking was signed today by Assistant-Under Secretary of State at the Police Department, John Warne and the Director of the Office for the Coordination and Planning of Italian Police, Prefetto Gaetano Piccolella. The Memorandum Will: [subhead] --enable the UK to join the Teledrug computer information system; --lead to better cooperation between both countries in identifying and apprehending drug traffickers. Home Office Minister of State, Peter Lloyd announced the UK's intention to join the Teledrug system at the Ministerial Conference on European Drug Trafficking Routes, held in Rome in May 1993. The UK is the second European Union Member State to join the Teledrug system. Greece signed an agreement with Italy last year. Notes To Editors [subhead] 1. The Teledrug system was developed by Italy following a Ministerial Meeting in Rome in 1990. Participants agreed to exchange information about illicit drug trafficking along the Balkan Route. The United Kingdom was not present. 2. Teledrug came into operation in September 1992, linking terminals in Italy and Turkey to a mainframe computer in Rome. 3. Teledrug offers a potentially valuable source of information. The UK's one year trial of Teledrug will enable an evaluation of the system. 4. HM Customs and Excise and the National Criminal Intelligence Service will operate Teledrug in the UK.
