FBIS3-42539 "jpusp001___94039" JPRS-USP-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia: Space 16 February 1994 SPACE POLICY, ADMINISTRATION NASA Signs MOU on Cooperation With TsAGI 937Q0042B Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 7 Dec 93 p 3 937Q0042B Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by M. Kalashnikova, under the rubric "Partners": "TsAGI and NASA Have Signed a Memorandum on Cooperation: The American Side Is Interested in the Russian Intellect and Technologies"] [Text] A delegation of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) visited Moscow for a working meeting with officials of the Central Aerohydrodynamic Institute (TsAGI) and in connection with the anniversary celebrated by its TsAGI colleagues. The head of the delegation, Wesley Harris -- the deputy director of NASA -- is the immediate head of all four of its research centers. The intensive two-day talks between Harris and the deputy chairman of the State Committee on Defense Sectors of Industry of Russia, Anatoliy Bratukhin, resulted in a memorandum on cooperation between Russia and the United States in the field of basic aviation research. The document is to serve as one of the appendices in an agreement on cooperation between Russia and the United States that is supposed to be signed on 16 December 1993 at a meeting between Vice President Albert Gore and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin. On behalf of the Russian government, the appendix will be countersigned by the chairman of the State Committee on Defense Sectors of Industry, Viktor Glukhikh. The document is to expand the possibilities for joint work that were alluded to in the August agreement on cooperation in space. It will be primarily TsAGI and the Central Institute of Aviation Materials (VIAM) that will actively interact with NASA on the research program outlined. The American partners are interested primarily in the Russian intellectual potential, our methods of basic research, and a number of "high-level technologies" that, in the United States, are less effective or don't exist at all. For TsAGI, in the words of its director, German Zagaynov, the signing of the agreement during the anniversary was profoundly symbolic -- the document was initialed in the same room in which A. N. Tupolev designed his first airplanes.
