FBIS3-41593 "jpten004___94063" JPRS-TEN-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 17 February 1994 LATIN AMERICA NICARAGUA Environmental Protection Bill Outlined 94WN0081A Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 19 Oct 93 p 11 94WN0081A Managua BARRICADA Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Commentary by Nicaraguan Environmental Movement Executive Director Pedro Gamboa] [Text] The increasing environmental deterioration of Nicaragua's natural resources and the severe water and soil pollution caused by the irrational use of pesticides and indiscriminate discharge of toxic chemical and industrial wastes make it essential to control and regulate the nation's economic activities. Various publications and reports--even government reports--presented by reputable persons with well-known environmental credentials have provided us with information that is truly alarming regarding the nation's future development. One example is the deforestation rate--150,000 hectares a year--in areas used for agriculture. Deforestation is creating a crisis, and in 15 years we will have no woods, as Nicaragua's present forested area is approximately 3.5 million hectares. Water is another critical case. Here the crisis has two aspects: a) The small quantity of resources left. b) The quality of the resources we are using. Institutional Regulation In the first case, we have learned recently that over 40 rivers in the central Pacific region have dried up. Secondly, a large part of our rivers, lakes, and ponds are badly polluted. In Managua, we are now dependent for water for human consumption on Asososca Lake and underground wells. This situation demands the improvement of institutional management, the rationalization of our use of natural resources, and the people's organized and conscious involvement in protecting our natural resources and preserving the quality of the environment. These factors are the qualitative aspects which the MAN [Nicaraguan Environmental Movement] is proposing for Nicaraguan society in the General Environmental Bill. This bill's most important features are: 1. Assigning environmental management duties and functions to each government agency in a coherent and orderly manner. 2. Allowing the people to exercise control of the natural resources of their area, through the use of administrative, civil, or criminal actions against those who violate the law. 3. Requiring an environmental impact study before any economic project is undertaken. Toxic Wastes Prohibited 4. Giving producers, through fiscal, tax, and credit policies, incentives for investments or other efforts that will lead to the restoration and preservation of their area or territory. 5. Requiring students to perform 100 hours of environmental work in their area, as a graduation requirement. 6. Barring imports of toxic wastes and chemical products prohibited in their country of origin; the discharge or storage of trash in parks or public areas; spraying pesticides in urban areas and rural villages; and the execution of projects that disturb or alter the natural balance of an ecosystem. 7. Forming support groups for government agencies and municipalities (watershed committees and environmental protection boards).%8. Improving the transfer of financial resources so that municipalities are able to handle duties of importance for the territorial and local administration and management of natural resources. In summary, this bill is designed to create an instrument that, while far from being a panacea solving our many environmental problems, will provide a general framework for the operation of the state and civil society, and will implement a national strategy for sustainable development with justice and social equity.
