FBIS3-39437 "drweu033__a94004" FBIS-WEU-94-033-A Document Type:Daily Report 17 February 1994 ANNEX Belgium Claes Answers Senate Questions on NATO, Bosnia BR1602160894 Brussels BELGA in French 1231 GMT 16 Feb 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1602160894 Brussels BELGA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed "ALN/JDD": "Claes Addresses Senate on NATO Ultimatum"; as released by Brussels BELGA Database] [Text] Brussels, 16 Feb (BELGA) -- Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Willy Claes said the NATO message has been understood properly in Russia and Belgrade. He hoped therefore that a peace agreement which was acceptable to everyone and offered adequate guarantees for Bosnia would be possible. The minister was questioned in Senate on the situation in Bosnia by De Donnea (PRL) [Liberal Reformation Party] and De Croo (VLD) [Flemish Liberal Democrats]. He called once again for the European Union to speak with one voice and said it should take the indispensable step of deciding its foreign policies by a federal method, rather than the current interministerial conferences at which any decision must be unanimous. The minister also reiterated that NATO's decision to set an ultimatum for the withdrawal of heavy weapons around Sarajevo was an inevitable step. The peace process had reached an impasse and a new element was necessary. Claes saw the ultimatum as a "stimulus" to the peace negotiations. He also called for the ultimatum to be applied firmly. Thus he said he was in favor of a clear definition of what was expected exactly. For the minister, an effective peace agreement has to involve all the parties on the ground, the EU, the United States, Russia, and the Islamic countries. As for Russia in particular, the minister recalled that this country had voted in favor of the Security Council resolutions which supported the NATO decision. He also said Russia should be actively involved in the peace negotiations in the interest of the regions concerned, and also in the interests of democratization in Russia. Finally, Claes said Belgium should accept making additional efforts if NATO requested them.
