FBIS3-60397 "jptep001___94004" JPRS-TEP-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 4 January 1994 AFRICA UGANDA Twenty Sudan Refugees Die of Meningitis, Measles 94WE0098B Kampala THE NEW VISION in English 21 Aug 93 p 16 94WE0098B Kampala THE NEW VISION Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Yunusu Abbey: "20 Sudan Refugees Dead in Arua Camp"] [Text] Over 20 Sudanese refugees have so far died after contracting meningitis and measles at two transit camps here. Many more are down from the same causes. The dead comprise mainly old men and women as well as children living under squalid conditions at the camps, four miles from Koboko town along Moyo-Koboko road. The death occurred between last week and mid this week, according to Red Cross workers at the camps. "Between five to six people are dying here daily," said a Red Cross volunteer from Arua who is involved in the operation. On Monday August 16 alone, nine people died in one camp. Four others had died the previous day while another four died on Tuesday. The adults are mainly dying of meningistis while children are dying of measles. Aid workers however expressed fear that the death toll might rise because of the unhygienic and poor sanitary conditions at the camps. By Thursday the 30,000-plus refugees living in the two camps, had no toilets. Pit latrines had not been dug. They were also faced with an acute water shortage. The British charity organisation Oxfam, was still surveying nearest possible source of water for them. Besides, refugee families are crammed in poorly built grass-thatched huts, while others are sleeping under trees. Tents have been given out to some but many have not yet received any. RC officials distributing the food say though the bombing had ceased at the southern Sudan border town of Kaya, more refugees were still coming in. Four truck-loads arrived at the Koboko camps mid this week. The refugees are mainly of the Kakwa ethnic group of southern Sudan. Their dialect is almost similar to that of Uganda Kakwas in Koboko. But they complained that SPLA [Seychelles People's Liberation Army] fighters, mainly Dinka, confiscated and looted their property as they fled to Uganda. Sudanese Anglican Bishop Semmey Solomon has also sought refuge at Koboko. He is now staying with some Ugandan priests at Nangilia parish.
