FBIS4-55937 "dreeu101__a94027" FBIS-EEU-94-101-A Daily Report 24 May 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Government Approves Defense Doctrine Government Approves Defense Doctrine AU2405160394 Prague CTK in English 1456 GMT 24 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2405160394 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Bratislava May 24 (CTK) -- The Slovak Government today approved the Slovak Republic's Defence Doctrine. "The doctrine puts emphasis on the closer relations with and later membership of West European and Transatlantic security structures," Defence Minister Pavol Kanis told Slovak Radio. He said the document would be valid until the time when Slovakia joins Western structures and assumes their doctrine. The initial draft doctrine was approved in March by the cabinet of ex-Premier Vladimir Meciar but then the doctrine was reworked on the basis of remarks raised by the parliamentary committee. The document setting the goals and principles of Slovakia's security policy is to be valid for a time of Slovakia's participation in the Partnership for Peace project. "The Slovak Republic actually has the weakest potential of the armed forces, the weakest economic and human potential and it is therefore a pre-condition for the success of our defence to join a system of collective security. Our successful foreign policy is becoming a guarantee of our security," he said. At its session today, the government also discussed a presentation document to serve as a basic material for drafting an individual programme of Slovakia's cooperation with the North Atlantic Alliance within the Partnership for Peace project. Kanis said that on the basis of the defence doctrine and the presentation document the concrete defence and security policy will be implemented by the end of the century. The presentation document will be submitted to a NATO Council meeting in Brussels by Kanis on Wednesday [25 April]. The political document on the Slovak Republic's joining the Partnership for Peace project was signed this February in Brussels by ex-Premier Meciar.
