FBIS3-18482 "drweu041cc_94010" FBIS-WEU-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS EU Fund for Baltic Enterprises Depleted 94EN0214A Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 26 Jan 94 p II5 94EN0214A Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Language: Danish Article Type:CSO [Article by Lise Tajik: "EU Fund Closed to Small Projects in the Baltics"] [Text] The EU [European Union] fund for small- and minor business projects in the Baltics has been depleted. The money has been spent on the creation of advisory centers, and new funds will not be appropriated until the middle of 1995. There will be no new initiatives financed by the EU in the three Baltic countries for a year and one-half. The EU fund in support of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SME) in the Baltics has been depleted completely, and no more funds from this particular section of the PHARE [Economic Reconstruction Aid for Poland and Hungary] program will become available until the middle of 1995. The money has been swallowed up in the establishment of business advisory centers in the three Baltic countries, and there is not a red cent left for more down-to-earth programs. Procedure Results in Problems The Council of Artisans welcomes the idea of advisory centers, but finds it alarming that the EU fund for SME has been depleted. However, it is not only the missing millions that the Council finds disturbing. Another problem is PHARE's very bureaucratic appropriation process. Only projects that the receiving countries themselves apply for are given support. This benefits only government interests in the Baltics to the detriment of private projects, among others those enterprise-to-enterprise programs, on which the future business structure in the three Baltic countries has been based. Another difficulty is the fact that, after revising the Danish support arrangements for East Europe, one stresses the importance of linking these to international sources of investment. In this way, small- and medium-sized enterprises have been let go because they do not have a chance in the world of competing with the big ones in getting their share of international funds. Large Grant to Poland The PHARE program has set aside ECU230 million between 1990 and 1992 for development of small- and medium-sized enterprises in East and Central Europe. Of this, only ECU9 million have gone to the three Baltic countries -- corresponding to 3.75 percent of the total amount -- while about 40 percent -- ECU9 million has been spent on SME projects in Poland. The total PHARE program for East and Central Europe was granted ECU1 billion (almost 8 billion kroner) in 1993, and a similar amount has been set aside for 1994. The PHARE appropriations, consisting of a combination of professional aid and financial support, is spent on: - Changeover and privatization of government businesses. - Support for the private sector, especially small businesses. - Modernizing of financial systems. - Development of a social safety net.
