FBIS4-42757 "drweu110_h_94010" FBIS-WEU-94-110 Daily Report 4 Jun 1994 GERMANY `Extremist' Turks Reportedly Involved in Drug Trade `Extremist' Turks Reportedly Involved in Drug Trade AU0606143294 Berlin DIE WELT in German 4 Jun 94 p 2 AU0606143294 Berlin DIE WELT German BFN [Peter Scherer report: "Turks Control Heroin Trade"] [Text] Wiesbaden -- Members of extremist organizations banned in Germany are suspected of not only being involved in the political underground in Germany, but also in international heroin deals, Klaus Juergen Timm, chief of the Criminal Office of the land of Hesse, told DIE WELT. Members of the Turkish right-wing extremist organization, Green Wolves, and of the militant Workers Party of Kurdistan [PKK] have been identified in this connection. Turkish nationals are unquestioned market leaders in heroin dealings. The dealers who are linked mainly to Turkish-Kurdish drug organizations have also expanded their domination. According to the Criminal Office of Hesse, in 1993 Turks already formed 32.3 percent of all those suspected of being involved in the organized drug trade and drug smuggling. Timm is convinced that "conspiratorial PKK command and communications structures" continue to exist even though they have been outlawed. Internationally coordinated activities are still possible. "The PKK must be considered an organization that is not only responsible for massive violent activity on German soil, but also deals harshly with its own people who break the rules, and does not shy from assassination," says Timm. "There is also evidence that the PKK is collecting money from Kurds living in Germany, and in large quantities. Whoever fails to donate willingly is compelled to donate, even with the use of force." In addition, the PKK is being investigated for blackmail. Timm: "The problem is that we do not have witnesses who could confirm the criminal nature of the money-gathering activity. This is because the PKK places witnesses under pressure and is not afraid to use violence. One cannot normally investigate illegal financial dealings on the basis of acquired receipts alone."
