FBIS4-51954 "dreas087_c_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-087 Daily Report 5 May 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA North Korea `Ridiculous', `Imprudent' Act Noted `Ridiculous', `Imprudent' Act Noted SK0505051994 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0503 GMT 5 May 94 SK0505051994 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["Ridiculous and Imprudent Act" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, May 5 (KCNA) -- The South Korean authorities decided to hold a meeting of the "Unification and Security Policy Coordinating Council" on May 6 in order to confirm their position that the replacement of the Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement which the North proposed to the United States must be discussed through direct North-South dialogue after the complete settlement of the nuclear issue of the North and notify the United States and the United Nations of this position. Papers here today brand this as a ridiculous and imprudent act. An analyst of NODONG SINMUN says: The replacement of the Korean Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement and establishment of a new peace arrangement are questions that can be solved only between the DPRK and the United States, the parties concerned for the Armistice Agreement. The authorities of South Korea, not a signatory to the Armistice Agreement, are not qualified or justified for poking their nose in it. It is the United States that holds all powers in South Korea including the military prerogative. Therefore, the question of the replacement of the Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement cannot be solved through dialogue with the South Korean authorities who are deprived of the military prerogative. The South Korean puppets' opposition to DPRK-USA negotiation for peace on the pretext of the "settlement of the nuclear issue of the North" and their call for "direct North-South dialogue" clearly show that they want neither the settlement of the nuclear issue nor the establishment of new peace arrangement. Their ulterior intention is to block the DPRK-USA negotiation for peace arrangement at any cost. If the South Korean authorities want peace, they must not obstruct the DPRK-USA negotiation for the establishment of a new peace arrangement. An analyst of MINJU CHOSON warns that if the South Korean puppets continue to resort to despicable acts to prevent the realisation of the just proposal of the North, they will encounter bitterer criticism and rejection from the people at home and abroad.
