FBIS3-41555 "jpten004___94025" JPRS-TEN-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 17 February 1994 EAST ASIA JAPAN Government To Stress `Environment-Friendly Lifestyle' OW1611103893 Tokyo KYODO in English 0847 GMT 16 Nov 93 OW1611103893 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Nov 16 KYODO -- The government plans to launch a campaign to encourage the public to adopt an environment-friendly lifestyle in line with proposals adopted at the Earth Summit in June last year, according to a draft report released Tuesday [16 November]. The draft action plan contains measures to implement ``Agenda 21,'' which was agreed on at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) held in Rio de Janeiro. The draft plan cites six priority measures Japan hopes to implement to ensure a more environment-friendly atmosphere. According to the draft plan, Japan will make efforts to build a society capable of sustainable development while causing little havoc on the global environment. Japan intends to actively contribute to the establishment of an international legal framework on global environmental conservation and join international efforts to improve a financial contribution mechanism, including reform of the global environment facility, for conservation measures, the report said. Priority will also be placed on contributing to developing countries to help raise their capability to cope with environmental problems, according to the draft. Japan will promote the development of environment-related technology and technology transfers, and appropriately and systematically implement official development assistance, the draft said. Other priorities include securing international cooperation for observation, monitoring and investigative research on global environmental conservation and strengthening effective ties among the central and local governments, enterprises and nongovernmental organizations, it said. The ``Agenda 21'' included suggestions on how each country should prepare an action plan to implement the measures. The Group of Seven (G-7) industrialized nations agreed at the 1992 Munich Summit and the Tokyo Summit meeting last July to draw up and publish their respective action plans by the year-end. The government hopes to hear opinions on the draft from the public and issue a final report by that deadline after adjustments, the Foreign Ministry said.
