FBIS3-36537 "drsov026cc_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-026 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Feb 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS Joint CIS Structures Necessary To Prevent Conflicts LD0702153694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1239 GMT 7 Feb 94 LD0702153694 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Tamara Zamyatina] [Text] Moscow February 7 TASS -- Prominent political expert and head of a group in charge of national politics of the presidential council, Emil Pain, believes that promoting the activities of joint institutions of the CIS is a way for strengthening the Commonwealth of Independent States. In an interview with ITAR-TASS Pain said that prospects of the Commonwealth depend not on territorial integration, but on the creation of joint structures which would perform the functions of the court of arbitration -- coordination of opinions, ideas and settlement of disputes. Pain believes that the existence of such institutions might help resolve many problems which nowadays lead to conflicts. "For example, the revival of the idea of joint armed forces would practically resolve the problem of the Black Sea Fleet. The Black Sea Fleet would be subordinate then not to Russia or Ukraine, but to the joint armed forces of the Commonwealth," Pain said. If there were a single Eurasian bank for reconstruction and development, it would to a considerable extent promote the solution of problems of the monetary union, while a bank in support of refugees and resettlers would help regulate migration processes, he said. The expert believes that on the one hand, the optimum concept for the CIS consists in the development of integration structures, and on the other hand, in the idea of selective partnership at the level of bilateral relations which cannot be avoided. Pain thinks that "Russia must take a cautions and selective approach to unions with its neighbours and aid to them. This partnership should rest not on the prospect of joining other territories to Russia, but on ensuring stability and safety of its borders." "In this sense, stable countries deserve better aid from Russia," Pain said, adding that Russia can be satisfied not with any kind of stability, but rather with stability which is based on the operation of democratic institutions.
