FBIS3-30355 "dreeu022_p_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 POLAND Holds News Conference LD0102212494 Warsaw TVP Television First Program Network in Polish 1830 GMT 1 Feb 94 LD0102212494 Warsaw TVP Television First Program Network Language: Polish Article Type:BFN [Report by correspondent Katarzyna Kolenda; relayed by Polonia TV network] [Text] One day before Prime Minister Pawlak's departure for Brussels, a NATO Headquarters information mission arrived in Warsaw. [Begin recording of Herman Von Richthofen, German representative to NATO, in English with superimposed Polish translation] The purpose of our mission is, to a certain extent, to demonstrate that NATO is treating the Partnership for Peace scheme seriously. We would like to begin political and military cooperation within this scheme as soon as possible. [end recording] Members of the mission declared that, before the end of this year, joint exercises of Polish and NATO armed forces will be held. [video cuts to show General Stanislaw Wozniak speaking to camera] For the time being, we are not considering the number of divisions assigned to the scheme. We are considering the possibility of selecting small forces. We are talking here about a platoon, a company. An agreement that Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak will sign tomorrow concerns political consent for Poland's participation in the scheme. A detailed document is being prepared, and, in the view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it will be signed in a few weeks' time. It is still not known how much participation in the scheme will cost us: This year's budget does not envision any expenditure for this purpose. Representatives of the NATO mission discussed Poland's participation in the scheme with Foreign Minister Andrzej Olechowski and Jerzy Milewski, head of the National Security Office. Piotr Kolodziejczyk, the minister of national defense, and General Tadeusz Wilecki, head of the General Staff, could not meet the NATO delegation because they are on vacation with the president in the Karkonosze Mountains.
