FBIS4-25141 "drchi109_d_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-109 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 Northeast Asia More on Agreements More on Agreements HK0706060794 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 7 Jun 94 p 1 HK0706060794 Beijing CHINA DAILY English BFN [By Wang Yong: "China, ROK Sign Pacts To Promote Cooperation"] [Text] China and the Republic of Korea (ROK) yesterday signed high-profile agreements on industrial cooperation. The two countries plan to join efforts especially in the production of auto spare parts and television sets, as well as the development of civil aviation and programme-controlled switch system technologies. The event in Beijing was hailed by South Korean officials as a crucial part of what they billed as the "Kim-Jiang Vision" of bilateral economic collaboration. The vision took shape late last year when Chinese President Jiang Zemin and ROK President Kim Yong-sam met at the summit of Asia-Pacific nations in the United States city of Seattle. And during Kim's visit to China in March, the two governments agreed to set up the Sino-ROK Industrial Co-operative Committee, which seeks mutual benefit from each other's industrial priorities. The agreement was signed by Wang Zhongyu, Minister of the State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC), and Hwang Pyong-tae, the ROK Ambassador to China. SETC is responsible for the macro development of China's industries. Wang will lead Chinese officials from nine ministries to Seoul later this month to attend the first session of the cooperative committee. A memorandum on civil aviation technical cooperation between the two governments was also signed in Beijing yesterday. Hwang Pyong-tae said the new agreements would help diversify bilateral economic co-operation, which has largely been focused on trade only. The Republic of Korea's industrial giants like Hyundai, Posco, Daewoo, Goldstar, and Samsung have begun direct investments in China in the last few years. ROK investors are particularly interested in carving off a slice of the Chinese automotive, steel, electronics and telecommunications markets. Chinese Vice-Premier Li Lanqing said yesterday that the two nations should promote co-operation in industrial development, production and sales in a wide range of sectors. SETC officials said the two economies are complementary, and enjoy good prospects for further co-operation.
