FBIS4-61488 "drsov088_a_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-088 Daily Report 5 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Russia, Crimea Sign Cooperation Agreement Russia, Crimea Sign Cooperation Agreement LD0505171594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1616 GMT 5 May 94 LD0505171594 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Mikhail Shevtsov] [Text] Moscow May 5 TASS--An agreement on trade, economic and cultural cooperation between the Moscow and Crimean governments was signed here on Thursday by Moscow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov and visiting Crimean President Yuriy Meshkov. The agreement provides for concluding direct contracts on mutually beneficial terms, for creating joint ventures in various economic spheres to make, store and process agricultural products, for organizing recreation and medical treatment in health resorts and rest centres. The two sides plan to set up in prospect a Moscow-Crimean trade house and a foundation for revival of Crimea's economic and cultural ties. The document also envisages exchange of experience in privatization, anti-monopoly tax policy and fighting crime. Luzhkov described the signed agreement as an action of not only economic, but also political cooperation. "Crimea has always been inseparable from Russia, it is poured generously with Russian blood. Crimea and Russia are an integral whole", the Moscow mayor said. He expressed confidence that the agreement would enable a lot of Russians to have a good rest in Crimean resorts and rest homes, as well as replenish Moscow shops with fruit, vegetables and wine. The Crimean president also highly assessed the accord as based on good relations between Russians and Crimeans. According to him, the signed document "will make it possible to extend our liking and bent for each other to the economic sphere". Meshkov promised that Moscovites wishing to spend their summer vacation on the Crimean peninsula would have a carefree rest. "Crimea is waiting for Moscovites. It is calm and warm there. The sea, sun and Massandra wine cellars are at your disposal", the Crimean president said.
