FBIS4-53116 "dreas095_l_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-095 Daily Report 17 May 1994 Philippines Ramos Dissociates From East Timor Conference Ramos Dissociates From East Timor Conference BK1705072694 Quezon City Radio Filipinas in English 0230 GMT 17 May 94 BK1705072694 Quezon City Radio Filipinas English BFN [Statement issued by President Fidel Ramos on former Foreign Affairs Secretary Raul Manglapus' mission to Indonesia; place and date not given -- read by announcer] [Text] With respect to the scheduled meeting sponsored by some private groups on the situation in East Timor, I have sent a mission to Indonesia to convey a message from me to President Suharto. The mission will also call on Mr. Ali Alatas, the Indonesian foreign minister. The mission which left for Jakarta early on Monday is headed by former Secretary of Foreign Affairs Raul Manglapus, with retired Major General Jose Magno and Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs Rodolfo Severino as members. The mission will reaffirm the Philippines' solidarity with Indonesia as a close friend and neighbor, and as partners in ASEAN, specifically, to reiterate the Philippine commitment to the support for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Indonesia including the province of East Timor. The Philippines has affirmed this commitment and the support openly in [pause] last 19 years in the United Nations and in other forum. The Manglapus mission will also take, [changes thought] make clear that the Philippine Government dissociates itself from the conference on East Timor, that it looks for with disfavor upon the use of Philippine territory to question the territorial integrity of a friendly neighbor, and that it disagrees with their premises on which the conference is being conveyed. It will explain why, under the Philippine Constitution, it is possible for the Philippine Government to stop a gathering of private Filipino individuals from taking place. At the same time, the mission will assure the Indonesian Government of the Philippine Government's disavowal of this particular conference and of continuing Philippine solidarity with Indonesia on the question of East Timor. The Philippine Government has already stated this position before and will continue to manifest it strongly and in various ways. The Philippines highly values its relationship with Indonesia which has been steadfast in its friendship with the Philippines. I hope that all concerned will avoid doing anything that will damage the mutually beneficial relations between our two countries.
