FBIS3-20164 "drweu060aa_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Mar 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Licensed Trade in Minke Whale Products Sought 94P20558A Oslo AFTENPOSTEN in Norwegian 12 Mar 94 p 5 94P20558A Oslo AFTENPOSTEN Language: Norwegian Article Type:CSO [Article by Jan Gunnar Furuly] [Text] Ever since 1986 the minke whale has been on a par with the rhinoceros, the elephant, and the panda in the Washington Convention's list of especially endangered species, known as the List 1 species. The Norwegian Government wants to have the minke whale transferred to List 2 in order to facilitate international trade in minke whale products. "The present listing of the minke whale is unheard of from a scientific point of view. The minke whale has no business being in the same category as the rhinoceros and the panda," Bjorn Reppe, special adviser in the Fisheries Ministry, said. 120,000 Animals The demand for a change in listing has been sent to the 14 nations in the North Atlantic region that would be affected. The Norwegian overture follows initiatives from the Directorate for Natural Resources Management, the Fisheries Ministry, and the Environmental Protection Ministry. Norwegian authorities say that research shows that there are 120,000 minke whales in the regions around Great Britain, Iceland, and Norway. Of these, 87,000 belong to the northeast Atlantic variety that Norwegian whalers want to hunt commercially. Researchers estimate that there are about 1 million minke whales globally. Norwegian Exception Norway is one of 120 nations that have signed the Washington Convention regulating international trade in endangered plant and animal species. At any given time there are a couple of thousand species on the CITES [Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora] list. The list is drawn up as the result of regularly held meetings of the member countries. The minke whale was put on the list in 1986 following a suggestion from the Seychelles. Norway took exception to prohibiting export and import of minke whale, finback, and sperm whale. The Norwegian authorities believe that this legally enables them to allow trade in such products. The Washington Convention strictly prohibits export and import of List 1 species that are defined as especially endangered. Only controlled exchanges of material between researchers and museums are permitted. Trade is allowed for the species on List 2 if the CITES secretariat issues a license. The control remains stringent, however, to ensure that the licensed trade does not exceed certain limits. "The polar bear and the walrus are among northern species on CITES' List 2," Oystein Storkersen of the Directorate for Natural Resources Management said. He is not too optimistic about getting the Norwegian proposal accepted by the majority of the members of the Washington Convention. "Unfortunately the countries are governed by feelings, not facts, in their view of the whale," he said.
