FBIS3-38397 "drweu022_h_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 GERMANY FDP, SPD Advocate Two-Part Bundeswehr AU0102144194 Berlin DIE WELT in German 1 Feb 94 p 2 AU0102144194 Berlin DIE WELT Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report signed "rmc."/DW: "FDP Advocates Dividing Bundeswehr Into Two Parts"] [Text] Bonn -- Defense experts of the Free Democratic Party of Germany [FDP] and the Social Democratic Party of Germany [SPD] have called on FRG Defense Minister Volker Ruehe (Christian Democratic Union -- CDU) immediately to present a new concept for the army. When a "position paper on the Bundeswehr after the year 2000" was presented yesterday, FDP security politician Guenter Nolting reproached Ruehe for a "thought ban," which is virtually in force in his ministry. Apparently, Chancellor Helmut Kohl (CDU) is only marginally interested in security policy and does not use his authority for guidelines. The FDP is concerned over the fact that the "lack of political targets set for the Armed Forces by the responsible ministry has led to inactivity without concepts." SPD Defense Expert Andreas von Buelow also talked of a thought ban in the Defense Ministry. The Hardthoehe [seat of the Defense Ministry] rejected the reproaches as unfounded. Defense Minister Ruehe will publish "conceptual guidelines for the Bundeswehr" in April, a spokesman said. In Nolting's opinion, the Bundeswehr has to play an important role within the framework of a joint foreign and security policy of the European Union (EU). During the presentation of the position paper, Nolting took the view that a European foreign and security policy "also has to represent European interests all over the world" in coordination with NATO. It is conceivable that the Bundeswehr then will also be confronted with new tasks. The FDP politician proposed dividing the Bundeswehr into two parts -- that is, into "national defense forces" with a training organization where draftees are trained in basic military service of "less than 12 months" and into "combat-ready armed forces" consisting of professional soldiers, long-term servicemen, and draftees serving a longer time (up to 23 months). Buelow advocated reducing the basic military service to half a year and a troop of 100,000 professional soldiers.
