FBIS3-42826 "jpusr016___94004" FBIS-USR-94-016 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 22 February 1994 INTERSTATE AFFAIRS Yeltsin's Tbilisi Visit Assessed Abkhazian Scores Visit 944K0699C Moscow OBSHCHAYA GAZETA in Russian No 5, 4-10 Feb 94 p 2 944K0699C Moscow OBSHCHAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Report by Seyfali Akhundov: "Andrey Dzhergenia: `The Visit Will Exacerbate the Antagonism...'"] [Text] Russian officials stated repeatedly that the signing of an interstate agreement between Georgia and Russia was possible only after a settlement of the Abkhaz-Georgian conflict. It would seem Moscow has changed its attitude toward this center of tension in the Caucasus. The visit to Georgia by the president of Russia will exacerbate the situation along the line of opposition of the Abkhaz and Georgian forces. Despite the fact that combat operations have not been conducted for quite some time now, the signing of a Russian-Georgian treaty providing for military assistance to the Shevardnadze government will initiate a new twist of the spiral of the Abkhaz-Georgian conflict. This is what Andrey Dzhergenia, personal representative of the chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the Republic of Abkhazia, said on the eve of Yeltsin's visit to Tbilisi. The events of recent years testify that, having obtained weapons from Russia, Georgia will abandon a peaceful solution to the conflict, Dzhergenia believes. This was the case in 1992, when, in accordance with the Tashkent Agreement, the Republic of Georgia was handed heavy weapons that had previously belonged to the Soviet Army, and the troops of the State Council entered Abkhaz territory shortly after. In an appeal of the Supreme Soviet of this self-proclaimed republic to the Russian Federation president, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and the speakers of the Federation Council and the State Duma the Abkhaz side requested that the treaty not be signed. Otherwise Russia could no longer play the part of objective mediator in a settlement of the Abkhaz-Georgian conflict since it and a subject of the protracted dispute would hence forward be bound by allied relations. Having signed the treaty, Abkhazia believes, the Russian leader will have deprived himself also of important levers of pressure on Tbilisi in a solution to the problems of South Ossetia. The personal representative of the chairman of the Supreme Soviet of Abkhazia refrained from comment on the changes in Moscow's foreign policy course in the Caucasus, but acknowledged that a rapprochement of Russia and Georgia was fraught with the danger of an exacerbation of the situation in the region. The heads of the North Caucasus republics held a joint meeting on 31 January at which they condemned the position occupied by Russia in respect to Abkhazia and declared the need for retaliatory measures.
