FBIS4-11209 "drlat079_j_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-079 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 Panama Change '94 Candidate Views Political Alliance Change '94 Candidate Views Political Alliance PA2204202194 Panama City Circuito RPC Television in Spanish 2300 GMT 21 Apr 94 PA2204202194 Panama City Circuito RPC Television Spanish BFN [Report by Victor de la Hoz from the "RPC Television News" newscast] [Text] Ruben Dario Carles, presidential candidate for the Change '94 alliance, stated today that without preconditions or impositions an agreement can be reached for the reunification of the civic alliance parties to face the PRD [Democratic Revolutionary Party] in the 8 May elections. Professor Ruben Dario Carles made the statement in Veracruz during a political tour. Sympathizers and supporters of the Morena [National Renewal Movement], Civic Renewal Party, and Molirena [Nationalist Liberal Republican Movement] parties, which comprise the Change '94 alliance, received presidential candidate Ruben Dario Carles, who toured the community of Veracruz. Carles was accompanied by people seeking electoral posts in Veracruz corregimiento, the western sector of the capital. During his tour, supporters assured Professor Carles of their vote on 8 May. They also expressed concerns regarding community problems. The presidential candidate for Change '94, during an impromptu meeting, promised his government will work with the community to improve and clean Veracruz beach, to improve the roads, and to protect children from the corruption of drugs. Professor Carles said that without preconditions or impositions an agreement can be reached to form a broad civic alliance to confront the PRD on 8 May. [Carles] We politicians must sound out the people, to seek a ticket to guarantee victory and to ensure Panamanians a better way of life. [Reporter] Professor, but among the civic alliance candidates there seems to be a lack of willingness to set aside their political interests to form this ticket. [Carles] Look, everybody cannot win. We have to use logic and consider what is most advisable for the country. I agree it must be without preconditions, without impositions, to reach an agreement for the good of the country. [end recording] The political leaders of Veracruz, who back the Change '94 slate expressed appreciation for the support they have received from the Change '94 ticket.
