FBIS3-23291 "jptot011__l94107" JPRS-TOT-94-011-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 15 March 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA JORDAN Brotherhood Leader Names Arrestees, Views Jihad JN0903173494 Amman AL-SABIL in Arabic 8-14 Mar 94 p 2 JN0903173494 Amman AL-SABIL Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Interview with Muhammad 'Abd-al-Rahman Khalifah, controller general of the Muslim Brotherhood in Amman; date not given] [Excerpts] [AL-SABIL] We have learned that some arrests were made within the ranks of the Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan. How true is this and what is the reason for the arrests? [Khalifah] [passage omitted] What we know so far is that one of the brothers in the Suwaylih branch of the Islamic Brotherhood was arrested. His name is 'Abd- al-Majid Dayah and he is an engineer. Everything I know about him is good. Another person, named 'Abd-al-Majid Ibrahim al-Majali, is one of the brothers in the Muslim Brotherhood of al-Qasr in al-Karak. He was questioned a few months ago when he wanted to leave Jordan in order to join the ranks of the mujahidin against the communists in Afghanistan. He was held for some time on charges of carrying an amount of money to help the mujahidin in Afghanistan. At the time, he was not a regular member of the Muslim Brotherhood. He was released a few months later. I do not remember how long he was detained. [passage omitted] The Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan and in the other Arab countries have not changed their clear policy toward the Palestinian cause since the establishment of their call, although in Islam one greets another by saying: peace be upon you. We can never believe that the Jews want peace with the inhabitants of Palestine or with the other Arabs. The Muslim brothers clearly know this fact, and are also aware of the Jews wickedness, machinations, and enmity toward Islam and its followers. From this premise, if Palestine is not purged of the filth of the Jews, it will remain a Trojan horse the colonialist countries in Europe and America will use to return colonialism to the Arab countries in general, and the Islamic countries in particular. The United States has succeeded in arming the state of the usurper Jews in Palestine and has transformed it into an aircraft carrier to subdue the Arab and Islamic countries. Conceding any part of Palestine to the Jews is banned by Islam. The jurisprudence based on the Koran and the Sunna stipulates the following: If the enemy steps on a single inch of Muslim land, every male and female Muslim is duty bound to carry out jihad. The woman can even leave her husband's house without his permission and the slave without his master's permission. The Muslim Brotherhood and others who preach Islam will be renouncing their religion if they agree to give any part of Palestine to the Jews or the other enemies of God. Palestine and Jerusalem can be liberated only if the Arab countries unite and adopt a cohesive stand with the other Islamic countries. The Jews know this. Therefore, any rumor or machination against the Muslim Brotherhood cannot but originate from the Jewish enemy, its agents, and its partners in Europe and America. [passage omitted]
