FBIS4-63086 "drsov098_o_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-098 Daily Report 19 May 1994 Uzbekistan Karimov, Japan's Hata Discuss Aid, UN Security Council Karimov, Japan's Hata Discuss Aid, UN Security Council LD1905173094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English GMT 1449 GMT 19 May 94 LD1905173094 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Vyacheslav Bantin] [Text] Tokyo 19 May TASS -- Uzbekistan President Islam Karimov departed the city of Osaka for home at the end of his first visit to Japan. During his stay in the land of the rising sun, the Uzbek leader held talks with Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, was receieved by the Japanese emperor, met with representatives of the country's business circles, and visited the cities of Kyoto and Osaka. Offical Tokyo gives the results of Karimov's visit high marks, a high-ranking official in the Japanese Internal Ministry told ITAR-TASS. "We think that the president's visit laid the basis for the development of friendly relations between Uzbekistan and Japan," he said. The main event of the four-day visit were the talks, held on Tuesday, between the Uzbekistan president and Premier Tsutomu Hata. The two sides adopted a joint declaration which laid out the fundamental principles which are to guide Tokyo and Tashkent in the development of their mutual relations. In the document, the Uzbek side expresses support for according Japan the status of a permanent member of the UN Security Council. The two signatories declared their intention to cooperate closely within the framework of the UN and other international organisations and their desire to expand the political dialogue between the two countries. After adopting the joint declaration, the Uzbekistan and Japanese internal ministers signed a joint document stating that both sides consider that all the treaties signed by the former-USSR and Japan, which concern Uzbekistan remain in force between Japan and the now-independent republic. During the Japanese-Uzbek summit meeting Tsutomu Hata announced that his country would give the Central Asian Republic an additional five million dollars in medical aid. The total sum of medical aid which Tokyo has pledged to Uzbekistan is now up to 15 million dollars.
