FBIS3-1562 "drchi039_v_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 TAIWAN Taipei Willing To Abide By IMF, GATT Currency Rules OW2602082794 Taipei CNA in English 0759 GMT 26 Feb 94 OW2602082794 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Taipei, Feb. 26 (CNA) -- The Republic of China [ROC] will sign a special exchange agreement with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) either before or after it is admitted to the Geneva-based world trade regulatory body, a ranking official said Saturday. Peng Huai-nan, general manager of the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank of China, made the statement after meeting with American delegates who were here for tariff reduction talks with Taiwan trade officials under the GATT framework. Peng said Taiwan is prepared to sign the GATT special exchange agreement, which is a necessity for GATT membership if a contracting party is not a member of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Taiwan is not an IMF member. Under the special exchange agreement, a contracting party is required to avoid payment restrictions on current account trade and discriminative currency practices, to provide currency exchange information, to allow exchange of a national currency held in foreign countries and to hold consultations with other contracting parties on existing international financial accords. During his talks with the U.S. officials, Peng expressed the ROC's willingness to abide by all GATT and IMF currency exchange regulations. Peng also asked the U.S. to allow Taiwan to adopt temporary foreign exchange controls under certain special conditions. "The U.S. negotiators have agreed to our request," Peng said. Taiwan applied to join GATT in 1990 and is expected to be admitted to the body by the end of this year. The 14-member American delegation, headed by Dorothy Dwoskin, an assistant U.S. trade representative, is scheduled to end three days of talks with Taiwan negotiators on tariff reductions, market opening and other GATT-related issues later this evening.
