FBIS4-68817 "jpusr055___94032" FBIS-USR-94-055 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 13 May 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Local Investment, Inflation Rates Compared Local Investment, Inflation Rates Compared 944F0707A Novosibirsk SOVETSKAYA SIBIR in Russian 13 May 94 p 1 944F0707A Novosibirsk SOVETSKAYA SIBIR Russian CSO [Unattributed report: "The Clients' Victory Was Short-Lived"] [Text] Calculations of the Analysis Department of the MediaSOFT Association show that in February-March of this year the profitableness of private investments in Novosibirsk banks exceeded the level of inflation for the first time in recent years. Two circumstances were behind this: the sharp decline in the rate of inflation in these months and the fixing of a rate of interest on private deposits in Novosibirsk which was a record for Russia. The monthly rate of increase in the price of the dollar and inflation and the increase in a hypothetical bank deposit at a monthly 15 percent (which corresponds to the average one- to three-month level of the private deposit rate in Novosibirsk banks in February) were used for the analysis. The results were as follows: In February-March inflation constituted 15.6 percent, and the increase in the deposit, 31.7 percent, while the dollar increased only 11.5 percent. Thus the real increase in the deposit (adjusted for inflation) constituted 16.1 percent in the two months. This increase in a bank deposit even for a year is a fantastic amount for world practice, and the said profitableness in developed countries is typical only of speculation in securities, real estate, and so forth, but not of bank deposits. Depositors in Novosibirsk's banks have for the first time won out over the increase in prices. On the other hand, the banks have for the first time lost appreciably, attracting deposits on terms profitable to the public. The banks had run into the obvious decline in the demand for credit, which had become too costly even for commercial transactions. It is not surprising that at the present time Novosibirsk's banks are being forced to lower the rate on private deposits to the 10-13 percent a month level. This reduction is kind to the depositors here since with the present rate of inflation in the region the profitability of the private deposits is maintained, albeit not promising fabulous riches.
