FBIS3-55637 "drsov007_m_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 CENTRAL ASIA Tajikistan Russian Troops Come Under Attack on Afghan Border Russians Deny 8-9 Jan Missile Attack PM1101112394 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 11 Jan 94 First Edition p 3 PM1101112394 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Valeriy Yakov report: "No Shooting at Russian Border Guard Subunits on This Occasion"] [Text] Sundry news reports over the last few days have repeatedly announced that the Moscow Border Guard Troops 13th Subunit in Tajikistan had come under missile fire Saturday and Sunday [8-9 January]. The Russian Border Guard Troops Press Bureau refutes these reports. There was indeed fire along the border over the weekend, as reported by INTERFAX citing the headquarters of Russian Border Guard Troops in Tajikistan. But for some unknown reason the report went on to identify the 13th Subunit and even mentioned the exact number of missiles launched against it -- five on Saturday and seven on Sunday. Moreover, the time when they were fired was given down to the minute. On hearing this report on the radio, the duty operations officers at Border Guard Troops headquarters in Moscow were initially alarmed: Why had they not been informed of these facts? It proved to be a false alarm. In actual fact -- and reports to this effect had arrived at headquarters -- Tajik opposition gunmen had fired mortars and recoilless rifles at positions held by border guard troops from the 12th Subunit on 7 January. On Saturday the gunmen launched five rocket-propelled projectiles and fired two recoilless rifle rounds at the village of Pervar. On Sunday, again using recoilless rifles, they fired eight rounds at the village of Arvar. The fire came from the territory of Tajikistan. Both villages are located in the zone controlled by the 12th Border Guard Troops Subunit and the gunmen's positions came under appropriate retaliatory fire. We are very happy to report that there have been no casualties among servicemen from the 12th Subunit, let alone from the 13th Subunit.
