FBIS3-1798 "drchi041_a_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 March 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Bosnian Serbs Agree To Lift Tuzla Airport Blockade OW0203044794 Beijing XINHUA in English 0425 GMT 2 Mar 94 OW0203044794 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Belgrade, March 1 (XINHUA) -- Bosnian Serb leader Rodovan Karadzic today agreed in Moscow to lift the blockade of Tuzla airport to allow in UN humanitarian relief operations, but demanded Russian supervision for fear that it would be used for shipping arms to Muslims. Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev agreed to the demand during the talks with Karadzic, who is visiting the Russian capital. Kozyrev also promised that the first aircraft arriving at Tuzla airport would be a Russian one, reports reaching here said. Also today, Yasushi Akashi, the UN special envoy in former Yugoslavia, inspected Tuzla airport to observe its preparations for receiving relief supplies. However, Bosnian Muslims have expressed opposition to the presence of Russian military observers in Tuzla airport, claiming it would be "an insult to the United Nations." They also opposed Russian intervention in the Bosnian issue, saying that by backing the Serbs Russia had abandoned neutrality. Meanwhile in Zagreb, a top official of the UN peacekeeping forces in Bosnia praised the Russian-Serb accord describing it as another Russian diplomatic success in the international efforts to bring peace to Bosnia. Last month, Russia succeeded in persuading the Serbs into withdrawing heavy guns from around Sarajevo before a deadline set by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization left them open to air strikes, thus defusing the Sarajevo crisis. Western countries have expressed a similar desire to use the tactics at Sarajevo to solve the Tuzla airport impasse, the biggest military airport in the former Yugoslavia under Muslim control. The airport was closed down at the beginning of May, 1992 due to a Serbs blockade aimed at preventing the use of the airport for shipping arms to Muslims in the nearby town of Tuzla. Last year, the United Nations declared Tuzla a security region and has repeatedly called for the opening of the airport to help them supply relief goods to the inhabitants of the Serb-besieged city. After the Sarajevo crisis was over, the Tuzla airport issue was put on the agenda again. On February 25, Akashi secured Serbian support for the opening of the airport.
