FBIS3-12165 "drnes039_l_94016" FBIS-NES-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 ISRAEL Government Imposes Curfew, Closure of West Bank, Gaza Territories Closed; Hebron Jews Detained TA2702055294 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in English 0500 GMT 27 Feb 94 TA2702055294 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] A number of Jewish residents of Hebron have been detained by security forces overnight. An indefinite closure on the entire West Bank and the Gaza Strip went into effect this morning. Meanwhile, Palestinian leaders in the territories are demanding that the question of Jewish settlements be put at the top of the agenda, before peace talks resume. Mark Weiss reports: In what appears to be the first stage of the expected crack down on the extremist fringe within the settler community, security forces detained overnight a number of Jewish residents of Hebron. Residents of Qiryat Arba' also reported that soldiers came to detain Kakh leaders Barukh Marzel and No'am Federman, but the two managed to escape. An indefinite closure went into effect at 0300 this morning on the whole of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Palestinians are not being allowed to enter Israel until further notice. Shots were fired at an Army patrol north of Bayt Hanun in Gaza this morning. An Army jeep was hit, but none of the soldiers were injured. The troops returned fire and launched a search for the attackers. In a second consecutive day of violence in the territories, three Palestinians were killed yesterday and dozens wounded. There were also riots throughout Arab areas inside Israel. More than 40 people were arrested in Nazareth, and in Yafo hundreds of rioters attacked police and damaged Jewish property. The head of Fatah in the West Bank, Faysal al-Husayni, says he is recommending to PLO leaders in Tunis to continue the peace process, providing that the issue of Jewish settlements is placed at the top of the agenda. Al-Husayni said that the Hebron massacre has created a new reality, and the Declaration of Principles, drawn up in Oslo, is no longer valid. [passage omitted]
