FBIS4-42788 "drweu110_q_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 TURKEY Ankara Decision To Retaliate Against Athens Cited Ankara Decision To Retaliate Against Athens Cited NC0706212594 Istanbul HURRIYET in Turkish 7 Jun 94 p 18 NC0706212594 Istanbul HURRIYET Turkish BFN [Faruk Balci report: "A Stern Warning to Greece"] [Text] Ankara -- Turkey is preparing to retaliate against Greece, which has recently created a wave of tension in relations between the two countries by supporting the Kurdish Workers Party militants, making an effort to extend its territorial waters in the Aegean Sea to 12 miles, and maintaining an intransigent approach on the Cyprus problem. In a surprise move, Turkey has decided to extend the Gokceada Airport's short runway to accommodate jet aircraft. Meanwhile, a small airport will be constructed in Bozcaada. Gokceada Airport's Runway The General Staff conveyed a written request to the Ministry of Communications and Transport for the extension of Gokceada Airport's runway some time ago. The ministry has complied by deciding to dispatch a group of experts to the island to start the work on the runway during the current week. National Security Council Assesses the Situation The National Security Council [NSC] met on 28 May to assess Greece's approach, which has created tension in the relations between the two countries. The NSC also established the measures Turkey can adopt to deal with the situation. The meeting discussed the possibility of the extension of Gokceada Airport's runway and the construction of an airport in Bozcaada. The General Staff later conveyed a written request to the Ministry of Communications and Transport for the extension of the runway. Kostepen Takes Quick Action In a statement to HURRIYET, Minister of Communications and Transport Kostepen has confirmed the decision to extend the runway. He said that the 1,200-meter long runway will be extended to at least 2,040 meters and that a group of experts will be dispatched to the island during the current week. Kostepen noted: "The runway will be extended for logistical purposes and for meeting requirements in the tourism sector." Kostepen asserted that the runway will be used by civilian aircraft after it is extended. He noted that the use of the Gokceada Airport by civilian aircraft will promote tourism in the region. Kostepen added that plans have been made for the construction of a small airport in Bozcaada. Regarding Gokceada Airport, he said: "The runway is not used at the present time. Gokceada is important for the tourism sector. It is also a strategically important island." The status of the islands in the Aegean Sea has been outlined in international agreements. That is why Greece claimed in the past that it would enlarge the airport in Meyisti island and construct airports on the other Greek islands for civilian purposes.
