FBIS3-52213 "drnes001_v_94004" FBIS-NES-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 Pakistan Secretary-Level Talks With India Begin Foreign Minister `Not Optimistic' BK0101143294 Islamabad PTV Television Network in English 1400 GMT 1 Jan 94 BK0101143294 Islamabad PTV Television Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The two-day secretary-level talks between Pakistan and India begin in Islamabad tomorrow. The Kashmir issue will be an independent item on the agenda of the talks which will be spread over four sessions as India has agreed to discuss all aspects of the problem. Authorities in Islamabad are not optimistic about the outcome of the talks, for India has not so far stopped repression against the people of Kashmir in the occupied territory. Pakistan had asked India to end human right violations in occupied Kashmir immediately and to reduce its troops in the valley, leading to a total withdrawal, in order to create a conducive atmosphere for holding the talks. The foreign minister, Sardar Asif Ahmad Ali, has said with all the killings going on in occupied Kashmir, with women being raped, with villages being set on fire, and with the repression going on, how can one feel optimism. He said this is the last opportunity for New Delhi to prove that it is sincere in solving the Kashmir issue through negotiations. If India, he added, fails to take even the minimum steps, then it is its last chance for the talks. Pakistan would not hold any further talks and instead take up the issue at international forums and inform its friends that New Delhi is not sincere in solving the issue. Pakistan, the foreign minister said, is taking part in the talks so that India could not say that Pakistan is avoiding a negotiated settlement of the issue. We believe negotiations are the most civilized manner to settle disputes. Commenting on the claim of the Indian foreign minister that Kashmir is an integral part of India, Sardar Asif Ahmad Ali said on the one hand India had accepted Kashmir as a disputed territory and agreed to hold talks on the issue as a separate agenda, while, on the other hand, it is claiming that Kashmir is its integral part. One can judge the sincerity of the Indians in holding these talks and solving the problem, Sardar Asif Ahmad Ali said.
