FBIS4-58326 "drnes085_s_94003" FBIS-NES-94-085 Daily Report 1 May 1994 Iran Croatian Prime Minister Concludes Talks Croatian Prime Minister Concludes Talks Meets With Hashemi-Rafsanjani LD0105105794 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0930 GMT 1 May 94 LD0105105794 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Text] President Hashemi-Rafsanjani received the Croatian prime minister Nikica Valentic today. At the meeting, the president stressed the need for strengthening solidarity and further cooperation among the states in the Balkan region in order to confront aggressors and to consolidate peace and stability in that region. Condemning the aggression of the Serbs against Bosnia-Herzegovina, he said: Undoubtedly the fates of the Balkan region states are tied together, and peace and friendship in the region is to the benefit of all those states, just as cooperation and unity in the face of any aggression and sectarianism are to the detriment of enemies and aggressors and also guarantee the future stability and tranquillity of the region. Hashemi-Rafsanjani considered the grounds for cooperation between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Republic of Croatia to be positive, and expressed the hope that the results of talks between the Croatian delegation and our country's officials smooth the way for further expansion of economic, commercial, and political ties between the two countries. During the meeting, where First Deputy President Habibi was also present, the Croatian prime minister, declaring his country's support for the territorial integrity of Bosnia-Herzegovina, described the policy of the Serbian forces - who are supported by the superpowers - as aggressive and said: In history Croats and Bosnians have fought side by side against aggressors and have always lived in harmony. He added: The Croatian Government will make all efforts to eliminate the slight disputes between the Muslims and Croats in Bosnia-Herzegovina, since peace and stability in that region will be to the benefit of the two nations and other states. The Croatian prime minister considered the results of his visit to Iran to be a turning point in the bilateral ties and expressed the hope that through the normalization of the conditions in the Balkan region and the punishment of the Serbian aggressors in that region through international forums the trend of expansion of ties between the Balkan states - especially Croatia - with Iran is accelerated. At the meeting the Croatian prime minister extended an official invitation from his country's president to Mr. Hashemi-Rafsanjani to visit that country. The president, accepting the invitation, expressed the hope to visit Croatia and Bosnia at an opportune moment when the conditions are normalized in those two countries.
