FBIS3-39786 "drweu035_q_94012" FBIS-WEU-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 TURKEY Meets With President Demirel TA2102195194 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1800 GMT 21 Feb 94 TA2102195194 Ankara TRT Television Network Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Excerpt] [Passage omitted] Council of Europe Secretary General Catherine Lalumiere was received by President Suleyman Demirel at the Cankaya Mansion today. A statement issued by the President's Office declared that the developments in the aftermath of the Cold War in Europe and the subject of terrorism in Turkey were discussed during the meeting. According to the statement, Demirel remarked that European organizations, which were established under Cold War conditions, are facing difficulties under the new conditions. Demirel stressed that the aggressors in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in the Azerbaijani-Armenian conflict have remained unpunished. Such developments cast a shadow over the credibility of these organizations, Demirel said, adding that the recent ultimatum issued by NATO to the Serbs is a favorable sign. Commenting on terrorism, the president underlined the terrorists' separatist and racist character. He said that the terrorist organization cannot attain its goals and a struggle is being waged against those who attack Turkey's integrity. Vefa Tanir, acting speaker of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, also received Lalumiere and conferred with her. During the meeting, Lalumiere said that Turkey occupied an extremely important place in the Council of Europe and its attitude and moves are followed with interest. Tanir, in turn, declared that many problems can be overcome if the eyes turned on Turkey's moves are impartial. During the meeting, Lalumiere presented Tanir with a medal from the Council of Europe and Tanir reciprocated with a porcelain dish with a picture of the Turkish parliament. Lalumiere later held a meeting with Sayit Kemal Mimaroglu, leader of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly Turkish group, and other members of the group.
