FBIS4-38630 "drsov105_a_94031" FBIS-SOV-94-105 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Zaveryukha Sees Prospects for Russian-Swedish Cooperation Zaveryukha Sees Prospects for Russian-Swedish Cooperation LD0106104294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0917 GMT 1 Jun 94 LD0106104294 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Nikolay Vukolov] [Text] Stockholm June 6 TASS -- "Good prospects are opening up for the development and deepening of traditional Russo-Swedish relations in agriculture. We are interested in the conclusion of a Russo-Swedish agreement on agricultural cooperation," Russian Vice- Premier Aleksandr Zaveryukha told ITAR-TASS, summing up the results of a Russian delegation's visit to Sweden at the invitation of the Swedish Government. "Longstanding and stable relations exist between the two countries in the field of seed-farming, in joint ventures with the "Tetra-Laval" concern to produce machines for the food industry, and in several other domains. The current reforms in the Russian countryside open up new opportunities for promoting Russo-Swedish interaction. We want to attract Swedish investments to Russian agriculture, to the creation of farm banks and model farms, which could serve as training centres for private farming in Russia. "From this point of view, the delegation's visit to Sweden, which included talks with Agriculture Minister Carl Erich Ulsson and visits to Swedish farms and farm products processing enterprises, were most useful and instructive. We have acquainted ourselves with a really highly efficient agriculture, based on private land ownership and personal incentives. At the same time, we saw that in addition to these important factors, contributing to effective farming, the agricultural producers needed state backing, rendered through subsidies, which are typical for Sweden. We are now setting up a wholesale market in Russia, which presupposes direct contacts between producers and consumers. This is typical for the West, including the Scandinavian countries. I believe these are the main ways to develop Russian agriculture, too" Zaveryukha stressed. Today, the Russian delegation is to fly to Denmark, where it will continue to study Scandinavian agriculture.
