FBIS3-52851 "drnes006_l_94009" FBIS-NES-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 ISRAEL Ben-Eli'ezer Confirms Map Exists TA0801193894 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1900 GMT 8 Jan 94 TA0801193894 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1900 GMT 8 Jan 94 Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read report, followed by Gil'ad 'Adin studio report] [Excerpts] Construction and Housing Minister Binyamin Ben-Eli'ezer this evening confirmed that a detailed plan of bypass roads in the autonomy territories has been prepared for the Defense Ministry. Peace Now announced that if the government stops investing in the territories and direct the funds to other areas, it would correspond with the government's commitments. Our correspondent Gil'ad 'Adin has the details: A grandiose, multiyear plan which would cost up to 2 billion new Israeli shekels, was how Construction and Housing Minister Binyamin Ben-Eli'ezer this evening defined the autonomy road plan. According to him, the plan deals with paving bypass and shortcut roads, as well as works on reconstructing and expanding strategic roads. The purpose is to attain minimal friction between the Jewish and Arab residents of the autonomy area. The details of the plan are being kept very secret. It is feared that if the road map is exposed, it would reveal the final intentions of the government before the negotiations on the second stage of autonomy have started. The Public Works Division [PWD] refused to confirm that it had prepared the map of the autonomy roads. A contingency plan exists for any eventuality, PWD sources told us, and we will be ready to begin work as soon as we are given the order by Minister Ben-Eli'ezer. [passage omitted] The map was handed over to the Defense Ministry which, together with the Prime Minister's Office, is to decide on the order of priority for the various projects. If the entire plan is approved, it would cost some 2 billion shekel. In comparison, this is double the PWD budget for works throughout Israel in 1994.
