FBIS4-40307 "drsov116_d_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-116 Daily Report 14 Jun 1994 Regional Affairs Stepashin Begins Anti-Crime Tour in Sakhalin Stepashin Begins Anti-Crime Tour in Sakhalin OW1506121194 Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Teleradiokompaniya Sakhalin Television Network in Russian 1905 GMT 14 Jun 94 OW1506121194 Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Teleradiokompaniya Sakhalin Television Network Russian BFN [Aleksey Bayandin report over video; from the "As of This Hour" newscast of the "Morning Cruise" program] [Text] Sergey Stepashin, director of the Federal Counterintelligence Service, has begun his tour of the country with a visit to Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk. The government aircraft landed this morning at the oblast center's airport. The esteemed guest was met at the aircraft steps by Valiula Maksutov, chairman of the oblast duma; Nikolay Dolgikh, first vice governor of the oblast; Vladlen Sychev, commander of the Army; and other officials. We managed to get an interview for our program. [Begin recording] [Bayandin] What is the aim of your visit to Sakhalin? [Stepashin] Well, first of all to take a look at how people here live and work, including our department here. Now I do not know whether or not the president's new edict on the fight against crime has been received here.... [Maksutov, interrupts] Of course it has. [Stepashin] Well, that is one of the main tasks. I am a bit hoarse from the plane trip, so pardon my voice, but generally the president instructed me to go out and see all the regions and this is where Russia begins. [Bayandin] Tell us please, how do you assess the work of Sakhalin counterintelligence agents in the past? [Stepashin] How do you assess it? [Reporter] Personally I assess it very highly because there were some operations involving the apprehension of smugglers which were carried out very well. [Stepashin] Well, our assessment is also fairly positive. It was formed not only during the Putina operation. What used to be known as an open zone, I have Sakhalin in mind, has not worked out yet but the manifestations that we have seen from the neighboring state and others are being successfully realized by our administration, so our assessment coincides with yours. [end recording] During the visit the director of the Russian Federal Counterintelligence Service will acquaint himself in greater detail with the activities of Sakhalin counterintelligence agents and will outline ways for raising the efficiency of their work in the future. And so the leaders of two key ministries engaged in the struggle with crime have visited our oblast during a short period of time. Does this signify that a serious challenge has been made to organized crime on Sakhalin? Will the crime situation in the region improve significantly?. Well, we must wait and see.
