FBIS4-7802 "dreeu066_y_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-066 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Kosovo Serb Police Raid 30 Albanian Homes Serb Police Raid 30 Albanian Homes AU0504210394 Tirana TVSH Television Network in Albanian 1800 GMT 5 Apr 94 AU0504210394 Tirana TVSH Television Network Albanian BFN [Text] A new wave of Serbian repression in Kosova. Deputies of the parliament of the Republic of Kosova have recently been targets of police expeditions. For more, our correspondent Sherif Konjufca: [Konjufca] During the last week alone, 30 Albanian families were raided in the Kallamoc, Serpeve, Drenoc, Karashnik villages of the Malisheve commune. Among those raided was the house of Agim Bytyci, deputy of the parliament of Kosova. Gani Krasniqi, another deputy from this commune, a former prisoner of conscience for many years, and the chairman of the Communal Council for Finance, was among many who were maltreated. The Serbian police behaved with brutality everywhere. On this occasion, the police damaged the houses and savings of the raided families and confiscated the passports and other documents of numerous inhabitants. The police undertook similar actions in many localities in Ferizaj, in Prishtina, Suhareke, Obilisht, as well as against casual passers-by on the roads of Kosova. Another form of Serbian repression against the Albanians, through which the ethnic cleansing of Kosova is carried out, is the seizure of Albanian homes. Dr. Bardhyl Caushi, professor of the Prishtina University and chairman of the Kosova Jurists' Independent Association, was added to the great number of those whose homes were seized. At the same time, as reported by the BUJKU newspaper, a Serbian Army unit has been stationed in Mulliq village, in the border area between Kosova and Albania. This unit is causing great problems for pupils and inhabitants of the Potok village. On the other hand, the militant Serbian Association of Bozhur asked the Serbian highest authorities to send an official note to Albania, informing that allegedly 280,000 Albanian nationals and an even greater number of their followers live on Serbian territory.
