FBIS4-21701 "jptot014__l94001" JPRS-TOT-94-014-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 8 April 1994 FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 25 March-1 April Terrorism Report Hightlights Terrorism Report Hightlights 11111111 11111111 CSO Editor's Note: The FBIS Terrorism Desk welcomes suscribers' comments and suggestions at (703) 733-5512. Highlights and major incidents in this edition of the FBIS Terrorism Report include: Algeria Russian embassy employee Konstantin Kokoshin was murdered in the Algiers suburb of Saoula on 28 March. Algerian security forces later killed four of six suspects in the murder. Colombia Colombian intelligence uncovered the new ``Total Democracy'' group. It includes former 19 April Movement and Faith, Peace, and Freedom members. Its stated targets are ``presidential candidates, congress members, bankers, industrialists, and former comrades.'' Colombia/Cuba Bogota's EL TIEMPO newspaper retracted its earlier report that Bishop Nel Beltran attended a guerrilla summit in Cuba. Egypt On 31 March, a ``locally-made'' bomb near the International Trade Bank in Cairo damaged four cars and broke windows. Egypt/Pakistan Egypt and Pakistan initialled an extradition agreement on 29 March. The next day, the Egyptian Interior Minister announced that 29 terrorists had been turned over to Egypt. France The Iparretarrak group announced that it will continue the ``armed struggle'' as long as ``its essential aims have not been achieved,'' but it might reconsider if Basque prisoners were granted unconditional amnesty. Also, police prevented the Corsican National Liberation Front-Historic Channel from bombing a tourist area near Bonifacio. Germany/Israel Germany increased security around the Israeli Embassy for several days in response to ``very serious evidence'' of a bomb threat from Hizballah. Iraq Two Austrian UN guards were wounded when gunmen ambushed their bus near Irbil in Kurdish northern Iraq. Jordan An Amman newspaper reported that security forces arrested three people for stabbing two Russians on 25 February. Authorities continue to glean information from the 23 ``Jordanian Afghans'' arrested in connection with the late-January cinema bombings. AFP reports that the suspects had also planned to assassinate several Jordanian and Palestinian peace negotiators. Macao Macao police found a ``factory'' for making pager bombs during a raid on two robbers' apartment. Palestinians/Libya Libyan President al-Qadhdhafi met with the 10 Palestinian opposition factions and promised ``financial and political aid for the liberation of Palestine.'' Turkey A National Liberation Front of Kurdistan official in Athens told an interviewer that ``Last year's campaign against Turkish tourism was only a warning. The true campaign will begin this year and will take on the characteristics of war.''
