FBIS3-24554 "jpust007___94004" JPRS-UST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 22 March 1994 CHEMICAL SCIENCES CHEMICAL INDUSTRY Detonation of Miscible Explosive Systems of Oxidizer-Fuel Type 947M0011A Moscow KHIMICHESKAYA FIZIKA in Russian Vol. 12, No. 12, Dec 93 pp 1640-1643 947M0011A Moscow KHIMICHESKAYA FIZIKA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by B. I. Arkhipov, M. N. Makhov, and V. I. Pepekin, Chemical Physics Institute imeni N. N. Semenov; UDC534.222.2+536.7] [Abstract] Explosive systems of the oxidizer-fuel type appear to be most promising from the standpoint of increased explosive power resulting from the supplemental interaction of the decomposition products of the initial explosive system. This non-traditional approach to the development of explosive systems is based on the principle of increasing explosive power not by any direct increase of detonation characteristics, i.e. synthesis of newer more powerful individual explosive components, but by virtue of a chemical reaction in the Chapman-Juge zone, thereby providing for more complete flow of detonation processes and directing the evolved energy towards completion of useful forms of explosive action. The feasibility of this approach has been demonstrated in another work with the benzotrifuroxane-hexanitroethane system, where the overall explosive power exceed that of each of the individual components. In the present work experimental data are presented on heats of explosion, rates of detonation, and propellent capabilities of an oxidizer-fuel system consisting of bis-(2,2,2-trinitroethyl)nitramine with supplemental oxygen balance, and three types of fuels: a) octagon and benzotrifuroxane, b) an inert organic fuel consisting of lamp black and ultra-finely dispersed diamond, and c) an inorganic fuel consisting of finely dispersed aluminum of 4-10 microns particle size. It was demonstrated that addition of the additives results in increased detonation and propellent capability of the composition. References 2 (Russian).
