FBIS4-38583 "drsov105_f_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-105 Daily Report 26 May 1994 National Affairs Justice Minister Condemns Proposed Crimean `Secession' Justice Minister Condemns Proposed Crimean `Secession' WS3105143794 Kiev KIYEVSKIYE VEDOMOSTI in Russian 26 May 94 p 3 WS3105143794 Kiev KIYEVSKIYE VEDOMOSTI Russian BFN [Report by Natalya Ishchenko: "Crimea's Secession From Ukraine Is Impossible"] [Text] The conflict between the Ukrainian and Crimean governments is currently being manifested by the "shootout" with legislative acts that rescind or ignore decisions by other side. We asked Ukrainian Justice Minister Vasyl Onopenko to make a legal judgment about the quite complex relations between the leadership of Ukraine and the Crimea. In particular, he said: "The current situation in the Crimea shows that the leadership of that autonomous republic intends to secede from Ukraine. The revision of the Crimean Constitution and a number of edicts by Meshkov countradict Ukraine's legislation and Constitution. The Justice Ministry has repeatedly discussed decisions made by the Crimean government and pointed out their illegal nature. I have frequently stated this on radio and television. The Crimean parliament has ignored appeals by Ukrainian President L. Kravchuk to reject their poorly considered actions, which are pregnant with dire consequences. The Crimean side has chosen the very dangerous path of confrontation. In this situation, it is possible to put the issue of making the the Crimean Republic an autonomous oblast on the agenda of the Ukrainian Supreme Council. This would invalidate arguments by the Crimean leadership that such a move would violate the law granting autonomy to the Crimea as well as the law "On Division of Powers..." previously adopted by the Ukrainian parliament. It was the Crimean Supreme Soviet that first rejected the Ukrainian parliament's decisions by voting to revise the Crimean Constitution. As for the reorganization of the Crimean Justice and Internal Affairs Ministries and the Security Service (that has received so much attention from the Russian mass media -- Natalya Ishchenko), let me say that similar changes are under way throughout Ukraine." The justice minister particularly emphasized that "in this situation, decisions should be made through negotiations and with due regard to the interests of the entire Ukrainian people, including the Crimea. We need to preserve social stability and reject confrontation. Other solutions to the Crimean problem are impossible -- as is the Crimea's secession from Ukraine."
