FBIS4-23513 "drafr110_d_94011" FBIS-AFR-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Chissano Speaks at Frelimo Central Committee Session Chissano Speaks at Frelimo Central Committee Session MB0706193494 Maputo Radio Mozambique Network in Portuguese 1730 GMT 7 Jun 94 MB0706193494 Maputo Radio Mozambique Network Portuguese BFN [Text] President of the Republic Joaquim Chissano said today that his ruling party, Frelimo [Mozambique Liberation Front], acknowledges that many initiatives could have already been taken to resolve the most serious problems affecting Mozambican society, particularly now that peace prevails in the country. President Chissano said there was indecision in dealing with problems like corruption and slackness, but that was to ease the transition from war to peace. Chissano added that his colleagues realize that the government has not introduced corrective measures to deal with a number of serious problems because it is facing a lack of means due to the 16-year war. President Chissano, who has been chairing the Frelimo Central Committee's second special session since yesterday, said Frelimo and its cadres are aware of the solutions to be introduced to resolve the country's main problems. He added that far reaching initiatives have been taken to improve the situation. That appears to have been the message Chissano conveyed during his recent tours of Nampula and Cabo Delgado Provinces. Commenting on the confinement and demobilization of government and Renamo [Mozambique National Resistance] troops, he said government troops are being demobilized despite a brief interruption. Turning to an alleged proposal from Renamo leader Afonso Dhlakama that his men could be demobilized at their bases without having to report to assembly areas, Chissano said: [Begin Chissano recording] I think that would be against the peace accord. The accord ought to be adhered to as long as it is possible to do so. Right now we think it is possible to fulfill the accord, particularly because Renamo does not have many troops left to demobilize. So, one does not understand why Renamo troops should be demobilized at their bases. I think troops can still be confined to assembly bases. [end recording]
