FBIS4-67774 "jptnd010___94018" JPRS-TND-94-010 JPRS PROLIFERATION ISSUES 1 April 1994 REGIONAL AFFAIRS CZECH REPUBLIC Skoda Dismantles Research Nuclear Reactor, Seeks Buyer Skoda Dismantles Research Nuclear Reactor, Seeks Buyer AU1304085894 Prague RUDE PRAVO in Czech 1 Apr 94 p 8 AU1304085894 Prague RUDE PRAVO Czech BFN [``(rc)''-signed report: ``The Skoda Plant Is Liquidating Its Research Reactor''] [Text] The Plzen Skoda factory is liquidating its SR research reactor in Vochov near Plzen, including spent fuel and unused fuel. The reactor is of their own construction and manufacture and was used from 1970 until 1989. This information was provided to RUDE PRAVO by Engineer Frantisek Svitak, deputy director of the Skoda Nuclear Engineering Plant in Plzen. The Skoda plant does not need the reactor any more. It was used to test various measuring methods and devices, to train reactor operators, to train students from the West Bohemian University, and to conduct radiation testing for the republican Civil Defense organization. Despite the fact that the reactor is not contaminated (it was reconstructed in 1986, and was not put into operation after that date), all legal standards must be met during the liquidation of the workplace in Vochov. Regulations regarding the handling of fuel are equally strict. The State Office for Nuclear Safety in Prague and the International Agency for Atomic Energy in Vienna supervise fuel handling. Moreover, any fuel handling must not contravene the Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear Materials. Currently, they have about 10 kilograms of uranium 235 in sandwich-type metallic fuel at the Skoda plant. The Slovak Technical university has shown interest in the reactor and fuel. Because of the lack of funds on the part of the customer, however, the negotiations failed. Prospective buyers in Germany have also shown interest, but did not meet requirements. The Nuclear Research Institute in Rez near Prague is currently interested in the reactor. According to Engineer Svitak, The Skoda plant is conducting the most promising negotiations with two French firms that would like to buy the research reactor and the fuel.
