FBIS3-11120 "drlat051__a94020" FBIS-LAT-94-051-A Document Type:Daily Report 16 March 1993 ANNEX Cuba Colombian Reports of Guerrilla Summit Refuted PA1403150794 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 1829 GMT 13 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA1403150794 Havana PRENSA LATINA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Havana, 13 Mar (PL) -- Today, the weekly JUVENTUD REBELDE denied Colombian daily EL TIEMPO reports of a meeting of Colombian guerrillas in Cuba and the existence of an office of Colombian rebels in Havana. JUVENTUD REBELDE carried a lengthy report entitled Neither an Office, Nor a Rebel Summit in Havana, refuting the reports published by the Colombian newspaper on 10 March based on sources it never identifies. The report added that one does not have to be Sherlock Holmes "to see EL TIEMPO's wicked intentions of trying to start a scandal" shortly after the Colombian Government announced its decision to sell 15,000 to 20,000 barrels of oil per day to Cuba. JUVENTUD REBELDE said the lies published by EL TIEMPO also coincide with attacks against the trade agreement by Alexander Watson, U.S. assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs. A JUVENTUD REBELDE reporter visited the building in Havana's Alamar neighborhood, in Habana del Este Municipality, where according to EL TIEMPO, the rebels reportedly had an office, which residents in the area denied. It is a building like any other, said Chilean painter Tato Aires, who has been living at D-2 in Zone Seven of that neighborhood for the past two months. Several Latin American families live in the building, which the Cuban Institute of Friendship with Peoples (ICAP) made available to them while they are residing in Cuba. One of the tenants is Colombian citizen Alexander Salcedo, 20, who is studying medicine in Cuba thanks to his father's efforts, who has been receiving medical treatment in Cuba for the past six years. Salcedo said there is no guerrilla office in that building, adding that he has no links with rebels or political parties in his country. JUVENTUD REBELDE also noted that none of the Colombian guerrilla commanders mentioned by EL TIEMPO are on the participants list of a meeting of nongovernment, social, and human rights organizations held here two months ago. The publication stressed that while EL TIEMPO publishes those lies, it omits reports of attacks by ultraright sectors of Cuban immigrants in Miami against Colombian citizens.
