FBIS4-13150 "drnes074_s_94011" FBIS-NES-94-074 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 Iran Downing of U.S. Helicopters in Iraq Analyzed Downing of U.S. Helicopters in Iraq Analyzed NC1604080594 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0345 GMT 16 Apr 94 NC1604080594 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Commentary by News Research and Commentaries Group] [Text] The Iraqi skies, which have been and are still considered an arena for Western aircraft to engage in maneuvers and for flaunting their strength, turned into an sacrificial altar for these forces on Thursday and resulted in the deaths of 26 American, French, British, and Turkish servicemen. The incident took place when a squadron of American F-15 planes fired at and downed two military helicopters, killing 26 of its American, British, French, and Turkish crewmen. This incident is noteworthy because, despite the West's ultramodern weaponry systems and technology, the degree of confusion among the human element and within the West's military establishments is such that the West was unable to prevent an incident that many experts have say could have been avoided. It should be noted that most of the Western victims of the bloody Persian Gulf war and of the postwar incidents were victims of military mistakes committed by the Westerners themselves. Even though the West's military experts are trying to portray the recent mistake as a technical error and to blame the electronic systems in their aircraft, nevertheless the truth lies elsewhere--there is a state of psychological confusion being experienced by the West's military forces deployed in this part of the world. Undoubtedly these forces are more victims of the political interests of their leaders than victims of sacred objectives or even of national interests. Thus, one cannot believe that the recent incident was a unique incident that will not recur. This incident speaks of a fundamental characteristic of these forces that has just begun to show, and it is not improbable that more Western forces deployed in the Persian Gulf will be added to the list of victims soon.
