FBIS4-234 "drafr066_c_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-066 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC's Mbeki Ill; Afrikaner Homeland Accord Postponed ANC's Mbeki Ill; Afrikaner Homeland Accord Postponed MB0504143294 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English 5 Apr 94 p 2 MB0504143294 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY English BFN [Report by David Greybe] [Text] A meeting between ANC Freedom Front and government negotiators to sign an accord on an Afrikaner volkstaat [homeland] scheduled for last Thursday [31 March], was cancelled at the last moment because ANC chief negotiator Thabo Mbeki was ill. One of the three facilitators involved in drawing up the accord said yesterday that the meeting would take place this week, possibly on Thursday. CP [Conservative Party] MP Tom Langley was expected to represent the Afrikaner Volksfront [National Front] at the meeting. ANC spokesman Carl Niehaus said Mbeki has recovered from a bout of influenza and was "up and about." After the negotiators had signed the accord it would be studied by their leaders. A public signing ceremony would be held later, the facilitator said. The signing would necessitate revision of the Electoral Act. This breakthrough, after months of on-off talks between the Volksfront, the ANC and government, would lead to Gen Constand Viljoen's breakaway Freedom Front's taking part in the elections. Viljoen said after he had registered his party for the elections that it would take part only if there was an accord on a volkstaat, because constitutional provisions were too general. The accord sets out the conditions and the process under which a volkstaat could be established. It made provision for voters' second ballots to be used to determine how much support the volkstaat commanded and where it lay. It is proposed that the Electoral Act be changed to allow volkstaat votes to be recorded separately at certain polling stations. In terms of the ANC's position, insisted upon by the organisation's president Nelson Manadela and Mbeki, the accord specified that there would be no racialism or discrimination against non-supporters of a volkstaat living in such an area.
