FBIS4-1454 "drafr083_a_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-000 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda Rebel Positions Shelled Rebel Positions Shelled AB2904092594 Paris AFP in English 0808 GMT 29 Apr 94 AB2904092594 Paris AFP English BFN [Excerpts] Nairobi, 28 Apr (AFP) -- Rwandan Government forces shelled rebel positions from the Kigali airport Friday [29 April] amid exchanges of small arms fire around the capital, which is littered with corpses and threatened by cholera, a United Nations official said. UN troops and Rwandan gendarmes meanwhile guarded a hotel where 300 Rwandan civilians holed up after pro-government militiamen threatened to butcher them, Abdul Kabia, executive director of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda (UNAMIR), told AFP by telephone from Kigali. [passage omitted] "Last night was very quiet, but shooting started this morning, with heavy mortar fire coming from the direction of the airport where government forces have set up their heavy weapons," Kabia said. "There was no return of the mortar fire, but there were small arms exchanges between the two sides around town," he said. "There is still no breakthrough on the political front." A unilateral ceasefire declared by the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front from Monday collapsed almost immediately. Kabia said the UN had received no response from either side to ceasefire proposals which it put forward this week. "Kigali is like a ghost town," he said. Many civilians have fled the embattled city, some for rebel-held territory to the north and others for neighbouring countries. Those left are desperately short of food as stockpiles of maize and beans were looted when fighting erupted three weeks ago. Water and electricity have been cut. Piles of unburied, rotting corpses on the streets raised fears of a cholera epidemic. The mostly Tutsi rebels seemed locked in a stalemate with militiamen and government soldiers mainly from the majority Hutu tribe. "Neither side seems able to gain the upper hand," said an aid worker, also contacted by telephone in Kigali. "It's hell here."
