FBIS4-63840 "drsov101_a_94040" FBIS-SOV-94-101 Daily Report 24 May 1994 RUSSIAN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Finnish Nuclear Alert Exercise Causes `Considerable Panic' Finnish Nuclear Alert Exercise Causes `Considerable Panic' PM2505092594 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 24 May 94 p 2 PM2505092594 Moscow IZVESTIYA Russian BFN [Report by Marat Zubko: "Finnish Nuclear Alert Exercise Alarms Russia"] [Text] Helsinki -- The Finnish mass media report that exercises designed to eliminate a potential accident at the nuclear electric power station in Loviisa, a city on the south coast of Finland, were interpreted in Vyborg and St. Petersburg as a real disaster and thus caused alarm to the authorities and considerable panic among the population. "People in Vyborg," Helsinki newspapers report, "were so convinced by these rumors of an accident in Finland that the local radio and television advised the population on ways to protect themselves against radiation. Residents were urged not to go out into the street while people already outside were advised to wash their clothing thoroughly." Finnish television claims that similar appeals were made in St. Petersburg, too. How could the disaster rumors have developed? The Finnish Ministry of Internal Affairs has given the following explanation: One of the things that was checked out as part of the exercises at the Loviisa nuclear power station was the emergency radio communications system, and conversations via that system could have been heard in neighboring areas of Russia. The exercises were held last Wednesday [18 May], but the Finnish authorities did not learn about the disquiet across the border until Friday evening when businessmen arriving from Russia bombarded the police with questions about what had happened at the Loviisa power station and whether it was safe or not to travel on to the west of the country. These reports appeared in the press on Saturday. The Finnish authorities, as the local television service reported, informed the Russian side that all was calm in Loviisa, that nothing had happened there, and that the radiation situation in Finland remains normal. Nevertheless, I hope that two small conclusions will be drawn from this episode. Conclusion number one: Since the alarm was raised in Vyborg and St. Petersburg when the radio conversations at Lovisa were intercepted, this means that there is a danger alert system in operation there, which can only be good news. Conclusion number two: It would be a good idea if countries which hold such exercises were to notify neighboring states in good time, especially if they are going to go on air and talk about disasters.
