FBIS4-50039 "drchi093_m_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-093 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 Military Navy Improves Educational Levels of Servicemen Navy Improves Educational Levels of Servicemen OW1205094694 Beijing Central Television Program One Network in Mandarin 1100 GMT 24 Apr 94 OW1205094694 Beijing Central Television Program One Network in Mandarin 1100 GMT 24 Apr 94 Mandarin BFN [From the "National News Hookup" program] [Text] Ninety percent of the military commanders of the main combat fleet under the People's Navy have achieved an educational level equivalent to a regular university degree. This is one of the hallmarks of a new stage in the Navy's modernization. According to what a reporter saw during a tour of a certain submarine detachment in the North Sea Fleet, officers and men have acquired a range of training methods aimed at improving their overall fighting capability with the assistance of existing equipment in complex settings; this has been made possible by the general improvement in their educational levels. Their detachment has been named as an all-army, advanced training unit for two consecutive years. [video shows a submarine anchored at sea, military officers in a meeting, and a submarine heading out to sea] The Navy is a knowledge- and technology-intensive service. In its early days in 1949, most captains did not even have a primary school education. Since the fifties, the Navy Vessels Academy, the Navy Submarine Academy, and other naval academies aimed at training commanders for troops on surface vessels and submarines have been established one after another. Most of the Navy's primary-level commanding officers are graduates of those academies. Commanding officers of all ranks must undergo training anew in those academies or training groups if they want to be promoted. This will enable them to constantly renew their knowledge, improve their strategic and command skills, and master the various modern equipment and systems employed at their posts and their ranks. Nineteen cadres from a certain detachment in the East Sea Fleet have been admitted to Chinese University of Science and Technology and other major colleges and universities for graduate programs leading to master's and doctoral degree. [video shows file footage of old surface vessels, cutting to show naval personnel attending class and operating computers and other equipment with the assistance of instructors]
