FBIS4-46632 "jpuma028___94020" JPRS-UMA-94-028 JPRS Central Eurasia Military Affairs 21 May 1994 STATE AND LOCAL MILITARY FORCES UKRAINE National Guard Formation, Troop Training Explored National Guard Formation, Troop Training Explored Rear Services Personnel Training 94UM0468C Kiev NARODNA ARMIYA in Ukrainian 21 May 94 p 2 94UM0468C Kiev NARODNA ARMIYA Ukrainian CSO [Article by KNGU press service officer Vira Valerko under the rubric "The National Guard Trains Cadres": "New Reinforcements for the Rear Services Troops"] [Text] The Department of Military Management of the Kharkiv Higher Military School of the NHU [National Guard of Ukraine] was called before August of last year the Department of Food and Matériel Support, and employed military-economic gaming as an experiment with the cadets of the graduating class. Many changes have occurred today, and games have now become a constituent element of the educational process. Its title is "The Operations of the Rear Services of the NHU Regiment in Various Economic Situations." This is, true, not just a game. The cadets took it seriously, since it revealed their capabilities and, most importantly, their ability as future military specialists. The dynamism with which the action began during the game did not give them an opportunity to think for long, forcing the immediate resolution of any problems and, later--profound theoretical knowledge. The cadets played many roles over just one day: senior officers and deputy commanders of units, chiefs of the food and matériel services, young specialists in rear services. Business manager, say, or the chief of a bathhouse etc. The point of the game, in the broadest sense, was to check the quality of the assimilation of the basic curriculum, evaluate the ability to orient themselves in situations that arise unexpectedly, and evaluate their decision-making skills and ability to plan and forecast their activity under the new conditions of economic activity and supervise subordinates. There was also one more important purpose of this game--to assist the cadets in understanding and being aware of the harsh realities of the present day. It was carefully arranged into three stages: business, role-playing and organizational-business games. And while the first stage was an entirely pre-programmed affair with a plan known in advance and a finish that was a hundred percent predictable (the cadets were even permitted to use a great deal of reference material), just the problem was put before the cadets in the remaining ones. The actual methods, ways and quality of their resolution depended on the level of training of the cadets. Stereotyped scenarios thus had no success at all. Only new, fresh and original solutions were suitably evaluated. Each graduate was left alone with himself in the final stage, and could count only on his own knowledge, quick thinking and resourcefulness. Acting decisively, sometimes improvising, but only within the bounds of the law, they were able to achieve their aims and find foodstuffs, dress, technical gear, to achieve precise reasoning in a persuasive key in their discussions with the supplier, and to select that combination of actions that would lead to success. The cadets, in other words, were placed in extreme conditions that were as close as possible to the actual state of affairs in our life. It can be believed that they will withstand the difficult trials of life in worthy fashion, as well as the rest of their educational ones. The good results of the military-economic game undoubtedly testify to that.
