FBIS3-23916 "jpusr022___94054" FBIS-USR-94-022 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 9 March 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Nizhniy Novgorod Local Candidates Viewed 944F0347A Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 19 Feb 94 p 2 944F0347A Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Andrey Shishov, ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA correspondent: "Candidates Are Searching for Arguments"] [Text] Nizhniy Novgorod--The cards are on the table: Yevgeniy Krestyaninov, 45, deputy to the Federal Assembly, chairman of the Nizhniy Novgorod Oblast Soviet, decided to join the contest for the position of the Nizhniy Novgorod local self-administration head. He will be running against Dmitriy Bednyakov, head of the city administration. Several other local parties are also collecting signatures for their candidates, among them are members of the Travkin and the communist parties. During a press conference, Ye. Krestyaninov announced his decision not to run for the oblast legislature. In doing this, he hopes to avoid any accusations of trying to stay in power at any cost. According to Krestyaninov, the local self-administration head ought to establish a dynamic, lawful parity in the activity of the city duma administration office and it should not try to prevail over the representational body of power. Recently, he thinks, unnecessary contradictions have appeared in the relations between the city and the oblast. Krestyaninov does not agree with the policy of the city administration and its head, D. Bednyakov. He thinks that the privatized enterprises of the public services area have been left to the mercy of fate. Public transportation is performing badly. Such services as shoe repairs have almost completely disappeared. The famous quartet of Nizhniy Novgorod reformers, consisting of former city soviet chairman A. Kosarikov (he is now deputy governor for ecology), Ye. Krestyaninov, B. Nemtsov, and D. Bednyakov, has broken up. The apparent reason for the antagonism among the four must have been the fact that the current mayor of Nizhniy Novgorod started to conduct his own policy, without paying much attention to the interests of the oblast. The general election to the representative organs of Nizhegorodskiy Kray will take place on 27 March. Thirty four deputies are supposed to be elected to the city duma. The districts have been determined, the city electoral commission is functioning, potential candidates are actively collecting signatures. According to the regulations of the oblast soviet, a candidate to the city duma needs to gain the support of only one percent of the constituency. The city administration ruled to more than triple this figure. The procuracy announced a protest in this respect, but no concrete decision on it has been passed yet. Governor G. Nemtsov declared that the oblast administration would not participate in the coming election as it adhered to the principle of separation of power. Ye. Krestyaninov characterized this Nemtsov announcement as practical respect of the kray executive power for the decisions of its representational branch.
