FBIS3-9534 "dreeu058__a94008" FBIS-EEU-94-058-A Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 ANNEX Czech Republic Zeman Accused of Trying To Restore CSFR AU2303154894 Prague CTK in English 1040 GMT 23 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2303154894 Prague CTK Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Prague, March 23 (CTK) -- According to some Bratislava officials, Czech Social Democratic Party (CSSD) Chairman Milos Zeman has informed leaders of the Slovak Social Democrats and Democratic Left Party (SDL) of his intention to make a new endeavor to create the Czechoslovak union, Robert Casensky and Michal Musil from Bratislava say in the right-oriented daily TELEGRAF today. According to Zeman's plan, a referendum should decide on the issue. Although the information has been confirmed by Frantisek Miklosko, chairman of the Christian Democratic Movement (KDH) Deputies' Group, and indirectly by SDL Chairman Peter Weiss, Zeman asserts that he did not make such a statement. "Should such an offer be made I will comment on it," Zeman said. However, if some Slovak political parties consider such a proposal then it is "their own business" and the CSSD would not interfere in it, Zeman said. Miklosko asserts, however, that Zeman has actually come up with such an initiative at talks with representatives of the Slovak Social Democratic Party (SSDS) and part of the SDL. Miklosko said that according to information he possessed, the CSSD is planning to include the creation of the union in its election program. Slovak political parties had not, however, shown much interest in Zeman's initiative. "I personally believe that the Slovak left will not be strong enough to carry out the idea. Mr. Zeman has much bigger aspirations in this respect," Miklosko said. Weiss did not refute Miklosko's information. Asked directly what his party's stand has on the proposal by the Czech Social Democrats, Weiss said that the SDL saw the division of Czechoslovakia as a fait accompli. "The independence of both the Czech and Slovak Republics is a reality and there is no point in changing it," Weiss said, adding that there were neither internal political nor external political conditions for the renewal of something which was once here.
