FBIS3-10821 "drlat049_o_94012" FBIS-LAT-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Colombia Samper, Reyes, Pastrana Remark on Elections PA1403033794 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0130 GMT 14 Mar 94 PA1403033794 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Aris Fogel; from the "TV Today" newscast] [Text] Colombia can be satisfied. Once again it has demonstrated its democratic spirit. It showed the guerrillas at the polls that it wants peace. Amid a climate of calm, it elected the people who will make up the Senate and Chamber of Representatives in the new Congress. As for the Liberal primary, partial returns from the National Civil Registry Office indicate Ernesto Samper Pizano won. He referred to his victory, as follows: [Begin Samper recording] I have received the message. I interpret the triumph in the primary as a mandate for social change. To achieve it, we must transform the Liberal Party so that it will again be a faithful interpreter of Liberal ideals. The party cannot continue to be a representative of old policies, which citizens want to change. [end recording] Although Samper's presidential candidacy must be ratified and confirmed by the Liberals' 18 March convention, it is taken for granted he will receive his party's support. For its part, the Conservative Party was pleased with the progress achieved in the parliamentary elections, as was stated by Conservative Party Director Cornelio Reyes. [Begin Reyes recording] The exit poll results announced by Caracol indicate the Conservatives are getting more than eight Senate seats. It will have 10 new seats in the Chamber of Representatives. [end recording] Andres Pastrana, presidential candidate and leader of the New Democratic Force, described today's elections, as follows: [Begin Pastrana recording] It is a triumph of democracy over violence. I think this is very important, that the people went out to vote, despite the fact--we say sadly--we did not get the results we wanted. Abstentionism is still very high. I hope I can convoke the Colombians, as I intend to do, so that on 8 May we can defeat abstentionism in Colombia. [end recording]
