FBIS4-45663 "jpten015___94066" JPRS-TEN-94-015 JPRS Environmental Issues 9 June 1994 WEST EUROPE GERMANY Heavy Metals Immobilized, Hydrocarbons Degraded Heavy Metals Immobilized, Hydrocarbons Degraded BR2005151794 Wuerzburg UMWELT MAGAZIN in German Mar 94 pp 117-118 BR2005151794 Wuerzburg UMWELT MAGAZIN German BFN [Text] Soil contamination with combinations of toxic substances, such as hydrocarbons and heavy metals, often present major problems. Low-cost biological reclamation processes are ruled out in most cases, and all that remains are costly soil washing or heat treatments or dumping. Markkleeberg-based Biolipsia GmbH has developed a gentle two-stage process for this area. In the first stage, the adsorption agent Metasorb B is added and thoroughly mixed into the soil material, which is ground down to grain sizes of less than 20 mm. All the heavy metal ions present -- even chromium -- are securely bound, and after a reaction period ranging from a few hours to a few days, hardly any bioavailable heavy metal ions remain in the material. This process is irreversible over a very wide pH range. Biological Degradation in Biobeds In the second stage, the organic contamination can be eliminated in biobeds. The pretreatment has bound all the heavy metals to the extent that they have no inhibiting effect on the enzymatic activity of the bacteria that degrade the hydrocarbons. Other nutrients required for pollutant degradation, such as alkaline or earth-alkaline ions and phosphoric and nitrogenous salts, are not bound by the adsorption agent. The company has performed successful laboratory tests over the last few weeks, where adding Metasorb in a ratio of five to 10 percent by volume of the soil being treated achieved degradation rates ranging from 35 to 85 percent of the initial concentrations after a 15-hour mixing period followed by the degradation test -- with prefermented biomass over 24 hours. The producer's initial findings indicate that the process is economically viable, as the cost per tonne is only DM25 to DM80 higher than with purely microbiological processes. If biobed treatment is prolonged sufficiently, the hydrocarbon concentrations can be reduced to the extent that the material can be used for reincorporation. Long-term trials in Belgium have shown that no discharge of heavy metals into groundwater-bearing strata need be feared.
