FBIS4-43836 "drweu120_n_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-120 Daily Report 19 Jun 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland Center Party Congress Backs Aho Line on EU Center Party Congress Backs Aho Line on EU PM2106133694 Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET in Swedish 19 Jun 94 p 3 PM2106133694 Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET Swedish BFN [Report by Bjarne Nitovuori: "Aho's EU Line Won a Clear Victory"] [Excerpts] Jyvaskyla -- The Aho government's line on the European Union [EU] issue received clear support at the Center Party congress in Jyvaskyla yesterday. A vote of 1,607 against 834 approved a resolution, which means that the government can continue to work on the EU process that is aiming at EU membership from the beginning of next year. [passage omitted] At a news conference afterward Prime Minister Esko Aho himself said that the figures were not dramatic. They correspond to the relative strengths that were to be found in the party delegation and the Riksdag group when the Center Party decided to support an EC membership application just over two years ago, he said. The result means that the authority to sign the EU agreement can be granted tomorrow without a government crisis and also that Esko Aho does not need to carry out his threat to resign as party chairman. The resolution does not mean that the congress gave its express support to EU membership. It expressed its support for Esko Aho's government and its line on the EU question. [passage omitted] However, the speech that attracted most attention yesterday was not by Aho but by Paavo Vayrynen who lost the vote and consequently suffered a new loss of prestige. Vayrynen explained why he does not approve of the EU agreement. "It was a major strategic mistake to approve so poor a negotiated package. An even bigger -- fateful -- mistake will be made if the Center Party congress approves this agreement here today," Vayrynen said. He said that the congress is of crucial importance. "If this congress allows the EU train to travel onward to the granting of approval for the authority to sign the agreement, to a referendum, and to discussion by the Eduskunta it will be almost impossible to stop it any longer," he said. [passage omitted]
