FBIS3-367 "drafr044_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola UNITA's Valentim Views Latest Progress at Talks MB0503074494 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro in Portuguese 0600 GMT 5 Mar 94 MB0503074494 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] There was no plenary meeting at the Lusaka peace talks yesterday, but important steps were nevertheless taken to restore peace in this country. The Voice of Resistance of the Black Cockerel has learned that the mediators have presented a new general document to the negotiating parties, who responded to it yesterday. It is not known yet how the two sides responded to that document because the official mediator continues to demand secrecy. Meanwhile, Dr. Jorge Alicerces Valentim, National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] information secretary, told Radio France Internationale yesterday that talks were on the right track and progress was being made. [Begin recording] [Valentim] The talks are going very well indeed. In practical terms, we have reached consensus concerning more than 50 percent of all the issues that have been raised. I would like to [words indistinct] the sides have agreed that there should be a major campaign after an accord has been signed to promote a spirit of tolerance and trust that would allow its implementation. We have also reached an understanding concerning a very important role by a free press that would serve the whole nation. Obviously, decentralization is a very important point. We have not reached complete agreement on that score yet, but we have covered more than three quarters of the ground needed to achieve that goal. As for the issue of participation by UNITA deputies in the National Assembly, or Parliament, it is true that there is an understanding but, unfortunately, that issue has run into some difficulties because we are of the opinion that there must be no interference in the choice of UNITA deputies to take up seats in Parliament. It will be up to the UNITA leadership to choose the deputies who will be in Parliament, those who will be in government -- at whatever level -- and those who will be working in other areas. [Unidentified correspondent] What about the government posts that UNITA has been demanding? [Valentim] The talks are continuing but we have reached an agreement that that matter should be discussed (?on the ground). [end recording]
