FBIS3-36879 "drsov028_h_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 Moldova Snegur Sees Danger of `Provocations' in Dniester PM1002102194 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 9 Feb 94 First Edition p 1 PM1002102194 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Svetlana Gamova report: "Snegur Warns: Provocations Possible in Dniester Region"] [Text] Chisinau -- The Moldovan president has made an appeal on national television to residents of the Dniester Region in which he warned of possible provocations in the region during the election period and laid responsibility for their consequences at the door of Tiraspol's leaders. M. Snegur pointed out that the "sociopolitical situation in eastern parts of the republic has once deteriorated and the unconstitutional authorities in the Dniester Republic [as published] are constantly blocking a solution to the conflict. According to him, armed formations of the Dniester Region have been brought into the security zone, previously part of the combat zone, which is now controlled by peacekeeping forces. This is a gross violation of the agreement that the Russian and Moldovan presidents signed in 1992. He named the places where these armed detachments are based: Bendery and the outlying village of Parkany. In Snegur's opinion, the situation is being aggravated by the special regime in force on the Left Bank along with the reinforced border and customs posts on highways and bridges across the Dniester. The Dniester Region authorities' reluctance to resolve the conflict was cited as a crucial factor. Moreover, M. Snegur does not rule out the idea that "there will be various provocations that may end in bloodshed." The president urged the population of the Dniester Region and all people of goodwill to "influence those who want to embroil us in a bloody conflict." Judging by the atmosphere in Tiraspol, people here are afraid that uncontrollable situations may arise, thus accounting for the introduction of a special regime in the region. The information cited in the Moldovan president's appeal is backed up by a statement from the Moldovan delegation on the Joint Monitoring Commission [JMC], which is monitoring the security zone. The Dniester side has submitted its counterarguments to the commission. According to V. Krylov, cochairman of the JMC, who heads the Russian mission, there have been plenty of these counterstatements and they are not just confined to the above two spots -- Bendery and Parkany. The facts cited are being checked out by the tripartite military command of the peacekeeping forces, and the JMC will be able to draw its conclusions on the basis of the command's report. The Russian delegation, which is mediating in resolving the conflict, is aware of the edgy election atmosphere and the sides' desire to derive the maximum advantage from it, according to the Russian cochairman of the JMC. But the main thing today is to preserve tranquillity and the peace that has been established, creating conditions for political solutions. Bendery Garrison Commandant A. Vostrikov noted that, according to his information, the JMC has not established that there are armed formations in the city apart from those for which the agreement makes provision.
