FBIS4-47558 "jpust013___94112" JPRS-UST-94-013 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 23 June 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Pesticide Compound Degradation in Cereal Crop Protection in Pesticide Compound Degradation in Cereal Crop Protection in Kemerovo oblast's Forest-Plain Zone 947C0180A Novosibirsk IZVESTIYA SIBIRSKOGO OTDELENIYA ROSSIYSKOY AKADEMII NAUK: SIBIRSKIY BIOLOGICHESKIY ZHURNAL in Russian No. 4, July-Aug. 93 pp. 18-23 947C0180A Novosibirsk IZVESTIYA SIBIRSKOGO OTDELENIYA ROSSIYSKOY AKADEMII NAUK: SIBIRSKIY BIOLOGICHESKIY ZHURNAL Russian CSO [Article by V.G. Vavin, A.V. Baklanskiy, Kemerovo Scientific Research Institute of Agriculture; UDC 632:631:95] [Abstract] The ongoing intensification of agricultural production led to an increase in the scale and range of agricultural chemicals, yet both the composition and capabilities of the existing assortment of chemicals do not fully meet today's environmental and sanitary-hygienic requirements. This increases the urgency of monitoring and studying the traces of pesticides in the environment. Thus, the degradation dynamics of pesticides with a varying phytosanitary actions in the soil and cereal plants in Kemerovo oblast's forest-plain zone are examined against the natural backdrop of soil fertility and against the optimum background of the plants' mineral nutrition. To this end, a cereal crop rotation study was carried out at the pilot test field of the Niva Kuzbassa scientific production association whereby the detoxication dynamics of three classes of pesticides--a fungicide, an insecticide, and a herbicide--were studied jointly and individually against the natural fertility background and against the backdrop of mineral fertilizers (N:P:K=60:60:60 kg/ha). Toxicology analysis samples were taken on the treatment day and one, two, four, and six weeks later. The study reveals that the use of natural zeolites which have a pronounced adsorbing and prolonging property for a number of pesticides is a promising trend toward lowering their persistence in the soil without changing their biological activity. The use of pesticides with natural zeolites lowers the metaphos accumulation in the plants by 20%, speeds up its detoxication by two weeks, and reduces its penetration into the subsoil. The findings confirm the need to establish an efficient combination of chemical agents for various purposes and the possibility of controlling the process of pesticide degradation in order to enhance the chemicals' environmental safety. Figures 3; tables 1; references 10.
