FBIS4-52535 "dreas091_d_94010" FBIS-EAS-94-091 Daily Report 11 May 1994 South Korea Working-Level Trade Talks Held With China Working-Level Trade Talks Held With China SK1105040394 Seoul THE KOREA HERALD in English 11 May 94 pp 2, 5 SK1105040394 Seoul THE KOREA HERALD English BFN [Text] Seoul yesterday asked Beijing to allow the import of South Korean cars and participation of its construction firms in major construction projects in China, the Foreign Ministry said. South Korea also requested that China heighten transparency of its trade system by lowering tariffs and relaxing requirements for permission to import goods, it said. While promising to positively study the Korean suggestions, Beijing, on its part, urged Seoul to remove tariffs on 20 Chinese goods including mushrooms and asked it to be more prudent in levying anti-dumping charges against Chinese products,the ministry said. The two sides made the requests during the first-day of their two-day working-level trade talks. The ministry said the two sides expressed satisfaction over the growing trade volume between the two countries and agreed to exert efforts to remove nontariff barriers in order to further expand bilateral trade. According to ministry statistics, two-way trade between both countries amounted to $9.08 billion last year, with Korea recording $1.2 billion of trade surplus. The two countries, in the meeting, projected their two-way trade would reach $28 billion in 1997 and $50 billion in 2000. The Korean side also explained to the Chinese the damage that Korean farmers are suffering from growing agricultural imports from China and sought the understanding of the Chinese over this problem, the ministry said. The two sides will each explain their foreign trade policies and discuss cooperation in regional and international trade organizations including the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) at today's session, the ministry said. Chong Ui-yong, director-general for international trade of the ministry, is heading the Korean delegation, while Shi Wei San, chief of the Asia bureau at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, is leading the Chinese side.
