FBIS4-15043 "drsov066_a_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-066 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Shakhray on Prospects for Joining Partnership for Peace Shakhray on Prospects for Joining Partnership for Peace LD0504142894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1250 GMT 5 Apr 94 LD0504142894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Anna Melnikova] [Text] Moscow, 5 Apr -- "A decision has to be made on Russia's participation in the NATO `Partnership for Peace' program, not only at the level of executive power; agreement is also necessary with the legislative power." This was stated today in an exclusive interview with the ITAR-TASS correspondent by State Duma deputy, Minister for Affairs of Nationalities and Regional Policy Sergey Shakhray. According to him, "this is such a conceptual step in the development of the country that it is necessary to debate it at all levels, including the parliament." The Russian leadership must "exercise the maximum of coordination in its approach to decisionmaking, because the State Duma will have to ratify this agreement later." Sergey Shakhray would view Russia's participation in the Partnership for Peace program as an "obvious advantage" and he even compared it to "overcoming the iron curtain." As a disadvantage, he mentioned the fact that "after the disintegration of the Warsaw Pact Russia should have thought about setting up a new security system." "One must remember that Russia is a Eurasian state, and it is still unclear how its participation in the NATO initiative will reflect on its relations with other CIS countries and its Eastern neighbors, for example China", he said. "We are also worried that our country might lose markets for weapons." Sergey Shakhray agreed that if Russia were to join the Partnership for Peace program, it could have a special status. The minister believes that "it is necessary to debate this matter at the Security Council, then at the Federation Council, and to make a final decision once all positions have been coordinated." Speaking about a possible timetable for Russia's joining the Partnership for Peace program, Sergey Shakhray said that "this process will probably take one or two months."
