FBIS4-15941 "drsov071_b_94023" FBIS-SOV-94-071 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Chubays Notes Move to Investment Privatization Chubays Notes Move to Investment Privatization LD1204205794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1958 GMT 12 Apr 94 LD1204205794 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Pavel Kuznetsov] [Text] Moscow April 12 TASS -- "We are passing over from voucher privatization to the financial and investment one," chairman of the Russian State Committee for Property and Russian Vice-Premier Anatoliy Chubays told parliamentary hearings "on results of privatization and control over state property in the Russian Federation" at the state Duma here today. In the words of Chubays, the main thing about the new stage of privatization is the upcoming reconstruction of joint stock enterprises. Their reconstruction is impossible without considerable investments in the Russian economy, said Chubays. That is why, the fact "millions of U.S. dollars and billions of rubles have been invested in privatized enterprises to ensure their high-efficiency and stability" was the most important result of the voucher privatization. He said the committee is creating a net work of special funds to ensure investment support of privatized enterprises. Another result of voucher privatization is privatization of 70 per cent of small ventures. He said this process will be completed by fall 1994. At the same time, 15,000 out of the 19,000 large and medium enterprises have been turned into joint stock societies, which means "large privatization" has begun. In the opinion of Chubays, "privatization vouchers created a single property space in Russia," and voucher auctions have proved their efficiency. Some 650 voucher investment funds are working in Russia, they are absolutely necessary element of the financial market and efficient market economy, said Chubays. In his opinion, the funds will make the core of the non-state system of investments in the Russian economy. At the same time, privatization has its costs. Speaking of crimes related to privatization, Chubays said his committee has "established close contacts with the federal counter-intelligence service" and this cooperation has brought results.
