FBIS3-7441 "dreas060_c_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 North Korea Foreign Personalities, Groups Express Support Groups Blast U.S. Actions SK2903032494 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1010 GMT 28 Mar 94 SK2903032494 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["U.S. Perfidious Act Under Fire" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 28 (KCNA) -- Foreign political parties and organizations have bitterly denounced the perfidious act of the United States in reversing the agreed conclusions reached between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States at the New York contact and bringing the situation of the Korean peninsula to the brink of war. The Central Committee [C.C.] of the Jordanian Communist Party in its March 24 solidarity message to the C.C., the Workers' Party of Korea said the United States reversed the New York agreement, fully revealing its aggressive design to render the situation strained and perpetrate a provocation on the Korean peninsula. The Brazilian Communist Party issued a statement on March 24. Noting that the United States was driving the situation of the Korean peninsula to the brink of war by foiling the third round of the DPRK-U.S. talks and seeking the resumption of the "Team Spirit" joint military exercises and the deployment of Patriot missiles in South Korea, the statement said this is a premeditated provocation to isolate and stifle socialist Korea. The Spanish Committee for Supporting Korea's Reunification, the Organizing Committee of "the Espano-Coreano Koryo Friendship and Cooperation Association" and the Spanish Committee of the Organization of Solidarity of the Peoples of Africa, Asia and Latin America released a joint statement on March 22. Pointing out that a grave situation has been created again on the Korean peninsula by the U.S. perfidious act in reversing its agreement with the DPRK, it condemned the bellicose and irresponsible attitude of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which is serving the imperialists and the United States. The Russian Association for Friendship and Cultural Cooperation with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in a statement March 24 said the situation of the Korean peninsula has been further aggravated because some quarters of the United States and Japan have not given up the intention to stifle the DPRK, and the United States, taking advantage of its predominant position in the IAEA, has reversed the DPRK-U.S. agreement, put all manner of pressure on North Korea and worked to impair its authority in the international arena and finally suffocate the socialist system of this country. The Zimbabwean Association for Solidarity and Friendship with Korea, the General Confederation of Trade Unions of Yemen and the Secretariat of the Democratic Youth League of Ghana, too, issued statements urging the United States to stop threatening the DPRK.
