FBIS3-39582 "drweu034__a94027" FBIS-WEU-94-034-A Document Type:Daily Report 18 February 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Napolitano Comments on U.S. Visit BR1102131094 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 2047 GMT 10 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1102131094 Rome ANSAMAIL Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Elections: `U.S. Impartial,' Napolitano Says"] [Text] Washington, 10 Feb (ANSA) -- United States officials are impartial with regard to Italy's coming general elections, according to visiting Italian House Speaker Giorgio Napolitano in Washington Thursday [10 February]. Over a two-day period, Wednesday and Thursday, Napolitano has met with his U.S. counterpart Thomas Foley; with the chairman of the house foreign affairs committee, Lee Hamilton; with former national security advisor Zbigniew Brzezinsky; with the State Department's director for European Affairs, Stephen Oxman and with the head of the International Monetary Fund, Michael Camdessus. Napolitano said he received the distinct impression that while American authorities took a keen interest in Italian affairs, they were determined to remain impartial with regard to the various political forces in play in Italy today. Americans are seeking to get a better handle on the envisioned government prospects of the Democratic Party of the Left (the former Communist Party), the evolution of the MSI [Italian Social Movement] neofascist party as led by Gianfranco Fini, and the entrance onto the political scene of media mogul Silvio Berlusconi, who they are quick to liken to Ross Perot, he said. With regard to the Left Democrats, Napolitano stressed that they were interested in pursuing the policy of recovery and reconstruction launched by the present Ciampi government. However, Napolitano would not be drawn into making any guesses as to the outcome of the March general elections, insisting that the results were unpredictable, although he was fairly certain that the toughest and most innovative of the Ciampi government's policies would be continued. Italians are demanding renewal and recovery, he added.
