FBIS3-773 "drafr049_c_94032" FBIS-AFR-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Mandela on Government Confusion Over Declaration MB1303152994 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1500 GMT 13 Mar 94 MB1303152994 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by E H Kemp] [Text] Ermelo March 13 SAPA -- Neither President F W de Klerk nor Independent Electoral Commission Chairman Johann Kriegler knew about the declaration of unrest areas in 52 magisterial districts, African National Congress [ANC] President Nelson Mandela said on Sunday [13 March]. Addressing about 15,000 people at a rally in Wesselton outside Ermelo, he said he had telephoned Mr de Klerk and Mr Justice Kriegler on Saturday night after an ANC rally in Kimberley was prohibited in terms of the declaration. Mr Mandela said Mr de Klerk told him he had not known about the declaration and the subsequent banning of the ANC rally. Mr Justice Kriegler, whose commission has to ensure that the April election was free and fair, had also not been consulted about the matter. "The amount of confusion and lack of consultation among members of the government is frightening. One department does not know what another is doing. There are times when even Mr de Klerk does not know about matters of fundamental importance." The ANC leader said the declaration of unrest areas seemed "calculated to undermine free and fair elections". He said he had also discussed with Mr de Klerk the controversy surrounding Housing Minister Louis Shill's R90-billion [rand] housing scheme. He said it was wrong for a government minister to make announcements on important issues without prior consultation with other institutions and parties involved in the transition process. "These are the actions of a government which is panicking because they see the writing on the wall. They are abusing their position to do things which in terms of the sane policies, they should not be doing." Mr Mandela received a thunderous welcome when he arrived at the Wesselton stadium at about 3PM. Drum majorettes and drummers led the procession as the ANC leader, on the back of an open bakkie [pickup truck], waved and gave clenched fists salutes. Mr Mandela, who was accompanied by the ANC's candidate premier for the Eastern Transvaal, Matthew Phosa, and Prince James Mahlangu of the Intando Yesizwe [Will of the Nation] party of kwaNdebele, also inspected a company of Umkhonto We Sizwe [Spear of the Nation, ANC armed wing] troops from the Chris Hani detachment.
