FBIS3-32681 "drlat030_f_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA El Salvador FMLN, Government Reschedule Peace Agreements PA1202021494 San Salvador Radio Cadena YSU in Spanish 1800 GMT 10 Feb 94 PA1202021494 San Salvador Radio Cadena YSU Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "YSU Radio News" newscast] [Text] A FMLN [Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front] delegation will meet with the UN secretary general and present him with the new peace agreement schedule. FMLN leader Juan Ramon Medrano said that in addition to visiting New York the delegation will meet with U.S. Government representatives in Washington to request increased support for the completion of the agreements' execution. [Begin Medrano recording] The peace agreements have been rescheduled to reaffirm the pledges made by the government and FMLN. This is why the FMLN will travel to the United Nations and the United States, where it will also request economic and political support for the execution of the remaining agreements and also for the 20 March electoral process. [end recording] The FMLN delegation's trip was agreed upon after the government's new pledges were disclosed. [Begin Medrano recording] First, the National Police must be dismantled, once and for all, by October 1994; second, the National Civilian Police budget and resources must be improved by decreasing the Army's, and we must pursue and step up the land transference process which, had it not been blocked, would have been completed by now. We also pledged to support every aspect of the electoral process; the elections must be as honest as possible, the Supreme Electoral Tribunal must be modernized, and the distribution of electoral cards must be stepped up, especially in municipalities where Nationalist Republican Alliance and National Coalition Party mayors have hindered the distribution of electoral cards, which require birth certificates and identification cards. The government has pledged to move faster in all of these areas so the elections can truly reflect this new period of concerted effort. [end recording] At the meeting with the UN secretary general, the FMLN will also discuss the climate surrounding the planning of the 20 March elections. It has been disclosed that effective international verification will be requested to guarantee free elections and prevent any attempts at fraud.
