FBIS4-187 "drafr064_e_94011" FBIS-AFR-94-064 Daily Report 3 Apr 1994 WEST AFRICA Togo Justice Minister Clarifies Court's Election Role Justice Minister Clarifies Court's Election Role AB0404083694 Lome Radio Lome in French 1900 GMT 3 Apr 94 AB0404083694 Lome Radio Lome French BFN ["Clarification" issued by Justice Minister Aregba Polo in Lome on 3 April -- recorded] [Text] The Fourth Republic's Constitution has assigned two essential electoral tasks to the Supreme Court. The first one is the proclamation of results. The Constitution has assigned to the Court the official proclamation of results. Before this proclamation it should check the material and formal aspects of the poll. It does not deal with the details of the electoral exercise, but simply judges whether the organized poll appeared to be legal. The National Electoral Commission [NEC] was of the view that the poll appeared to be legal in 76 constituencies, but in the remaining five, incidents occurred to such an extent that it was advisable to transfer the results to the Supreme Court for examination. After examination, the Court concluded that it had to announce all the results because candidates affected by the incidents had the chance to lodge their electoral complaints for settlement. The second mission assigned to the Court concerns election disputes. It receives complaints from dissatisfied candidates, checks the regularity of electoral exercise, and hands down verdicts. It can confirm the validity of polls or annul the election of a candidate in case it believes the electoral process has been violated. The Supreme Court received 29 appeals for annulment. During the examination of the appeals, it analyzed all the legal aspects to check the validity of the challenged polls. The examination resulted in the annulment of the elections of three candidates out of 81. In one case, the annulment resulted from the ineligibility of an alternate, while in the remaining two cases the annulment was due to the serious irregularities that affected the fairness of the voting. Concerning the conciliation procedure at the level of the NEC, I point out that it was followed as proved by the letters exchanged by the NEC chairman and the president of the Supreme Court. Togo is a law-abiding state. Each citizen has to respect the decisions made by the judiciary, and it is in this spirit that each citizen should consider the decisions made by the Supreme Court.
