FBIS4-24085 "drafr121_e_94002" FBIS-AFR-94-121 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 WEST AFRICA Liberia Factional Fighting Continues Around Buchanan Factional Fighting Continues Around Buchanan New Group Appears AB2206135094 London BBC World Service in English 1705 GMT 21 Jun 94 AB2206135094 London BBC World Service English BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] It looks as if yet another armed faction has surfaced in Liberia, this time in the southeast, where there have been ongoing clashes between Charles Taylor's NPFL [National Patriotic Front of Liberia] and the Liberian Peace Council, LPC. The emergence of the new group is being linked to insecurity on the main road into the port city of Buchanan. From Monrovia, Nii Nartey Allison telexed this report: Today, ECOMOG [Economic Community of West African States Cease-Fire Monitoring Group] said it had arrested four rebels it said were responsible for an ambush last Thursday [16 June] on a car on the Buchanan Highway. Two people were killed in the attack and five wounded. The ECOMOG chief of operations, Colonel Albert Lamptey, told reporters that posters and identification papers found with the four rebels carried the insignia of the Bassa Defense Force, BDF, a previously unknown armed group. He said the posters called for the withdrawal of the Nigerian contingent from ECOMOG. ECOMOG's chief of staff, General Femi Williams [title as heard], said the four ambush suspects were still being investigated, and warned factions against launching ambushes on the highway to Buchanan. Gen. Williams said rebels of Charles Taylor's National Patriotic Front of Liberia, NPFL, have moved into positions occupied by ECOMOG, adding: These provocations are still continuing to force us into battle. Meanwhile, Monrovia is still puzzled over a search operation carried out on Monday morning by the African troops, paralyzing the entire commercial sector of the city. General Kunle Togun of the Nigerian contingent said the search was carried out to uncover weapons that may have been smuggled into the city.
