FBIS4-15741 "drsov070_a_94024" FBIS-SOV-94-070 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Cooperation Treaty Signed Economic Cooperation Treaty Signed LD1204105094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1032 GMT 12 Apr 94 LD1204105094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS special correspondents Lyudmila Aleksandrova, Nikita Yermakov, Yuriy Sizov, and Vladimir Shekhovtsov] [Text] Madrid, 12 Apr (ITAR-TASS) -- An agreement on economic and industrial cooperation was signed by Oleg Davydov, Russia's minister for foreign economic relations, and Javier Gomez-Navarro, minister of commerce and tourism of spain, today. This document envisions specifically that the sides will facilitate contacts between enterprises, organizations, and individuals from the two countries. It has been decided to devote particular attention to dealing with the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises and to encourage events such as fairs, specialized exhibitions, and symposiums. An intergovernmental mixed commission on economic and industrial cooperation is being set up under the agreement. It will assemble no less than once a year, in Russia and Spain by turn. Commercial and economic relations between the two countries have been curtailed recently, to a considerable extent because of Russia's debt to Spain. However, Russia has a positive trade balance with Spain. The raw materials drive in Russia's exports is being maintained, most of which is oil. Russian imports from Spain still consist of vehicles, equipment, and foodstuffs. The Spanish side notes the interest of the country's business community in operating in the Russian market, but also notes their caution on this. This is connected to the instability of Russian legislation and the lack of proper guarantees for foreign investors. According to EL PAIS newspaper, Spanish businessmen are hoping first and foremost for the provision of reliable conditions for capital investment in Russia and a stable customs policy. Of 74 registered Russian-Spanish mixed enterprises, less than ten are actually operating. However, the experience of those who are already functioning in Russia demonstrates that there is great potential for cooperation in the economic sphere.
