FBIS4-63012 "drsov097_b_94035" FBIS-SOV-94-097 Daily Report 19 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Aleksandr Shokhin Cited on Support for Small Businesses Aleksandr Shokhin Cited on Support for Small Businesses MK1805094094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian, 18 May 94, p 2 MK1805094094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian, BFN [Yelena Tregubova report under the "Support" rubric: "Government Promises to Ease Taxes for Small Businesses. Local Authorities Not Averse to `Redistributing' Them in Their Own Favor"] [Text] Addressing a seminar on the problems of low-level enterprise that opened yesterday, Leonid Bochin, chairman of the Russian Federation State Committee on Antimonopoly Policy, declared that "since entrepreneurs are not to expect large-scale direct credits from the budget," the main state support for small businesses will consist in "considerable tax breaks and freeing from spending on social infrastructure." Minister of the Economy Aleksandr Shokhin confirmed that "lifting the burden of outlays for housing, health services, etc.," would be one of the main areas of "post-privatization state support for businesses." The economy minister stated that a "Council for Economic Reform" will soon be set up, consisting of representatives of executive power and Federation Council deputies. The Council "in the context of the Treaty on Social Accord" will create a "working conciliation mechanism," and, in particular, will develop a new concept of tax policy. Aleksandr Shokhin hopes that the Council's experts will manage to draft proposals before the State Duma looks at a Tax Code. The economy minister promised that two weeks from now, a draft law "On State Support for Small Non-State Enterprises" will be put before the government. The government proposes to prepare in the second quarter draft amendments to the law "On Enterprise and Entrepreneurial Activities." They will deal with state guarantees for the rights of entrepreneurs and provide for simplified registration procedures for entrepreneurs who are not legal entities. Aleksandr Shokhin underscored that the rise of small businesses depends to a considerable degree on the good will of the regional authorities. Today the seminar's "roundtable" will be discussing possible interaction between federal and regional bodies to develop small businesses. Already yesterday there emerged one of the topics of the discussion -- the leaders of territories are asking the center "to redistribute the bulk of business taxes in favor of local authorities."
