FBIS3-40452 "jpjst005__l94002" JPRS-JST-94-005L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 31 February 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness MITI To Formulate Technology Vision for Small, Mid-Sized Enterprises 93FE0811A Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 29 Jun 93 p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 93FE0811A Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] The Small and Medium Enterprise Agency of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) is designing a new vision for the 21st century for technology policies for small- and medium-sized businesses. The Technology Policy Committee to be established as a part of the Small and Medium Sized Enterprise Modernization Council (an advisory organ of the Minister of MITI) will begin deliberations this fall. While developing a successor law to the Law on Extraordinary Measures for the Technology Development Promotion for Small and Medium Enterprises, which will expire at the deadline of July 1995, the Council will carry out support for restructuring and find uses of regional public research institutes (kohsetsushi labs) by regional industries. Almost 10 years have passed since the Small and Medium Enterprise Agency endeavored to devise a new vision for technology policy based on a report completed in February 1985 by committee of the Small and Medium Sized Enterprise Modernization Council. This committee recognized the need for new objectives given the changing economic and technological environments. The Law on Extraordinary Measures for the Technology Development Promotion for Small and Medium Enterprises which currently forms the basis for technology policies for small- and medium-sized enterprises is based on the 1985 report. Support policies like loans for advanced capital, tax reduction measures, and exceptions for extra credit for companies implementing development plans authorized by the prefecture are organized under this law. Since this law has a 10-year limit, this system will discontinue as of July 1995. The purpose of the new vision is to design a successor law. The report of the Basic Policy Study Group of the Small and Medium Enterprises Policy Council sought clarification of the vision for technology policy for the country. To address this, a study will begin. The Technology Policy Committee to be established this fall in the Small and Medium Enterprise Modernization Council will try to respond before the end of fiscal year 1993. In concert with the new vision, about 170 kohsetsushi in prefectures throughout the country will begin to develop a system to facilitate the activities of small- and medium-sized enterprises like local manufacturing industries. Support for restructuring will also be included.
