FBIS4-57000 "drlat091_c_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-091 Daily Report 7 May 1994 MEXICO Deputy Secretaries Brief Senators on Joining OECD Deputy Secretaries Brief Senators on Joining OECD PA1005043594 Mexico City XEW Television Network in Spanish 0430 GMT 7 May 94 PA1005043594 Mexico City XEW Television Network Spanish BFN [From the "24 Hours" newscast] [Text] In Mexico City, four under secretaries explained to senators the details of the country joining the OECD. Guillermo Ortiz, deputy secretary of finance, Pedro Noyola of commerce, Andres Rosenthal of foreign relations, and Norma Samaniego of labor, appeared before senators and reported that Mexico, in joining the OECD, does not grant any privileges in addition to those established by local regulations. Regarding commerce, Noyola said this: [Begin Noyola recording] We do not relinquish our status as beneficiaries of the general preferential treatment that industrialized countries apply to developing countries. [end recording]. Mexico remains entirely free to sign regional commercial agreements, he said. Ortiz of finance said financial openings were a difficult point in the negotiation but that a gradual basis was established for operations of banks, stock exchanges, and insurance companies; operations that will be revised in 1998. Rosenthal of foreign relations said that Mexico did not join a wealthy men's clubs. He explained that joining the OECD will not magically solve the national growth's shortages and deficiencies. Samaniego of labor said that Mexico's advantage in this area is that the nation will have access to advanced studies on labor and job markets. The senators were informed that in this year's first quarter, foreign investment increased 89.5 percent over last year. In the first few months of 1994, more than $5.2 billion have been invested in creating 34 new corporations under the new foreign investment law. Sixty-three percent of these investments originated in the United States. Following the meeting, the senators will decide whether or not to approve Mexico's joining the OECD.
