FBIS4-46595 "jpuma027___94012" JPRS-UMA-94-027 JPRS Central Eurasia Military Affairs 7 June 1994 CIS/RUSSIAN MILITARY ISSUES NAVAL FORCES Destroyer `Neustrashimyy' To Participate in NATO Destroyer `Neustrashimyy' To Participate in NATO `BALTOPS-94' 94UM0451A Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 7 Jun 94 p 1 94UM0451A Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Russian CSO [Article by Vladimir Maryukha and Valeriy Gromak, KRASNAYA ZVEZDA: "Russia's Accreditation in NATO Exercises Is Becoming Traditional"] [Text] BALTOPS-94 is the name of the NATO Allied Naval Forces exercise which began today in the southern Baltic and in which ships, submarines and naval aviation of 13 countries, including countries not in the Alliance, are taking part. The commander-in-chief Allied Forces Baltic Straits zone has overall direction of the exercise and the ship grouping is subordinate to the commander, U.S. Navy Destroyer Squadron 14. Along with other countries for which participation in such exercises is new (Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and to some extent Poland), Russia is represented relatively modestly in Baltic Operations-94. Nevertheless, the patrol ship Neustrashimyy, to which the exercise plan assigns a serious mission of taking American specialists aboard after they land on the water from an Orion aircraft, is the newest and one of the best ships of the Baltic Fleet. According to a Russian Federation Navy Press Center report, in addition to interworking with U.S. special forces during the exercise, the ship will rehearse elements of joint maneuvering and communications, practice firing will be carried out against a naval target, and a rescue operation will be conducted. The participation of three submarines in the exercise also implies conduct of an ASW operation. Neustrashimyy already is the second Baltic Fleet ship to take part in NATO naval exercises. In the past year the patrol ship Bditelnyy was "sent on TDY" to BALTOPS-93 and successfully coped with the mission assigned. The exercise, held annually for 22 years now, will last until 10 June. The ships put to sea yesterday after a briefing and clarification of exercise details in the German port of Kiel. Our correspondent also set off for the exercise area aboard the Neustrashimyy. We intend to publish his detailed account in upcoming issues.
