FBIS4-44151 "drweu123_j_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Army Chief Reviews Rwanda Effort; Rejects Budget Cuts Army Chief Reviews Rwanda Effort; Rejects Budget Cuts BR2406135794 Rome LA REPUBBLICA in Italian 24 Jun 94 p 6 BR2406135794 Rome LA REPUBBLICA Italian BFN [Unattributed report: "Italy Will Depart, in Any Case"] [Excerpt] Rome -- [passage omitted] Yesterday Army Chief Incisa di Camerana confirmed that the Army is thinking in terms of a 450-man task force [to send to Rwanda], 300 at least of whom would be "Col Moschin" Brigade parachutists and "Comsubin" Brigade marines from the Navy, the rest being logistics experts. The Italians would transfer to Africa some 30 trucks and other vehicles with which to venture onto the Rwandan plateaus. Most of the logistic support, including air cover and helicopter transport, would be provided by the French. Incisa stated that "right now the Army is waiting for orders; we shall send to Rwanda what the politicians ask us to. I received the advance alarm last Thursday [16 June], at the end of an exercise. They telephoned me confirming the possibility of an operation." Incisa mentioned that this operation will be led by Chief of the Defense Staff Admiral Guido Venturoni, who has also emphasized that if the Army is asked to undertake tasks which "in our opinion cannot be carried out, we shall tell the government so." According to the chief of staff, other aspects to be considered will be those of the command and of the rules of engagement. Yesterday Incisa gave a lecture at the CASD, the Center for Advanced Defense Studies, the third chief of staff in three days to talk of the problems of defense, and his -- like those of the heads of the Navy and the Air Force -- was a cry of alarm. The three Armed Forces are calling for the reversal of the tendency to cut defense spending, but are calling in particular on the government to decide clearly what "defense model" Italy should adopt, and to set to work to implement it. "So far we have done the opposite; we have an existing structure which we have pared down without a clear project in mind," Incisa said. The general is thinking for the future "of an army of Franciscans," no luxuries, no waste, but economic treatment and resources to match the tasks clearly assigned by the government and Parliament. The Army is projecting a force of some 150,000 men, including 60,000 volunteers and 40,000 draft soldiers. The conversion process is long: In 10 years it will require a financial commitment of 19 trillion, but 9 trillion can be saved in cuts in the draft, which will gradually become more conspicuous. On Wednesday the head of the Navy, Admiral Angelo Mariani, had warned that the time was coming when the fleet would be completely obsolete: "We need today a new shipbuilding program which in 10 years will begin to give us the ships which will enable us to maintain the Navy in existence." General Adelchi Pillinini, the head of the Air Force, is, if this is possible, in an even worse situation: Already the Air Force lacks the necessary aircraft to protect the country, and has been forced to "lease" certain English Air Force Tornados because its F-104's are now decrepit.
