FBIS3-24598 "jpust007___94049" JPRS-UST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 22 March 1994 LIFE SCIENCES BIOTECHNOLOGY Isolation and Characteristics of _a_-Specific Thrombin-Like Enzymes From the Venom of the Common Pit Viper (Agistrodon halys halys) and the Eastern Pit Viper (the Central Asian Subspecies Agkistrodon halys Blomhoffii) 947C0104B Moscow BIOKHIMIYA in Russian Vol. 58 No. 8, Aug 93 (manuscript received 4 Aug 92; after revision 12 Apr 93) pp 1221-1233 947C0104B Moscow BIOKHIMIYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by D.A. Solovyev and T.P. Ugarova, Biochemistry Institute imeni A.V. Palladin, Ukraine Academy of Sciences, Kiev; UDC 577.152.34] [Abstract] The method of affine chromatography on agarose with the immobilized dye blue cybacron F3GA (Blue-Sepharose 6B CL) was used to isolate two thrombin-like enzymes from the venom of common and eastern pit vipers (Agistrodon halys halys) and Agkistrodon halys Blomhoffii). The new enzymes, which were given the respective names Ancistron-H and Ancistron-B were isolated in homogeneous form. The new thrombim-like enzymes are serine proteases with respective molecular masses of 34 and 29 kDa, respective isoelectric points of 6.6 and 6.3, and respective specific coagulation activities of 410 and 110 NIH units/mg of protein. Upon incubation with fibrinogen, they only cleave fibrinopeptide A from the A_a_-chain, leaving the B_b_- and _g_-chains intact. Both enzymes were demonstrated to hydrolyze arginine esters and thrombin-specific chromogenic peptide substrates and to manifest weak caseinolytic activity and no fibrinolytic activity. The newly isolated enzymes were used to develop simple coagulation-based diagnostic indicators to determine the fibrinogen level in blood plasma during heparin therapy without the need for any special equipment. Ancistron-H may also be used for clinical purposes. Tests conducted on rabbits confirmed the possibility of using it in vivo as a defibrination agent. Specifically, intravenous [IV] injection of Ancistron-H in a dose of 300 NIH units per kilogram of body weight resulted in the death of all of the test animals within 2-5 minutes as a result of the development of acute thrombosis of the truncal vessels and in the vicinity of the right ventricle. After IV injection of Ancistron-H in a dose of 100 NIH units per kilogram of body weight, all the test animals remained alive; however, blood taken from them 30 minutes later showed advanced hypercoagulation. Blood samples taken 120 minutes after the animals were given IV injections of Ancistron-H in a dose of 25 NIH units per kilogram of body weight, on the other hand, confirmed the development of deep hypofibrinogenemia. The possibility of using Ancistron-H for analogous purposes was also confirmed in experiments studying the effect of a decrease in fibrinogen level on metastasized L carcinoma in mice. IV injection of Ancistron-H into the mice's venous sinus in a dose of 2.5 NIH units per kilogram of body weight induced a decrease in fibrinogen level to 30 percent of the norm, which in turn reduced metastasis by a factor of 2.7-3. Experiments on mice also confirmed the possibility of using Ancistron-H to prolong the effect of liposomal drugs during correction of the process of intravascular blood coagulation. Figures 3, tables 3; references 42: 12 Russian, 30 Western.
