FBIS4-40929 "drsov119_b_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Yeltsin Refuses To Suspend Edict on `Gangsterism' Yeltsin Refuses To Suspend Edict on `Gangsterism' LD2006140594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1346 GMT 20 Jun 94 LD2006140594 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Tamara Zamyatina] [Text] Moscow June 20 TASS -- Russian President Boris Yeltsin will not suspend his decree on fighting gangsterism in Russia, presidential chief of staff Sergey Filatov said on Monday. Filatov told ITAR-TASS that despite the State Duma's recommendation to suspend the decree on urgent measures to protect the population from gangsterism, "Boris Yeltsin has no intention to backtrack from his decision." Commenting on the president's aides' position, Filatov said that "for two years there have been the talks about the need to fight crime, but anti-crime legislation has not moved a step forward." The last few years have been marked by the thriving of such dangerous forms of crime as terrorism and gangsterism. Criminal gangs have brought society to the verge of war. People are losing confidence and faith that bodies of power can protect them, he said. Filatov believes that the decree is very timely. Explaining why the president allowed the police to detain suspects for 30 instead of three days as envisaged by the current criminal code, Filatov said that not less than 50 per cent of crimes are committed by outside hoods. But 72 hours are not enough to find evidence and trace criminal groupings. Criminals go abroad and avoid the inevitability of punishment. A 30-day detention will allow (the police) to bring the majority of criminal cases to court. At the same time, Filatov did not hide his concern that the implementation of the decree may cause human rights abuses. To minimise the possible negative impact of the decree, Filatov suggested strengthening the role of the public prosecutor's office, the Russian High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Russian Presidential Commission for Human Rights. Filatov said that the leaders of Russian regions have supported Yeltsin's measures to fight organised crime.
