FBIS4-12390 "drnes068_l_94002" FBIS-NES-94-068 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 ISRAEL Peres Holds `Grave View' of 'Arafat Silence Peres Holds `Grave View' of 'Arafat Silence TA0704150894 Tel Aviv IDF Radio in Hebrew 1400 GMT 7 Apr 94 TA0704150894 Tel Aviv IDF Radio Hebrew BFN [Report by Sefi Hendler; italicized passages recorded] [Text] The Labor faction is now holding an emergency session in view of the recent events. Despite the urgency of the meeting, the prime minister and defense minister did not come here today. The most senior government representative here is Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres, who first addressed himself to Yasir 'Arafat's thundering silence after the wave of attacks in Israel: [Peres] I hold a grave view of it and regret it. I believe he should have reacted. Furthermore, some of the PLO leaders have reacted. At the same time it must be absolutely clear: Just as we will not hesitate taking every step against terrorism, we will not stop, not even for a minute, the negotiations for an arrangement in Gaza and Jericho. Regarding the defense aspect, Peres said that a closure will be imposed on the territories. He explained that the government will take every step necessary to restore security, though he believes the attack in 'Afula could not have been prevented. He describes here a chronicle of an incident that everyone could foresee: [Peres] The truth is that the incident in the Cave of the Patriarchs caused a deterioration. We knew that 40 days would go by and the retaliation would not be late in coming. Every thinking Israeli knew this would happen. We did everything we could to face the hardships, but we know that we cannot anticipate everything. Peres also referred to voices of the right-wing opposition, which in fact could be heard just outside the hall where a demonstration is calling for the establishment of a state commission of inquiry to investigate the deterioration of the security situation. Mr. Peres said: [Peres] Yes. This is an outstanding idea. If it is correct, then a commission of inquiry should investigate every day of the war of Lebanon. Not a day went by in Lebanon in which we did not have a fatality. The Labor faction session is still in progress at the Labor headquarters in Tel Aviv, and we will return if more significant remarks are made here.
