FBIS3-15748 "drsov046_p_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 CAUCASUS Armenia More Details on Position on Karabakh NC0803221194 Yerevan Armenia's Radio First Program Network in Armenian 2000 GMT 8 Mar 94 NC0803221194 Yerevan Armenia's Radio First Program Network in Armenian 2000 GMT 8 Mar 94 Language: Armenian Article Type:BFN [Text] The mediatory efforts and diplomatic exchanges on a settlement of the Karabakh conflict have again intensified. It could be stated that the new efforts to find a settlement within the CSCE framework, particularly Minsk Group Chairman Jan Eliasson's visit to Moscow and to this region, were to a certain extent prompted by the latest Russian initiative. The news conference held today by Armenian First Deputy Foreign Minister Zhirair Liparityan was devoted to these developments and to his latest visits to Paris, Ankara, and Tehran. In summing up all these developments, Mr. Liparityan noted that regrettably the CSCE's efforts have so far produced no results. He assessed Jan Eliasson's efforts as a serious attempt to revive that mediatory mission. Mr. Liparityan then set out Armenia's position for the settlement of the problem. He said that at present priority is being given to the establishment of the cease-fire, which is impossible to achieve without separating the forces. And finally, the international mediatory efforts should be brought together and harmonized. This was in reference to the mediatory efforts of Russia and the CSCE. The international community must present to the conflicting sides one single plan which, besides the cease-fire issue, should spell out all those possible steps that would create an atmosphere of mutual confidence and allow talks to resume on the basic problem. Zhirair Liparityan considers these steps to be: The withdrawal of troops from certain territories, the lifting of the blockades, and finally an agreement to resolve the status of Nagorno-Karabakh at the Minsk conference. Zhirair Liparityan said: We have presented this approach not only to Mr. Eliasson but also to Paris, Ankara, and Tehran. But, I reiterate that the highest priority is the establishment of a cease- fire.
