FBIS4-37894 "drnes123_p_94006" FBIS-NES-94-123 Daily Report 26 Jun 1994 SOUTH ASIA Afghanistan Government-Opposition Military Clashes Continue Government-Opposition Military Clashes Continue Hekmatyar's Kabul Position Falls BK2606091594 Hong Kong AFP in English 0810 GMT 26 Jun 94 BK2606091594 Hong Kong AFP English BFN [By Terence White] [Text] KABUL, June 26 (AFP) -- Forces loyal to Afghan President Borhanoddin Rabbani on Sunday [26 June] stormed and took over the final Kabul strongholds held by Prime Minister Golboddin Hekmatyar's militia. Hekmatyar's military presence in Kabul was crushed around 8:00am (0330 GMT) when pro-Rabbani troops stormed Maranjan Hill, opposite the ancient fortress of Bala Hesar, an AFP correspondent said. The fortress in eastern Kabul was captured from Hekmatyar's Hezb-e Eslami faction on Saturday afternoon. The pro-Rabbani troops are led by Commander Ahmad Shah Mas'ud, a former Afghan defence minister who already controls much of central Kabul. Bala Hesar and Maranjan hills were the two main strongholds in the capital of Hekmatyar and his military ally General Abdol Rashid Dostam. Most of the shells that have rained down on Kabul over the past six months have been fired from there. Sources said Hezb-e Eslami and their Uzbek allies under General Dostam were pushed out of the Old Microrayan housing complex below Maranjan an hour later, under pressure from advancing infantry backed by tanks and armoured personnel carriers. One group of Pro-Rabbani troops on Maranjan told AFP they had captured around 60 Uzbek prisoners. Mortar shells crashed into Maranjan as pro-Rabbani tanks and men poured up the hill. "Let everyone understand the Islamic State of Afghanistan is not weak," jubilant fighters yelled. Tanks and guerrillas fired down onto the far eastern outreaches of Kabul where they could see fleeing Uzbeks and Hezb-e Eslami fighters. General Baba Jan told AFP the president's forces would march on neighbouring Bagrami next as part of an attempt to take Hekmatyar's headquarters at Charasiab, 25 kilometres (15 miles) further east.
