FBIS3-423 "drafr044_c_94031" FBIS-AFR-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA South African Press Review for 7 Mar MB0703121194 MB0703121194 Article Type:BFN [Editorial Report] THE CITIZEN Call for International Mediation Welcome -- Johannesburg THE CITIZEN in English on 4 March in its page-6 editorial welcomes Mangosuthu Buthelezi's call for international mediation to resolve the constitutional impasse. "To our mind, the government should accept mediation, and the ANC [African National Congress] should consider delaying the election for a short period" to achieve an inclusive settlement. THE STAR Right Wing `Myopic Blunder' To Withdraw Election Registration -- "The Afrikaner Volksfront's [National Front -- AVF] decision to overrule the grouping's provisional registration for next month's election is a myopic blunder which could have grave consequences both for South Africa and the right-wing cause itself," notes a page-10 editorial in Johannesburg THE STAR in English on 7 March. By repudiating Viljoen, "the AVF has shown that it is a deeply divided organisation. It has done further harm to its cause by implicitly dissociating itself from the IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party], which registered provisionally for the election only a couple of hours before Viljoen." "History is likely to judge the AVF's decision to opt for the boycott route harshly. Had the Freedom Alliance contested the election as an electoral alliance -- an option which Viljoen made possible by registering the AVF as the Freedom Front -- it might have succeeded in forcing the NP [National Front] into third place after the ANC and itself. As the second most powerful bloc in the new parliament, the alliance would have been in a strong position to advance its cause within the new constitution." BUSINESS DAY Warning Against Government-Business Cooperation -- "Tokyo Sexwale's call for a `chorus of advice' from the business community is welcome evidence that the ANC has no doubts that government and business must co-operate if South Africa is to manage the rapid economic development we need," notes a page-8 editorial in Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English on 7 March. "But Sexwale and his party must be alive to the danger of that `chorus of advice' degenerating into self-interest lobbying." BUSINESS DAY points out that the National Party held regular talks with business which resulted in a relationship "that relied on political favours, the distortions of protectionism, secret loans and so on. It was a relationship that allowed many businesses to hide behind incomplete disclosure, which was regularly justified as being `in the national interest'." CAPE TIMES Mandela-Buthelezi Meeting Emits `Conflicting Signals' -- Cape Town CAPE TIMES in English on 3 March in a page-8 editorial finds it "difficult to read" the meeting between Nelson Mandela and Inkatha Freedom Party leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi "amid the welter of apparently conflicting signals going out to the world, with Chief Buthelezi one minute appearing to entertain the idea of Inkatha registering as a party and contesting the election -- and the next minute preaching an alarming, explosive brand of Zulu nationalism and insisting that failure to recognise the sovereignty of the kingdom of kwaZulu would have dire consequences in `Zulu anger'."
