FBIS4-56868 "drlat090_t_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-090 Daily Report 6 May 1994 Venezuela Minister Explains Impact of Dollar Auction, Denies Controls Minister Explains Impact of Dollar Auction, Denies Controls PA0605180994 Caracas Union Radio Network in Spanish 1100 GMT 6 May 94 PA0605180994 Caracas Union Radio Network Spanish BFN [From the "180 Minutes of News" newscast] [Text] Finance Minister Julio Sosa Rodriguez has said some of the additional resources the state is receiving in bolivares from the oversupply of dollars could be earmarked for servicing the foreign debt. Lucy Faustino filed this report from Miraflores Palace: [Begin recording] [Faustino] After confirming no changes to the 1994 budget are expected as a result of the new value of the dollar, Minister Julio Sosa Rodriguez explained that the inorganic money [dinero inorganico] generated by the devaluation of our currency will contribute precisely to pay part of the budget because, he recalled, the debt service has been calculated in dollars. Upon returning from his visit to the United States, the finance minister indicated the mechanism for auctioning dollars is convenient, adding that it must not be mistaken for imposing exchange controls. [Sosa] The very word auction means there are no controls. I understand that auction means one person says two, I say three, another person says three and one-half. To me that's not control. Imposing controls would be for me to fix the exchange rate at, say, two, and that would be that. [Faustino] Julio Sosa Rodriguez also indicated that this mechanism for auctioning dollars, which replaces the mini-devaluations, will be permanent as long as the Central Bank of Venezuela deems it appropriate. Finance Minister Julio Sosa Rodriguez announced that the Central Bank's decision to auction dollars could remain in force for at least one year. Sosa Rodriguez reiterated that no exchange controls have been proposed because such economic measures are not part of the government's economic plan. The finance minister termed as unfounded fears the rumors that a black market for foreign exchange would emerge because of the decision to auction dollars. Sosa explained that all national sector must have confidence in the financial system. The finance minister also asserted that it is absolutely false that the government is studying a plan to levy a tax on the sale of foreign currency. [end recording]
