FBIS3-35934 "drsov021_s_94015" FBIS-SOV-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 Georgia Parliament Decrees To Join International Pact AU0102120994 Tbilisi SAKARTVELOS RESPUBLIKA in Georgian 27 Jan 94 p 2 AU0102120994 Tbilisi SAKARTVELOS RESPUBLIKA Language: Georgian Article Type:BFN [Three decrees of the Georgian Parliament on adherence to the international pacts on civil and political rights and on economic, social, and cultural rights issued in Tbilisi on 25 January] [Text] Decree of the Georgian Parliament on Adherence to the Optional Protocol of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights The Georgian Parliament decrees: 1. The Republic of Georgia is to adhere to the optional protocol of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. 2. To entrust the Republic of Georgia Ministry of Foreign Affairs with communicating this to the UN secretary general. 3. To entrust the Republic of Georgia Cabinet of Ministers with submitting proposals on bringing the republic's legislation into line with the norms of the optional protocol. [Signed] Vakhtang Rcheulishvili, deputy speaker of the Georgian Parliament. [Dated] Tbilisi, 25 January 1994. Decree of the Georgian Parliament on Adherence to the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights The Georgian Parliament decrees: 1. The Republic of Georgia is to adhere to the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. 2. To entrust the Republic of Georgia Ministry of Foreign Affairs with communicating this to the UN secretary general. 3. To entrust the Republic of Georgia Cabinet of Ministers with submitting proposals on bringing the republic's legislation into line with the norms of this pact. [Signed] Vakhtang Rcheulishvili, deputy speaker of the Georgian Parliament. [Dated] Tbilisi, 25 January 1994. Decree of the Georgian Parliament on Adherence to the International Pact on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights The Georgian Parliament decrees: 1. The Republic of Georgia is to adhere to the International Pact on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights. 2. To entrust the Republic of Georgia Ministry of Foreign Affairs with communicating this to the UN secretary general. 3. To entrust the Republic of Georgia Cabinet of Ministers with submitting proposals on bringing the republic's legislation into line with the norms of this pact. [Signed] Vakhtang Rcheulishvili, deputy speaker of the Georgian Parliament. [Dated] Tbilisi, 25 January 1994.
