FBIS3-12845 "drnes044_s_94006" FBIS-NES-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 SOUTH ASIA Iran Visit of PRC Official Previewed LD0403204994 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran in English 1930 GMT 4 Mar 94 LD0403204994 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Chinese Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Qian Qichen arrived in Tehran today on an official visit. China's foreign minister during his two-day visit to Tehran will meet with Iranian officials. The two sides will discuss mutual relations, as well as regional and international issues. It is well [as heard] to mention that China and Iran have their relations since many years ago and, despite ups and downs in the world policies, Sino-Iranian relations have always enjoyed a positive stability. At this juncture of time, too, leaders of the two countries intend to further strengthen their friendly relations. Beyond doubt, the expansion of cooperation between Iran and China as two independent countries in the East and West Asia indicate the significance of the relations in various dimensions. Political analysts believe that common cultural and deep-rooted Sino-Iranian civilization in the past as well as strong ties between the two countries have promoted Tehran-Peking relations to a fruitful and strategic level in the region and the world. The Islamic Republic of Iran and China enjoyed good economic, trade, political, and cultural relations during the years following the culmination of the Islamic revolution in Iran. During the years parallel to the regular formation of economic joint commission, and tasked by the high-ranking officials of the two countries, the volume of trade exchanges between them increased to $710 million dollars in 1993. Presently, Iran and China have extensive cooperation in the field of energy, transportation, telecommunication, mines, industry, agriculture, transfer of technology, and exchange of scientific information. In view of the independence of Central Asian Republics following the collapse of the Soviet Union and the existence of exceptional potentials in Iran and China, the Central Asia has presently turned into an area of economic and trade activities and has expanded international cooperation among east, west, and central Asia. In the meantime, the Islamic Republic of Iran and China have identical stands towards international issues, especially the U.S. and West pressures against the Third World countries by playing an active role. Hence, the two countries' cooperation can foil the plots hatched by the enemies. On this basis, reciprocal visits by the officials of the two countries and the exchanges of views and consultations on various affairs can boost the mutual understanding. The visit to Tehran by China's Qian Qichen would undoubtedly open a new horizon in expanding the relations between the two countries.
