FBIS3-20969 "jpest006___94006" JPRS-EST-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 9 March 1994 WEST EUROPE LASERS, SENSORS, OPTICS UK: Polymer, Indium-Tin Oxide Electrodes Improve LEDs 94WS0156C Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT in German 13 Dec 93 p 10 94WS0156C Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT Language: German Article Type:CSO [Article by OEL: "Brightness of Light-Emitting Diodes Clearly Improved; Polymer in Conjunction With Indium-Tin Oxide Electrodes; Thin Polyphenyl Vinyl Coating"] [Text] Frankfurt--Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) are based on the phenomenon of electroluminescence--if several electrons with different energy levels come together, they emit photons. The number of photons released is responsible for the luminosity of the LEDs and that depends on the material used. In addition to the up to now most frequently used semiconductor materials, since 1990, with a discovery by British physicists and chemists at the University of Cambridge, we have also been aware of organic polymer compounds that are capable of electroluminescence. Up to now, however, they exhibited conversion rates of only from 0.5 to 1 percent, corresponding to 200 or 100 electrons per photon released, which is why they did not give off enough light for practical applications. A polymer now being used by researchers consists of cyanoterephthalyliden, a terephthalic acid used as a substitute, the manufacture of which is well mastered. It makes it possible to produce LEDs with a conversion rate of up to 4 percent. This results in a very high luminosity given the fact that ordinary electric light bulbs attain rates of only about 10 percent. The new polymer works in conjunction with indium-tin oxide electrodes that are coated with a thin layer of polyphenyl vinyls (PPV). It absorbs into its conduction band electrons that are injected from the electrode material and the coating. PPV was the first polymer that the team of scientists discovered. But it exhibits a relatively high electron-conduction band and it could only be made luminescent with a very reactive electrode material like calcium. This is why its practical application was not possible. But, since it attaches itself readily to more stable indium-tin oxide electrodes, this makes possible an effective transfer of electrodes to the polycyanoterephthalyliden. The developers hope to be able to produce bright displays covering large surfaces and, later, computer monitor screens as well with this new and, in comparison with semiconductor materials, easier to process polymer. This is why they have founded a new company, Cambridge Display Technology, Ltd., for its commercial application. This company is expected to obtain additional capital to work out the production techniques, set up possible production, or assign licenses to interested industrial companies. The scientists want to continue their search for more, similar organic compounds and, in addition, attempt to further increase the power output by improving the coating between the electrodes and the active polymer. For further information: University of Cambridge, Cavendish Laboratory, CambridgeCBS OHE, United Kingdom.
