FBIS4-51571 "dreas084_i_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-084 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 Cambodia Vietnamese Troops Said Used in Battambang Vietnamese Troops Said Used in Battambang BK0105093994 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia in Cambodian 2330 GMT 30 Apr 94 BK0105093994 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia Cambodian BFN ["Press communique" issued by the National Army of Democratic Kampuchea spokesman on 30 April; place not given -- read by announcer] [Text] I. Reliable sources say that ever since the communist Vietnamese, their allies, and the puppets of the communist Vietnamese and the United States were successively defeated, first on the Anlung Veng battlefield and then on the Pailin battlefield -- during which their troops and military materiel were strategically destroyed -- the communist Vietnamese, their allies, the puppets of the communist Vietnamese and the United States, and the two-headed government have not been able to recruit any new soldiers. They have also failed to mobilize old soldiers. II. Thus they have grown angry and are gasping for air. They have shown their nature as aggressors, territorial expansionists, exterminators of the Cambodian race, and foreign lackeys. They have begged the communist Vietnamese to send communist Vietnamese aggressors to intervene in Battambang. Twenty truckloads of Vietnamese aggressor troops have been dispatched to Battambang to help get their wretched troops out of trouble. III. The Cambodian nation and people and the National Army of Democratic Kampuchea [NADK] -- who absolutely adhere to King Norodom Sihanouk's national reconciliation and peace plans -- are uniting to thwart the dirty and deceitful plan of the communist Vietnamese, their allies, and the two types of puppets of the communist Vietnamese and the United States, who are begging the communist Vietnamese to dispatch troops to help the traitors and Vietnamese aggressor lackeys who have sold out the nation. IV. The Cambodian people and the NADK absolutely oppose these people and will struggle against them. We are willing to fight until we deal their final plan further serious defeats. [Signed] The NADK spokesman [Dated] 30 April 1994
