FBIS3-547 "drafr046_d_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Zimbabwe Infiltration by S. African Crime Syndicate Reported MB0803144194 Johannesburg CITY PRESS in English 6 Mar 94 pp 1, 2 MB0803144194 Johannesburg CITY PRESS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Zanele Vutela] [Text] The notorious CCB [Civil Cooperation Bureau]--allegedly disbanded two years ago--is very much alive and has established a criminal empire in Zimbabwe, it was reported this week. The weekly FINANCIAL GAZETTE, an independent newspaper in Harare, reports that the Zimbabwean business community has been extensively infiltrated by about 600 criminals linked to the CCB. The paper said that a crime syndicate, also linked to the Blue-Light Gang, was responsible for the exportation from SA [South Africa] to Zimbabwe of more than 600 stolen vehicles. The proceeds of the sales of the cars are believed to have been used to buy drugs which were then sold to finance the SADF's [South African Defense Force] covert military intelligence operations. SA military intelligence was responsible for setting up the CCB. According to the paper the SA criminal syndicate was uncovered by the Zimbabwean security in early 1992. In June 1993 Kaarman Noortman, whose aliases include Malcolm Anthony Cheney and Jack Cheney and who was allegedly wanted at the time by the SAP [South African Police], was arrested. It quotes SA records revealing that Noortman was a member of the stolen vehicle division at John Vorster square until 1985, and that in 1993 he was wanted by the division for car theft and fraud. In July of the same year Noortman was handed over to SA immigration officials at Beit Bridge but according to the GAZETTE was "inexplicably let loose". Intelligence sources also link Noortman to Frederick Alex Harding, regarded as the Blue Light Gang's Godfather and the CCB's operational chief in Zimbabwe until he was arrested and deported two years ago. It said that Harding, 50, was interviewed by the ANC [African National Congress] last year shortly after he had allegedly admitted that he had been recruited by a SA government agency to carry out dirty tricks in neighbouring countries. Harding is also alleged to have admitted that he had headed a car and drug-trafficking ring in the 1980s whose task was to procure funds for military intelligence-linked operations. SAP Media Liaison officer Colonel B.S.I. Van Rooyen confirmed to CITY PRESS that Noortman was an SAP member, and was re-arrested shortly after being freed at Beit Bridge. Although Zimbabwean sources suspect Noortman of being in Harare, Major Van Rooyen told CITY PRESS that Noortman was currently awaiting trial at the Pretoria Central Prison.
