FBIS4-2890 "drchi073_a_94011" FBIS-CHI-94-073 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General U.S. Envoy Does Not Rule Out Sanctions Against DPRK U.S. Envoy Does Not Rule Out Sanctions Against DPRK SK1504010194 Seoul YONHAP in English 0037 GMT 15 Apr 94 SK1504010194 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] Beijing, April 15 (YONHAP) -- Robert Gallucci, U.S. assistant secretary of state for political and military affairs, says that sanctions against North Korea could be imposed if Pyongyang refused to comply with International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards. Gallucci issued the warning at a press conference here Thursday following a meeting with his Chinese counterpart Qin Huasun. "But we believe resolution (of the North Korean nuclear issue) through dialogue is the best way," Gallucci said. He noted that IAEA Director-general Hans Blix is to report on the problem to the U.N. Security Council next month. The council will then discuss follow-up measures including sanctions if no progress is made in the IAEA's efforts to inspect North Korean facilities, he said. Gallucci said he has exchanged views not only on the nuclear row but also on overall security on the Korean peninsula with Chinese Government officials. The talks were productive and helpful, Gallucci said, adding that he gives high marks to the Chinese Government's position. He thus hinted that China was playing a more active role in trying to influence Pyongyang than generally thought. Gallucci said he will continue to have close consultations with China, Japan and South Korea on the North Korean problem. He said a third round of U.S.-North Korean high-level talks could be held if Pyongyang honored its agreement with Washington reached in New York on Feb. 25, which set two conditions -- acceptance of IAEA inspections and inter-Korean dialogue on exchanging special envoys. Asked what the United States would do if China opposed U.N. economic sanctions against North Korea, Gallucci refused to speculate on how individual Security Council members would act. Winding up a three-day visit to China, Gallucci is scheduled to leave for Seoul Friday.
