FBIS4-61158 "drsov086_r_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-086 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 Azerbaijan Current Status of Karabakh Situation Reviewed Current Status of Karabakh Situation Reviewed PM0205105994 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 30 Apr 94 p 3 PM0205105994 Moscow IZVESTIYA Russian BFN [Report by Boris Vinogradov: "Shooting Continues in Karabakh Conflict Zone"] [Text] There is every indication that Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev's threats of abandoning involvement in settling the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict if the warring sides continue fighting are having little effect. Contrary to expectations calm did not prevail on all fronts 29 April. As you know, Baku was the first to respond to Russia's cease-fire initiative. Azerbaijani Defense Minister Mamedrafi Mamedov agreed 26 April to suspend combat operations and begin talks. It took Nagorno-Karabakh three days to come up with an affirmative response. In a letter to Pavel Grachev, Andrey Kozyrev, and Vladimir Kazimirov, the Russian president's special representative, Karabakh Foreign Minister Samvel Babayan said that troops have been ordered not to fire. A truce has not been secured. There is still no official document. Whereas Azerbaijan is being guided by the Russian plan, which talks about curtailing offensive operations and the use of heavy artillery for shelling and aerial bombardment, Stepanakert is acting on the basis of the 18 February protocol signed in Moscow. This envisages a cease-fire applicable to all categories of weapons. Over the next few days a unified document is expected to be signed, guaranteed by representatives of Russia and the CSCE's Minsk Group. But for the time being the conflicting sides are accusing one another of intending to use the peaceful respite to regroup their forces and prepare for another assault. Over the last few days the Karabakh troops have had some success in the northern sector, penetrating several kilometers into Azerbaijan. Baku is demanding that troops be withdrawn from the captured areas, which by and large accords with the Russian plan. There is a dual attitude to this document. Geydar Aliyev supported it by and large, but is pressing for "certain finishing touches." Yerevan agrees with the main provisions of the draft, but claims that it does not have decisive influence over Stepanakert. We were told by the Russian Foreign Ministry that painstaking work still lies ahead in order to close the gap between their positions. An Azerbaijani parliament delegation led by Speaker Rasul Guliyev is holding consultations with the Russian leadership. Experts led by the Swedish diplomat Matias Mosberg [name as transliterated], head of the CSCE Minsk group on Nagorno-Karabakh, have traveled out to the frontline area. He described the Russian plan as the "most realistic," singling out such points as the liberation of Azerbaijan's conquered territory and the creation of a joint staff to supervise the implementation of commitments.
