FBIS3-12994 "drnes045_l_94017" FBIS-NES-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 ISRAEL `Betrayal' Seen in Demand for Hebron Evacuation TA0703124394 Tel Aviv HATZOFE in Hebrew 7 Mar 94 p 2 TA0703124394 Tel Aviv HATZOFE Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Instigation and Incipient Betrayal"] [Text] A group of ministers -- some say they represent a majority of Rabin's government -- has launched an inflammatory campaign against the Jewish settlers in the heart of Hebron and against dozens of Jewish settlements throughout Judaea, Samaria, and Gaza. They are demanding that the Jewish settlers be evacuated at once because their presence supposedly fans the flames of hatred between Jews and Arabs and hurts the peace process. This unbridled incitement against the Jewish settlers, who are being portrayed as an obstacle to peace, totally contradicts the remarks the prime minister made as he signed the agreement with the PLO -- namely, that not a single settlement would be evacuated as a result of the implementation of that agreement. We do not know how much power that ministerial group -- the group comprising the Meretz ministers and the left-wing sector of Labor -- wields, and we have as yet to hear the prime minister's reaction to the adverse counsel given by these ministers at such a time. The public pronouncements of that group of ministers are not only uncomplimentary to the prime minister, but they also prove that Yitzhaq Rabin's position within his government has been seriously impaired. He no longer leads; others are trying to lead him toward steps that are utterly discordant with the Zionist doctrine and the political and security needs of the State of Israel. The initiative of that group of ministers both harms the State of Israel and encourages the PLO and its cohorts to increase the pressure on the Israeli Government to disband the Jewish settlements in Judaea, Samaria, and Gaza and to deploy an armed international force in those areas to protect Arab residents whose lives are being threatened by Jewish "terrorists." Not only is the conduct of these ministers unwise, it indicates an incipient betrayal of the special interests of the entire Israeli nation. The Jewish settlements throughout Judaea, Samaria, and Gaza, including the Jewish presence in the city of Hebron, were established on the basis of incontestable resolutions made by Israeli Governments which acknowledged the right of every single Jew to build his home in any part of Eretz Yisra'el. Proposing the evacuation of Jewish settlements from Judaea, Samaria, and Gaza is tantamount to proposing a Jewish surrender to Arab terror or, perhaps, to offering the PLO the keys to an independent, 'Arafat-led Palestinian state in Judaea, Samaria, and the Gaza Strip, with East Jerusalem as its capital, on a silver platter. Ministers doing the PLO's work have no place in the Government of Israel. If the prime minister lacks the power to curb them, he should disband the government and replace it with a government loyal to the people of Israel and to Eretz Yisra'el. The people of Israel need a government capable of representing its political and security interests with national dignity. It is natural, therefore, that so many people are opposed to the left-wing government, whose acts are more than unwelcome, whose acts jeopardize the well-being and security of the State of Israel.
