FBIS3-18148 "drweu039_k_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 PORTUGAL Soares Supports Strengthening, Expanding EU LD2702232894 Madrid RNE-1 Radio Network in Spanish 2200 GMT 27 Feb 94 LD2702232894 Madrid RNE-1 Radio Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Maria Luisa Arrozarena in Tenerife] [Text] Portuguese President Mario Soares spoke about the European Union [EU], the enlargement of the EU, today in Spain. He also called for democratic countries to be responsible when it comes to the creation and promotion of conditions which allow the birth of new democracies based on clean elections. Soares commented on the forthcoming elections in the Middle East, Mozambique, and South Africa, among others. In La Laguna, Tenerife, today, Soares was opening a conference on free elections and international observation of elections. Soares also noted the Suzuki-Santana Motor case in Linares during his speech. The Portuguese president said that he supported the presence of multinationals as long as they are held under control. Regarding the expansion of the EU Soares said that he approved the entry of the four countries still waiting to become members of the EU. Maria Luisa Arrozarena reports: [Arrozarena] President Mario Soares, speaking in Tenerife at La Laguna univeristy, said that he fully supported EU expansion. Yes to a community Europe with more countries than at present: [Begin Soares recording] I support a strengthening of European institutions; therefore, for European union to progress not only as an economic and monetary union but also as a political community. In additon, I support the expansion of Europe not only to the Nordic countries but to other countries. [end recording] [Arrozarena] Soares also spoke about the problems of the multinationals which set themselves up in Europe and at a given moment decide to leave, such as the case with Suzuki-Santana, Volkswagen, etc. The Portuguese president, who announced that on Wednesday [23 February] he will have a meeting with Felipe Gonzalez and with King Juan Carlos on Thursday, also said that in his opinion one should be happy when the multinationals arrive but be prepared for when they say that they are going and above all, Mario Soares said, multinationals could be controlled with a strong EU, with strong European political parties, and single unions.
