FBIS3-20194 "drweu060_h_94018" FBIS-WEU-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 GERMANY First Program for Armament Conversion To Begin AU2803162194 Berlin NEUES DEUTSCHLAND in German 25 Mar 94 p 5 AU2803162194 Berlin NEUES DEUTSCHLAND Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report by Frank Bretschneider, ADN: "Programs for Soldiers Without a Job"] [Text] North Rhine-Westphalia The Cold War is over and the Iron Curtain between the former power blocs in the East and the West has fallen. Even though the world has not become more peaceful as a result, as the conflicts in Bosnia or Korea show, the time of the arms race at least seems to be over. According to a study by the European Union [EU], by the year 2000 the arms industry will shrink world-wide by about 30 percent. What, however, is to happen to the soldiers, the nuclear scientists, and weapons that are no longer needed? This is a problem that will be dealt with by the world's first Center for Arms Conversion (BICC), which will start work in Bonn in April. Arms conversion means the conversion of military facilities for civilian purposes -- a multifaceted issue: It includes the scrapping of weapons, the "retraining" of professional soldiers, the new orientation of the armament industry, as well as the use of the money saved from the defense budget. The BICC, which was founded on the initiative of the North Rhine- Westphalian Land Government, wants to draw up concepts on these issues: "The work is practically waiting to be tackled," said Mr. Wulf, the designated head of the center, when he presented his future work in Duesseldorf. "We understand ourselves as a service station for practical peace work." Arms expert Wulf, who has until now headed the Development and Peace Institute at Duisburg University and is an adviser to the UN Disarmament Department, begins his work with 10 employees. Later on, the staff is to be increased to 30. North Rhine-Westphalia takes over the start-up financing -- 11.7 million German marks [DM] over the next five years. Day-to-day operations are to be financed by the World Bank, the EU, or foundations. The costs of disarmament are becoming a problem for many countries, Wulf warns. His example is Russia: There 4.5 million people are employed in the arms industry. If these people cannot find any new work, this could lead to a "social disaster." In Germany about 280,000 jobs are dependent on arms production; in addition, there are soldiers and civilian employees in barracks. "Of course, we can make only a moderate contribution to solving the problems," Wulf knows. For this purpose, the BICC wants, among other things, to advise arms companies and establish a database, where experiences and concepts are stored and passed on. So far, there are many individual projects all over the world, but they are not linked with one another. Specifically: One country is looking for solutions that may already have been found elsewhere. While the new orientation of the employees in the arms industry and the military gives rise to many problems in view of the worldwide job crisis, arms conversion meanwhile is making the most progress in using outdated military facilities and in scrapping weapons. In the FRG, for instance, universities are taking over vacant barracks and using them as lecture halls or want to establish students' hostels there. And the dismantling of a tank, for instance, costs only DM3,000 now, Wulf says. Three years ago it cost DM30,000.
