FBIS3-1387 "drafr059_c_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Stores, Banks Close MB2803080494 Johannesburg SAPA in English 0726 GMT 28 Mar 94 MB2803080494 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Lew Elias] [Text] Johannesburg March 28 SAPA -- At least four people were shot in central Johannesburg during a rally of Zulus marching through the city to demonstrate support for King Goodwill Zwelithini. A man was shot in the leg, allegedly by sniper fire, in Jeppe Street at about 8.15 AM as a group of between 10 and 15 marchers moved down the main CBD [central business district] thoroughfare in the rush-hour traffic. As the group was between Delvers and Von Weilligh Streets between eight and 10 shots rang out. Pedestrians on the pavenments fled into the nearest doorway or building entrance and within seconds of the shots being fired the normally busy street was deserted for the entire block. One man was wounded in the leg and a motorist, Lawrence Mavundla -- a priest at the nearby St Mary's Cathedral, had a narrow escape as a bullet pierced the radiator of his car. In Commissioner Street at least three people were wounded when a larger group of marchers travelled down the main street. Two women and a man were shot outside the Kine Centre as the marchers approached the giant office and cinema complex. A policeman at the scene said they were most probably shot by shopkeepers anxious about destrution of property and looting. Two of the wounded, a man and a woman -- both shot in the leg, managed to get to the Market Street entrance to the Smal Street mall -- a block away. The third, a middle-aged woman, was loaded into an ambulance in Commissioner Street with unknown injuries. When another group of 400 marchers came down Commissioner Street about six heavy-calibre shots rang out at about 9.30 AM. As the group marched down the streets informal sector hawkers' kiosks were robbed. In Jeppe Street, handfuls of traditional weapons -- heavy sticks, home-made spears and iron pipes -- were found near the scene of the shooting and handed to the police. The weapons were dropped after the burst of automatic gunfire which wounded one man. People living in flats in Delvers Street around the scene of the shooting crowded on balconies to see what was happening as shop owners closed their doors to barricade themselves in. Stores and banks in the Smal Street mall were being closed and evacuated in the wake of the early morning city unrest. A staff member at the branch of the Allied Bank in the mall, where a man was to have been treated for a gunshot wound, told SAPA: "If you want anything, ask head office -- I'm out of here. We have evacuated the place."
