FBIS4-43436 "drweu117_j_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-117 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Fini Interviewed on Relations With Israel Fini Interviewed on Relations With Israel TA1606154194 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT in Hebrew 16 Jun 94 p 17 TA1606154194 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT Hebrew BFN [Report on interview with Gianfranco Fini, secretary general of the National Alliance, by Yosi Bar in Rome on 15 June] [Text] Ever since the Italian neofascist party joined the coalition -- which sparked sharp protests not only in Israel but also in Europe and the United States -- party leader Gianfranco Fini has been courted by numerous correspondents, including Israelis. Yesterday he granted YEDI'OT AHARONOT an interview. Right at the beginning of the interview, Fini attempted to improve his party's image and to shake off the term "neofascist." "I am a rightist," he said. "I invented the term `postfascist' only to help the reporters out." Before the elections, Fini scored a major success in improving his party's image by, among other things, giving it a new name, suggesting its dissociation from its fascist past. The trick worked, and the party (the National Alliance) scored a fine achievement in the elections, joined the coalition, and received five portfolios. The Israeli Government was enraged and has decided to boycott the neofascist ministers in all forums until it is convinced that they do not support anti-Semitic and racist stands. Referring to this, Fini told YEDI'OT AHARONOT: ``I understand Israel. It is the only country in the world I understand very well, but my party members were elected democratically. "I hope to pass the test put to us by Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres and the Israeli Government. It is only fair that Israel should scrutinize the rightist ministers of the Italian Government. It is your moral right. We will prove that we are not in the least anti-Semitic or racist." The leader of the right wing, as he calls himself, condemned anti-Semitism, saying that Mussolini's racist laws were the cause of many "atrocities." According to him, he supported turning over Nazi criminal Erich Friebke who fled to Argentina, and, along with left-wing activists, he even signed a petition urging that Friebke be put on trial. He stressed that he has severed his ties with Le Pen, the leader of the French extreme right, and has reservations regarding the German Republikaner party, which he defines as a neo-Nazi party. "I have many Jewish friends who voted for me," he said, adding jokingly: "How can I, with my crooked nose, be an anti-Semite"? Fini believes that there is no fear of a new wave of anti-Semitism erupting in West Europe but cautions. "Anti-Semitic winds are blowing in from East Europe," he claimed. Fini said that, as a child, he went with his parents to visit the Mauthausen concentration camp and witnessed the atrocities of the Nazi regime. He promises to use an iron fist to curb the extreme factions in his party. "I can assure you," he said at the end of the interview, "that the fact that the right is part of the Italian Government will not impair its good relations with Israel. Previous Italian Governments supported you in word; we will support you in deed."
