FBIS4-18723 "drweu068_b_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-068 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 BENELUX COUNTRIES Belgium Government Plans Evacuations From Rwanda Government Plans Evacuations From Rwanda Evacuation Plans in Place LD0704172494 Brussels La Une Radio Network in French 1600 GMT 7 Apr 94 LD0704172494 Brussels La Une Radio Network French BFN [Text] We have just heard that, according to a Belgian Foreign Ministry spokesman, there are no plans to evacuate Belgian nationals from Rwanda. Belgian Foreign Minister Willy Claes who is currently visiting Romania is staying abreast of the situation in Rwanda. He would like the UN mission in Rwanda to be stepped up. When we spoke to him a while ago, he confirmed to us that there were not any Belgian casualties: [Begin recording] [Claes] Our ambassador has confirmed that, for now at any rate, our compatriots are not in any danger either in the capital or elsewhere in the country, where things appear to be calm. Nevertheless, I must add that regarding our peacekeeping forces, who number some 480, everything is in order, although our blue helmets, who are responsible for the protection of the airport, are staying in the airport. They are not taking the risk of returning to their barracks. I would say that everything is calm for the moment concerning our compatriots. [Unidentified correspondent] Have you taken measures for a possible evacuation? [Claes] Absolutely: We have set up a crisis unit at the department in Brussels. It will stay on alert over the weekend. All our embassies in neighboring countries are on standby, everyone is ready. [Correspondent] Will our Belgian UN forces take part in such an operation? [Claes] Not as things stand at the moment. You know that the UN mandate is extremely limited, but it is quite clear that we cannot accept that, even though the Belgian soldiers are under Canadian, UN command, they should stand passively by if any of our compatriots were in difficulty. We are taking steps in New York and in Washington to see, if it became necessary, if we could obtain the immediate go-ahead for our blue helmets to play a more active role. [end recording]
