FBIS4-14571 "drsov063_a_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Lukin Questions Usefulness of NATO's Partnership Lukin Questions Usefulness of NATO's Partnership LD3103234094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1549 GMT 31 Mar 94 LD3103234094 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Pavel Kuznetsov] [Text] Moscow March 31 TASS -- Russia's participation in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme "could be useful for Russia only under certain conditions", a senior Russian lawmaker said. Addressing a news conference on Thursday, Vladimir Lukin, head of the State Duma (the parliament's lower house) Committee for Foreign Relations, dwelt upon some key issues concerning Russia's proposed joining the NATO initiative. Russia agreed last month to enter the Partenership for Peace, a programme of joint exercises and military cooperation between the Atlantic Alliance and the post-communist countries. Lukin deems it necessary to draw up a so-called "document of presentation" and send it to NATO before joining the initiative. The document is to specify mutual obligations of the Partnership's participants. It should also stipulate that Russia is ready to take part in the decision-making process only as NATO's equal partner. Furthermore, the Partnership should have some relationship with the 52-member Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), Russia's favoured forum for European security. "The CSCE has a mandate for maintaining cooperation and keeping peace but no mechanism. NATO has a mechanism to impose its decisions but has not international mandate", Lukin said. According to him, the above "document of presentation" could be best drafted by joint efforts of all the parties concerned: the executive branch, the foreign and defence ministries, the Security Council and the State Duma, in order to "avoid any questions in future". This document should be also brought in line with the already existing programmes of CIS collective security and take into account Russia's commitments under these programmes. The lawmaker assumed that the decision to join the Partnership for Peace programme would not require ratification by the lower house, but "this is still to be verified", he noted.
