FBIS4-54585 "dreeu085_k_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-085 Daily Report 2 May 1994 CROATIA UK's Hogg, Sanader Discuss Washington Accord UK's Hogg, Sanader Discuss Washington Accord LD0205191794 Zagreb HTV Television in Serbo-Croatian 1730 GMT 2 May 94 LD0205191794 Zagreb HTV Television Serbo-Croatian BFN [Text] Croatian Deputy Foreign Minister Ivo Sanader held talks in Zagreb this evening with British Foreign Office Minister Douglas Hogg. [Begin recording] [Hogg, in English with superimposed Serbo-Croatian translation] The Contact Group, to which I belong, is working out the details of bringing about a cease-fire in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The basis for this is a signed agreement on Bosnia-Herzegovina. When this issue is resolved the Contact Group will address the problems of the so-called Krajina. We discussed the implementation of the Washington agreement today and concrete problems related to Krajina. The most difficult problem is the lack of negotiation, and how to make the parties communicate. Once they have begun talking results will be achieved, but -- I stress again -- the problem is that there is no dialogue. [Sanader] We discussed the current situation in Croatia, regarding the UN Protected Areas and the steps that need to be taken in Bosnia-Herzegovina. I think that this was a very useful exchange of views. Minister Hogg presented some of his views -- he is to visit Sarajevo and Belgrade. I think this was a very useful exchange of information. We will probably meet again after his visits to Sarajevo and Belgrade, and President Tudjman will probably receive him. We have decided we must not stop now, but rather we must resume playing an active role as regards the final resolution of the crisis in Bosnia-Herzegovina and, of course, in Croatia. [Reporter] More precisely -- what did you discuss regarding the UN Protected Areas? Did you mention any steps which would lead to some improvements? [Sanader] The minister was interested in our view on the current situation and I presented it to him. [end recording]
