FBIS3-56146 "drsov010bb_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Georgian, Abkhaz Delegations Continue Geneva Talks LD1301001494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 2136 GMT 12 Jan 94 LD1301001494 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Konstantin Pribytkov] [Text] Geneva January 13 TASS -- The expectations that the second round of Georgian-Abkhazian talks in Geneva would be promptly completed have not been justified. The U.N. Secretary General's special envoy Eduard Brunner, who chairs over the meeting, had to cancel a news conference scheduled for Wednesday since the discussion dragged out. The consultations arranged under the U.N. auspices are attended by a Russian delegation headed by Deputy Foreign Minister Boris Pastukhov. Both Brunner and Pastukhov, who are working in close cooperation, face considerable difficulties in mediating the talks. TASS learnt from sources close to the participants in the meeting that the Georgian and Abkhazian negotiating teams had put forth a number of proposals and specifications concerning the final document, which is to reflect the key problems of the conflict settlement, specifically deployment of peace-keeping forces. The two sides also expect to draw up a special agreement on refugees. One of the options under consideration calls for creating conditions for their return originally to Abkhazia's one area only (most probably the Gali district). This issue is to be solved with the participation of experts from the U.N. High Commissionnair for Refugees' office. Members of the negotiating teams told TASS that the discussion was of a constructive and businesslike character. However, it is not easy to surmount the differences in the two sides' positions, given that such critical problem as Abkhazia's future political status has not yet been solved. To all appearances, this issue is unlikely to be settled during the present round of talks. It is to be addressed by Georgian and Abkhazian experts who are expected to meet in Moscow on February 8.
