FBIS3-27536 "drchi038_c_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Central Eurasia XINHUA Reports on President Yeltsin's Speech Views Foreign Policy Goals OW2402183794 Beijing XINHUA in English 1239 GMT 24 Feb 94 OW2402183794 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Moscow, February 24 (XINHUA) -- Russian President Boris Yeltsin stressed on Thursday [24 February] that Russia should occupy a "worthy place" in the changing world. Addressing the parliament on Thursday morning, Yeltsin said Russia's foreign policy will be firmly based on the universally acknowledged principles and norms of international law. "For Russia to occupy a worthy place in a changing world, it must have a strong state," the Russian president pointed out in his first-ever state of nation message delivered to the lawmakers. Yeltsin said: "Russia respects the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of other nations including naturally its neighbors, and demands that they do the same." "The consistent advancement of national interests through openness and cooperation, the provision of favorable conditions for the internal development and continuing reforms are the main objectives of the foreign policy of the Russian state in 1994," the president said in his 110-page address. He devoted part of the message to relations with the new independent states including three Baltic nations which border Russia and the cooperation within the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). He said: "Experiences show that no other country besides Russia can shoulder the burden of peacekeeping in the former Soviet space. Russia does not have the right to scale down its activity in protecting minority rights in the CIS and Baltic states." The Russian president also stressed the need to further expand the economic cooperation within the CIS. On relations with the West and other regions' countries, Yeltsin said: "Partnership has become a key characteristic of Russia's relations with other states. The new character of relations with the West provides favorable opportunities for a more effective pursuit of Russia's interests in the fields of security, economy, trade and business."
