FBIS4-26026 "drchi117_e_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-117 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 Southeast Asia & Pacific DKP Spokesman Comments on Need for Political Platform DKP Spokesman Comments on Need for Political Platform OW1606115594 Beijing XINHUA in English 1057 GMT 16 Jun 94 OW1606115594 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Phnom Penh, June 16 (XINHUA) -- A representative of the president of the Democratic Kampuchea Party (DKP) Khieu Samphan said here today that a minimum political platform is essential to the achievement of the unity of all Cambodian national forces. Chan Youran made the remark while clarifying the DKP's proposal for a minimum political platform at today's round table meeting on peace and national reconciliation in Cambodia. However, the government side refused to discuss the platform and insisted that an agreement on the timetable of the cease-fire should come first and that the political platform issue should be tackled later. As a result, the round table talks broke down at noon without making any progress. Chan said that the proposal calling on all Cambodian parties to agree on a minimum political platform "is another testimony of the sense of responsibility of the DKP and of its willingness to strive for genuine and lasting national reconciliation." Earlier, DKP President Khieu Samphan said at the Pyongyang's round table talks on May 27 that the platform "will serve as the basis for the formation of a national government and a unified national army." The co-prime ministers of Cambodia contended that this would mean the dissolution of the royal government and the royal armed forces and was therefore unacceptable. After the collapse of the talks today, the government side noted that there is no need to meet again as the two round-table talks held so far have both ended fruitlessly. But the DKP suggested continuation of the talks. Nhiek Tioulong, representative of King Norodom Sihanouk, said he will report to the king about the talks and Sihanouk would decide whether or not to continue the talks.
