FBIS4-8071 "dreeu069_i_94023" FBIS-EEU-94-069 Daily Report 10 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Fighting, Situation Around Gorazde Reported Fighting, Situation Around Gorazde Reported Shelling Continues Despite Air Strike LD1004205494 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 2000 GMT 10 Apr 94 LD1004205494 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by Fahrudin Becic from Gorazde] [Excerpts] Several questions are being raised in Gorazde: Are the chetniks really going to enter the town, will Mirsad Dragolj [not further identified] blow up the nitrogen factory (?despite the fact) that the U.S. Phantoms [as received] have bombed the Chetnik positions. It is impossible to give precise answers to any of these questions. Since 1700 two Phantoms have been flying over the Gorazde area. We do not have valid information about their actions, but according to some reports from the ground, strong explosions were heard 13 kilometers southwest of the town center. Since the attacks against the territory on the right bank of the Drina River have been organized and carried out from there in the last 13 days, it seems possible that the report on the Phantoms' actions is true. This, however, did not stop the Chetnik forces continuing [word indistinct] toward the center. Some eye-witnesses claim that the Chetniks even shot at the planes. The part of the town on the right bank on the Drina River has been evacuated. The town was again heavily shelled this evening. There were fatalities and wounded in several suburbs. Chetnik snipers fired on the town center and around the UNHCR [UN High Commissioner for Refugees] offices. Heavy small-arms fighting is under way on the approaches to the town. Some people have been killed and wounded. [passage omitted] Around 2030 the howitzer-shelling of the town center intensified. Unfortunately, there were fatalities again. I am afraid that the casualty toll today is extremely high. Gorazde is entering the most uncertain night in its long history.
