FBIS3-58441 "drweu009_p_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 GREECE Papandreou Comments on Cyprus, Skopje NC1201173394 Athens ET-1 Television Network in Greek 1600 GMT 12 Jan 94 NC1201173394 Athens ET-1 Television Network Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Text] Speaking to reporters during his return flight from Brussels, Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou expressed the hope that the Cyprus issue will be resolved soon. At the same time, Mr. Papandreou reiterated that the dialogue with Skopje could resume only if the conditions set by the Greek Government are met, adding that the splitting up of Skopje means a Balkan war. Our political correspondent Angeliki Angelopoulou has the following report. [Angelopoulou] It appears from Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou's statement, which he made during his return flight from Brussels, that the Greek side is awaiting a U.S. initiative for the solution of the Cyprus issue. Asked if a solution is being planned, Mr. Papandreou gave answered in the affirmative and added that he does not know exactly what the solution is. He said: President Clinton personally considers the problem most important and he has already contacted the Turkish side to facilitate the process being promoted by the UN Secretary General. The prime minister stressed: The problem has now also become important for Turkey. He also made it clear that no invitation had been extended for him to visit Ankara and said: Mr. Hikmet Cetin invited me unofficially. Papandreou added: A lot has to be done in order to start. The prime minister described the negotiations on the Skopje issue as a dialogue in suspense and reiterated that the negotiations cannot continue unless the conditions set by the Greek Government are met. He added: We will explain this to Cyrus Vance if he proposes a resumption of the negotiations. Mr. Papandreou also said that he is very satisfied with the results of the NATO summit and noted particularly that, following hard negotiations, the decision to undertake military operations in Bosnia was in the end not adopted.
