FBIS3-45030 "drchi008_h_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 West Europe `Full Text' of PRC-French Communique CM1201154994 Bejing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1103 GMT 12 Jan 94 CM1201154994 Bejing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 12 (XINHUA) -- Following is the translation of the full text of the joint communique between the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of the Republic of France: Mr. Jacques Friedmann, special envoy of Mr. Edouard Balladur, prime minister of the Republic of France, paid a visit to Beijing from 23 to 28 December, 1993. Mr. Jacques Friedmann was received by Premier Li Peng and Vice Premier and Foreign Minister Qian Qichen, and had talks with Vice Foreign Minister Jiang Enzhu. The two sides have reached the following conclusions through these talks: Both sides believe that China and France should restore their traditional friendly relations and cooperation on the basis of the principles on which the two countries established diplomatic relations. The Chinese side has reaffirmed its consistent position on the question of Taiwan. The French side has confirmed that the French Government recognizes the Government of the People's Republic of China as the sole legal government of China and Taiwan as an integral part of Chinese territory. The Chinese side reaffirms that arms sale of any type to Taiwan will bring harm to China's sovereignty, security and reunification, and that the Chinese Government will be firmly opposed to that. In view of the concerns of the Chinese side, the French Government has undertaken not to authorize any French enterprises to participate in the arming of Taiwan. The Chinese Government and the French Government wish to intensify their political consultations, hold regular meetings and develop economic and trade cooperation between them. The Chinese side welcomes participation by French enterprises in competition on the Chinese market on an equal footing. The two sides have agreed that Mr. Edouard Balladur, prime minister of France, will pay an official visit to China in the near future.
