FBIS4-33669 "drlat111bb_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-111 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS OAS Assembly Meeting Continues 8 Jun in Brazil OAS Assembly Meeting Continues 8 Jun in Brazil Argentine To Propose OAS Military Board PY0906034894 Sao Paulo AGENCIA ESTADO in Portuguese 2335 GMT 8 Jun 94 PY0906034894 Sao Paulo AGENCIA ESTADO Portuguese BFN [Text] Belem, 8 Jun (AE) -- Argentina will suggest to the OAS the creation of an Inter-American Defense Board to provide military advice to the OAS. Today, Argentine Ambassador to the OAS Hernan Patino said the board is not meant to be an armed branch of the OAS, but an advisory body that would be subject to the political decisions of the OAS. He denied that this proposal is connected with possible military intervention in Haiti. "Argentina has always been against any military intervention that is decided on a unilateral basis," he said. Patino said the creation of an Inter-American Defense Board could avoid political embarrassments. He pointed out that the military interventions that have taken place in Latin America, like that in Nicaragua to guarantee peace during the elections, have had no legal basis. The board would serve exclusively for the discussion of military subjects and never as an intervention force. For example, one of its functions could be to sweep for mines placed in countries in conflict. Tomorrow, the Chilean Government will present to the OAS a proposal to create a work group to analyze government corruption and to suggest a code of laws to combat corruption. Chilean Ambassador to Brazil Heraldo Munoz said the economic development of the countries of the region is what is mainly responsible for the expansion of corruption in the continent. "Corruption must be faced as a phenomenon that goes beyond national borders," he said. This work group should analyze the laws against corruption of the OAS member countries and should include some of them in a code of laws that would be approved by the OAS. Argentine Ambassador to the OAS Hernan Patino said that corruption does not take place in Latin America only, mentioning recent cases in Japan, Italy, and Spain. Tomorrow, Brazil will present a resolution ratifying Argentina's rights over the Malvinas Islands (or the Falklands, to the British). Brazil presents the same resolution in favor of Argentina at all OAS assemblies. "Argentina will always claim, in a peaceful manner at all international forums, its sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands," Patino said.
