FBIS4-8047 "dreeu069_y_94009" FBIS-EEU-94-069 Daily Report 9 Apr 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Kosovo Serb Police Raids Escalating, Albanians Harassed Serb Police Raids Escalating, Albanians Harassed AU0904201294 Tirana TVSH Television Network in Albanian 1800 GMT 9 Apr 94 AU0904201294 Tirana TVSH Television Network Albanian BFN [Text] [Announcer] Serbian repression and violence is escalating in Kosova. Recent reports confirm new raids and harassments of Albanians in many centers in Kosova. From Prishtina, Ramadan Mucolli: [Mucolli] Reports of raiding many Albanian families under the pretext of searching for arms, apprehending family members and taking them to police stations, beatings, and harassments continue to arrive at the Kosova Information Center. There are also reports of Albanian youths being pursued with the intention of impressing them into the Serbian Army. In the last two days, under the pretext of searching for weapons, many families have been raided in Paralluk, Terpeze e Ulet, and Shkarashnik villages in Malisheve; in Dumnice, Podujeve; Strespe, Vushtrri; Petrove, Shtime; Skenderaj, and Obilisht. After the raids, several family members were summoned to the police stations, violently detained, brutally beaten and mistreated. After the raids, 70-year-old man Ismail Shaqiri, his son Sadri, and his nephew Bashkim from Dumnice were taken to the police station in Podujeve, where they were brutally beaten. Many were beaten and maltreated in Shtroce, Vushtrri; Taralluk; Shkarashnik, Malisheve; and Mitrovice. Reports from Suharake inform that Ilir Vullaku's son was summoned in Ishor village with the intention of recruiting him into the Serbian Army. It is known that the police have also searched for the youngsters Rakip and Safet Bytyqi. Reports from Rahovec confirm that Ymer Ahmetaj, counsel for education and chairman of the sub-branch of the Albanian Teachers' League for this commune, was taken to the police station and interrogated for four hours about the activity of the Pedagogical Institution in Gjakove and the work of Ramiz Sadiku High School in Rahovec.
