FBIS3-28579 "dreas026_c_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-026 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Feb 1994 North Korea South Government Asked To `Act With Discretion' SK0802044294 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0421 GMT 8 Feb 94 SK0802044294 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Pyongyang, February 8 (KCNA) -- The South Korean puppet foreign minister, Han Sung-chu, at "a meeting of heads of embassies and legations abroad" on February 5 charged the North again with the non-existent "nuclear problem" and cried for "a stern measure" against the North, according to a radio report from Seoul. His bellicose remarks were a dangerous provocation bringing the situation of the Korean peninsula to the brink of war. When the process of a peaceful solution to the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula has been driven to a fatally blind alley by the U.S. perfidious act, the South Korean puppet clique is showing feverish activities to bar the third-stage talks between the DPRK and the United States and touch off a nuclear war in league with outside forces. Han Sung-chu also paid a lip-service to "dialogue." But this was nothing but a sophism for covering up the anti-national, anti-peace and anti-reunification criminal acts of the puppet clique which is driving the situation of the peninsula to the brink of war. Crying for "dialogue" while brandishing the sword is virtually an insult to dialogue and its total negation. The South Korean puppet clique is trying to isolate and stifle the Democratic People's Republic of Korea with the help of outside forces, clean indifferent to North-South dialogue. This invariable intention of the puppets was made clearer when Han Sung-chu stated that to take "a stern measure" was their "consistent position." The South Korean rulers must clearly look at the will and resolution of our people and act with discretion. Their reckless new war provocation moves will bring them to destruction. The puppet clique must unconditionally renounce the anachronistic moves of North-South confrontation.
