FBIS3-14929 "drsov040_b_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Golushko Firing Said Planned MK0103084094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 1 Mar 94 p 1 MK0103084094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Aleksandr Kudakayev report under the "Resignation" rubric: "Annual Replacement of Special Service Head"] [Text] The Russian president's press service has advised that Colonel General Nikolay Golushko has been relieved of his duties as Federal Counterintelligence Service [FCS] director. As has been the case more than once, FCS personnel were the last to learn about this -- and from INTERFAX reports. The FCS Public Relations Center, therefore, finds it hard to comment on this event. Observers give as the reason for so sudden a step the recent release of the "Lefortovo inmates." Onlookers refer to the existence of a certain document forwarded to the heads of power agencies by presidential structures which indicated bluntly that no release of the opposition leaders was admissible. Golushko has been "punished" for everybody. Officials in the presidential staff state in this connection that the president had long been dissatisfied with incoming information. Another possible version of Golushko's dismissal is "the Ames affair," because some reports speak about the presence in the FCS of foreign agents of a similar level. It seems to us, however, that the more probable cause for the dismissal is its "having been planned." It was obvious to virtually all experts that this person was temporary, and the president availed himself of all the sensational events of recent days as a pretext. Current first deputy Sergey Stepashin is being named as the more probable candidate for Federal Counterintelligence Service director. It is possible, however, that an outsider will be appointed to this post. I have in mind former KGB generals who are not on the FCS staff but who are in the civil service and who have to do with the top echelons of power. The appointment of a civilian to this position is seen as unlikely.
