FBIS3-36136 "drsov023_s_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 Georgia Further on Grachev Activities PM0202195594 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 3 Feb 94 p 1 PM0202195594 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Aleksandr Pelts: "Russian Federation Defense Minister Arrives in Tbilisi"] [Text] Tbilisi -- On the eve of the official visit by Russian President Boris Yeltsin Army General Pavel Grachev, minister of defense of the Russian Federation, has arrived in Tbilisi; he will take part in talks at the highest level. On 2 February the defense minister and officials accompanying him visited the Russian Motorized Infantry Regiment. At a meeting with officers Army General Grachev stressed that the question of the possibility of setting up Russian military bases in Georgia will be raised at the talks. The Georgian leadership on the whole supports this idea and is ready to discuss it. In particular, Russia proposes to set up bases in Batumi, Akhalkalaki, and Vaziani. Pavel Grachev stressed that, if this proposal is accepted, the character of the tasks which Russian troops are performing in Georgia and the conditions of their stay will change, insofar as the cost of their upkeep will be shared equally. The functions of the Russian troops will also change significantly -- they will take part in collectively safeguarding the security of the Transcaucasian region. Russia intends to maintain a grouping of 23,000 servicemen in the Transcaucasus. In addition, it is planned to locate a further base in Armenia and a military facility in Azerbaijan. Pavel Grachev stated that the heads of the two states will be presented with the prepared draft of a "Protocol Between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Georgia on the Intended Creation of Russian Military Bases on Georgian Territory." Two further protocols have been prepared -- on the exchange of military delegations and on technical aviation support for aircraft and equipment on both Russian and Georgian territory. The Russian Federation defense minister rejected Abkhazian fears that Russia intends to significantly reinforce the Georgian Army in technical respects. He stated that any steps in this direction are possible only in the event of the solution of the Abkhazian problem by political methods. In an exclusive interview with KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Army General Grachev stressed that the military delegation will raise at the talks the issue of the inescapable liability of nationalist extremist forces whose actions have led to the deaths of Russian servicemen.
