FBIS3-45114 "drchi009_g_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 Sub-Saharan Africa Qian Qichen Continues Visit in Africa Received by Ethiopian President OW1201150294 Beijing XINHUA in English 1407 GMT 12 Jan 94 OW1201150294 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Addis Ababa, January 12 (XINHUA) -- Ethiopian President Meles Zenawi held talks with visiting Chinese Vice-Premier and Foreign Minister Qian Qichen here today on issues of mutual concern and bilateral relations. During the talks, Meles told the Chinese guest that Ethiopia pursues a policy of good-neighborliness. Qian expressed appreciation of the efforts Ethiopia has made for the settlement of the Somali crisis and the maintenance of regional peace and stability. He said the Chinese Government is greatly concerned over the Somali problem and holds its final settlement is up to the Somali people. Africa is facing a complex situation, the Chinese vice-premier said, adding two tendencies -- neglect Africa or interfere in Africa's internal affairs -- should be prevented. The international community should show concern over Africa, help Africa, he stressed, saying if the political situation in Africa is unstable and its economy continues worsening, peace and development in the world cannot be truly achieved. Qian said China has always been attaching an importance to strengthening its relations with african countries. "China is a developing country with a limited strength, but we always cherish a stand on Africa. That is not to neglect the problems appearing in Africa and at the same time respect the will of the African people," he added. The two leaders also discussed the way of further strengthening and developing bilateral relations, with Meles saying Ethiopia welcomes Chinese businessmen to invest and create enterprises in Ethiopia. Qian promised the Chinese Government will encourage Chinese businessmen to enhance exchange of contacts and cooperation with their Ethiopian counterparts. On the same occasion, Qian conveyed the greetings of Chinese president Jiang Zemin to Ethiopian President Meles Zenawi. The Chinese vice-premier and foreign minister arrived here on Tuesday morning for a two-day visit to Ethiopia.
