FBIS3-36823 "drsov028_a_94026" FBIS-SOV-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev's Stand on Uzbek Russophones Criticized MK1002103094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 10 Feb 94 p 1 MK1002103094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Ignat Lebedyakin report: "Andrey Kozyrev Has Decided Not To Make a Scandal. Uzbek TV Provoked It Later On"] [Text] Yesterday morning the Ostankino TV channel twice went off the air on Uzbekistan territory. Subjected to censorship were news bulletins which contained, among other things, footage about Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev's visit to Tashkent. This scandalous fact is most eloquent testimony to the results of the Russian-Uzbek talks, whose main agenda item was the situation of the republic's Russian-speaking population. It will be recalled that a not very pleasant incident occurred in Tashkent last November with the participation of the same actors: Attempts were twice made to prove to Kozyrev that the line at the Russian Federation Embassy did not include Uzbekistan citizens. This time the minister, prior to the talks with his Uzbek counterpart, deemed it prudent to meet with representatives of the Russian community who had gathered near the embassy gate. According to INTERFAX, his fellow countrymen complained to the minister about the difficulties involved in leaving the country and the impossibility of selling their housing, also citing acts of discrimination. The press statement that Kozyrev made at the end of the negotiations sounds extremely flaccid [vyalyy] and is hardly capable of instilling hope. "It seems that the element of mutual misunderstanding has lessened," the minister told journalists. "The problems are acute but we discuss them in a constructive key, without mutual hysteria." Kozyrev also added that he does not belong "among those statesmen who expect the discussion of the issue of Russian-speakers' rights to generate a scandal and who are themselves pouring fuel on the fire, trying to gain some additional points." This text markedly differs from the reciprocal eulogies that were heard two weeks ago in Bishkek. In fact this is the limit of diplomatic courteousness, which is usually followed by a protest note. Confidential sources in the Russian Foreign Affairs Ministry say that the Central Asian leaders are exerting most heavy pressure on Kyrgyzstan President Askar Akayev, considering his position on the issue of dual nationality to be too soft. There is every reason to believe that Islam Karimov is among such leaders.
