FBIS4-67880 "jptnd011___94003" JPRS-TND-94-011 JPRS PROLIFERATION ISSUES 20 April 1994 CHINA UN Envoy Says Time Ripe for Non-First-Strike Treaty UN Envoy Says Time Ripe for Non-First-Strike Treaty OW2104134194 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1124 GMT 20 Apr 94 OW2104134194 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [By reporter Gao Jianxin (7559 1696 2450]) [Text] United Nations, April 19 (XINHUA) -- Chinese Ambassador to the UN Disarmament Commission Hou Zhitong pointed out in his speech on 19 April that the time is quite ripe for China, the United States, Britain, France, and Russia to sign a treaty undertaking not to threaten the use of, or to use, nuclear arms against non-nuclear-weapon states and not to be the first to use nuclear weapons against each other under any circumstances. Hou Zhitong said: This treaty, when reached among the five countries during their negotiations on a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty, will greatly reduce the risk of a nuclear war, enhance their security, and create a favorable condition for achieving comprehensive nuclear test ban and advance the nuclear disarmament process. He said: China's proposal has received Russia's support. China hopes that the United States, Britain, and France will also respond to it in a positive way so that negotiations can begin at an early date to conclude this treaty. Hou Zhitong also explained China's position and views ``on the role of science and technology in international security, disarmament, and other relevant fields'' as well as on ``international arms transfer.'' He said: Currently, a number of countries have indicated that they would liberalize export control of relevant semi-finished materials and technologies. At the same time, there are countries considering the establishment of new export control regime. Nuclear nonproliferation should not hinder international scientific and technological cooperation, much less be used by a few countries as an excuse for blocking a large number of developing countries from obtaining and developing science and technology for peaceful purpose. He also pointed out: China has always opposed unrestricted international arms transfers. As is known to all, the key to solving the problem of unrestricted arms transfers lay in the political will of a few countries which have the most advanced industries and most arms exports.
