FBIS4-45028 "jpnea031___94036" JPRS-NEA-94-031 JPRS Near East & South Asia 27 April 1994 SOUTH ASIA IRAN Passenger Control at Country's Airports Reduced Passenger Control at Country's Airports Reduced 94LA0175A Tehran KEYHAN-E HAVA'I in Persian 27 Apr 94 p 3 94LA0175A Tehran KEYHAN-E HAVA'I Persian CSO [Text] Tehran, 28 Farvardin [17 April] Central News Unit -- With the creation of facilities at the nation's airports, entry and exit formalities for passengers and the checkpoints for inspecting and monitoring passenger documents and luggage have been reduced. Bani Najarian, deputy minister of roads and transportation and chief of the National Aircraft Organization, in announcing the above, added: The checkpoints for monitoring tickets, visas, passports, and luggage for passengers coming into the country have been reduced from five to two, and from 11 to four for departing passengers. Bani Najarian added: In the near future all Iran's international airports will perform several monitoring tasks at one place, and will deal with passenger issues at another. With regard to passengers departing the country, he said: Passengers leaving the country with tickets in hand will only be checked once by police and customs agents, and passenger luggage will also be inspected by inspection equipment. The passenger greeting section is the next checkpoint. After that the validity of passenger visas is checked in one place instead of several places. At the last checkpoint, security inspections are done. Thus the time spent passing through entry and exit routes will be reduced to the smallest amount possible. Likewise, the services at the customs freight section and the general warehouse for transporting one-way freight and other freight coming into the country will operate on a 24-hour basis. According to the deputy minister of roads and transportation, under a measure enacted at the 52d meeting of the National Administrative Council, the Facilities Committee on Standards and Assessing Airport Affairs is being formed to create a single management at the nation's airports, and it will pursue implementation of the aforementioned items.
