FBIS3-11838 "drlat059_r_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 Peru Fujimori Notes Sorrow Over Colosio Death; Envoy to Ecuador Not Recalled PY2503143194 Lima Global de Television Network in Spanish 0300 GMT 25 Mar 94 PY2503143194 Lima Global de Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] In remarks to journalists President Alberto Fujimori has expressed his sorrow over the assassination of the Mexican ruling party's presidential candidate, Luis Colosio. The president also stressed that his administration supports Peruvian Ambassador to Ecuador Eduardo Ponce, trusting that the events that have developed in that nation will not damage bilateral relations. [Begin recording] [Fujimori] Really, this is a regrettable criminal action. We, as Peruvians, as friends of the Mexicans, express our condolences, our deep sorrow, over the assassination of the PRI [Institutional Revolutionary Party] candidate. We also hope that this despicable action will be investigated and that, in this painful situation, Mexico will be able to resolve it. [First unidentified reporter] Mr. President, there is a... [Second unidentified reporter, interrupting] Will your administration decide to recall our country's ambassador to Ecuador following all the problems caused by a poll? [Fujimori] Relations between Peru and Ecuador have always been maintained, and are being maintained, at the best possible level. There have been some circumstantial events that could be misinterpreted, but which do not detract from this high level of trust between Peru and Ecuador. I believe Peruvian-Ecuadoran friendship and fraternity go beyond any such circumstantial events. This represents a denial of recent reports that Peru will recall its ambassador. Our relations are being handled smoothly. There is direct communication at the Foreign Ministry's top levels. He has not been recalled. I deny that Ambassador Ponce has been recalled. I am sure that, on the Ecuadoran side, there will be a good spirit of understanding of these situations that must not tarnish our relationship. Therefore, all possible efforts, as our policy has been... [end recording, in progress]
