FBIS3-21043 "jpest007___94040" JPRS-EST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 23 December 1993 WEST EUROPE DEFENSE R&D France/Italy: AEROSPATIALE Tests Surface-Air Aster 30 Missile BR2801131494 Paris LA LETTRE DU GIFAS in English 23 Dec 93 p1 BR2801131494 Paris LA LETTRE DU GIFAS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Aerospatiale: First Firing of Ground Version of the Aster 30"] [Text] Under prime contractorship of AEROSPATIALE, a ground- air Aster 30 missile was fired for the first time at the Landes Test Center of DGA, using a ground launcher designed by the Italian group ALENIA. The firing represents a key state in test and development of the anti-missile Surface-Air Medium Range Ground Weapon system (SAMP/T). The Aster missile has been designed to intercept and structurally destroy new generation aircraft and air-surface or surface-surface missiles having high maneuvrability and high speed. It is a two-stage powder missile with highly agile second stage obtained by a Pif-Paf piloting system combining aerodynamic and force piloting to destroy enemy missile. The SAMP/T system, built around ground based Aster missiles is designed for protection of the battlefield area, air bases, command stations and all sensitive targets. By the end of this century, the first operators will be the French and Italian Armies and the French Air Force. For the latter, it will be superseding the American Hawk system. Consequently, the vertical launch procedure of the Aster 30 has now been approved. Various subassemblies involved in a firing of this type: The missile itself, the launcher container tube on the ground and the launch ramp have been tested in configuration similar to operational version. AEROSPATIALE was in charge of the test which is part of a project for the development of ground and naval medium-range surface-air defense systems. In this program, EUROSAM (AEROSPATIALE, ALENIA, THOMSON) is prime contractor.
