FBIS3-27601 "drchi038_n_94022" FBIS-CHI-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Economic & Agricultural Anhui Coordinates Movement of Rural Labor Force OW2402014394 Beijing XINHUA in English 0128 GMT 24 Feb 94 OW2402014394 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Hefei, February 24 (XINHUA) -- East China's Anhui Province has fostered the development of multi-level labor markets to exercise control over the formerly disorganized outflow of rural labor forces to cities and towns. Improvement of rural productivity has resulted in a labor surplus in many rural areas. These surplus laborers push into new areas, especially into cities which seem to promise more work opportunities and better lives. Individual introduction used to be the most common way for farmers to find employment. But the spreading of false information or even downright swindling commonly left farmers with losses of money and time. To eliminate the blind seeking of employment and better organize the surplus labor force, labor markets have been established in 16 cities and 68 counties of the province and more than 400 career-introduction institutions have mushroomed in rural towns and villages. Offering a series of services including registration, arrangement of interview, supervision of signing and implementation of employment and labor insurance contracts, those labor markets have successfully satisfied the demands for laborers in enterprises and accorded employment to many rural laborers. Zhang Gongyou, a farmer from Wuwei county, was employed as a salesman for a Beijing-based commercial enterprise only ten days after his registration in the county's labor market. He said happily that the labor market had saved his money and time and he could hardly believe that seeking a job could be so quick and easy. According to officials of the provincial labor bureau, up to now 600,000 rural laborers, or one-fourth of the total who had crowded into cities seeking opportunities and temporary jobs, have been channeled through labor markets. The Huainan and Huaibei coal mines, which once experienced much difficulty in hiring enough miners, have managed to employ 20,000 rural contracted laborers thanks to the introduction of labor markets. The Anhui Labor Bureau has also for the first time sent nearly 1,000 laborers to Japan and the Philippines. The province plans to further strengthen the implementation of relevant laws and improve quality and effectiveness in offering labor services to its five million surplus rural laborers this year, said the labor bureau official.
