FBIS4-43952 "drweu121_p_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-121 Daily Report 22 Jun 1994 GREECE Spokesman Views Greek-Turkish Relations, Tension Spokesman Views Greek-Turkish Relations, Tension NC2206170594 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network in Greek 1500 GMT 22 Jun 94 NC2206170594 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network Greek BFN [Text] Government spokesman Evangelos Venizelos said today in Corfu--where he is staying in light of the EU summit--that the Greek Government is dealing calmly with statements by Turkish officials who are cultivating a climate of artificial tension; our Government wants to cool it off. Athens' message to Ankara is clear: There can be no form of bilateral dialogue as long as Turkey continues to make provocations in the Aegean. In any case, no possible dialogue can be held on the so-called overall Greek-Turkish relations, because Athens firmly believes that the only difference is on the limits of the continental shelf and referring it to the European Court in The Hague. The spokesman said: Everything else involves unilateral Turkish pursuits, violations of Greek national airspace and the Athens FIR [Flight Information Region], or violations of international law. If there are issues needing discussion outside this framework, they are welcome. The spokesman confirmed that the Greek ambassador in Ankara recently lodged demarches with the Turkish Government because of violations by Turkish aircraft in the Aegean. He said: There is no Muslim minority issue. Greece fully respects the Lausanne Treaty. Venizelos noted that mutual respect for this treaty could be the only issue of discussion. New Democracy Vice President Ioannis Varvitsiotis asked Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou to raise the issue of Turkish provocations at the EU summit. Varvitsiotis said: Greece's borders are also European borders. Papandreou must not let this opportunity go to waste. He must finally realize that he must forestall events, not follow them. The issue of Greek-Turkish relations cannot tolerate any additional wrong moves. He stressed that lately, Turkish provocations have peaked dangerously with the tolerance of the Greek Government, which is taking the path of guilty silence. The violations of Greek national airspace exceed those of the past. Greek reaction against the armed Turkish fighter planes is leniently subdued, if not nonexistent. Varvitsiotis concluded: Turkish Prime Minister Tansu Ciller recently confirmed in the most provocative manner the Balkan countries' fears that the mission of the Turkish troops in Bosnia-Herzegovina is to support the Muslims. This fact is really explosive for the Balkans.
