FBIS3-22018 "jptdd013__l94021" JPRS-tdd-94-013-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 11 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA BOLIVIA Dialogue Between Government, Coca Farmers Fails PY2203123494 La Paz PRESENCIA in Spanish 11 Mar 94 p 1 PY2203123494 La Paz PRESENCIA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] The government and coca farmers failed yesterday to reach an agreement that will pacify the coca producing zones in El Chapare region of Cochabamba Department. Following long meetings, the peasant leaders decided to withdraw from talks with the cabinet members. They said the ministers broke the preliminary agreement reached on 9 March. The article that caused the breaking of relations sought to make the coca leaders promise to engage in voluntary eradication of plantations "without interference" from the peasants. Until dawn on 10 March, considerable progress was made toward overcoming the atmosphere of violence that prevailed since 5 March when officials from the Coca Eradication Directorate (Direco) and members of the Mobile Police Unit for Rural Areas clashed with 4,000 coca farmers in the Chapare. Foreign Minister Antonio Aranibar and Minister of the Government German Quiroga, as well as coca peasant leader Evo Morales and COB [Bolivian Labor Federation] leader Oscar Salas, said yesterday that there are implicit threats to use violence again in the tropical Chapare region. Government and union leaders blamed each other for breaking the agreement, which the public considered a positive step toward an atmosphere of peace in the agitated central region of Bolivia. "The government will ensure that the law is respected," Minister Quiroga told journalists after meeting with President Gonzalo Sanchez de Losada. Minister Aranibar expressed "the government's disenchantment and frustration at the result of the conversations." He said the issue "was handled with full respect for the political will to resolve the problems within an atmosphere dialogue, understanding, and the spirit of Law No. 1008." He said the opposition of some coca leaders to the control of excess coca crops is just as unacceptable as when organizations like the JIFE [International Council of Narcotics Control] suggest a ban on the consumption of coca leaves.
