FBIS4-7661 "dreeu064__a94016" FBIS-EEU-94-064-A Daily Report 3 Apr 1994 ANNEX Czech Republic Havel Stresses Need To Respect Constitution Havel Stresses Need To Respect Constitution AU0304151594 Prague CTK in English 1436 GMT 3 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0304151594 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Prague, April 3 (CTK) -- Czech President Vaclav Havel said today he had never favoured much a bicameral parliamentary system, but stressed that the Constitution had to be respected and therefore the Senate should be elected this year. Speaking in his regular Sunday radio programme "Talks from Lany", Havel said that if the parliamentarians reached the agreement that the Cezch Republic should have a unicameral parliamentary system, this would require not only "the deletion of several articles from the Constitution, but the rewriting of the whole Constitution." The way of filling the second chamber of the parliament, Senate, is currently the object of a broad and often heated discussion in the government coalition. The strongest coalition party, the Civic Democratic Party (ODS) of Premier Vaclav Klaus has insisted on the elections to be held in 81 one-mandate constituencies. In the first elections the constituencies would be divided into three groups: In the first senators would be elected for two years, in the second for four years and in the third for six years. Under the Constitution the senators are to be elected for six-year terms with one third of them being replaced every two years. The three other coalition parties have proposed 27 constituencies each of which would have three mandates in the first elections and one mandate in the following balloting. The elections would probably be held in the autumn along with local elections. Elections to the existing Chamber of Deputies are scheduled to be held in 1996. The deputies are elected for four-year terms. Havel welcomed the compromise solution proposed by deputies at the end of March. Under it three senators would be elected in 27 "large constituencies." Each of them would comprise three smaller ones which would make a total of 81 as proposed by the ODS. Havel said this would not breach the Constitution.
