FBIS4-30326 "dreas123_a_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Reports on U.S.-Japan Framework Talks Continue Reports on U.S.-Japan Framework Talks Continue Impact on Summit Assessed OW2406142494 Tokyo KYODO in English 1403 GMT 24 Jun 94 OW2406142494 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, June 24 KYODO -- Slow progress in the "framework" trade talks between Japan and the United States will have little impact on the planned meeting of the two nations' leaders, a ranking official at Japan's trade ministry said Friday. "It was agreed when we resumed the talks that no deadline should be set for the negotiations," said the International Trade and Industry Ministry official. The two countries are at the negotiation table to establish a new "framework" for bilateral trade, with the priority on three areas -- automobile and auto parts, government procurement of telecommunications equipment and medical equipment, and insurance. The talks, which started last summer, ran into a deadlock in February but resumed in May. The MITI official said Sozaburo Okamatsu, trade vice minister for international affairs, will have talks with Jeffrey Garten, U.S. undersecretary of commerce, for a few days from next Monday. They are expected to discuss whether the discussions will remain incomplete at the time of the Japan-U.S. summit meeting, the official said. Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata and U.S. President Bill Clinton are scheduled to hold talks in Naples prior to the July 8-10 annual summit of the Group of Seven (G-7) industrialized nations. Negotiators in the framework talks have reached partial agreement on the automotive area, such as on a proposal to set up a third-party organization to evaluate the effects of Japan's market-opening measures. But the two sides are still far apart on the so-called "objective criteria" by which to gauge foreign access to the Japanese market. The MITI official said neither side is striving for a "partial agreement" in order merely to show progress before the Japan-U.S. summit. The official said the issue of government procurement, on which working-level talks are scheduled for next week, is supposedly the area in which negotiations are showing the most progress.
