FBIS3-1302 "drafr057_c_94033" FBIS-AFR-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Jan 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA * Location of Right-Wing Training Camps Unknown 94AF0114C Johannesburg BEELD in Afrikaans 17 Jan 94 p 2 94AF0114C Johannesburg BEELD Language: Afrikaans Article Type:CSO [Article by Ronelle Rademeyer: "South African Defense Force Knows Nothing of the Camp Where Rightwing Zulus Are Training"] [Text] The South African Defense Force (SADF) acknowledged a report yesterday concerning secret training camps in the mountainous slopes between eastern Orange Free State and Natal, where right-wing Zulus are learning the more refined tricks of warfare. However, a Defense Force spokesman said yesterday that the Defense Force knows nothing about the so-called Alpha base where Zulu recruits are being trained by right-wing instructors in bush warfare, field skills, weapons training, house evacuation, and first aid. Concerning the revelation that active members of the SADF are part of the corps of instructors at the Alpha base, the spokesman said that it is unclear whether these members are part of the Permanent Force or of the Citizen Force. Mr. Leonard Veenendal, former "chief of staff" of the Order of the Boer Nation and now a "commander" at the base, told RAPPORT that some of the instructors are active members of the Defense Force. Concerning the revelation that extreme rightwingers and Zulus are active behind the scenes in putting the dissolved 32d Battalion back on its feet, Army spokesman Colonel John Rolt said that people who are no longer part of the Army can work for whomever they wish. The "new" 32d Battalion will supposedly be part of a specialist unit of the Zulu and right-wing forces. Military cooperation between the rightwingers and the Zulus is part of the preparations for fighting the "bloody struggle" between the ANC and the IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party] in the lead-up to the 27 April election. The recruits are groups of Zulus who have been designated for this training by indunas [chiefs]. The training lasts seven weeks. The Zulus who are trained at the camps will also be available to patrol farms and "hunt and wipe out" APLA [Azania People's Liberation Army] terrorists that are attacking farms.
