FBIS4-52964 "dreas094_h_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-094 Daily Report 14 May 1994 SOUTHEAST ASIA Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Mahathir Unhappy With UN Handling of Bosnian Crisis Mahathir Unhappy With UN Handling of Bosnian Crisis BK1405104994 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA in English 0450 GMT 14 May 94 BK1405104994 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA English BFN [Text] Kuala Lumpur, May 14 (OANA-BERNAMA) -- It is evident that the United Nations obstructed any action to be taken against the Serbs in Bosnia-Herzegovina and that Malaysia has expressed dissatisfaction with the situation, Prime Minister Dr. Mahathir Mohamed said here Friday. It seems like there is an attempt to force the Muslims in Bosnia to accept whatever decision the UN adopts, he said. When we question NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organisation), it refers us to the UN ... When we ask the UN, it says NATO has to make the decision. Dr. Mahathir spoke to reporters at the airport on his return from an overseas trip which had taken him to Zimbabwe, South Africa, France, the United States, and China. He made the comments after extending condolences to the family of Major Ariffin Zakaria, the Malaysian soldier who was killed in Bosnia-Herzegovina on Thursday. The 33-year-old soldier was killed when United Nations peacekeepers came under fire from the Serbs near Sarajevo. The decisions of the UN favour the assumption that the Serbs have control over Bosnian territory and this is what saddens me, he said. On statements by several countries in support of Malaysia's call for the resignation of UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali, Dr. Mahathir said the UN representative in Bosnia, Yashushi Akashi, should also be removed. He said he felt that Akashi seemed to be obstructing any action to be taken against the Serbs. Dr. Mahathir also said that Western countries were now beginning to criticize Butrus-Ghali and Akashi. Maj. Ariffin was the second Malaysian soldier killed in the conflict. Last month, Maj. Ramli Shaari was killed after he stepped on a mine in Croatia.
