FBIS4-40365 "drsov116_b_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-116 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Gaydar Seen Garnering Support From Defense Sector Gaydar Seen Garnering Support From Defense Sector PM1606103594 Moscow NOVAYA YEZHEDNEVNAYA GAZETA in Russian 15 Jun 94 p 1 PM1606103594 Moscow NOVAYA YEZHEDNEVNAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Article by Vs.O. under the "Meanwhile" rubric: "Such Prospects Are Costly"] [Text] "Russia's Choice," the most capital-intensive political association in the last elections, is continuing to organize itself. As was only to be expected, businessmen are flocking to the banners of radical economist Yegor Gaydar. They are not taking up rank-and-file posts under these banners either. For example, the Executive Committee of "Russia's Democratic Choice" was recently headed by Oleg Boyko, leader of the renowned "OLBI" Concern and of the less renowned "Natsionalnyy Kredit" Bank. "OLBI" is known as a major trading house and as an open-type joint-stock company. Naturally, even the largest trading house is hardly capable of funding a national political movement. In other words, a direct financial interest in Boyko on Gaydar's part is unlikely. On the other hand, in the last elections "OLBI" actively supported "Russia's Choice," so that Mr. Boyko's new post may be regarded as political compensation of a kind. But there is also a third aspect, the most interesting one. The point is that Mr. Boyko, "OLBI," and the "Natsionalnyy Kredit" Bank have strong ties (including partnership ties) with the "Vzlet" Science and Production Association, one of the flagships of the Russian defense industry. The interest of the military-industrial complex in Gaydar -- the leader of the largest Duma faction, which voted for broader budget spending on defense, and someone with access to the president -- is obvious. In addition, Gaydar must also be of interest to the defense industry as a radical market economist. They can complain as much as they like about the collapse of the defense complex as a consequence of the reforms. But only Gaydar's reforms can enable the leaders of large defense enterprises to participate seriously in privatization.
