FBIS4-47548 "jpust013___94102" JPRS-UST-94-013 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 23 June 1994 LIFE SCIENCES BIOTECHNOLOGY Dominant Selectable Gene Transfer Using Retroviral Dominant Selectable Gene Transfer Using Retroviral Vectors: Simple and Quick Method to Produce Hybridomata Hybrids 947C0126E Moscow MOLEKULYARNAYA GENETIKA, MIKROBIOLOGIYA I VIRUSOLOGIYA in Russian No. 4, July-Aug. 93 pp. 31-34 947C0126E Moscow MOLEKULYARNAYA GENETIKA, MIKROBIOLOGIYA I VIRUSOLOGIYA Russian CSO [Article by I.K. Fomin, I.I. Tikhonov, V.S. Prasolov, N.N. Voytenok, Hematology and Blood Transfusion Institute at the Belarussian Republic Ministry of Public Health and Molecular Biology Institute at Russia's Academy of Sciences, Moscow; UDC 577.21] [Abstract] The antibodies whose structure contains the molecules of two different antigen-specific segments--the so-called bispecific antibodies--and which are capable of cross-binding of molecules and cells and the methods of producing bispecific antibodies by fusing two hybridoma lines are discussed, and two approaches to fusing hybridomata producing monoclonal antibodies (MKA) to the _a_-tumor necrosis factor (FNO-_a_) and inorganic pyrophosphatase (NPF) of Escherichia coli are discussed. In one instance, a G418-stable hypoxanthine, aminopterine, thymidine (GAT) medium-sensitive partner was hybridized with a ``wild type'' partner while in another, various markers of antibiotic stability were introduced into both partner with the help of recombinant retroviral vectors. As a result, quadromata producing bispecific antibodies were produced by two methods whereby the quadromata formation efficiency was roughly the same in each case. The findings show that the use of retroviral vectors is a faster and simpler way of cell labeling. The method of hybridoma cell labeling with the help of retroviral vectors carrying dominant selectable genes of resistance to hygromycin B and genecytin (G418) has virtually no limitations. Figures 1; tables 2; references: 9 Western.
