FBIS3-31823 "dreeu038_s_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 SLOVENIA Speculation on Early Recall of U.S. Envoy 94P20414A Zagreb VJESNIK in Serbo-Croatian 12 Feb 94 p 7 94P20414A Zagreb VJESNIK Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:CSO [Article by Ranka Kovacevic-Jelic: "Wendt Did Not Play Tennis With Jansa"] [Excerpts] We could say that nowadays in Slovenia one of the behind-the-scenes battles for power has resulted in a story of two chairs. Figuratively speaking, Milan Kucan, Slovene president and commander in chief of the armed forces, "nearly fell" out of his chair when he heard about the presence of four high-ranking U.S. military officers in Slovenia during a conversation with Allan Wendt, U.S. ambassador to Slovenia. Now the "diplomatic chair" is shaking under Wendt. There are rumors of his recall because of alleged "special relations with the Ministry of Defense." According to the Ljubljana paper REPUBLIKA, U.S. Ambassador Wendt is to leave Ljubljana in May, before the end of his term. The news is mentioned in the same context as the early recall of Lieutenant Colonel G.E. Lich, head of the U.S. officers group. The Slovene public learned about the presence of four high-ranking U.S. officers, members of the "liaison group" who have for some time been guests of the Slovene Ministry of Defense, in the middle of last week when Lieutenant Colonel Lich, before his departure, paid a visit to a secretary of the Defense Ministry. President Kucan was not any better informed since he learned about it only a day earlier. During the talk with Wendt, Kucan expressed interest in details of the "Partnership for Peace" program. He was told that Slovenia meets most political and military requirements, except for technical questions which are being resolved in the Slovene Defense Ministry with the aid of the four high-ranking U.S. officers. President Kucan had no idea this was going on, nor did Prime Minister Drnovsek, who was informed by the commander in chief about the U.S. officers' presence in Jansa's ministry. [passage omitted] The Slovene power struggle has also divided U.S. officials in Slovenia. Some feel closer to Drnovsek's Liberal Democrats, others to Defense Minister Janez Jansa, who, according to a February DELO poll, is the most popular politician. Regarding DELO, it is interesting that this daily did not report this affair until recently. "Malicious persons" have found an immediate answer, namely, that the Ministry of Defense is trying to solve the housing problem of Tit Dobersek, DELO editor in chief.
