FBIS3-15502 "drsov044_a_94025" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Ivanov Comments on Russian, U.S. Role in Mideast LD0603183894 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1700 GMT 6 Mar 94 LD0603183894 Moscow Russian Television Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Vesti" newscast] [Text] Russian First Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov has returned from his trip connected with the Middle East settlement. Ivanov handed Yasir 'Arafat a personal message from the Russian president expressing Russia's firm intention to contribute to the achievement of all-encompassing peace and security in the Middle East. Here is correspondent Aleksandr Peslyak with the details: [Peslyak] After the Hebron tragedy, the situation in the Middle East has sharply deteriorated. In order to prevent an escalation of violence and promote a resumption of the negotiating process, on the instructions of the Russian president our diplomat has spent three days shuttling between Tel Aviv and Tunis holding talks with 'Arafat, Rabin, and Peres. [Begin Ivanov recording] We discussed in particular the need to adopt an urgent UN Security Council resolution, which would condemn the crime committed and which would also be aimed at promoting a resumption of the negotiating process. [end recording] [Peslyak] Also, Ivanov believes, it is important to ensure an international presence in the region, and an active role on the part of the cosponsors of the process, the United States and Russia. Apart from anything else, it is precisely the impetus from outside that will help the Palestinians and Israelis to sit down again at the negotiating table, because the shock from a breakdown in the document, which was 90 percent agreed, which could have been implemented in mid-April, is too great, and there are no direct contacts between the sides. But joint actions by Washington and Moscow do not preclude independent efforts by each one of them. Tomorrow, Ivanov is having a meeting with envoys from Israel and the Arab countries, and today he had a conversation with the U.S. ambassador.
