FBIS4-60278 "drnes100dd_94011" FBIS-NES-94-100 Daily Report 22 May 1994 Palestinian Affairs Jericho Mayor Discusses Situation, 'Arafat's Return Jericho Mayor Discusses Situation, 'Arafat's Return NC2205065594 Cairo Voice of the Arabs in Arabic 0510 GMT 22 May 94 NC2205065594 Cairo Voice of the Arabs Arabic BFN [Telephone interview with Jericho Mayor Jamil Sabri Khalaf in Jericho, by Ashraf 'Abd-al-'Aziz in Cairo, date not given; from the "Dialogue From Afar" program] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] ['Abd-al-'Aziz] Mr. Khalaf, Dr. Nabil Sha'th visited Gaza and Jericho in the first such visit by a Palestinian official to Gaza and Jericho, the Palestinian self-rule areas. Can you tell us what happened during the meetings he held and the nature of his visit? [Khalaf] Dr. Nabil Sha'th is one of the leaders who have worked and made great efforts to establish peace in the region. It is also very natural for him to be with us on two occasions: The first occasion is the entry of the Palestinian police and the second occasion is the 'Id al-Adha. Of course, his being with us leaves a very good impression and gives a feeling of security. He is an official of the PLO, under the leadership of Chairman 'Arafat. This leaves a very good impression with the forces and citizens and provides them with a great sense of security that a top-ranking Palestinian official, Mr. Nabil Sha'th, is visiting the area. ['Abd-al-'Aziz] Israel doubts the ability of the Palestinian police to perform their security duties in the Palestinian territories. What can we say about the capabilities of the Palestinian police or the policeman? [Khalaf] There is no doubt that every good citizen who likes peace and loves his country will consider himself a policeman and keep the peace and security. Naturally, the citizens of the city joined the policemen, and everyone is enjoying the fact that they are abiding by the law and applying it in order to provide peace of mind for every citizen. ['Abd-al-'Aziz] Mr. Khalaf, Palestinian president 'Arafat will enter the Palestinian territories at the beginning of next month. What kind of reception he will be given by the Palestinian people? [Khalaf] There is no doubt that there are many preparations under way to receive the Palestinian president on the appropriate date, which he himself will determine. The city is patiently awaiting his arrival. His return to the city and entry to the region will be a historic day. The cities of Gaza and Jericho are the first experiments for the Palestinian people in establishing peace. Praise be to God that autonomy has started in Gaza and Jericho. We welcome the president to his land and city and among his people. ['Abd-al-'Aziz] Mr. Khalaf, there are reports that the Palestine National Council [PNC] will meet in Jericho. What can you tell us about this meeting, and when will it will be held? [Khalaf] The date will be fixed by the president and the brothers in the PNC. We hope it will be a historic date in Jericho. It will be a historic starting point for the Palestinian people and we welcome the PNC members here. ['Abd-al-'Aziz] Mr. Jamil Sabri Khalaf, Jericho mayor, we thank you very much for this telephone interview and wish you a happy 'Id al-Adha. We also wish the Palestinian people health and prosperity. [Khalaf] Many happy returns to you, the Islamic and Arab nations, wherever you may be.
