FBIS4-40135 "drsov114_a_94028" FBIS-SOV-94-114 Daily Report 11 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Transit, Kaliningrad Issues Seen Impeding Vilnius Accords Transit, Kaliningrad Issues Seen Impeding Vilnius Accords PM1306182194 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 11 Jun 94 p 2 PM1306182194 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Russian BFN [Report by Sergey Knyazkov: "Stop, Ferry.... Russian Transit Through Lithuania Still a Problem in Relations Between the Two Countries"] [Text] After a period of active contacts between Moscow and Vilnius which made it possible to conclude a number of long-term agreements and to withdraw Russian troops from Lithuania, an incomprehensible lull has set in. The main problem is still the final draft of the documents on the transit of passengers and freight through Lithuanian territory between Russia and its Kaliningrad Oblast. Russia handed over a draft agreement on this question to Lithuania six months ago, but to date has not received a reply from its partner in the talks. Vilnius's official reason for delaying making the necessary decisions is associated with the fact that the Sejm has not yet approved the regulations for the shipment of dangerous freight through Lithuanian territory. But in my view the belief of a certain section of official Vilnius circles that Russia is creating a military fist in Kaliningrad Oblast is a still more substantial obstacle. "Imaginary" is how the problem of the Kaliningrad enclave's posing a military danger was described by Viktor Isakov, head of the Russian delegation at the talks with Lithuania. He stressed that this is the latest card in the political game being played by those who have no wish to improve Russian-Lithuanian relations. Nevertheless, the latest round of talks between the two countries' state delegations, which took place this week in Vilnius, did not yield any impressive results. Only two agreements were signed: on the principles of reciprocal banking settlements and on cooperation between the customs services.
