FBIS3-35577 "drsov020_a_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Participation in DPRK Nuclear Program Denied SK2901140794 Moscow Radio Moscow in Korean 1200 GMT 29 Jan 94 SK2901140794 Moscow Radio Moscow Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [From the "Today's World" program] [Text] Moscow has rejected a report that Russia has participated in DPRK's nuclear weapons development project. (Walentina Korikayev), commentator of this broadcasting station, wrote as follows: The Press and Information Bureau under the Russian Defense Ministry distributed a written refutation. The Japanese weekly SHUKAN BUNSHUN has spread a groundless rumor. The weekly said that the Center for Military Strategic Analysis at the Russian General Staff under the Russian Defense Ministry prepared the secret report that 160 Russian scholars participated in the DPRK's nuclear program and manufactured nuclear warheads. The report also said that Nodong No. 1 -- the medium-range missile for delivery of such warheads -- was manufactured with participation of Russian experts. According to a statement of the Russian Defense Ministry, there is no center for military strategic analysis in the Defense Ministry. There is a research institute for military strategy that belongs to the General Staff. However, the institute has never made such a report. Precisely, everything in the report is false, so one could conclude that the report from Japan is false. Information related to military affairs has been continually distorted. For example, a rumor is circulating that Russia is attempting to repay loans to the ROK with military technology. The press in Seoul is spreading such a rumor. The Russian Foreign Ministry stated that it has no official document stipulating that Russia is going to sell ultramodern weapons and to produce them jointly. Russia has no contract to pay loans with military technology. People think that someone is attempting to drag Russia into complex conditions on the Korean peninsula.
