FBIS4-39640 "drsov111_e_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-111 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Urges Solution To `Nuclear Crisis' Urges Solution To `Nuclear Crisis' LD0806192694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1850 GMT 8 Jun 94 LD0806192694 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondents Viktor Demidenko and Mikhail Melnik] [Text] Kiev 8 June TASS - "If sanctions are imposed on North Korea, its leadership will have to act adequately to the situation," North Korean Foreign Minister Kim Yong-nam said. Speaking at a news conference in Kiev on Wednesday [8 June], Kim Yong-nam said that "we will choose the concrete form of self-defence when we know what measures the countries demanding `punishment' for North Korea intend to take." The minister stressed that the "nuclear problem is artificial. It was created by certain circles in the U.S. and IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) in order to strangle socialism in the country." "The nuclear crisis on the peninsular must be solved by the United States and North Korea through negotiations," he said. "The participation of other countries is out of the question," he added. Commenting on Russia's initiative to convene an international meeting on North Korea, Kim Yong-nam described it as "interesting," adding that "we are studying it." The minister expressed the confidence that "the intention of the U.S. and IAEA to inspect nuclear reactors is closely connected with the opening up of the country's military facilities." He termed it as an "interference in the internal affairs of the state." "We are not against inspections, but only there where there are nuclear reactors," he added. Speaking about Pyongyang's position, Kim Yong-nam said that "until the United States fulfills its obligations in full, North Korea will not join the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty." "These obligations call for an end to hostile policy and nuclear threat to the state, and for preservation of peace and security on the peninsular, impartial policy and assistance in converting the reactors working on light water," he said. "We are in such a position that we cannot trust the United States unless our conditions are met," the minister said.
