FBIS4-30924 "dreeu105__a94038" FBIS-EEU-94-105-A Daily Report 27 May 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Government Opts for Tight Fiscal Policy Government Opts for Tight Fiscal Policy AU2805153694 Prague CTK in English 1935 GMT 27 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2805153694 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Zvolen, Central Slovakia (CTK) -- The restrictive fiscal policies of the current Slovak Government are necessary to ensure a macroeconomic stability which will provide a solid basis for future economic development, Slovak Premier Jozef Moravcik said today while meeting with administrative officials of the Zvolen district. Moravcik indicated that the prerequisites for development were a stable budget and a state budget deficit of around four percent through increased consumption and value-added taxes. In connection with restrictive policies the government must also provide stimulus for development, primarily in the construction industry, said Moravcik. Statistics for the first quarter show a revival of production, but a drop in investment. The government is lacking funds with which to stimulate industry because it was forced to transfer them to a judiciary system which could neither afford telephones nor essentials for its prisoners. Privatization currently offers the only source of funds for the government, said Moravcik. Major changes in the privatization process will have to be made in order to ensure economic development, he said. Reduced budgets for agriculture and defense are unavoidable in order to cover budget outlays of eight billion crowns which were imprudently planned by the previous government. Moravcik indicated that any deepening of the state budget deficit was unacceptable, because it would mean "jettisoning good relations with international institutions". The premier fears that an unfavorable international evaluation would threaten loan negotiations and a deficit would spur the growth of inflation. Reduced expenditures and more active privatization appear to Moravcik as the most viable development path.
