FBIS3-37686 "drsov035_a_94038" FBIS-SOV-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Views `Partnership for Peace' LD1902185694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1802 GMT 19 Feb 94 LD1902185694 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents] [Text] Prague February 19 TASS -- The dispute over NATO expansion has lost actuality after the adoption of the "Partnership for Peace" programme, according to Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev. "We believe that the dispute has lost actuality at all. Now the 'Partnership for Peace' plan has been adopted and we believe that its implementation will give us a lot of work at least for the foreseeable future", he told a press conference on Saturday after meeting Foreign Minister of the Czech Republic Josef Zieleniec. Both Russia and the Czech Republic have to implement the plan first and then think what to do next, according to Kozyrev. "We believe that NATO is an organisation with which it is necessary to cooperate. But NATO is only one of such organisations. There are also the European Union, the CIS, the Visegrad group. That is why we are discussing how to use all these organisations, how to meet the challenges which none of them, including NATO and the CSCE, are ready to meet so far", Kozyrev said. The Russian minister admitted that certain differences in the positions of the two sides do exist, but they are caused "not by a head-on collision of interests, but rather by the complexity of problems which are to be jointly solved." "It was in this spirit that the issues of ensuring European security, including the crises in Bosnia and other hot spots, were discussed", Kozyrev said. Zieleniec stressed that Russia had met with understanding the position of the Czech Republic about its integration into European structures. He added that remaining bilateral problems, including financial issues, would be soon solved and that it is necessary to accelerate the preparations of a visit of the prime minister of the Czech Republic to Moscow.
