FBIS4-54476 "dreeu084_i_94013" FBIS-EEU-94-084 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Izetbegovic Asks Tudjman for Help on Agreement Izetbegovic Asks Tudjman for Help on Agreement LD3004182894 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 1700 GMT 30 Apr 94 LD3004182894 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Text] Alija Izetbegovic, the president of the Bosnia-Herzegovina Presidency, today sent an open letter to Croatian President Franjo Tudjman. The letter reads: Dear Mr. President, more than a month ago we signed the Washington agreement, which opened a new perspective for the development of relations between the Bosniak and Croat peoples, as well as Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. Soon after this political document was adopted mutual Muslim-Croat clashes stopped and roads for humanitarian convoys have been opened to a certain extent. However, the implementation of other important provisions of this agreement, and the possibilities that it offers, are obviously (?late). I would like to confirm in this letter our interest in a speedy and complete implementation of the Washington Agreement. Seeing that I am convinced that you share the same interest, would you please use the influence you certainly have in order to implement this agreement quickly and effectively. I believe that delegations of Bosniaks and Croats should meet without further delay. The delegations should propose solutions to all remaining open issues, including the maps of the cantons, the personnel issues of the future government and presidency, the formation of the joint military command, and other issues, the letter stresses. Some of the priorities are also the adoption of a program [not specified], the return of refugees to their homes, and the opening of all communication routes. The delegations have met twice, but the importance and volume of work demand not a few hours, but a few days of work. After proposals and stands are agreed upon, an Assembly session should immediately be convened to approve the agreed issues. I believe that we can count on your cooperation to curb the enemies of the Washington Agreement. Unfortunately, there are still such people, who, despite the efforts of the political leaders, have not stopped short of barbaric actions in the field in order to undermine and rekindle the conflicts. Mr. President, I am also convinced that your soon arrival on the announced visit to Bosnia-Herzegovina would contribute to the realization of goals (?set out in this letter). Please accept the expressions of my respect. This is said at the end of the letter sent to Croatian President Franjo Tudjman by Alija Izetbegovic, the president of the Bosnia-Herzegovina Presidency.
