FBIS3-59710 "jpjst003__l94003" JPRS-JST-94-003L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 18 January 1994 Advanced Materials Asahi Ciba To Run Epoxy Resin Integrated Operation 94FE0016B Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 21 Sep 93 p 18--OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0016B Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] Asahi Ciba, a joint-venture company of Asahi Chemical Industry and Swiss Ciba-Geigy, announced on 20 September 1993, that it would transfer the complete control of sales from its parent companies and would be involved in the total operation of the company, from development and production through sales. Through this reorganization move, the company hopes to gain the competitive strength necessary in order to succeed in the epoxy business where competition among too many companies (over ten companies) are rapidly becoming overheated on the domestic market.... Thus far Asahi Ciba has been producing epoxy resin at a 35,000-ton plant located within the Asahi Chemical Industry Mizushima Plant. The amount of its annual sales is ¥6 billion. Until now, sales have been handled by Asahi Chemical, which sold epoxy resins under the product name of ``AER,'' and by Japan Ciba-Geigy, which sold the same product under the name, ``Araldite,'' while Asahi Ciba has been involved only in production. Approximately 167,000 tons of epoxy resins are expected to be used in 1993, in coating and laminated plates, semiconductor sealing agents, and in adhesive agents. The fact that an excessive number of both domestic and overseas epoxy resin makers, with [Toto Kasei] as a leading manufacturer, are competing for their share of the market intensifies competition. It is contributing to poor profitability, making things worse for every one involved. As its restructuring move, Asahi Ciba has decided to establish an integrated business system. Under the new setup, Asahi Ciba has integrated within Japan Ciba-Geigy its R&D Division and bolstered product development functions. Moreover, it has newly established a sales office in Osaka where the product will be sold under the name, ``Araldite-AER.'' The company's plan is to achieve the sales goal of ¥10 billion by the year 2000.
