FBIS4-12016 "drnes065_k_94003" FBIS-NES-94-065 Daily Report 4 Apr 1994 IRAQ Opposition: Envoys Recalled, New Security Council Formed Opposition: Envoys Recalled, New Security Council Formed JN0404180394 (Clandestine) Voice of Iraqi Kurdistan in Arabic 1530 GMT 4 Apr 94 JN0404180394 (Clandestine) Voice of Iraqi Kurdistan Arabic BFN [Text] The Foreign Ministry of the Saddam regime has recalled a number of ambassadors and heads of missions abroad to discuss urgent issues. This came in a circulation issued by the ministry a few days ago. The ministry is expected to discuss with these diplomats the method of action in the next phase. Iraqi opposition sources expect the regime to embark on diplomatic transfers on charges of dereliction of duties following the sharp criticism of Iraqi diplomacy made by 'Udayy Saddam Husayn through his newspaper BABIL. An Iraqi diplomat, who asked to remain anonymous, revealed that a circular was issued by the Iraqi Intelligence Command to its offices in Iraqi embassies to activate their efforts and to contact Iraqis abroad to attract them to return to Iraq. The intelligence office in the Iraqi regime embassy in Jordan embarked on an organized campaign to exert pressure on Iraqi writers, who are in Amman, to return to Iraq and to warn them against issuing any anti-regime writings. The source added that a ranking Iraqi intelligence officer, Hikmat al-Haju, joined the Amman Embassy staff to replace the second man in the embassy and to supervise intelligence activities together with two other employees who were assigned to the embassy earlier. The source added that a new plan has been set to utilize trade and commercial centers to collect information and to monitor the movements of Iraqis through recruiting agents among them as fake reporters and propagation employees who deal with Gulf papers. In another development, Interior Minister Watban al-Tikriti, Saddam's half-brother, has been charged with the chairmanship of the Higher Council for National Security, including the heads of the Departments of Intelligence, Private Security, Military Intelligence, and Internal Public Security. This council will coordinate among the security departments and its affiliated institutions to tackle the emergency situation that is expected to explode in the country.
