FBIS3-25217 "drafr030_e_94002" FBIS-AFR-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 WEST AFRICA Ghana Officials Begin To Assess Aftermath of Violence AB1202212094 London BBC World Service in English 1705 12 Feb 94 AB1202212094 London BBC World Service Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] After nearly three weeks of ethnic violence in northeastern Ghana between Komkombas and Dagombas, which spread across the region affecting the main town of Tamale and sending thousands of refugees into neighboring Togo, people in the region are beginning to take stock of the human cost of the conflict. On Thursday [10 February], the Ghanaian Government declared a three- month state of emergency in northeastern Ghana and now security personnel have taken advantage of this to begin searching for the bodies of those who were killed in the fighting in order to bury them so as to avoid any outbreak of epidemics. From Tamale, Eliasu Adamu telexed this report: So far 168 bodies have been buried mainly by the roadside, but there are many more in the bush. Briefing President Jerry Rawlings, who was at the war zone to assess the situation, the northern sector brigade commander, Brigadier Joseph Smith, said 101 corpses have been buried in the Nanumba District and 67 in Yendi District. He told the president that three soldiers were also killed last Wednesday [9 February] by the Komkombas when they were lured into a trap. He said the Komkombas had invited the soldiers for a dialogue on cease-fire but were ambushed on the way and murdered. They were stripped of their uniforms and their arms and their ammunition was taken away. The military vehicle they were using was also burnt. Over 50 villages have been completely burnt, including almost all villages along the Salaga-Bimbila-Yendi road. The few villages that have not been burnt have been deserted. Between Bakpaba and Adibo, a distance of about 10 miles from the Yendi-Bimbila road, I counted 40 decomposing corpses, including women and toddlers littering the road. The babies, who were apparently taken off the backs of their slain mothers, still had arrows in them. I also saw a lot of foodstuffs, especially yams and maize completely burnt. This will definitely affect the food situation in the country because the war zone is the main source of the country's yams. President Rawlings, who flew over the area, was emotionally moved by the extent of the destruction and said it was wrong for any ethnic group to use violence to achieve its objectives. He said the government will ensure that no single ethnic group could hold the whole region to ransom. But just as we were told that the situation was calm, the Komkombas attacked and were burning Bimpielega, four miles from Yendi. They fired at our convoy and our escort had to return fire to scare them.
