FBIS3-26670 "drchi030_c_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 Central Eurasia Russian Foreign Minister Visits Heihe 26 Jan SK1302001894 Harbin HEILONGJIANG RIBAO in Chinese 27 Jan 94 p 1 SK1302001894 Harbin HEILONGJIANG RIBAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Text] Kozyrev, foreign affairs minister of the Russian Federation, arrived in Heihe about 1300 on 26 January for a short visit. On behalf of Shao Qihui, governor of the Heilongjiang Provincial government, Vice Governor Wang Zongzhang met with Minister Kozyrev and also held a 50-minute talk with him. Vice Governor Wang Zongzhang first explained the ways in which Heilongjiang Province and the Russian Federation are making ceaseless efforts to develop border economic and trade cooperation. He then set forth some existing problems cropping up during mutual contacts. Vice Governor Wang suggested: First, i addition to giving visas to those with official or ordinary passports, the Russian Federation should give entry visas to our side's tallymen, drivers, persons from large economic and trade enterprises, interpreters, and laborers who have to traverse the Russian Federation border often. Second, nongovernmental economic and trade committees should be set up to solve the problems cropping up during mutual economic and trade activities. Third, a formal agreement on building the Heilongjiang highway bridge linking Heihe with Blagoveshchensk city should be reached as soon as possible. Fourth, we hope the Russian Government will support the cooperative construction of the "Heihe- Blagoveshchensk free economic and trade zone." Fifth, it is necessary to pioneer the construction of the Suifenhe and Pogranichnyy border area of Maritime Kray. Sixth, in addition Suifenhe, which has been opened as an international passenger-cargo port, we suggest the establishment of other international passenger-cargo ports and their opening to other countries. Seventh, we hope that the Russian Federation will provide conveniences for the other CIS countries that have to deliver their goods to our country through the Russian Federation. Eighth, we hope that the Russian Government will provide preferential policies on developing border trade to promote friendly contacts and border trade cooperation.
