FBIS3-33458 "drlat037_n_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 Chile Industrial Association Comments on Mexican Sanctions PY2302151994 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network in Spanish 1000 GMT 23 Feb 94 PY2302151994 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Pedro Lizana, president of the Industrial Development Association, Sofofa, presented a sort of protest to Foreign Under Secretary Rodrigo Diaz Albonico in regards to measures adopted by Mexico against our country due to alleged unfair trade practices involving fishmeal. Lizana and Corpesca [Fishing Corporation] leaders met Diaz Albonico to express their total annoyance at the measure, which Lizana characterized as discriminatory, because the Mexicans have made a basic mistake in definition by believing that anyone can dump a raw material such as fishmeal. Asked about Mexico's intentions, Lizana said: [Begin Lizana recording] Well, we cannot judge a country's possible intentions when adopting certain measures. But it is clear, since we are talking about a product freely traded in the world market, that when you leave one supplier out you let another supplier in. [end recording] Under Secretary Diaz Albonico was also consulted on the issue. He said that on 18 February he met Mexican Foreign Under Secretary (Rosario Grin) to discuss the discriminatory character of the measures adopted by Secofi [Commerce and Industrial Development Secretariat]. [Begin Diaz Albonico recording] The measures are discriminatory for two reasons. First, because they only punish Chilean products; and second, because the tariffs or quotas established for the products are much steeper than the tariffs that existed before the signing of the economic cooperation agreement. [end recording] Diaz Albonico said the previous tariff on fishmeal was 15 percent while today it is nearly 24.8 percent, adding that this is discriminatory. According to Diaz Albonico, the Mexican under secretary showed concern about the problem and talked with Secofi officials about it. Chilean authorities expect Secofi officials will be able to visit Chile and investigate the matter at the beginning of March in order to solve the problem before Eduardo Frei's inauguration. Diaz Albonico said the Mexican under secretary believes there is political willingness to drop the sanction, which is absolutely provisional, and that Chile has made Mexican administrative authorities aware that the country does not implement any dumping practices.
