FBIS4-4369 "dreas062_h_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-062 Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Malaysia * MCA Commended for Relaxing Membership Rules * MCA Commended for Relaxing Membership Rules 94SE0068A Kuala Lumpur BERITA HARIAN in Malay 18 Jan 94 p 10 94SE0068A Kuala Lumpur BERITA HARIAN Malay CSO [Unattributed editorial: "MCA [Malaysian Chinese Association] Carves New Image"] [Text] The MCA [Malaysian Chinese Association], which this year celebrates its 46th anniversary, has presented a new concept by opening the door of membership more widely to include anyone with blood connections or ties with those of Chinese ancestry. This step changes the scope of the MCA struggle from an entirely Chinese "gallery" to a more liberal position for the sake of people who have ties with the Chinese. MCA members have accepted the motto "One heart, one outlook," as embodied in a resolution passed by the party's 40th general assembly last year. It also demonstrates the MCA effort to rebuild its image after facing a number of crises. In truth, this step by the MCA is consistent with the way in which the people of this country solve problems through compromise and tolerance. It is also the principle used by the National Front (BN) leadership, which has proved itself successful in creating communal harmony in this country through the unity of parties in the Peninsula, Sabah, and Sarawak. The BN not only emphasizes political stability but also ensures economic development for every citizen in an equitable way. Groups with Chinese ancestral blood ties, who previously found it difficult to select a party, are given opportunity to join the MCA, now that differences of names, ethnic group, and religion have been eliminated from the party's policy. We believe that in the past many such groups asked for membership in the party but were blocked by the party's strict policy. They chose the MCA or other BN component parties because they did not want to join opposition parties, which are clever at talking but are bereft of any implementation of concepts for advancement of the people. The statement of BN Chairman Datuk Sri Dr. Mahathir Mohamad that component parties were free to open their memberships to anyone as long as they promised to adhere to the principles of the BN's struggle further encouraged MCA leaders to carry out their plan. We believe that the MCA's action to increase the party's membership, which is now 620,000, is for the sake of political stability and communal harmony. We believe that other parties in the BN support the MCA's efforts. This is the second phase in the MCA's campaign to add members from people of the same communal group. Of the 6 million people of Chinese descent in this country, many faced problems in joining the party because of this identity obstacle. Until now, the MCA has tried to find more professionals or Chinese fluent in English to join the party. The MCA realized that it could not keep such an expensive requirement for membership, because social conditions in society have greatly changed. The people were thinking far ahead, while restrictive policies had not yet been adapted to conditions. They could not allow a large number of people with blood ties to drift without protection. In our opinion, changes in the party's membership requirements will not change the MCA's identity, although they may include changes in the party's policies. This was proved to UMNO [United Malays National Organization], which opened membership to Bumiputra [Malays and other indigenous peoples] in Sabah and in the Portuguese and Thai communities. In the MCA's efforts to take a positive, progressive, and constructive initiative, it had to open new dimensions for the communal group of its own race that had no party representation. Their presence can help the country make sociopolitical changes by cooperation under a single outlook. The important thing is that in the next 26 years prior to 2020, each citizen will be able to enjoy the rapid economic growth for which we have been striving together. Actually, this is the aspiration of every individual in this country, regardless of communal status. This, of course, differs from the attitude of the opposition parties, which in practice have a negative attitude and take destructive action. If there is a dissenting voice from the opposition parties after this, it will be a voice of disappointment over losing their opportunity to influence groups without party representation and that now have a safer refuge. The opposition parties are good only at empty rhetoric and do not make any constructive contribution to the people as a whole.
