FBIS3-413 "drafr044_c_94021" FBIS-AFR-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Decides Against Joining Elections MB0703103594 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1007 GMT 7 Mar 94 MB0703103594 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Patrick Bulger] [Text] Mmabatho March 7 SAPA -- The Bophuthatswana cabinet on Monday [7 March] morning decided against participating in the April elections, a Bophuthatswana government spokesman said. "The Bophuthatswana cabinet decided it was opposed to registering for the South African elections in April. The cabinet also decided the matter should be addressed by a full sitting of the Bophuthatswana Parliament. A special full parliamentary sitting has been called for Tuesday, March 15," spokesman Alwyn Viljoen said. The decision was taken at a special cabinet meeting on Monday morning in the midst of a civil service strike that is threatening to cripple the homeland. President Lucas Mangope went from the meeting to a government building where he was due to address striking teachers and health workers. Earlier he told strikers that if they wanted to continue their strike they should go home. Only government workers at management level had remained at their posts by Monday lunchtime, a government source said. The strikers are demanding that their pensions be paid out and that Bophuthatswana be re-incorporated into South Africa. Bophuthatswana's decision does not necessarily disqualify its ruling Christian Democratic Party from participating in the elections. Both government and African National Congress President Nelson Mandela have indicated the deadline for registration could be shifted. However, the Independent Electoral Commission has said practical considerations made late registrations difficult. Bophuthatswana arrived at its decision as its Freedom Alliance partners -- the Inkatha Freedom Party and the Afrikaner Volksfront [National Front] -- began meeting in Pretoria to devise the alliance's approach to international mediation of South Africa's constitutional dispute.
