FBIS3-21286 "jpnea010___94017" JPRS-NEA-94-010 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 1 March 1994 SOUTH ASIA IRAN Commentary Blames Algerian Military for Unrest NC1302220094 Tehran SALAM in Persian 2 Feb 94 p 16 NC1302220094 Tehran SALAM Language: Persian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed commentary: "Algeria--Toward Civil War"] [Excerpts] Eventually, as was to be expected, following the display rigged up in the name of "a conference for national consensus" the militarists usurped power by appointing the Algerian defense minister as the country's president. This proves that no political solution remains for the Algerian crisis. Even though the military have long been the actual rulers behind the scenes in Algeria and are well aware of the situation in their society and of their impotence to quell the Islamic movement, they were forced to take this risk for their self-perpetuation in the crisis-ridden Algerian society. It is interesting to note that the Algerian politicians were not prepared, as wisdom dictated, to accept any risks in order not to become toys in the hands of the military. It is evident that the military's success or failure will decide the future destiny of Algeria, and already the signs of defeat are obvious! The Western countries--including France--have not welcomed the current situation and the lack of legitimacy at home, which is not even in conformity with the 1989 Algerian Constitution. This certainly does not bode well for the militarists' turn at the helm of government for the next three years. In order to keep their position they will be forced to resort to a military dictatorship and complete repression, and this will lead Algeria toward a full-fledged civil war in which the Muslims will enjoy political legitimacy and popular backing. [passage omitted] In view of the continuing political crisis, which has been exacerbated by the concomitant economic crisis stemming from a reduction of oil prices, the military's usurpation of power in Algeria can be construed as "political suicide." Perhaps, since they do not believe in reconciliation with the Islamic movement and cannot accept peaceful coexistence with them, they are prepared to embark on this suicide! If the militarists had been on the side of the people, and had yielded to the popular will, they would not have darkened their own future as well as that of Algeria.
