FBIS3-6313 "dreas051_i_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 SOUTHEAST ASIA Cambodia Plans for Pailin Attack, KR Income Sources AU1503132494 Munich FOCUS in German 14 Mar 94 p 242 AU1503132494 Munich FOCUS Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report by Peter Dienemann: "Khmer Rouge Capitalists"] [Text] Officially, they should have been bankrupt a long time ago. Since the Paris peace agreement on Cambodia, China and some Western countries have withdrawn all support from the Khmer Rouge [KR]. However, the communist guerrillas are continuing their war against the elected government in Phnom Penh. The Khmer Rouge actually possesses millions of dollars and an arms arsenal that, in the opinion of Western intelligence services, "is more than enough for another five years of fighting." The Marxists, who tried to turn the country into a peasant state under their terror regime from 1975 to the end of 1978, have become capitalists. "The Khmer Rouge are plundering our country's natural resources in order to be able to continue their war," Phnom Penh's Information Minister Ieng Muli complained to FOCUS. Their main source of income is from the exploitation of precious stones in Pailin. The city, about 40 km from the Thai border, is in the fourth of the country controlled by the Khmer Rouge. "The Khmer Rouge's monthly income from granting licenses for the exploitation of sapphires and rubies is about $10 million a month," Muli stated. Cambodian Government troops are planning a major attack on Pailin. This strategic base should be conquered by the end of the dry season in June, a high-ranking officer in Phnom Penh predicts. Against the background of the continuing guerrilla warfare, Cambodian King Norodom Sihanouk has called for reconciliation between the Khmer Rouge and the government. If the fighting is not brought to an end, it will mean "the death of Cambodia." The Marxists earn another $2 million a month with wood. The illegally felled timber, mainly fine wood from the north of Cambodia, crosses the border to Thailand on secret paths. Japanese firms have built sawmills in the land of the Khmer. The business is hard to prevent on the Thai side. High-ranking army officers have shares in the companies. If vigorous action is taken against them, Prime Minister Chuan Likphai can expect a new putsch.
