FBIS4-407 "drafr069_c_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-069 Daily Report 9 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Summit Ends Without Deal; Further Talks Planned Summit Ends Without Deal; Further Talks Planned Joint Statement Issued MB0904053894 Johannesburg SAPA in English 0213 GMT 9 Apr 94 MB0904053894 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Joint statement by State President F.W. de Klerk, King Goodwill Zwelithini Kabhekuzulu, ANC President Nelson Mandela and Chief Minister Mangosuthu Buthelezi issued by the ANC on the SAPA PR Wire Service on 9 April] [Text] Delegations led by the state president, Mr F W de Klerk, King Goodwill Zwelithini, Mr N Mandela and Chief Minister M G Buthelezi met today for several hours in the Kruger National Park. The delegations discussed a number of issues, including the future constitutional accommodation of the Zulu monarchy, calls for Zulu sovereignty, the problem of violence, the state of emergency and proposals for international mediation. The parties agreed on the necessity to make proper constitutional provision for the recognition of the Kingdom of kwaZulu and tabled substantial proposals in this regard. They agreed to establish a working group to deliberate further on these proposals and to report back to the respective leaders by Thursday next week. The parties agreed that, on the subject of outstanding constitutional issues, international mediation should proceed in order to seek a constitutional settlement and political reconciliation. Urgent negotiations should take place to reach agreement on the terms of reference and the procedures to be followed. A follow-up meeting late next week is foreseen to discuss the progress achieved in negotiations and to consider the implications arising from this. His majesty the king and the three leaders were unanimous in their condemnation of violence and of the known and hidden forces that are involved in fomenting violence. They made an urgent appeal to their followers and to all South Africans to end the killings, to exercise maximum restraint and to pursue their objectives by peaceful means. Kruger National Park 8 April 1994
