FBIS4-34066 "drlat115_m_94017" FBIS-LAT-94-115 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 Brazil Brazil Now Drug `Warehouse,' Producing Cocaine for U.S., Brazil Now Drug `Warehouse,' Producing Cocaine for U.S., Europe PY1406193994 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 13 Jun 94 p 10 PY1406193994 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO Portuguese BFN [Article by Ascanio Seleme] [Text] Brasilia -- Brazil has become the main warehouse for the cocaine consumed in the United States and Europe. Last week's record seizure of 7.5 metric tons of cocaine dispelled any remaining doubts about the key role the country plays in shipping cocaine produced in Colombia, Bolivia, and Peru. In addition to distributing drugs to other countries, for the past four years there has been a new twist in Brazil's trafficking activities that concerns police authorities: Brazil is producing cocaine. The Federal Police [PF] believe at least 2 percent of Colombian-owned refining laboratories have been operating in Brazilian territory since 1990. Sergio Sakon, chief of the PF Narcotics Enforcement Department, rules out the possibility that this percentage will increase in the next few years. In addition to difficulties in transporting the cocaine base -- a coca by-product -- into Brazil, there are no experts in cocaine refining in the country. Brazilian laboratories are operated by Colombian and Bolivian "cooks," who attract attention in border areas and thus increase the risk of a police crackdown. Sakon added: Furthermore, laboratories require the cooperation of their host communities. They can get this cooperation in Colombia, but not in Brazil. Studies by the DEA (the U.S. drug enforcement organization) show, however, that U.S. military actions against the Colombian cartels have resulted in the laboratories being moved to safer ground, mainly to the Brazilian border with Colombia, Bolivia, and Peru. The Brazilian region that houses the laboratories is identical to the areas where the main cocaine refining laboratories are located in the three neighboring countries: Tropical forests and savannas.
