FBIS4-25470 "drchi112_n_94017" FBIS-CHI-94-112 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 Economic & Agricultural Currency Reforms Said Not To Affect Import Volume Currency Reforms Said Not To Affect Import Volume HK1006032594 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 10 Jun 94 p 2 HK1006032594 Beijing CHINA DAILY English BFN [By Liu Weiling: "Exchange Rate Reform Won't Hurt Imports"] [Text] The unification of China's dual track exchange rate will not affect the volume of the country's imports, said a foreign trade official. As the nation continues to develop, there will be an increase in both exports and imports, said Liu Xiangdong, Vice-Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Co-operation. Liu told an economic reform seminar at the 5th Asia-Pacific International Trade Fair that China is keen to increase its export earnings in order to import more advanced technology, equipment and materials needed for the country's modernization drive. Import costs, tariffs and turnover tax have increased in line with the unification of the exchange rates, he said. But imports will not be affected because the current exchange rate is similar to the old swap market rate used to calculate 80 per cent of the imports. And the State has increased its budget to subsidize the remaining 20 per cent of the imports using the old official exchange rate. And to counteract the slight increase in tariffs and turnover tax the State has this year reduced tariff rates of 2,898 import items by an average of 8.8 per cent. Moreover, with China's impending re-entry of the General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade (Gatt), the overall level of import tariffs will be reduced by 50 per cent compared with 1992 levels. In a separate development, Yu Xiaosong, vice-minister of the State Economic and Trade Commission, told the seminar that the Chinese government is formulating policies to encourage foreign investment with special focus on China's key industries. Yu said the government will grant preferential treatment to foreign investment in the development and construction of basic industries and infrastructure such as transportation, communications, energy, key raw materials, agriculture and water conservancy.
