FBIS4-34699 "drlat121_o_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-121 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 Colombia Samper Concerned Over Pastrana's Remarks Samper Concerned Over Pastrana's Remarks PA2306015694 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0029 GMT 23 Jun 94 PA2306015694 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Spanish BFN [Report by Azucena Lievano from the "24 Hours" newscast] [Text] Today in a communique, President-elect Ernesto Samper said he is very concerned about the international repercussions of the bold statements made by Andres Pastrana. Samper's communique said: "I will not establish an electoral dialogue with the candidates defeated in the recent elections." President-elect Ernesto Samper said his position today remains unchanged since yesterday. He reiterated the accounting books of his campaign are in the hands of the prosecutor, who has begun an investigation. He explained that those who are involved in irregular actions will not participate in his administration. [Begin Samper recording] I want to reiterate my commitment to having my campaign funds open to review. I also want to reiterate my unyielding resolve to continue fighting drug trafficking. [end recording] Samper also referred to the journalist implicated in this episode. [Begin recording] [Unidentified reporter] What kind of relationship is there between you or the campaign and the journalist? [Samper] None whatsoever. This journalist is not even a member of my party. [end recording] Meanwhile, amid the controversy, Samper devoted time today to the homeless of Cauca Department. The governors of Indian communities today requested assistance from President-elect Ernesto Samper because, according to them, their living conditions following the tragedy are subhuman. Samper met with the homeless who have been relocated to (?La Plata de Infalz) and he pledged to develop specific actions, through the Agrarian Bank and other institutions, to help them get back on their feet and move to safer areas.
