FBIS3-21148 "jpjst010__l94021" JPRS-JST-94-010L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 8 March 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness AIST Director General Kashiwagi on S&T Issues 94FE0047G Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO in Japanese 16 Sep 93 p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0047G Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] The Scene Changes Day by Day Previously he was the director of the Electronics Technology Research Institute in the AIST Tsukuba Research Center of Ibaraki Prefecture. After assuming office, he revealed his impression that ``when I was in Tsukuba, I could sit and think of things at my leisure. But here, I have to think on the run. Since instant and correct decisions are required on the spot, every day is very busy.'' But, it is promising that ``since I can adapt to the environment, it is not painful. Rather, it is fun to have the scene changing rapidly every day.'' Next year's estimated requirements for the MITI technology and development budget total ¥301.7 billion. ``Compared to the overall severity, this is a rather fortunate decision for us,'' this was 7.5% growth compared to this year. In the industrial science and technology R&D system which can also be called the eyeball of AIST, has become the plan to initiate five new themes of leading research such as precision polymer materials, high speed biological function construction technology (time machine bio), next generation metal resources production technology. ``The themes were drawn together from the viewpoint that while prior research issues are modulated, they are becoming technology development to make a type of production systems revolution.'' Accordingly, the details are rich in variety and emphasize the beefing up and strengthening of basic creative research. Bringing the World One Step Closer Among other things, the leading research theme expected by the chemical industry is ``precision polymer materials.'' This aims at the establishment of original technology for a polymer material to eliminate the disorder in chemical structure and superstructure and will result in the basic technology to develop the next generation of polymer materials. He has the deep insight that ``quantum mechanics was studied thoroughly in its golden age at the beginning of this century and at present that is actually tied to technology. I think one of those is this issue, and this is similar to bringing the world another step closer.'' International Contributions Are Also a Major Issue Future issues are ``international contributions from the aspects of science and technology'' along with ``driving R&D to produce a sprout of a new technology to become the breakthrough for industrial structural reform.'' Also, he also says ``I would like to get on that track'' concerning research for ATRAM technology (atomic and molecular limit operations technology) started this year in industrial technology fusion research institutes. AIST shows dynamic change in recent years with the revision of the existing project system such as the reorganization of Tsukuba's research institutes and the big pro (Major industrial technology R&D) system. ``These all go along with the flow of the world, that is my view. I would like to be the helmsman so as not to mistake the direction while docilely following the demands, movement, and change in the natural environment of the world,'' he says, assuming a natural stance. On days off, he enjoys yacht cruising and driving. He says that ``driving directly under the stars in an open car is the best feeling.'' He was born in 1934 (Showa year 9) and hails from Kanagawa Prefecture.
