FBIS3-44446 "drchi002_l_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 Science & Technology Official: Satellite Failure Stories `Inaccurate' HK3112071093 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO in Chinese 31 Dec 93 p 10 HK3112071093 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Report: "Liu Jiyuan, Responsible Person of China's Aerospace Industry, Reveals in Hong Kong That China Has More Than 30 Contracts To Launch Foreign Satellites"] [Text] Yesterday, Liu Jiyuan, a responsible official of China's astronautics industry, said that the satellite launched by China in early October did not fall to the earth and the department concerned was still tracing the satellite. It was expected that it would continue to orbit several months. He said that many Western reports about the satellite were inaccurate. Liu Jiyuan, president of China's Aerospace Industry Corporation, yesterday attended the topping-out ceremony of the ground control station of Asia-Pacific Communications Satellite Corporation in Hong Kong. After the ceremony, he was asked about the fall of the satellite launched by China on 8 October into the Pacific Ocean as the United States alleged. He pointed out that the foreign reports were inaccurate on many points, and he also denied that the satellite had fallen to earth. Liu Jiyuan revealed that the Chinese department concerned was still tracing the satellite which failed to return on time, and monitoring of its movement. China did not plan to retrieve the satellite because it had almost used up its energy and would eventually fall. However, it will continue to orbit for a fairly long time, and it is expected that it will remain in the outer space several months. He did not think that the fall of the satellite would cause any catastrophe. "Like other foreign satellites, when they fell to the ground they had almost burned out and become ashes, and nothing was be left." As for China's future plan, Liu Jiyuan said that applied satellites will be developed to meet the needs of economic construction, including communications and meteorological satellites and mobile communications facilities. Now, the State Aerospace Bureau is vigorously promoting international satellite-launching services, and has more than 30 foreign satellite-launching contracts, including some from the United States.
