FBIS3-55756 "drsov008_e_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Government Still Plans To Sign Disarmament Pact Trilateral Accord Expected 14 Jan PM1201115394 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1800 GMT 11 Jan 94 PM1201115394 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Novosti" newscast; video report by Vladimir Grigoryev] [Text] [Announcer] Russia, Ukraine, and the United States are expected to sign a treaty in Moscow next Friday [14 January] on the complete elimination of the strategic nuclear weapons deployed on Ukrainian territory, U.S. President Bill Clinton said during a press conference in Brussels. [Grigoryev] This statement really caused a sensation and has already elicited a positive response worldwide. The upcoming signing of the agreement follows intensive tripartite talks in Washington, which resulted in Ukraine's renouncing its nuclear potential. As you know, following the breakup of the Soviet Union, Ukraine inherited 176 strategic missiles and 1,800 nuclear warheads. That constitutes a more powerful arsenal than those of France, China, and Britain together. In return for dismantling their weapons, Ukraine's parliamentarians demanded that the West provide considerable financial aid for economic reforms and security guarantees, as well as compensation for the short-range tactical missiles that have been handed over to Russia. The talks in Washington showed that this was no time for bartering and that the whole world can benefit from the agreement. Nor will Ukraine lose out. It is to receive nuclear fuel for peaceful purposes. And Russia is to cancel Ukraine's enormous debt for energy sources. Finally, the United States will provide the republic with economic and technical aid, as well as guaranteeing its security. The importance of the upcoming treaty signing is indicated by the fact that tomorrow, following a change in the initial program for his visit, Bill Clinton will meet President Leonid Kravchuk in Kiev in order to express his support. [video shows various items of military hardware, inside of bunker]
