FBIS4-50236 "drchi095_q_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-095 Daily Report 16 May 1994 Southwest China Tibet Chairman on Strengthening Infrastructure Tibet Chairman on Strengthening Infrastructure HK1705070594 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in English 1427 GMT 16 May 94 HK1705070594 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE English BFN [Text] Lhasa, May 16 (CNS) -- Chairman of the Tibet Autonomous Region government Mr. Gyaincain Norbu, speaking in the 2nd session of the Standing Committee of 6th Regional People's Congress, said that Tibet would further strengthen infrastructural construction on energy, transport and communications this year in a bid to increase the strength for development of the national economy. The chairman added that the boosting of the infrastructural construction had to go further to arouse enthusiasm for investment of various kinds in order to step by step create diversification of investment and various channels for capital. Talking of construction on infrastructural facilities, Mr. Gyaincain Norbu said that the budgetary fixed asset investment for the region this year rose by RMB [renminbi] 50 million over last year. The money would be used to ensure construction on key follow-up items and those which have already been construction [as received] including a power plant, highways between China and Nepal, between Qinghai and Tibet and between Sichuan and Tibet, restoration to an airport and comprehensive development of water conservancy items. Infrastructural construction carried out in 1993 in the region proceeded smoothly and the fixed asset investment completed was put at RMB 1.59 billion. The expansion project of the Gonggar Airport was completed and the main runway of the Bangdag Airport was basically finished. Planned sections of the Sichuan-Tibet highway and that between China and Nepal were completed. Communication facilities are under rapid construction with programme control telephones available in seven cities and prefectures. Construction on about 61 earth stations for satellite communications were basically finished and some of them went into trial operation. Continuous improvement of infrastructural facilities in the autonomous region make investment environment better and boost contacts with places outside the region and even with foreign countries for strengthening economic development.
