FBIS4-50201 "drchi095_k_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-095 Daily Report 16 May 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Li Peng Emphasizes Stability in Civil Affairs Li Peng Emphasizes Stability in Civil Affairs Further on `Stability' OW1605133994 Beijing XINHUA in English 1324 GMT 16 May 94 OW1605133994 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, May 16 (XINHUA) -- Stability was the watchword stressed by Chinese Premier Li Peng when he spoke here today to an ongoing national conference of civil affairs officials. He stressed the need for all staffs to do their utmost to help people overcome difficulties in their life and work, maintain social order and promote material and cultural progress. He quoted Deng Xiaoping as saying that without a stable social and political environment, it would be impossible to carry out reforms or construction. "In the early period of establishing a socialist market economic structure, it is of strategic importance to maintain social stability," he told the delegates. This was an invaluable experience which China has acquired through reforms over the past ten-plus years, he added. He praised civil affairs departments for their work over the past decades to maintain social stability by solving various kinds of social problems. "The success in civil affairs work will help create a fine social environment for China's economic construction, thus promoting the coordinated social and economic development," he said. The premier also urged governments at all levels to pay close attention to solving the problem of poverty in rural areas. He said that it was necessary to reform the present system under which people relied solely on the government for relief, and to institute a new system for relief work at different levels. He called on civil affairs staffs to make still greater contributions to maintaining social stability and promoting cultural progress by protecting the people's interests and rights, regulating social relations and solving social problems.
