FBIS3-30566 "dreeu025_i_94024" FBIS-EEU-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Rifkind, Silajdzic Statements Following Talks LD0602190694 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 1800 GMT 6 Feb 94 LD0602190694 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Text] [Announcer] Malcolm Rifkind, the defense minister [title as received] of Great Britain, visited Sarajevo today. The guest from Britain conveyed his government's deep concern for the situation in Sarajevo and the whole of Bosnia-Herzegovina. Edin Nusic has the report. [Nusic] Malcolm Rifkind and [Bosnian Prime Minister] Haris Silajdzic gave statements following the talks. The British defense minister conveyed the concern of the British Government for the situation in Sarajevo, and added: [Begin Rifkind recording, in English, fading to superimposed Serbo-Croatian translation] I think that the whole world was struck by the horror that befell the citizens of Sarajevo. Although this is the most serious incident, we believe that it is by no means the only one. The citizens of Sarajevo have for a long time faced fatal agony and fear. We must consider every possibility of improving the situation and restoring peace to Sarajevo and the whole of Bosnia-Herzegovina as soon as possible. [end recording] [Nusic] Prime Minister Silajdzic had the following to say about his talks with the British defense minister: [Begin Silajdzic recording] The visit by Mr. Rifkind, the defense minister of Great Britain, shows Great Britain's current new interest in Bosnia-Herzegovina. I tried to explain our situation concerning humanitarian aid and in the field. Humanitarian problems are huge, and they must not be forgotten under the circumstances, although it is very difficult to speak about humanitarian convoys after 66 deaths and 196 injuries yesterday. We said that we believe that force should be used against those who stop humanitarian convoys and, of course, against those who kill civilians in the way that it was done yesterday. We said that we have been waging a war against fascism on our own for two years now, and that Europe surprised us. Fascism is an issue that concerns all of us, something we all must fight. I hope that after this visit, which is well timed, this will no longer be so. [end recording]
