FBIS4-55509 "dreeu095_s_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-095 Daily Report 16 May 1994 SLOVENIA Peterle Rounds Up Results of U.S. Visit Peterle Rounds Up Results of U.S. Visit AU1605164194 Ljubljana Radio Slovenia Network in Slovene 1330 GMT 16 May 94 AU1605164194 Ljubljana Radio Slovenia Network Slovene BFN [Excerpts] During a morning news conference, Slovene Foreign Minister Peterle summarized the main characteristics of his recent visits to Uruguay, Argentina, the United States, and the Czech Republic. Zvone Zorko reports: [Begin Zorko recording] Foreign Minister Lojze Peterle at today's news conference could not say anything essentially new since we have reported extensively about his visits and meetings with the statesmen and economists in these states from the location itself. [passage omitted] We can expect a visit of the Slovene prime minister to Argentina this year already, while Argentine Prime Minister Menem will visit Slovenia next year. Regarding Peterle's visit to the United States, let us single out the assessment of the economic experts that it would be possible to double the scope of trade between the two countires in the near future and the assurance by U.S. Secretary of State Christopher that the United States will even in the future continue to pay appropriate attention to Slovenia and the entire Central Europe. Regarding the arms embargo, Minister Peterle said that the U.S. secretary of state had acknowledged the new arguments, especially the one that because of the embargo Slovenia cannot import commercial explosives, urgently needed in the planned construction of highways. Regarding succession, the United States remains firm in its stand that the FRY cannot be the sole successor of the former Yugoslavia. [passage omitted] Minister Peterle was not willing to answer questions concerning relations with Italy. He merely said that the Slovene Government still does not have an official standpoint from the Italian Government and that it will take its own stance once the new Italian policy in this department is defined. [end recording]
