FBIS3-20979 "jpest006___94016" JPRS-EST-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 9 March 1994 WEST EUROPE MICROELECTRONICS France: Microsensors To Regulate Chlorine 94WS0116E Paris L'USINE NOUVELLE in French 4 Nov 93 p 65 94WS0116E Paris L'USINE NOUVELLE Language: French Article Type:CSO [Article by Anne Lombard: "Chlorine Regulated At the Faucet"] [Text] The Lyonnaise des Eaux [water company of Lyon] and SAGEP [water company of Paris] are validating the first installation of electrochemical microsensors--amperometric cells costing less than 10 francs[Fr] each--to regulate the chlorine in potable water. Since chlorine must be used to purify potable water, sensors are needed to verify that the chlorine content is neither too high nor too low. The question is at one and the same time a legal one (0.1 mg/l of admissible residual chlorine), one of prevention (kill the bacteria without poisoning the drinker), and one of comfort (ugh! the horrible taste of javel water!). The answer? Regulate the dosage continuously and in real time. Drawn by the technology of chemical microsensors, Sagep, Lyonnaise des Eaux, and Parisienne des Eaux, have recently achieved the first chlorine amperometric microsensor for use in water. Apic Systeme, another subsidiary of the Lyonnaise company, together with Cylergie, a GIE [economic interest group] subsidiary of the Lyonnaise des Eaux, and the Swiss Microsens company, developed the measurement operating software. The project required three engineer-years and an investment of Fr1 million a year over a period of two years. Several pilot installations, each equipped with some 15 sensors, are undergoing validation in Paris and in the regions. Enhanced Reliability Manufactured as an electronics component, hence mass-produced, each amperometric cell will cost around 10 francs. At this price, it will be feasible to multiply the number of cells and to effect measurements on a continuous scale, in real time (the response time of the sensor is less than a minute), and with reliability enhanced by multiplying the number of measurement points. By means of these tiny throw-away chips (they are 1.5 mm thick, 4 mm wide, and have a life of six months), the chlorine will be regulated... at the consumer's faucet! By way of comparison, the macrosensors used, one at the output of a water treatment plant, and one at the input to the distribution network, cost Fr60,000 each. They require bimonthly maintenance. The microsensor requires none. The Lyonnaise company will market the method both by sale of the cell to other water companies, and in the form of a "pen" for spot-testing samples. The company is conducting research in the direction of bacteriological detection.
