FBIS3-27515 "drchi037_b_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 United States & Canada Jiang Zemin Comments on Sino-U.S Relations' Development OW2402023294 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0709 GMT 23 Feb 94 OW2402023294 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By reporter Zhang Yijun (1728 4135 0193)] [Text] Beijing, 23 Feb (XINHUA) -- While meeting with former U.S. Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger this morning at Zhongnanhai, Chinese President Jiang Zemin said that development and peace remain the two issues confronting the world. Jiang Zemin said: The current international situation is still changing in a complicated and profound way. The world is developing in the direction of multipolarization, and regionalization and conglomeration of the world economy are tending to accelerate. However, the various contradictions and conflicts concealed by the Cold War are gradually being uncovered, leading to disturbances, clashes, and even the spilling of blood in some areas. On Sino-U.S. relations, Jiang Zemin said: China has always attached much importance to developing relations with the United States. More mutual trust and cooperation between China and the United States will help the two countries to play a more active role in handling international affairs. He said: Sino-U.S. relations have seen some positive developments since the meeting between the presidents of the two countries last year. Exchanges of high-level visits have increased, and bilateral trade and economic cooperation have been strengthened. All these are helpful in promoting mutual understanding and solving differences. Jiang Zemin believed: As long as both sides have their eyes on the over-all situation and the next century, grasp [ba wo 2116 2250] the long-term interests of the two countries, strictly observe the principles of the three joint communiques between the two governments, respect the facts, increase consultations, and seek common ground while reserving differences, Sino-U.S. relations will be able to maintain constant development on a normal track. During the meeting, Eagleburger said the changes that have taken place in China are very impressive, and all those who are concerned about stability in the next century must be aware of the importance of correctly handling U.S.-Chinese relations, because a sound Sino-U.S. relationship is beneficial not only to the two countries, but to world stability, and peace as well. Eagleburger is here as a guest of the Chinese Foreign Ministry, leading a U.S. "China investment and trade" delegation. The delegation arrived in Beijing on 21 February for a goodwill visit to China.
