FBIS3-24056 "jpusr025___94010" FBIS-USR-94-025 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 16 March 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Maritime Kray Candidate Lists Compiled 944F0405A Vladivostok VLADIVOSTOK in Russian 4 Mar 94 p 1 944F0405A Vladivostok VLADIVOSTOK Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Marina Loboda, VLADIVOSTOK: "One Hundred Fifty Candidates Nominated to Kray Duma"] [Text] Lists of contenders for seats in the representative organ of authority in the kray have been compiled in the kray's electoral commission. According to preliminary data, 150 Maritime Kray residents are contending for 39 seats (on the average, 3.85 persons per seat). Of these, 129 are men and 21 are women. The greatest political activity was noted in the 14th Electoral District (Frunzenskiy Rayon of the city of Vladivostok). Eight contenders were nominated here, which is explained by the considerable size of the district--more than 57,000 persons. The minimal possible number of contenders was nominated in nine districts--two persons each, which could be an indication of the low interest in politics among the population, as well as an indicator of the serious approach of the citizens to the evaluation of their political data. An overwhelming majority of the contenders are managerial workers, and an increased interest in politics has been noted among doctors. Given a closer examination of the list, one could find in it: metal workers--one, lathe workers--one, and sailors--one. On the other hand, 37 former people's deputies decided to take this path once again. Among them--six former chairmen of soviets at all levels. No less active were the presently functioning authoritative structures: 15 heads of administration of rayons and cities of the kray are tying their future fate to the kray duma. The greatest activity here was displayed by officials of the kray center: Six representatives of the city administration and six from the kray administration intend to expand their authoritative powers at the expense of duma seats. It is impossible not to note the fact of the inclusion in the political campaign of A. Pavlov, deputy governor of the kray, who was on the point of receding into the shadows. The Zvezda plant took first place among the enterprises of the kray. Right off there were four contenders for a seat in the duma--is this not conversion?
