FBIS4-31250 "dreeu110_i_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-110 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Serbian Attack on Northern Towns Reported Serbian Attack on Northern Towns Reported AU0806094494 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 0800 GMT 8 Jun 94 AU0806094494 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by 3d Corps Press Center] [Text] The chetniks were not calm on the battlefields in the area of the 3d Corps of the Army of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina yesterday again. The most persistent attacks were in the free territories of Doboj and Tesanj, as well as at our defense positions that the chetnik artillery had fiercely turned on. There was no peace on the other battlefields either. The increasingly frequent movements by motor vehicles, the bringing in of new forces, and the enemy's regrouping are a sign of the intensification of the offensive. The chetnik artillery pounded Doboj-Tesanj villages and defense lines all the time yesterday. A howitzer at Stanovi pounded Putesici and Kalosevici, tanks at Sinanovici Guvno and Brze Grane pounded Zmajevac, and a Bofors gun at Siljato Brdo was firing on Peliva. A chetnik Bofors gun was active at Plane and a B-1 gun from (Tomic) Brdo kept destroying Kriz. In the meantime, four buses full of chetniks arrived at the Stankova Kosa-Ambariste-Strizijevica line. Chetnik artillery occasionally fired at Zavidovici battlefields. Mortar activity was registered at Hajderovici. Much more than that, they used infantry and antiaircraft weapons to shoot at our defenders positions. More than 20 trucks and other motor vehicles have arrived in the Zavidovici region. The replacement of forces, bringing new ones, and the regrouping accompanied by armored transporters along the Lukici-Sjenokos and Podsjelovo-Stog lines are a sign of new chetnik strikes. Infantry, antiaircraft, and mortar fire, particularly at Privije and Stolac Brdo, marked the day yesterday in the Seric-Teslic region. Therefore, there is not as much as one day of the chetniks' cease-fire on the 3d Corps battlefields.
