FBIS3-59798 "jpjst004__l94039" JPRS-JST-94-004L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 27 January 1994 Nuclear Engineering FY94 Nuclear Energy Related Budget Proposal Nuclear Energy Expenditure Estimate by Atomic Energy Commission 94FE0166A Tokyo GENSHIRYOKU SANGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 9 Sep 93 p 1 94FE0166A Tokyo GENSHIRYOKU SANGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] According to the ``estimate for the FY94 nuclear energy related accounts,'' the government's entire budget relating to nuclear energy, excluding the Ministry of Education (i.e., for eight government agencies including the Science and Technology Agency (STA), MITI and the Foreign Ministry) will be about ¥458,711 million, a 1.7% increase from this fiscal year. The nuclear related accounts of MITI and STA were reported in an earlier edition. In addition, the Foreign Ministry's account will be ¥4,866 million, a 6.9% increase over this fiscal year. In addition to the ¥4,102 million budgeted for Japan's contribution and share of expenses in the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), ¥332 million for Japan's share of expenses in the Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and approximately ¥20 million for the cost of participation in international conferences, ¥432 million has been newly budgeted for contribution to the nuclear energy safety support fund. The Ministry of Transport requested the same amount as this fiscal year, about ¥34 million, to continue surveys and analyses needed to confirm the safety of transporting of radioactive materials, and to draw up safety standards for transporting of radioactive materials. The nuclear energy related account for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) will be increased by 1.4% to about ¥68 million. MAFF has budgeted ¥45 million for the Tsukuba agricultural research interchange center (the RI training facility), and about ¥24 million for startup expenses for eradication experiments and prevention of breeding of arimodoki [phonetic] beetle in the Amami Islands, Kagoshima Prefecture. At the same time, MAFF has eliminated the budget for the urimi [phonetic] fly infestation prevention project in the Amami Islands. The Okinawa Development Agency account will be slashed 25.1% to ¥625 million. The allocation for the urimi [phonetic] fly infestation prevention project in Okinawa will be cut back substantially to ¥566 million, while about ¥60 million will be added to begin eradication experiments and prevention of breeding of the potato beetle. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will allocate the same amount as this fiscal year, about ¥300,000, to the cost of monitoring, control and guidance for medical equipment and pharmaceuticals. The Ministry of Home Affairs also will allocate the same amount as this fiscal year, about ¥2 million, to provide guidance for nuclear disaster countermeasures.
