FBIS4-10368 "drlat070_r_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-070 Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 Peru Foreign Minister Discusses Trade With Malaysia Foreign Minister Discusses Trade With Malaysia PY0804204994 Lima EL PERUANO in Spanish 26 Mar 94 p A2 PY0804204994 Lima EL PERUANO Spanish BFN [Text] When he returns from Malaysia, Peruvian Foreign Minister Efrain Goldenberg will convey that government's interest in signing with Peru an agreement for mutual promotion and protection in their capacity as member countries of multilateral Pacific organizations. According to information disclosed by the Foreign Ministry, the two countries have also decided to sign an agreement eliminating the need for visas. The president of the Council of Ministers and foreign minister is currently in Washington, where he will participate in the election tomorrow of the new OAS secretary general. The results of this election will be disclosed at noon tomorrow. In Kuala Lumpur Goldenberg closed the 10th General Conference of the South Pacific Economic Cooperation Conference (PECC) with the approval of a declaration emphasizing the private sector's participation in promoting free trade and investments for joint Asia-Pacific development. The day before, Goldenberg addressed an audience of some 200 bankers and investors from Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, and other Asian countries. The minister's speech focused on the changes taking place in the Peruvian capital market, one of the most attractive of the region. This phenomenon is caused by the positive influence of the privatization process currently under way and the consolidation of a national market which is opening its doors to foreign markets. The foreign minister commented that this situation has benefited by Peruvian laws and recent agreements on the protection and promotion of investments, signed at a bilateral as well as multilateral level. Another important aspect of the prime minister's visit is the meeting he held with one of the representatives of the Malaysian business sector, T.Y. Lee, who voiced his desire to invest in Peru. Fishing and mining as well as the lumber industry were the sectors in which the businessmen voiced most interest. Minister Goldenberg had the opportunity to meet with other government representatives, such as the Thai vice premier, the Malaysian prime minister, the U.S. National Security Council adviser for Asian affairs, and the Indonesian economic coordinating minister.
