FBIS4-17362 "drsov079_b_94047" FBIS-SOV-94-079 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 RUSSIAN NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Finance Ministry on Foreign Investment Principles Finance Ministry on Foreign Investment Principles LD2204184694 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1623 GMT 22 Apr 94 LD2204184694 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] On Friday Russian Finance Ministry presented explanations regarding the principles of foreign investment taxation. On April 19 the American Trade-Industrial Chamber made up of about 180 companies functioning in Russia recommended to its members to suspend allocation of credits to Russian legal entities due to an incorrect interpretation of the country's legislation on the part of several tax bodies of the Russian Federation. The explanation of the Russian Finance Ministry says that in accordance with Russian tax law value added tax and a special tax are imposed on funds received from other enterprises and organizations. Exceptions are made for funds transferred to authorized funds of enterprises by their sponsors and funds intended for joint activity. VAT and special tax are not imposed on operations connected with issuance and transfer of loans and operations related to the circulation of securities (shares, bonds, certificates, promissory notes, and others.) Foreign investments channelled to Russia for the creation of joint ventures and payment for securities of Russian enterprises procured by foreign individuals and legal entities are not liable for VAT or the special tax, indicates the Finance Ministry. Loans and credits granted by foreign banks and credit offices are also exempt. In addition, taxes are not imposed on funds which foreign states grant to enterprises and organizations free of charge in the form of a grant for specific projects. The Finance Ministry also drew attention to the presidential decree dated December 22, 1993 "On Changes in Taxation and in Mutual Relations between Budgets of Different Levels." According to this document, VAT and special tax are not imposed on goods and technical equipment imported to Russia in the framework of free technical aid which foreign states render in accordance with inter-governmental agreements.
