FBIS4-43830 "drweu120_j_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-120 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Possibility of Swordfish War With U.S. Reported Possibility of Swordfish War With U.S. Reported BR2106132294 Rome LA REPUBBLICA in Italian 20 Jun 94 p 12 BR2106132294 Rome LA REPUBBLICA Italian BFN [Report by Carlo Pizzati: "Italian-U.S. Fisheries War"] [Excerpts] Enzo Maiorca is furious. For three weeks he has been trying to get his colleagues in the National Alliance to understand the importance and the seriousness for our economy of a letter which he has received from the U.S. Embassy: Italy risks a billion-dollar embargo if it does not give up fishing swordfish with nets which are more than 2.5 kilometers long. But no one apparently wants to listen to him. Gregory Dunne, scientific attache at the U.S. Embassy in Rome, in a letter sent on 27 May to the senator, who is already the world skin diving record holder, was clear: If Agriculture Minister Adriana Poli Bortone (National Alliance) does not withdraw her intention to legalize the increase in the length of the nets used for fishing swordfish from 2.5 kilometers to 9 kilometers, Italy risks a commercial embargo on all fishery products in an amount of $1 billion or some 1,600 billion lire a year. [passage omitted] "The American Government," Dunne writes in his letter, "is constrained by law to impose commercial sanctions on countries which fail to respect international directives." Adding on a more conciliatory note: "Both our countries wish to avoid such commercial damage and a pointless diplomatic dispute." And in any event the United States had already requested tighter controls on swordfish fishing, even before Minister Poli Bortone's intervention. What we have here is not interference in domestic affairs, the diplomat seems to be wanting to say, but sanctions which the United States are bound to apply under a very precise law, approved two years ago, against those countries which use methods which are damaging to the marine ecosystem. [passage omitted]
