FBIS4-12315 "drnes067bb_94001" FBIS-NES-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 Inter-Arab Affairs Arab League Chief, 'Arafat Discuss Peace Talks Arab League Chief, 'Arafat Discuss Peace Talks NC0604212494 Cairo MENA in Arabic 2045 GMT 6 Apr 94 NC0604212494 Cairo MENA Arabic BFN [Text] Cairo, 6 Apr (MENA)--Palestinian President Yasir 'Arafat has stated that in his meeting with Arab League Secretary General Dr. 'Ismat 'Abd-al-Majid today, they discussed the latest developments in the Palestinian-Israeli talks, whether those in Cairo, Washington, Paris, Moscow, or elsewhere. The purpose of the meeting was to put the Arab League in the picture on these latest developments, he added. Speaking to MENA following his meeting with Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid, 'Arafat said he informed the Arab League chief that Israel was dragging its feet about implementing the Palestinian-Israeli agreement, something that marks the general Israeli position, although 13 April, the date on which Israeli troops are scheduled to withdraw from Gaza and Jericho, is approaching. The Palestinian president described Israeli leaders' statements that the deadlines for withdrawal are not sacred as a new attempt by Israel to avoid implementing the agreements on time. He referred to the obstacles Israel is placing in front of the talks, be it at the Administrative Affairs Committee or other committees. He added: This has become a basic feature of the Israelis, who first evaded the withdrawal on 13 December and are now evasive about completing the withdrawal on 13 April as agreed upon in Washington. He pointed out that with Israel dragging its feet, the antipeace forces will seize the opportunity to get fiercer. On Egypt's role in promoting peace, 'Arafat thanked President Mubarak for his constant efforts to boost the peace process in every direction. He described his meeting with President Mubarak today as positive and constructive, part of the constant consultations between the two sides. 'Arafat added: Our relations with Egypt are strong and outstanding in every political and economic field. He noted that the Palestinian side uses Egyptian experts in economic and other fields to face the Israeli negotiators, who are trying to be evasive about legal issues to which they committed themselves in their agreements with the Palestinians. 'Arafat pointed out that he briefed the United States and Russia, the cosponsors of peace, on Israel's intransigence over implementing the peace agreement and asked them to perform their duty in protecting the Palestinian people and sanctities and implementing the international resolutions for safeguarding the Palestinian rights.
