FBIS4-13027 "drnes074_k_94003" FBIS-NES-94-074 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 IRAQ Paper Says U.S. Reaping Results of `Erroneous' Policy Paper Says U.S. Reaping Results of `Erroneous' Policy JN1604094494 Baghdad INA in Arabic 0652 GMT 16 Apr 94 JN1604094494 Baghdad INA Arabic BFN [Text] Baghdad, 16 Apr (INA) -- AL-'IRAQ has stressed that after the shooting down of two of its own helicopters in northern Iraq, the United States has begun to reap the fruits of its erroneous policy and flagrant and rejected interference in Iraq's domestic affairs in cooperation with its allies. In an article published today, the newspaper says that this incident in northern Iraq, where foreign troops are deployed in an illegitimate and illegal manner without any logical or legal justification, means that the situation prevailing in that area is one of confusion, lawlessness, and disorder, especially in light of the absence of a central authority capable of halting the security deterioration or curbing the dangerous phenomena there. The paper adds that if wrong premises lead to wrong conclusions, then any fair analyst must now be aware of the size of the crime that the United States has committed against our people in the autonomous region when it embraced the gangs and highway robbers there and sponsored their subversive activities against innocent citizens, thus depriving them of any sense of security, stability, and dignity. AL-'IRAQ explains that in light of the unstable situation in the northern areas where foreign troops are deployed or controlled by agents and mercenaries, it is important to emphasize that circumstances of this kind must lead to many mistakes of the kind which led to the downing of two U.S. helicopters by U.S. warplanes. Concluding its article, the paper says that the U.S. attempts to exploit the situation in the autonomous region to implement both overt and covert schemes against our homeland and people--both Arabs and Kurds--through employing agents and mercenaries to use them as pawns in its conspiratorial game will lead to other woes, for as you sow, so will you reap.
