FBIS3-24599 "jpust007___94050" JPRS-UST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 22 March 1994 LIFE SCIENCES BIOTECHNOLOGY Gas Scrubbing Facilities 947C0124A Moscow PROMYSHLENNAYA ENERGETIKA in Russian No. 2, Feb 93 pp 48-50 947C0124A Moscow PROMYSHLENNAYA ENERGETIKA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by V.F. Fursenko and I.M. Kaplunova, candidates of technical sciences, and N.N. Zhukova, engineer, Rostov Institute of Railroad Transport Engineers] [Abstract] For a long time, the only equipment designed in Russia to scrub gases released into the atmosphere by industrial and power generation facilities was ash- and dust-trapping equipment. Most of the pieces of gas- and dust-trapping equipment that were designed had comparatively low trapping coefficients. It has been estimated that hundreds of billions of rubles in ``emergency capital expenditures'' are needed to achieve current maximum permissible one-time concentrations of various toxic substances (including sulfurous anhydride and nitrogen dioxide) in cities throughout Russia. Two indicators of maximum permissible concentration of toxic substances are currently in use. The maximum permissible one-time concentration is determined by air sampled over a 20-minute period at the level of the respiratory organs, and it refers to effects on the threshold of reflex activity (sense of smell, light-headedness, bioelectric activity of the cerebral cortex). The maximum permissible average daily concentration, on the other hand, refers to a 24-hour sampling at the same level in a given area in which an animal could go 3 or 4 months without experiencing any observable toxic or other related effects on its body. The maximum permissible one-time concentration is thus an indicator of human comfort, whereas the maximum permissible average daily concentration is a criterion of the nontoxicity of a given concentration of pollutant for humans. In the case of sulfurous anhydride, the current maximum permissible one-time concentration is 10 times higher than the maximum permissible average daily concentration, and in the case of ash and dust, the current maximum permissible one-time concentration is 3.33 times higher than the maximum permissible average daily concentration. These standards, while possibly economically justified in the case of existing gas-scrubbing equipment and facilities, will only result in the need for new ``emergency capital expenditures'' in the future if they are applied to equipment and facilities now being designed and constructed. The need to revise current maximum permissible concentrations used in design standards is evident from calculations performed for actual thermal electric power plants. The pollution levels permitted by current maximum permissible one-time concentrations are unsafe and have been calculated without consideration for various exacerbating meteorological factors such as high air temperature and extended periods of calm or very low winds. It must also be remembered that some Russian population centers experience these meteorological conditions 3 or 4 months each year. If future waves of ``emergency capital expenditures'' are to be avoided, existing standards governing the technological design of thermal electric power plants, the Construction Standards and Rules [SNiP] governing boiler units and thermal electric power plants, and the respective standards governing other sectors must be revised. Specifically, these documents must begin using the maximum permissible average daily concentration in specifying standards for gas-scrubbing facilities and equipment. The additional up-front costs will more than be made up for in the long run. Figures 3; references 6 (Russian).
