FBIS3-22743 "jptnd006___94007" JPRS-TND-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 11 March 1994 EAST ASIA JAPAN Hosokawa Says Japan Not To Go Nuclear OW1103120094 Tokyo KYODO in English 1146 GMT 11 Mar 94 OW1103120094 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 11 KYODO -- Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa on Friday [11 March] brushed aside speculation that Japan will arm itself with nuclear weapons, a Foreign Ministry official said. "We wish to contribute to peace and security in the (Northeast Asian) region while maintaining the set-up under the Japan-U.S. security arrangements," the official quoted Hosokawa as saying in an interview with the Korean Broadcasting System (KBS). "It is impossible for us to go nuclear in light of the nuclear allergy of our people," he reportedly said, explaining Tokyo's strictly defensive national security policy under its war-renouncing Constitution. The interview, held at Hosokawa's official residence, will be broadcast on the evening of March 22 in a prime-time special KBS program on the premier ahead of South Korean President Kim Yong- sam's visit to Japan from March 24 through 26. Hosokawa, who visited South Korea for a summit with Kim last November, voiced hope the two leaders will reaffirm the need for future-oriented Tokyo-Seoul ties, the official said. Expressing deep concern about North Korea's suspected nuclear weapons development program, the premier called for cooperation among Japan, South Korea and the United States in resolving the issue, the official said. On bilateral economic relations, Hosokawa noted that the transfer of high technology from Japan to South Korea and the bilateral trade imbalance in favor of Japan will be brought up in discussion of a soon-to-be-created intergovernmental forum for new economic partnership, the official said. Hosokawa was also quoted as saying both Japan and the U.S. should "take cool and sensible steps" to resolve their brewing trade spat, the official said.
