FBIS3-47703 "dreas011_i_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Cambodia NADK Repeats Denial of Use of Thai Territory BK1701053194 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia in Cambodian 2330 GMT 16 Jan 94 BK1701053194 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia Language: Cambodian Article Type:BFN ["Communique" by the spokesman of the National Army of Democratic Kampuchea; dated 12 January; place not given -- read by announcer] [Excertps] I. Of late, the Vietnamese puppets within the two-headed government have again employed an obsolete, despicable maneuver by misleadingly proclaiming that the National Army of Democratic Kampuchea [NADK] has used Thai territory. II. The NADK spokesman has already rejected this kind of unsubstantiated accusation with unscrupulous political motives many times. III. It is asked why the two-headed government painstakingly proclaimed and systematically hurled this accusation at other people? A. The government made this tumultuous accusation to conceal its shameful defeat in the so-called large-scale offensive against Phnum Malai from 1 to 3 January. During the offensive, they employed all-out efforts; they even infiltrated Thai territory in the Nang Ean area for the purpose of attacking the people and the NADK from behind. They made this clamorous and false statement with the aim of camouflaging its own intrusion into Thai territory. This is the communist Vietnamese's obsolete trick of a thief shouting 'stop thief.' B. They made this false statement to conceal activities conducted by the warmongering communist Vietnamese and its alliance -- they were hurriedly drawing up a plan and shipping invading forces, ammunition, tanks, and cannons in an attempt to attack the people and the DK [Democratic Kampuchea] resistance forces in western and northern Cambodia for the purpose of hindering national reconciliation. C. Their blatant statement is aimed at pressuring Thailand and the Royal Thai Government into giving up their support for national reconciliation and peace in Cambodia. [passage omitted] [Dated] 12 January 1994 [Signed] NADK spokesman
