FBIS3-14712 "drnes061_l_94001" FBIS-NES-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 ISRAEL Police, Army on Alert as Arabs Mark Land Day TA3003053994 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in English 0500 GMT 30 Mar 94 TA3003053994 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Arab towns and villages in Israel hold a general strike today to mark Land Day. Security forces and police are out in force today to prevent disturbances. Leaders of the Israeli Arab community have promised Police Minister Moshe Shahal and senior police officers that they will work to ensure quiet during the many rallies scheduled. More from reporter Dani Gur-Arye: [Begin recording] The day each year in which Israeli Arabs protest government confiscation of land will be marked this year in the shadow of the Hebron massacre and recent incidents in the territories. For the first time in years shops, schools, and public offices will be closed throughout the Arab sector. Rallies are expected in the main cities and towns. Police are hoping the demonstrations will be held quietly, but are prepared to deal with disturbances. Arab leaders have asked the public to refrain from outbursts of violence. [passage omitted] On March 30 18 years ago policemen opened fire on Arabs demonstrating against confiscation of land. Six Israeli Arabs were killed. This year Police Minister Moshe Shahal says police will concentrate on safeguarding the main roads, but will not enter the population centers. The main rally will be held this afternoon for the first time in the Bedouin town of Rahat. A month ago police shot dead a youth in Rahat in the riots following the Hebron massacre. Both sides are hoping to avoid similar incidents today. [end recording] In the territories as well, security forces are on alert to prevent trouble on Land Day. A Qol Yisra'el reporter says the IDF [Israel Defense Forces] plans to keep forces away from Palestinian population centers, to prevent unnecessary friction, and to avoid as much as possible any casualties. At the same time the Army will be out in force along major access routes. [passage omitted]
