FBIS3-59965 "jptdd001__l94007" JPRS-TDD-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 3 January 1994 LATIN AMERICA MEXICO 100 `Narco' Runways Found in Juarez-Ojinaga 94WB0016A Mexico City EXCELSIOR STATES SECTION in Spanish 5 Dec 93 pp 1, 4 94WB0016A Mexico City EXCELSIOR STATES SECTION Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Article by correspondent Manuel Cabrera] [Text] Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, 4 December--During an air operation, the Office of the Attorney General of the Republic [PGR] detected 100 clandestine landing strips in the Juarez-Ojinaga region (an area adjoining the border), used by South American aircraft to refuel and to smuggle cocaine into the United States. This announcement was made today by the Federal Judicial Police regional commander, Javier Norona Guerrero. The operations, associated with a program to curb the international drug traffic, were concentrated on the border between Mexico and the neighboring country to the north. There the forces, promptly backed by helicopters and ground units, began destroying the runways. The Federal Judicial Police first commander, Jose Maria Barragan, explained that the counternarcotics operations have been supported with over 135 flight hours logged during the past 15 days. He remarked that the air units have flown over both the Rio Grande shores in Valle de Juarez and extremely dense sections of the Tarahumara sierra. These areas have been used by the drug cartels for refueling their planes and moving drugs to the United States. Norona Guerrero, in turn, noted that backing has been requested from the Communications and Transport Secretariat, for the purpose of identifying the specific runways that have permission to operate. In the future, to prevent the drug traffickers' aircraft from evading the blockade, which they could do by flying at low altitudes, several PGR planes will engage in constant patrolling. The commander also announced that reinforcements of machinery would be requested, so as to totally destroy the airstrips. However, he indicated: ``This work will be strenuous, because of the rugged terrain selected by the `narcos' for constructing this type of access.''
