FBIS4-64667 "drweu088__a94022" FBIS-WEU-94-088-A Daily Report 6 May 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Berlusconi's Talks With Media Guarantor Noted Berlusconi's Talks With Media Guarantor Noted BR0405101994 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 2040 GMT 3 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0405101994 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "Berlusconi Meets Media Guarantor; OK's `RAI-Saver'"] [Text] (ANSA) Rome, May 3 -- Premier-designate Silvio Berlusconi, once the hands-on manager of most of Italy's private airwaves and still the owner of a sprawling media empire, this evening had talks with media guarantor Giuseppe Santaniello on broadcasting reform. Santaniello reported that Berlusconi had shown the "political will" to keep in place the end-of-year fee-hiking and fund-boosting package for cash-strapped public broadcaster RAI [Italian Broadcasting Corporation]. The so-called RAI-saver has been a target of abuse from many of Berlusconi's governing partners, some of whom have called for the entire RAI management to stand down -- an eventuality Santaniello said had not entered this evening's talks. Santaniello said the two men had tied the reform of Italy's virtual-duopoly broadcasting law -- increasingly invoked, especially on the opposition benches, after a right-left cross-fire of bias accusations, and centrist allegations of non-coverage, during the election campaign -- to the importance of developing new technologies like cable and satellite TV. "Berlusconi takes an overview of all these problems, without taking sides and with an eye to RAI issues also," said Santaniello. He would not be drawn into judging Berlusconi's appointment of three experts to draw up a solution to conflict of interest problems. Mirroring prevailing confusion on what these guarantors have been called on to guarantee, he indicated that they would be proposing a modification of the broadcasting law -- especially its anti-trust provisions -- rather than monitoring executive decisions affecting Berlusconi companies. Also today, the premier-designate met the chairman of the anti- trust commission, Francesco Saja, pledging to foster rules of free competition. Tomorrow the premier-designate will meet banking, chamber of commerce and shopkeepers' associations, as well as research and university bodies and the Italian housewives' federation. In another break with precedent, he will also meet a delegation representing Italians abroad.
