FBIS4-55433 "dreeu094_y_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-094 Daily Report 15 May 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal Lilic on Prospects for Peace in Bosnia Lilic on Prospects for Peace in Bosnia AU1505190294 Novi Sad TVNS Television Network in Serbo-Croatian 1730 GMT 15 May 94 AU1505190294 Novi Sad TVNS Television Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by Dusan Drazic] [Text] [Announcer] On his way back from South Africa to Belgrade, President Zoran Lilic made a brief stop at Sofia airport. The two-hour stopover at Sofia airport attracted considerable attention by the media. More than 20 correspondents from foreign agencies and the Bulgarian media met President Lilic, who responded to their appeal and answered several questions concerning the peace initiatives in the settlement of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia and relations in the Balkans. [Drazic] I hope that we are now close to peace in the former Yugoslav republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina. This was stated by Zoran Lilic, president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, at a news conference in the protocol building at Sofia airport this afternoon, where he spent a short period of time on his way back to Belgrade from his official visit to the Republic of South Africa and friendly Greece. Peace negotiations could successfully be concluded if all sides in this conflict cared for peace. According to President Lilic, the step made in Geneva on 13 May -- that peace negotiations be held with the mediation of the European Union, including the United States -- is a move that could guarantee the stabilization of relations in this region. According to the Yugoslav president, the first and most important precondition in the peace negotiations is the lifting of the sanctions imposed by the UN Security Council on Yugoslavia and the equal treatment of all three sides in the conflict on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Without acknowledging the interests of all three sides and without their agreement, it will be difficult to establish lasting peace, Lilic said. I hope the international community will also understand this. This is the correct way to finally settle the conflict in Bosnia. One of the conditions is also not to give in under the pressure of great powers. The Serbian people in Bosnia must be granted what has already been granted to other peoples of the former Yugoslavia under the auspices of the United Nations, and this is the right to self-determination.
