FBIS4-54177 "dreas102_c_94013" FBIS-EAS-94-102 Daily Report 25 May 1994 North Korea Japan Renewal Party Leader's Remarks Criticized Japan Renewal Party Leader's Remarks Criticized SK2505055594 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0425 GMT 25 May 94 SK2505055594 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["Ridiculous Utterances of Nuclear Criminal" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, May 25 (KCNA) -- Secretary General of the Japan Renewal Party (Shinseito) Ozawa, a backstage manipulator of Japan's nuclear armament and moves to become a military power, reportedly said in his recent speech that North Korea's "nuclear arms development program" might drive the situation on the Korean peninsula to a "grave crisis". This balderdash of Ozawa is a sheer distortion of the reality. It is a despicable jargon meant to do harm to the DPRK and justify their criminal nuclear ambition on any account. We cannot but be on our guard against the extreme moves hostile to Korea of Ozawa who let out a provocative remark again this time. It is an undeniable stark reality that the basic factor of the critical phase being created in the situation of the Korean peninsula is the reckless war manoeuvres of the U.S. and Japanese reactionaries and the South Korean puppet clique to contain the DPRK militarily. We cannot but take a serious view of the fact that the Japanese reactionaries are stepping up their nuclear armament and moves for the conversion of Japan into a military power with the aim of staging a comeback to Korea and establishing domination over Asia. Today Japan is totally branded as an unpardonable nuclear criminal and has to sit in the dock before the international community. The recent outburst of Ozawa revealed his extremely insidious attempt to lay the blame at other's door, avoid sitting in the dock before the international community and realize their criminal nuclear ambition at any cost. The Japanese authorities, instead of trying to do harm to the DPRK over its fictitious "nuclear issue", must declare the total amount of plutonium kept in hiding, apologize for the criminal act and no longer resort to moves for nuclear armament.
