FBIS3-13848 "drnes054dd_94002" FBIS-NES-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 Palestinian Affairs PLO Welcomes UN Security Council Resolution 904 'Arafat on Need for Quick Implementation NC1903184894 London MBC Television in Arabic 1805 GMT 19 Mar 94 NC1903184894 London MBC Television Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Interview with PLO Chairman Yasir 'Arafat, in Tunis, by MBC correspondent Nicole Tannuri, in London, on 19 March--recorded] [Text] [Tannuri] While Syria, Lebanon, and Jordan have agreed to resume the negotiations, the PLO stand continues to be undecided. A few minutes ago, we spoke to Palestinian President 'Arafat in Tunis and asked him about his evaluation of the Security Council resolution. ['Arafat] Despite the fact that we do not have any queries regarding the clarifications given by the U.S. envoy [to the United Nations] especially with respect to the issue of Jerusalem. [incomplete sentence as heard] [Tannuri] Mr. President, there are positive indications from the PLO regarding the resumption of talks. What, in your opinion, is the ideal scenario for returning to the negotiation table? ['Arafat] As I said now, what has been agreed on in the Security Council must be implemented very quickly. Israel must take important and basic steps regarding the settlers, especially in the Hebron area. They are the ones who claim that there are two organizations that have become virtual outlaws. These are Kakh and Kahana Hay. These two organizations have supporters among the settlers. They have time bombs in their possession. In addition, they have settlements; around five or six settlements belong to them. What will the Israeli Government's measures be regarding these settlements belonging to these two groups? [Tannuri] The other concerned Arab countries have decided to return to negotiations. Does this raise questions once again regarding Arab coordination? ['Arafat] Yesterday, King Husayn phoned me twice, after he had telephoned my brother President Hafiz al-Asad. He told me that they had received telephone calls from U.S. President Clinton to return to the peace negotiations. We agreed to convene a meeting of the five foreign ministers of Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, and Palestine as soon as possible to coordinate stands over this matter.
