FBIS4-22475 "jpusr037___94014" FBIS-USR-94-037 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 22 March 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Sverdlovsk Oblast Duma Candidates Registered Sverdlovsk Oblast Duma Candidates Registered 944F0501A Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 22 Mar 94 p 2 944F0501A Moscow SEGODNYA Russian CSO [Article by Irina Vladykina: "One Hundred Sixty Candidates for the Sverdlovsk Oblast Duma Named--Election Campaign Begins in the Local Mass Media"] [Text] One hundred sixty candidates for deputy to the Sverdlovsk Oblast Duma have obtained their credentials. In the oblast administration, where a meeting took place between candidates for deputy and head of administration Aleksey Strakhov and members of the government, it was learned that of 32 public associations declaring their intention to begin the election campaign, six have dropped out. Some 227 candidates submitted applications during the course of the preelection period, indicating the high activity level of social and political forces in Sverdlovsk Oblast. According to preliminary estimates of the oblast electoral commission, oblast residents will receive a ballot 10 April containing the names of at least 30 candidates for deputy to the oblast Duma. A great deal of attention is therefore devoted to the interaction between candidates and the mass media. Lots were drawn on Sverdlovsk television, where candidates were afforded free air time for their presentations, and also in OBLASTNAYA GAZETA, the official organ of the Sverdlovsk Oblast administration, where space will be allocated for the publication of free campaign materials. Candidates are being afforded the full use of seven issues of this publication, beginning 25 March. Among the registered candidates for deputy to the oblast Duma are 44 businessmen, 33 political figures nominated by parties, five trade union functionaries, four workers, and four unemployed individuals. The work of nominating and registering candidates is not complete. The oblast electoral commission is presently investigating complaints and petitions, of which quite a number have been received.
