FBIS3-57954 "drweu003__a94015" FBIS-WEU-94-003-A Document Type:Daily Report 5 January 1994 ANNEX Germany Polish Foreign Minister Wants `Clear' NATO Signal AU0401105694 Warsaw PAP in English 2026 GMT 3 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0401105694 Warsaw PAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Bonn, Dec. 3 -- Poland expects the NATO summit to be held 10-11 January to give a clear signal that East European countries can become members of NATO, Polish Foreign Minister Andrzej Olechowski told a press conference in Bonn after a meeting with his German counterpart Klaus Kinkel. The two-hour meeting of the two ministers covered the issues of European security and the situation in Russia. Olechowski stressed at the conference that Poland was aware that the former Warsaw Pact members could not join NATO quickly. The U.S.-sponsored Partnership for Peace programme to be accepted at the NATO summit should clearly define the conditions and timetable for the entry. Kinkel told the press conference that NATO is open for new members in principle but immediate membership was not possible. Instead he proposed a close cooperation with NATO, including joint manoeuvres, participation in peace missions and consultations in case of threat to one of the countries' security. He ruled out, however, any formal guarantees of security. Kinkel stressed that Russia has no right of veto as far as the broadening of NATO is concerned. The Polish foreign minister said that Poland needed a feeling of being a part of the West. "We know we will not join NATO tomorrow. We are satisfied with Minister Kinkel's statement that Germany will defend our interests at the NATO summit." The two also discussed the issue of border crossings. Olechowski stressed that he has a strong resolution to do something in this field as long as he is the foreign minister. Kinkel shared the opinion that the present situation at Polish-German border crossings should not be continued as it complicates trade relations between the countries and contacts between the two nations.
