FBIS4-43096 "drweu113_q_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-113 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 Turkey Demirel Revives `Security Belt' Demirel Revives `Security Belt' NC1006193394 Istanbul YENI GUNAYDIN in Turkish 2 Jun 94 p 14 NC1006193394 Istanbul YENI GUNAYDIN Turkish BFN [Report by Kenan Akin: "Kishinev Notes"] [Text] The views expressed in my notes from Kiev under the headline "Demirel's Worries" were "confirmed" just a few hours after filing them. Among the president's deep worries was also the "premonition" that Turkey might face great dangers over the longer period. For that reason, long-term policies, rather than daily ones, are being formulated. Demirel desires to establish a balance by trying to contain the "danger belt" surrounding our country with a new "security belt." As regards Demirel's desires, it could be "theoretically argued that there always existed a potential" of threat, or a feeling of being under threat; or, it could be recalled that efforts to formulate such a "security concept" also existed in the past. However, the revival of the idea of a "security belt" with the participation of Saudi Arabia and Ukraine should be regarded as an important development in the region. U.S. Supported It in 1980's This new strategy, which was announced by Demirel during an impromptu conversation, is bound to be an important "phase" in ensuring peace and prosperity in the region. It should not be forgotten that this new international restructuring, which could also be described as a "security umbrella," would be supported by the United States. This is because long-standing U.S. ties with Egypt, Israel, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey have laid the "foundation" for such an important step. In this way, the United States will "secure" the Middle East, particularly the oil routes. The various dimensions of this new development--which is tantamount to establishing control over Russia above all, as well as over Iran, Iraq, Syria, and the future Palestinian state--will gradually become apparent in the near future. The dimensions of this "security belt were examined during Demirel's flight from Kiev to Kishinev. [quotation marks as published] By the way, Demirel's decision to take a higher profile on the international political scene henceforth is already evident.
