FBIS3-16002 "drsov048_e_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs State To Pay for Gas in Money, Property MK1103112094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 11 Mar 94 p 1 MK1103112094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Rustam Narzikulov report under the "Protocol" rubric: "Ukraine Agrees To Pay Debts to Gazprom. It Can Only Pay in Property"] [Text] Yesterday's talks in Moscow on clearing the debts for deliveries of Russian gas to Ukraine to the tune of 1.5 trillion rubles ended in the signing of a protocol defining the ways of debt settlement. Ukraine is supposed to pay nearly half of the entire debt in money; in payment for the remaining part, Gazprom will receive a share in the authorized stocks of the gas transportation infrastructure enterprises (51 percent) and in a number of factories in which Gazprom is interested (51 percent). The facilities in question are in particular the export gas pipeline to Europe, subterranean storage tanks on the territory of Ukraine, and the Odessa port factory. The Ukrainian side made some concessions, agreeing to hand over property to clear off the already amassed debts rather than pay for future deliveries of gas, something with which Gazprom categorically disagreed. The question of transfer of property to Gazprom is supposed to be considered by the Ukrainian side within a week. No deadlines on the payment of monetary debts was set, although the process of payment of the monetary debt is likely to be one of the main subjects of another meeting between the sides on 10 April to discuss the progress of implementation of the March protocol provisions. Ukraine has no money, and its only real asset is property accumulated in the past years. Gazprom can therefore only hope for the material source of debt settlement which, however, can be cut off at any moment under pressure from nationalist forces. A high-ranking Gazprom official said that deliveries of gas to Ukraine resumed in the previous amounts right at the completion of yesterday's negotiations.
