FBIS4-6564 "dreas078_m_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-078 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 Thailand PRC Delegation Arrives in Bangkok PRC Delegation Arrives in Bangkok BK2104154694 Bangkok XIN ZHONG YUAN RIBAO in Chinese 21 Apr 94 p 15 BK2104154694 Bangkok XIN ZHONG YUAN RIBAO Chinese BFN [Text] Zhu Liang, chairman of the National People's Congress Foreign Affairs Committee, and his delegation arrived on 15 April on a visit to Thailand as guests of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Zhu Liang and his delegation paid a courtesy call on Parliament President Marut Bunnak yesterday morning. The two sides exchanged views on ways to strengthen contacts between the parliaments of the two countries and develop bilateral relations. On 19 April, Zhu Liang and his delegation paid courtesy calls on Deputy Prime Minister Amnuai Wirawan and Deputy Foreign Minister Surin Phitsuwan. During the meetings, Amnuai and Surin said that Thailand has attached great importance to friendly relations with China over the past 19 years. They expressed their hope that the two countries will expand bilateral cooperation in politics, trade, and other fields. They expressed the opinion that on the occasion of next year's 20th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations, the two countries should hold grand celebrations throughout the year to promote bilateral relations further. Deputy Foreign Minister Surin also suggested that a Chinese museum be built in Bangkok. Such a museum would highlight the origins and migrations of the Chinese people, important historical figures, and the development of Thailand-China relations in order to deepen the Thai people's understanding of the Chinese people. Zhu Liang and his delegation visited Khon Kaen and Chiang Rai Provinces on 16 and 17 April to exchange views with officials concerned with the Quadrangle economic development project. Zhu Liang and his delegation also attend a party hosted by Bangkok Bank President Chen Youhan [Chatri Sophonphanit] last night. The delegation will leave Bangkok for the Philippines today.
