FBIS3-53138 "drnes008yy_94001" FBIS-NES-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks PLO-Israeli Negotiations Continue in Taba Corridors to Jericho Disputed TA1101123694 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew 1105 GMT 11 Jan 94 TA1101123694 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Report by Moti Amir in Taba] [Text] There is no longer any dispute over the size of the autonomy in Jericho, which was decided on in the Cairo understandings. The dispute now is over the corridors the PLO is demanding to Jericho. In the wake of the understandings reached in Cairo, the Palestinians demanded three corridors be put under the control of the autonomy: from the holy sites of (al-Manta), north of Jericho; al-Nabi Musa, east of the town, and a corridor to the Dead Sea's Lido beach, south of Jericho. The Jericho issue has therefore not be resolved. On the other hand, a breakthrough has apparently been made on the border crossings, on which there is agreement. Yesterday, the Palestinians were shown an outline of the two border crossings points in Jericho and Rafah. They did not react and up to this moment they have not disputed the main points they saw in the diagrams last night. In the meantime, the Taba negotiations are taking place in two working groups. One group is discussing the joint drafting of an agreement. It started with the issues on which there is already agreement. A sort of civilian cabinet, in which the heads of delegation -- Amnon Shahaq and Nabil Sha'th -- are participating, is holding a discussion prior to the convening of the subcommittee on civilian affairs. We have already said that there is apparently an Israeli-Palestinian agreement on border crossings, as well as on an agenda for the negotiations, and an agreement that the negotiations would be based on the Cairo understandings. We are now waiting for the two committees to conclude their deliberations and for the negotiations to resume in a limited plenum with seven representatives from each side discussing the issues in dispute. [Tel Aviv IDF Radio in Hebrew at 1100 GMT on 11 January in a report by Netan'el Semrik quotes 'Ami Glusqa, spokesman for the Israeli delegation, as saying in a recorded passage: "The aim is to conduct businesslike negotiations in order to draft the understandings and agreements." The members of the Israeli drafting team are Foreign Ministry legal adviser Yo'el Singer, Brigadier General David Agmon, and Brig. Gen. Tzvi Stauber.]
