FBIS4-51442 "drchi103_w_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-103 Daily Report 26 May 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Leaders Meet With New PWC Members, Hong Kong Advisers Leaders Meet With New PWC Members, Hong Kong Advisers Jiang Zemin Attends Ceremony HK2605142694 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in English 1317 GMT 26 May 94 HK2605142694 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE English BFN [Text] Beijing, May 26 (CNS) -- The President of the State Mr. Jiang Zemin when attending a ceremony in which appointment letters were conferred on the third batch of advisors on Hong Kong affairs said that he hoped to see greater involvement of Hong Kong people in the territory's affairs. He added that being an advisor or a member of the Preliminary Working Committee was considered a good pattern in participation in Hong Kong affairs. Mr. Jiang said that there were various kinds of participation in Hong Kong affairs. He called for Hong Kong people to have greater concern for restoration of sovereignty of the territory to China in 1997 as well as for long term prosperity and stability which was closely related to the destiny of Hong Kong people. The President said that there were a mere three years left for the reversion of Hong Kong to China and so much work was yet to be done. The "one country, two systems" and "rule of Hong Kong by its people" would be the very policy to be adopted by the future Special Administrative Region government. Mr Jiang said that the central government as well as Hong Kong people were confident of such policies. Mr. Jiang said that economic prosperity enjoyed by Hong Kong people was mainly due to hard working by the territory's people. He was convinced that Hong Kong people were not only capable of creating a prosperous and stable Hong Kong but also capable of maintaining such success. He went further saying that Hong Kong people could even create a better future for the territory. The president stressed that stability and prosperity in Hong Kong was closely related to economic development in the mainland which lent great support to so many economic activities undertaken in Hong Kong. He added that the socialist mainland would still support the territory for its stability and prosperity after 1997.
