FBIS3-53579 "drnes011_s_94001" FBIS-NES-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Iran Commentaries View Clinton-al-Asad Summit Syria Seen Holding `Winning Cards' NC1601184894 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Arabic 1730 GMT 16 Jan 94 NC1601184894 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Station commentary] [Text] In Geneva, Clinton will seek to persuade President Hafiz al-Asad to enlarge Syria's participation in the Middle East peace process. Room for U.S. maneuver in this regard is limited in view of Washington's knowledge of the nature of previous Syrian stances. These called for total and unconditional Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights before taking one step on the path of normalizing relations with the Zionist enemy. There is not the least doubt that Syria holds winning political cards. Although Clinton is likely to give President al-Asad other privileges, setting forth numerous options, Damascus will not discard its winning cards in the hope of obtaining such privileges, because Syria knows that developments in the region cannot be predicted or relied upon. Discarding its winning cards under such circumstances is not in line with Syria's national interests. Hizballah in Lebanon is now stronger than before. Every plot hatched by the Zionists and agents to remove it from the political arena and from the battlefield have failed, because Hizballah is now part of political life; its representatives have won seats in the Chamber of Deputies. The Damascus-based 10 Palestinian factions opposed to the Gaza-Jericho agreement continue their activities. Official Zionists circles themselves have stressed that the Zionist forces will not completely withdraw from the Golan Heights even if stability were to return to the region and even if ties were to be established between Damascus and Tel Aviv. Even when we consider all these factors, it cannot be ruled out that the Geneva summit may reach important and fateful results as did the Bush-al-Asad summit. Anyway, the final say regarding Jerusalem and Palestine will be determined by the Islamic peoples in the region, primarily the Palestinians.
