FBIS4-66798 "jpnea027___94039" JPRS-NEA-94-027 JPRS Near East & South Asia 12 April 1994 SOUTH ASIA INDIA Nov Return of Envoy Rumored Nov Return of Envoy Rumored 94AS0277G Calcutta THE STATESMAN in English 12 Apr 94 p 1 94AS0277G Calcutta THE STATESMAN English CSO [Article by Subrata Sen: "S.S. Ray Likely to Leave Washington by November"] [Text] New Delhi, April 11--While the United States is clearing the decks for the appointment of its Ambassador to India, a post lying vacant for about 17 months, the Indian Ambassador to Washington, Mr Siddhartha Shankar Ray, is reportedly preparing to return sometime in November. Sources said that Mr Ray--during his recent six-day visit to the country--had received an indication that the Prime Minister was not averse to the idea. Officially, Mr Ray denies that he will return by the end of the year. During an informal chat with reporters, just before leaving for Washington early this morning, Mr Ray said that it was too early to discuss the issue. "There is plenty of time to think about this. In any case I have some more months to serve there," he said. However, sources said that after getting the indication from appropriate quarters, Mr Ray had asked his family friends to arrange for the renovation of his two houses: one at Friends Colony in New Delhi; the other at Beltolla Road in Calcutta. Also, he has reportedly asked that the houses be ready by the end of October. A source added: "If he comes back, he is no more interested in politics in West Bengal but would like to spend more of his time in New Delhi." Incidentally, Mr Ray was the president of the West Bengal Pradesh Congress(I) and a member of the State Assembly, before he was appointed the Ambassador to Washington in November 1992. It is not clear whether Mr Ray will be involved in politics at the national level once he comes back. Talking to reporters at his New Delhi residence on Sunday, Mr Ray had said that he would be using his trip to Jammu and Kashmir, where he went to collect "facts" on terrorist activities to consolidate India's position on the issue of Pak-aided terrorism. He claimed that he had collected figures during his two-day trip to J&K [Jammu & Kashmir] for the "purpose of showing that Pakistani interference is still continuing in the Valley."
