FBIS3-38309 "drweu021_n_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * Rehn Makes Advances in Center Party, Women's Groups * Favored in Informal Poll 94P20296A Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET in Swedish 22 Jan 94 p 6 94P20296A Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET Language: Swedish Article Type:CSO [Article signed "j-ae": "Center Field Strongly for Rehn"] [Text] The expression of support by the Center Party leadership for Defense Minister Elisabeth Rehn seems to be well anchored out among the party rank and file. The party's main press organ, [Helsinki] SUOMENMAA, published on Friday [21 January] the results of its "Hot Line" comment survey on the presidential race, and the replies clearly show that Center supporters are to a very large extent prepared to vote for Rehn in the second round of elections. Of the almost 150 published comments, only a handful expressed preference for SDP's [Social Democratic Party] Martti Ahtisaari as the best candidate in the decisive round in the presidential election. Without naming other preferences, a few persons said that they did not intend to vote for Rehn. Generally of equal insignificance was the opinion that Center Party supporters should not vote at all in the second round. The expressions of support for Rehn were of two quite different types. At least half were either unqualified urging on her behalf or replies that it has now come down to voting for Rehn. The other responses were more or less reserved, with arguments that made it clear that Rehn is to be considered as something "less bad" than Ahtisaari. The most usual reasoning was that the Center Party must not again contribute to the country's getting a leftist president, that the election of Athtisaari would increase the dominance of the SDP, and that Rehn in the final analysis had firmly defended the government of Esko Aho. SUOMENMAA's readers otherwise strongly condemned both [Center Party dissident candidates] Keijo Korhonen and Eeva Kuuskoski for having contributed to knocking Paavo Vayrynen out of the second round. The much-discussed "media game" was also condemned in many replies.
