FBIS4-21153 "jptdd016__l94032" JPRS-TDD-94-016-L JPRS Narcotics Reaction to the 1994 U.S. State Department International Narcotics Control Strategy Report 7 April 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA IRAN Seyfollahi Notes Country's Antidrug `Success,' Denounces Seyfollahi Notes Country's Antidrug `Success,' Denounces Report LD0804083794 Tehran IRNA in English 2055 GMT 7 Apr 94 LD0804083794 Tehran IRNA English BFN [Text] Tehran, April 7, IRNA -- Commander of the Law Enforcement Forces and secretary of anti-drug campaign headquarters Brigadier General Reza Seyfollahi said here today that [words indistinct] claim regarding alleged Iranian flippant attitude towards drug trafficking revealed that Washington was worried about Iran's success in this area. The U.S. under-secretary of state claimed Tuesday [5 April] that Iran and Syria were not serious in their anti-drug campaign. Talking to IRNA, Seyfollahi said that the anti-drug efforts by various Iranian organizations particulary the law enforcement pesonnel and especially in the border areas with Pakistan and Afghanistan, had been admired several times by the international organizations. He said that the international drug smugglers conducted by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) earned billions of dollars for the U.S. annually, however, as a result of Iran's vigorous campaign against the transit of drug to Europe and America via that Iranian territory, the U.S. Administration has suffered huge losses he added. Seyfollahi said the U.S. by raising directed and calculated claims [passage indistinct] He noted that the traffickers are generally equipped with the advanced U.S.-made weapons, and that a big part of the international drug trafficking operations are carried out under the financial and arms supports of the U.S. "The U.S. and persons like [UN Human Rights Commission Special Representative Reynaldo] Galindo Pohl who are under the influence of U.S., have times and again forwarded the unfounded claims that Iran executes political prisoners under the name of drug traffickers, in a bid to prevent Iran's decisive measures against narcotics."
