FBIS4-65357 "drweu095_i_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-095 Daily Report 17 May 1994 FRANCE Lamassoure on Berlusconi Government, EU Issues Lamassoure on Berlusconi Government, EU Issues BR1705132194 Paris LE MONDE in French 17 May 94 p 10 BR1705132194 Paris LE MONDE French BFN [Unattributed report: "Mr. Lamassoure Will Judge the Italian Government on Its Actions"] [Text] Questioned on the Luxembourg Radio and Television-LE MONDE "Grand Jury" program on Sunday, 15 May, on the appointment of five neofascist ministers to Silvio Berlusconi's government, European Affairs Minister Alain Lamassoure said he had welcomed the fact that "our Italian friends and others were not as sectarian when France had Communist ministers in 1981." "It is in government," he said, "that we will now judge the whole team. From this viewpoint, the statements by Mr. Berlusconi himself strike us as satisfactory. We need a strong Italy." The presence of economist Antonio Martino in the post of foreign minister strikes him as boding well for Italy's internal economic reforms without threatening the European Union [EU] move toward the single currency. "We cannot accept new members with the existing European institutions; we need a simpler system which is more efficient and more democratic," Mr. Lamassoure explained. While rejecting the prospect of an "a la carte Europe," which would enable each to take what interests him and leave the rest, the minister advocated a Europe of "variable geometry," provided that the ultimate objective is that all member states are involved in the same way in the EU. "France and Germany are still the driving force of Europe for geographical and historical reasons," he added. "If France and Germany were unfortunately to disagree on important subjects, there would be two Europes." Mr. Lamassoure, who visited Ukraine a short time ago, also explained that France is due to sumbit to the Twelve in Brussels on Monday a plan for the closure of the Chernobyl power plant "as soon as possible," and aid for the construction of three power stations. Finally, with regard to a successor to Delors, the minister said that the Twelve should not hesitate to choose a "weighty" person. He ruled out the candidacy of British Conservative Sir Leon Brittan, despite his "personal qualities."
