FBIS4-44697 "jpest010___94028" JPRS-EST-94-010 JPRS Science & Technology Europe/International 15 March 1993 WEST EUROPE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY Germany: Rapeseed Oil Used To Propel Taxis in Freiburg Germany: Rapeseed Oil Used To Propel Taxis in Freiburg 94WS01289B Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT in German 15 Mar 93 p 8 94WS01289B Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT German CSO [Article: "Rapeseed Oil Test in Freiburg Successful"] [Text] Frankfurt--In Freiburg a field test with 29 taxi drivers, who for two years operated their diesel taxis exclusively with rapeseed oil and drove a total of about 2.5 million kilometers, has been successfully concluded. Model 190 D and E Mercedes-Benz vehicles were used and about 240,000 liters of non-estered rapeseed oil (RME). As reported by Mercedes-Benz AG, just a few technical problems occurred during the test. The test results are so promising that the test series will continue with two modified C-200 diesel taxis this year in Stuttgart. The RME fuel was supplied by Novamont (Montedison-Ferruzi Group). It is comparable to diesel, but is nontoxic and biologically degradable. When it is growing rapeseed absorbs about as much carbon dioxide as is released when burning it. According to information by the Federal Environment Office, the absolute carbon dioxide emission is about 35 percent below that of a diesel-operated passenger car. The Freiburg taxis equipped with exhaust gas recirculation and oxidation catalysts only needed a small amount of technical alteration, it is further said. This applied to the replacement of elastomer hoses and seals in the fuel supply with parts made of special rubber. Dealing with the fuel itself, however, required a great deal of attention. Rapeseed oil turned out to have a tendency to become contaminated, which occasionally led to clogged injection nozzles. But such fuels are unsuitable for widespread use. In order for all diesel cars in the old laender to be able to drive on RME, 56 percent of the German agricultural area would have to be planted in oil plants. However, it is worth considering application in consumer niches, argues Mercedes-Benz.
