FBIS4-8400 "dreeu071_i_94012" FBIS-EEU-94-071 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Mladic Orders Troops To Down NATO Aircraft Mladic Orders Troops To Down NATO Aircraft AU1204144094 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in Serbo-Croatian 1300 GMT 12 Apr 94 AU1204144094 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by Mirjana Kusmuk] [Text] After his meeting with Russian special envoy Vitaliy Churkin, at which they discussed the situation in Gorazde following NATO's air intervention, Radovan Karadzic, president of the Srpska republic, visited Serbian fighters on the Gorazde front. At the headquarters of the Serbian army in Rogatica, general Ratko Mladic, commander of the general staff of the army of Srpska republic, submitted a report to Karadzic on the military situation on the ground. The president of the Srpska republic then visited the positions of the Serbian army and the command of the Gorazde brigade. In conversations with the soldiers, Karadzic stressed that the United Nations and General Rose bear the sole responsibility for the bombing of the Serbian civilian targets around Gorazde, and that they have taken sides with one side in the civil war in the former Bosnia-Herzegovina. We are constantly being threatened with bombing. They have now played this card. The only thing left for them to do is to send ground forces. You here are more superior. You are not the bare- footed Somalians, but are currently the best army in Europe, Karadzic said. General Mladic expressed the view that there will be more air strikes. He said that the army's morale is exceptional and that the general command of the Srpska republic has issued the order to all soldiers to shoot down whatever flies toward them. UNPROFOR [UN Protection Force] has been providing logistics support and giving advice to the Muslims and Croats for two years. They have now removed their mask and placed themselves on their side. Our only strategy is to defend our hearths, the weak, and our territory, General Mladic said. The president and the general also played a chess game on the first line of the front. The Rogatica part of the Gorazde front is quiet today. Owing to poor weather, the Muslim soldiers have reduced their attacks. NATO aircraft are also affected by fog and rain and are today flying unusually high.
