FBIS3-15474 "drsov044_b_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Economic Advisor Briefs Press on Cabinet Session MK0503090094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 5 Mar 94 p 2 MK0503090094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Yelena Tregubova report under the "Debates" rubric: "Aleksandr Lifshits Promises No Price and Wage Freeze. Sectoral Ministers Will Get Economic Freedom Instead of Money"] [Text] Aleksandr Lifshits, head of the Russian Federation president's economic experts group, one of the writers of the presidential message, stressed in his press conference yesterday that Viktor Chernomyrdin's speech at the Council of Ministers enlarged session "was fully proceeding along the channel of the presidential message as regards all the postulates and priorities." Lifshits told about "signals" attesting to "a great degree of understanding by State Duma deputies of the new economic program," announced by the president and the premier. Saying this, Aleksandr Lifshits, however, vouched: "According to my lights...prices and wages are not supposed to be frozen," something most people in the Duma talk about as a fact decided on by Chernomyrdin's government. "I have seen all the recent government documents -- there are definitely no such things in there," Lifshits said. In the meantime he recognized that "in the government apparatus, there are such top-class artists that there already exist several various projects for freezing prices." Lifshits termed their implementation as "madness owing to their being impossible to carry out technically -- they will pull the wool over your eyes but nothing will come of it all the same." Besides, Lifshits hopes the government will not cave in to "the pressure of local commodity producers" who demand protection from foreign goods "by such crude methods as colossal customs tariffs." The experts group head also expressed the hope that "the budget will still not be made to provide for a 12-15 percent deficit." He affirmed that these figures were named in the Council of Ministers presidium session where the budget was discussed. Sectoral ministers "who, one by one, clamored for money in that session and stated: cut down on funds for anyone else but me, while they irritably motioned to a grinning Andrey Kokoshin [first deputy defense minister]," according to Lifshits were not "a sight for nervous folks." Lifshits believes that one can only hope that during the week the government "revises" the budget, it will make up its mind to "give, instead of money (which is not there), economic freedom, which still does not exist."
