FBIS3-25411 "drafr033_c_94015" FBIS-AFR-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Editorial Sees Threat Behind ANC Pentagon Visit MB1502174994 Pretoria DIE AFRIKANER in Afrikaans 4-11 Feb 94 pp 1, 11 MB1502174994 Pretoria DIE AFRIKANER Language: Afrikaans Article Type:BFN [Unattributed editorial] [Text] The mission from the American defense headquarters, the Pentagon, currently on a weeklong visit to ANC [African National Congress] leaders, is supposedly in the country to promote new military links. In reality its purpose is to bribe ANC leaders so that it can scale down the South African weapons industry, with a view to eventually closing it down as soon as the ANC comes into power. This will be done despite the threat of large-scale unemployment and the security risk coupled to such a move. The Pentagon has already sent similar missions to South American countries, where accusations were immediately leveled against the Pentagon, that it tries to bribe state leaders in more or less subtle ways to give preference to American interests. The eight-man delegation to South Africa consists of the U.S. Assistant Defense Secretary Charles Freeman, his deputy Jim Woods, representatives of the American chiefs of staff and from the American "European commandment" which also covers South Africa, as well as a representative of American military intelligence. The Pentagon explains that the aim of this mission is to assist the ANC leaders to apply the integration policy in the army, to restructure the various army divisions, and in general to encourage "intellectual discussion" between ANC leaders and American officials. The background to this is that the American Congress has made drastic cuts to the military budget, which also affects military assistance. President Clinton is apparently following a policy supporting democracy worldwide, not only verbally but also financially. This policy is aimed at opening the way to promoting American exports. South Africa and its military and political leaders can expect certain "advantages" from Americans if they help the American weapons industry to get contracts in South Africa. The U.S. weapons industry apparently sees great possibilities in post-apartheid South Africa, according to Freeman. He especially referred to American area detection technology, a field in which South African industrial research has made significant progress. The Pentagon wants this research to be discontinued so that information agents in the American Embassy in Pretoria can determine, over the same network, exactly where South African naval vessels and air force aircraft are operating. Observers warn that the objective of spying is never far from the thoughts of any member of any American mission visiting South Africa. What is new is Clinton's plan to make South Africa pay for this by scaling down its weapons industry.
