FBIS4-45654 "jpten015___94057" JPRS-TEN-94-015 JPRS Environmental Issues 25 May 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA UKRAINE New Nuclear Generator To Be Commissioned in October New Nuclear Generator To Be Commissioned in October LD2505194494 Kiev UNIAN in Ukrainian 1550 GMT 25 May 94 LD2505194494 Kiev UNIAN Ukrainian BFN [Text] Zaporozhye Oblast -- The government commission for the acceptance of generating set no. 6 as operational with its capacity rated at one million kilowatts, planned for commissioning in October, held a sitting at the Zaporozhye nuclear plant on 24 May. The commission united representatives of the State Committee for the Use of Nuclear Power, the Power Engineering and Electrification Ministry, the Environmental Protection Ministry, the State Committee for the Control of Work Safety in Nuclear Engineering, the fire protection directorate, and the sanitary and epidemiological service. Mykhaylo Umanets, chairman of the State Committee for the Protection of Work Safety in Nuclear Engineering and official in charge of the government commission, has told a UNIAN correspondent: "This is the first time that the government commission has assembled since the moratorium on the development of nuclear power engineering in Ukraine was lifted in October 1993. Under conditions of continuing recession in the economy, the launch of a new enterprise -- the one million-kilowatt nuclear power generating set -- is a splendid event. Representatives of controlling bodies have noted the high degree of the equipment's reliability and readiness for work, with 80 percent of it having already undergone trials in the operational mode. All the services have been fully manned with highly qualified personnel. A new-generation water-cooled water-moderated power reactor has been installed at the generating set. It meets international nuclear and radiation safety requirements and is equipped with additional automated emergency reactor protection and fire fighting systems." Specialists from the National Control Center at Ukraine's Power Engineering and Electrification Ministry estimate that the electricity to be produced by the new generating set will make a substantial contribution to the state's single energy system.
