FBIS4-21233 "jptdd017__l94076" JPRS-TDD-94-017-L JPRS Narcotics 27 February 1994 WEST EUROPE DENMARK National, Local Drug Policies, Treatment Programs Being National, Local Drug Policies, Treatment Programs Being Reevaluated New Restrictions on Methadone Treatment 94WD0269D Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 27 Feb 94 p 10 94WD0269D Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Danish CSO [Article by Lotte Mejlhede and Mikkel Thrane: ``Minister: Methadone Treatment Is Not Enough''] [Text] The right to prescribe methadone to drug addicts will still lie with the practicing physician, but according to Social Affairs Minister Yvonne Herlov Andersen (Democratic Center) physicians in private practice will no longer decide on their own that methadone treatment is the right course for a given drug addict. ``Doctors will go to the treatment centers and a decision will be made by a team consisting of the physician, psychologists, social welfare officials, and anyone else who is involved at the decentralized center,'' the social welfare minister said. Recently, the prescribing of methadone by private physicians has been sharply criticized both by the social welfare agencies of the counties and by the Physicians' Association. In all too many cases, the use of methadone has not been complemented by actual treatment. As a result, officials at the Social Welfare Directorate of Copenhagen County want to assume responsibility for deciding whether or not methadone treatment is necessary. ``Methadone is highly habit forming, so it is important that it not be used alone. It must be followed up with both social and psychological measures. A plan must be drawn up together with the addict indicating, among other things, when he will be drug free,'' said Peter Ege, chief social welfare physician in Copenhagen. There are approximately 10,000 drug addicts in Denmark. It is estimated that just under 3,000 are being treated with methadone. By far the majority of the methadone patients are being treated by private physicians. The government plans to come out with an extensive report on drugs within the next two to three weeks. It will include measures to be taken in the area of methadone treatment.
