FBIS3-61447 "jpust001___94045" JPRS-UST-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 6 January 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Certain Issues of Environmental Pollution, Public Health Status in Georgia 947C0032B Moscow GIGIYENA I SANITARIYA in Russian No 1 Jan 93 pp 63-64 947C0032B Moscow GIGIYENA I SANITARIYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by G.V. Abdushelishvili, A.A. Gogoli, M.N. Mamatsashvili, R.Ye. Khazaradze, G.G. Chinchaladze, Public Health and Hygiene Institute imeni G.M. Natadze at the Social Security Ministry of Georgia, Tbilisi; UDC 614.7(479.22)] [Abstract] The issue of public health is considered against the background of environmental pollution and environmental protection, and the increasing role of medical and biological research for preventing unfavorable consequence of industrial pollution is stressed. It is noted that the level of industrial discharges doubles every 8-10 years while 18-20% of all public health expenditures are related to diseases caused by contaminated atmospheric air alone. Due to the concern about the long-term effect of toxic agent inhalation, the environmental factors are examined in a number of Georgian towns and cities, e.g., Tbilisi, Batumi, Zestafoni, Rustavi, Sagaredzho, etc. The study shows that contamination in four out of five cities is extreme due to inefficient discharge treatment, poor vehicle emission control, inadequate tree planting, and unsatisfactory street cleaning. Shortcomings in waste water treatment in the above cities and the resulting contamination of the Black Sea are noted. A study of population morbidity confirms the unfavorable effect of atmospheric contamination on the public health status and makes it possible to establish a statistically reliable correlation between the total atmospheric air contamination index P and population health levels in the administrative territories under study of r=0.69. The findings determine the principal emphasis and character of efforts aimed at improving public health and reducing the demand for medical assistance; these measures basically amount to consistent implementation of deliberate measures aimed it improving the air quality.
