FBIS3-35030 "drnes033_o_94004" FBIS-NES-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 SYRIA Paper: Cairo `Deal' Blow to Comprehensive Peace JN1702083794 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0545 GMT 17 Feb 94 JN1702083794 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [From the press review] [Text] Under the headline "The Deal of Concessions and Relinquishment," TISHRIN writes: The Cairo deal reveals further concessions by the Palestinian party. It also reveals that Israel made further gains as a result of this deal, which threatens the conditions of our Palestinian Arab people inside and outside the occupied homeland. The paper adds: This, of course, did not come as a surprise. What is founded on wrong will lead to wrong, and what branches from mistakes will lead to further damage and harm. The paper stresses that the Oslo agreement was a stab in the back of the Palestine question, constituted a major violation of the Palestinian people's rights, and dealt a strong blow to the ingredients of the just and comprehensive peace. The paper says: Events and developments have confirmed these facts beyond any doubt. The Cairo deal, which discussed the measures and details of the Oslo Agreement, clearly gave Israel full control of the occupied territories and gave the occupation troops the right to absolute control over the security issues, passages, and roads in Gaza and Jericho. The Cairo deal allowed Israel to achieve its aggressive objective; that is, not to return land to its Palestinian owners. Israel also guaranteed that no Palestinian will be allowed to return to his land and property. The paper wonders: What kind of peace is that which the signatories of the Cairo agreement claim is approaching, when, according to that peace, the owners of the land are denied the right to return to their land and those who were expelled and deported from their land will be denied the right to enjoy living on it in tranquility and security. The paper says: The kind of peace which Israel is trying to promote is the peace of occupation and occupiers that is made at the expense of Arab lands and rights. The paper concludes by saying: Agreements such as the Oslo and Cairo agreements will not achieve the desired peace because they constitute a surrender, a concession, and a relinquishment. The Palestinian people will never accept that.
