FBIS4-62504 "drsov095_m_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-095 Daily Report 16 May 1994 Tajikistan Labor Minister Views Problems Facing Return of Refugees Labor Minister Views Problems Facing Return of Refugees LD1605163094 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1406 GMT 16 May 94 LD1605163094 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Presidential Bulletin" feature No. 92 (582) by Nikolay Zherebtsov, Andrey Petrovskiy, edited by Vladimir Shishlin] [Text] The repatriation of all refugees by the end of this year is likely to double the country's rate of unemployment, Labor and Employment Minister Shukurjon Zuhurov told INTERFAX. However, Zuhurov who leads a government delegation in peace talks with Tajik opposition entrenched in Afghanistan said the gloomy prospect would be able to force Dushanbe to go back on its main goal of getting all refugees return safely to their homes in Tajikistan. The minister put last year's number of jobless at less than one million, but the figure may sour up to 1.5 million after the refugees come back from next door Afghanistan. Asked whether it was worth bothering about repatriation at all then, Zukhurov said the government's main priority was to get the refugees back home while the problem of unemployment, also besetting other countries, would be resolved in the order of the day. The minister said that the cabinet-proposed plan provides for only 100,000 new jobs if "the industry functions normally and proper investment is made," conditions that are likely to emerge only in five years from now. One solution to the problem is to sign agreements with CIS states having their own Tajik communities on exports of extra workforce there, he said. As an example, Zukhurov pointed to Turkmenistan hosting an estimated 50,000 Tajik refugees at the moment, but the local laws do not provide for their right to employment or housing or social security benefits. Overall, the minister is optimistic about the prospects of normalization in Tajikistan. And so is new commander of Russian troops in the region General-Colonel Valeriy Patrikeyev who spoke of things going back to normal in that country. Speaking on Saturday, he said that Tajikistan was recovering from the shock of civil war following government measures and efforts taken by peacekeeping troops. At the same time, he spoke of high crime rates in the Republic and high tension on its border with Afghanistan.
