FBIS3-28009 "dreas022_d_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 South Korea U.S. Report on PRC, DPRK Human Rights Noted SK0202022494 Seoul YONHAP in English 0209 GMT 2 Feb 94 SK0202022494 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, Feb. 1 (YONHAP) -- The human rights situation in South Korea since the inauguration of President Kim Yong-sam in 1993 has improved significantly except for cases involving communism and North Korea, the U.S. State Department says. In North Korea, President Kim Il-song's regime is repressive and subjects its citizens to rigid controls, the State Department said in a report issued Tuesday on the human rights situation around the world in 1993. The North Korean regime establishes security ratings for each individual which determine access to employment, schools, medical facilities and certain stores as well as admission to the Workers' (Communist) Party. But this loyalty system appears to have been relaxed somewhat in recent years, the report said. In China, there has been "partial progress" but changes have been limited, the report said, foreshadowing continued friction between the United States and China over human rights. Washington is expected to continue to press Beijing for improvement in human rights conditions in return for most favored nation (MFN) trade privileges. "The overall human rights situation improved significantly (in South Korea)," the report said. This was "a result of the fundamental shift in attitude and policy of the Kim Yong-sam administration. President Kim achieved two democratic, institutional reforms of an historic nature: The abolition of false-name bank accounts and the enactment of a government ethics law," it said. "The government also decreed several amnesties that released, reduced the prison sentences of, or erased the criminal records of, hundreds of persons arrested for politically motivated acts," it said. Nevertheless, the Kim administration, insisting that the National Security Law (NSL) is designed to thwart subversion by pro-North Korean forces, continued to use it to violate freedom of expression, association and travel, it said. "The (Seoul) government invoked the NSL less, however, and NSL arrests declined by over half," it added. On North Korea, it said the regime detains about 150,000 political prisoners and family members in maximum security camps in remote areas. An October 1992 report by two former inmates made reference to the severe living conditions in what they called "concentration camps," it said. One credible report lists 12 such prison camps that are believed to exist in North Korea, it said. Koreans with relatives who fled to the South during the Korean war appear to still be classified as part of the "hostile class," it said. The report quoted defector Cho Kap-chae as estimating that the "impure" class may comprise 25 to 30 percent of the population. "Members of this class may still be subject to some discrimination, although Cho claimed that their treatment has improved greatly in recent years," it said. Political prisoners, opponents of Kim Il-song and his son and heir apparent, Kim Chong-il, repatriated defectors and others have been summarily executed, it said. North Korea equates "political criminals" with those who criticize the regime, it said. "Numerous other reports suggest that in the past political offenses included such forms of less majesty as sitting on newspapers bearing Kim Il-song's picture."
