FBIS4-16055 "drsov071_a_94031" FBIS-SOV-94-071 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS French Foreign Ministry Condemns Zhirinovskiy Remarks French Foreign Ministry Condemns Zhirinovskiy Remarks LD1304102294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0953 GMT 13 Apr 94 LD1304102294 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Andrey Shtorkh] [Text] Paris April 13 TASS -- "Fulfilling French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe's personal instruction, French Ambassador to the Council of Europe Michel Lennuyeux-Commene officially notified Chairman of the Russian Liberal-Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovskiy on Tuesday about the impermissibility of several of his pronouncements," official representative of the French Foreign Ministry Catherine Colonna told ITAR-TASS here today. According to Colonna, the official notification was prompted by Zhirinovskiy's pronouncements at the Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris and also in Strasbourg. It referred primarily to statements made outside the Palace of Europe, where a session of the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe is now under way. Zhirinovskiy came to France to take part in this forum. "It is strange to hear such pronouncement from an official representative, who should worthily represent his country abroad. The Liberal-Democratic Party leader has already provoked several incidents since he appeared on French soil," Colonna stated. "Zhirinovskiy was told once again that his visa to France was of a limited nature," Colonna noted. "The French ambassador had officially addressed the Liberal-Democratic Party leader, who is deputy of the State Duma and member of the Russian parliamentary delegation. Zhirinovskiy's claim that he knew nothing about any official notification of the french Foreign Ministry is untrue," Colonna noted. The non-government Movement Against Racism and for International Friendship asked the Human Rights Commission of the European parliament to assess Zhirinovskiy's pronouncements at the session of the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. A communique issued here by the movement expresses its astonishment that the commission "did not try to oppose Zhirinovskiy's invitation to Strasbourg" at the time when Germany, Bulgaria and France still regard the Russian ultra-nationalist leader as a persona non-grata. Chairman of the ultra-rightist National Front Jean-Marie Le Pen told a press conference in Paris: "We regret the stand assumed by the French Government and believe it is incorrect and dangerous to treat a foreign political leader in this way. A Russian politician, who is learning the art of democracy, should not be condemned."
