FBIS4-19031 "drweu071cc_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-071 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Parliamentary Assembly of Council of Europe Meets Parliamentary Assembly of Council of Europe Meets Zhirinovskiy Blames French Police AU1204172794 Paris AFP in English 1655 GMT 12 Apr 94 AU1204172794 Paris AFP English BFN [Excerpts] Paris, April 12 (AFP) -- France warned Russian ultra-nationalist leader Vladimir Zhirinovskiy to behave himself Tuesday [12 April] after he threw plants and clods of earth at Jewish protestors and spat on them at a Council of Europe session. Zhirinovskiy also made threatening remarks inside the Council chamber in Strasbourg, denouncing NATO air raids against Bosnian Serbs and suggesting Russia should bomb European cities. [passage omitted] In Strasbourg, Zhirinovskiy called the French warning a "provocation" and said he was only doing his job. [passage omitted] On Tuesday the Union of Jewish Students in France called for his immediate deportation. Zhirinovskiy began the day Monday by barging in on a meeting of liberal European legislators. They had written to him asking him to stay away from Strasbourg because of his extremist rightwing views. Asked to leave the room, Zhirinovskiy berated the group as "CIA agents afraid to have a democratic debate." He added, "I was not invited here to drink champagne." The liberal MPs walked out. Later Zhirinovskiy took on a group of some 100 Jewish students protesting outside the Russian consulate against his visit. They yelled "Down with fascists" and "Zhirinovskiy is a neo-Nazi." Zhirinovskiy heckled the protesters from behind the iron fence surrounding the consulate and then lost his temper, ripping up plants from the consulate garden and flinging them at the demonstrators and journalists. He also threatened the demonstrators with his "atomic revolver." The Russian MP said Tuesday: "In fact I was attacked by extremists. It was the duty of the French police to defend me and they did not do it." [passage omitted]
