FBIS4-11253 "drlat077_m_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-077 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 Brazil President Praises Mercosur's Accomplishments President Praises Mercosur's Accomplishments PY2104005494 Brasilia Voz do Brasil Network in Portuguese 2200 GMT 20 Apr 94 PY2104005494 Brasilia Voz do Brasil Network Portuguese BFN [Text] President Itamar Franco today presided over the graduation ceremony of new diplomats from the Rio Branco Institute. In his speech the president mentioned the credibility Brazil is gaining in the international scene. He stressed the success obtained by Brazilian diplomacy in the UN Security Council and the GATT Uruguayan Round. President Itamar Franco also assessed the economic situation and said the reorientation of the economy is a result of the consolidation of democracy. The president mentioned Brazil's more competitive situation in the international market, especially its presence in the regional economy: [Begin recording] Mercosur [Common Market of the South] is a clear example of success. Exchange among its members increased from $3.5 billion in 1990 to $8 billion in 1993. Associations among enterprises and institutions in the four countries are increasing, and large transnational companies are making investments in the subregion with an eye on the free trade zone that will soon take total effect. We will continue prioritizing Mercosur, whose consolidation we are seeking. For this purpose we will continue to pursue the objectives of uniform customs in the terms and conditions agreed upon in Colonia [Uruguay]. [end recording] The president also stressed the importance of environmental matters and he called the attention of the developed countries to their responsibility in this field: [Begin recording] Brazil, with its enormous environmental patrimony, has a share of responsibility in the environmental issue as well as in the promotion of sustained development. The developed countries should assume their responsibilities, especially those related to the transfer of financial resources and healthy technologies to developing countries. [end recording] President Itamar Franco told the newly graduated diplomats that the quest for peace and international cooperation for economic and social development must be at the top of the international affairs' agenda.
