FBIS4-5269 "dreas069__a94004" FBIS-EAS-94-069-A Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 ANNEX Japan `Vague' Terms Plague Phone Accord With U.S. `Vague' Terms Plague Phone Accord With U.S. OW0704172994 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 7 Apr 94 Morning Edition p 5--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0704172994 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Text] It has been learned that in an agreement statement for the Japan-U.S. negotiations on mobile phones released by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications on 6 April, there is an expression that might be interpreted as that the Japanese Government has guaranteed the implementation of the agreement. The expression in question is the word "oversee" used in an official statement written in English. The word is used in the expression that the Japanese Government will "oversee" [kantoku] to help the Nippon Idou Tsushin Corporation [Japan Mobile Communications Corporation] (IDO) complete actions to enlarge the U.S. Motorola-compatible mobile phone system. In its Japanese- language version tentatively translated from the English original released on the same day, the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications translated the word "oversee" as "watch it to the end" ["mitodokeru"], thus using a weaker nuance than in the original. Therefore, the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications maintains its position that "the government will not guarantee the private sector's implementation of investment in mobile phone systems and facilities" (according to a senior Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications official). It seems, however, that the United States is basing its contention that the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications has guaranteed the private sector's numerical targets on the word used in the agreement. It has also been disclosed that in the recent accord, it is specified that Japan "will take all available measures" if IDO fails to implement its pledged action. Such a difference between the two nations's ways of interpreting the statement described in the accord on mobile phones is another "vague" point in a Japanese-U.S. agreement. It is likely that such a difference in interpretation will have a delicate impact on Japan-U.S. negotiations on other trade sectors.
