FBIS4-47336 "jpust012___94090" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 June 1994 ENGINEERING AND EQUIPMENT NUCLEAR AND NON-NUCLEAR ENERGY Concept of Safe Shell Type Water Cooled Reactor With HTGR Concept of Safe Shell Type Water Cooled Reactor With HTGR Fuel Microelement Based Fuel Modules 947F0074A Moscow ATOMNAYA ENERGIYA in Russian Vol. 75, No. 6, 1993 pp 417-423 947F0074A Moscow ATOMNAYA ENERGIYA Russian CSO [Article by A.O. Goltsev, N.Ye. Kukharkin, I.S. Mosevitskiy, N.N. Ponomarev-Stepnoy, S.V. Popov, Yu.N. Udyanskiy and V.F. Tsibulskiy (Nuclear Reactors Institute), RNTs [Republican Science Center] ``Kurchatovskiy Institut''; received July 9,1993; UDC 621.039.58] [Abstract] The problem of assessing the safety of AESs during severe accidents determines to a large degree future development of nuclear power industry. The most severe AES accidents that can lead to extensive radioactive contamination of the environment are the so called heat removal and reactivity type accidents. Currently there are two prevailing trends in solving the safety problem development of more reliable systems with multiple redundancy and additional safety barriers to propagation of fission products, or development of new in principle reactors wherein the possibility of accident creating processes is eliminated. The best way is an optimum combination of the two directions. With this in mind the authors discuss the possibility of using in water-cooled reactors fuel compositions based on fuel microelements used in high-temperature gas-cooled reactors (HTGR). The article examines an arrangement that gives a reactor unit a conceptually new quality. Preliminary analysis demonstrated that the proposed concept makes it possible to solve the AES radiation safety problem during an accident accompanied by complete loss of the heat-transfer medium and thus come substantially closer to solving the problem of reactivity accidents. The article describes a fuel module with fuel microelements, the reactor, neutron-physical and thermal physical features of the reactor core, and reactor behavior during a severe accident accompanied by complete loss of the heat-transfer medium. The use of such reactors will increase the cost of electrical power by 10-15%. Figures 5.
