FBIS3-37603 "drsov035_c_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 Federal Assembly Deputies Discuss Bosnia, NATO Ultimatum PM1802214594 Moscow SOVETSKAYA ROSSIYA in Russian 19 Feb 94 p 3 PM1802214594 Moscow SOVETSKAYA ROSSIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Academician K. Panferov, deputy of the State Duma: "Anxious Expectation. Sunday February 20 NATO Ultimatum to Bosnian Serbs Expires. Discussion in the Duma"] [Text] The bombing of the territory of the former Yugoslavia must not be allowed -- that demand was expressed in all the speeches from Russian State Duma deputies at the parliamentary hearings held by the State Duma's Committee on Questions of Geopolitics under the chairmanship of the historian, Viktor Ustinov. During the discussion N. Stolyarov, the committee's deputy chairman, asked this question: Will peace reign as a result of the planned and coordinated third-party intervention in the Balkan crisis? "It may be said unambiguously and with a great degree of accuracy: No, no, no!" he said. The possible bombing of the Bosnian Serbs will be the result of an inhuman and dishonest political game. Russia must in no circumstances be a party to this conflict. A. Frolov, a member of the Geopolitics Committee, stressed that since Russia's withdrawal from the ranks of the great powers all the peacemaking missions conducted under the UN flag have turned into unilateral interference in the internal affairs of various states. Today we are seeing NATO's anti-Serb tendency. With regard to this conflict Russia, regrettably, has for a long time now not had a position of its own based on its national and state interests. Deputy Mikhaylov, a spokesman for the Defense Committee, focused his speech on the fact that the present situation on the territory of the former Yugoslavia is a consequence of the shortsighted position taken by Russia on the Balkans. Russia's leaders must do everything possible to prevent the barbarous and inhuman bombing action. Deputy N. Krivelskaya from the Security Committee asked representatives of the Foreign Ministry: If Russia does not exercise its right of veto in the Security Council, how will Russia's foreign policy line be implemented at all? In the course of the hearings parliamentarians came to the conclusion that the UN Security Council's imposition of economic sanctions on Yugoslavia, sanctions which Russia supported, has done tremendous harm both to Yugoslavia itself and to other countries and has shown itself to be completely ineffective. Russia cannot accept the fact of air strikes against the Serb positions because this act goes beyond the framework of the UN Security Council's decision under Article 40 of the UN Charter. Russia cannot accept the thrust of an ultimatum directed against the Serbs alone. The State Duma asks all the warring sides to call a cease-fire, completely demilitarize the Sarajevo region, withdraw the troops and heavy artillery from the city, and place the Sarajevo region under UN control. The deputies of the Russian State Duma take the initiative of asking the parliaments of the UN member states to immediately convene a special conference on the settlement of the conflict by peaceful means.
