FBIS4-2023 "drchi065_n_94012" FBIS-CHI-94-065 Daily Report 4 Apr 1994 Economic & Agricultural Foreigners Said Cheating Joint Venture Partners Foreigners Said Cheating Joint Venture Partners HK0404075394 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 4 Apr 94 p 1 HK0404075394 Beijing CHINA DAILY English BFN [By Wu Yunhe: "New Rules To Police Foreign-Asset Cheats"] [Text] Trade investigators will look into foreign companies that over-value their joint venture assets under new rules coming in next month. The aim is to improve government checks on foreign fixed asset investment, said the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities. Many joint venture investors have cheated their Chinese partners by supplying outdated, overvalued equipment and technology . "By overvaluing their assets, some foreign investors have been claiming a disproportionately large share of profits, which are nailed down according to each sides' stated investment," the administration explained. Some foreigners were taking the advantage of Chinese businessmen's lack of knowledge of world markets, the administration said. The Ministry of Finance and trade investigators will determine responsibility for any false investments that they discover, under the new rules. And the neglect of duty by government inspection officials will not go unpunished. The regulations come under five headings. They cover the activities of government assessors and the evaluation procedure. They also provide guidelines on how to assess the real value of foreign business investments. The rules aim to build up a legal system that will protect the interests of both Chinese and foreign investors, the trade administration said. The rapid growth of overseas investment in the country in recent years has necessitated the new rules. China has more than 170,000 foreign-invested ventures, with a gross investment of $60 billion, according to latest statistics. More and more foreign investors have been using technology and equipment as part of their investment to joint ventures.
