FBIS4-9229 "dreeu078__a94010" FBIS-EEU-94-078-A Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 ANNEX International Affairs Crans Montana Forum -- Meetings, Highlights Crans Montana Forum -- Meetings, Highlights Melescanu, Peres Examine Relations AU2104164394 Bucharest ROMPRES in English 1354 GMT 21 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2104164394 Bucharest ROMPRES English BFN [Text] Bucharest, ROMPRES, 21/4/1994 -- The Romanian-Israeli official talks on Thursday, April 21, between Romanian Foreign Minister Teodor Melescanu and Israeli Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres, consisted mainly of an analysis of the present bilateral relations. The Romanian Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mircea Geoana said at the end of the talks that both parties had concentrated upon the economic issues and had analyzed some projects regarding the financing of some credit lines for industry and agriculture as well as the backing of the recently founded joint Romanian-Israeli Bank. The two parties agreed upon future negotiations of some credit lines at governmental level to be made available by Israel to Romania. In accordance with the governmental accord between the two countries, the two foreign ministers approached new possibilities of personnel training, including exchanges of journalists specialized in tourism issues. The international life was another subject of the dialogue between the two foreign ministers. Romanian Foreign Minister Teodor Melescanu said that the Middle East was one of the "poles of interest" for Romania. The Foreign Ministry spokesperson informed that the chief of the Romanian diplomacy had asked support from Israel to Romania's seeking participation in the multilateral groups established in the peace process. In this respect, the Romanian party showed its interest in joining in the concrete projects in Gaza and Jericho. The two dignitaries approached also issues concerning the evolution of the conflict in Bosnia. The Romanian Foreign Ministry spokesperson said also that Israeli Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres had talked with his Romanian counterpart in an "amicable" manner about the occurance in Romania of "several isolated cases" of anti-Semitism. The Israeli chief-diplomat said that, in spite of the correct decisions and positions taken by the Romanian Government which had been well received in Israel, he had to ask, because of the sensible subject, the authorities in Bucharest to continue their actions in the same spirit. The Romanian chief diplomat said that such situations were "isolated" and explained that the phenomenon could be linked to the transition period as well as to the freedom of expression manifesting in Romania.
