FBIS3-41674 "jptep004___94008" JPRS-TEP-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 18 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Cuba, Tajikistan Help Moscow Clinic Victims of 3-4 October 94WE0136E Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian No Unknown, Oct 93 p 3 94WE0136E Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by L. Chakhmakhchyan, Russian Federation Government, ``Cuba and Tajikistan Offering Humanitarian Assistance to Moscow''] [Text] CIS and other countries throughout the world are providing emergency assistance to Moscow clinics which accepted for treatment the persons injured on 3-4 October. Here are some reports from the dispatches of the Commission on the Issues of Humanitarian and Technical Assistance at the Russian Federation Government. Tajikistan, despite its own misfortunes, sent approximately 50 t of canned juices to Moscow (apricot, grape, and pomegranate) and 40 t of fresh tomatoes, grapes, and watermelons which will be sent directly to the capital's hospitals. Although it may appear strange, but the list of ``donor'' countries who responded to the Moscow tragedy include Cuba and Ethiopia. Fidel Castro, in particular, promised to send plasma and drugs, while the Russian Federation Embassy in Ethiopia and the Red Cross hospital are sending 400 dressing and bandage kits and 150 catheters for the military hospital in Balashikha which is treating soldiers from the Dzerzhinskiy division. As always, the European Community did not stand idle; its assistance amounted to 300,000 ECUs. In addition, Moscow physicians will receive drugs and preparations from governments and philanthropic organizations in Denmark, Turkey, Switzerland, Italy, France... The Russian Peace Fund sent 5 million rubles as assistance to Moscow's first-aid workers--physicians, nursing aides, and ambulance crew drivers who were the first to give assistance to the wounded during the tragic days of October. In addition to money, family members of the ambulance workers who have children will receive toys and gifts. The fund has specific addresses and lists of persons and crews who bravely and without fear of danger worked under the hail of bullets on 3-4 October. The Russian Peace Fund is appealing to the leaders of enterprises, commercial structures, associations, and banks to join them in this charitable action and transfer funds to Account No. 705001 with a notation ``First Aid'' at the Orbita Commercial Bank, Correspondent Account No. 161227 at the Russian Commercial Center of the Main Administration of the Russian Federation Central Bank, Ministry of Finance, 201791.
