FBIS3-57990 "drweu004_n_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Jan 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * Two Polls Show Drop in Support for EU * Blank Ballot Seen Problem 94EN0175E Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 8 Dec 93 p 2 94EN0175E Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Language: Finnish Article Type:CSO [Editorial: "Referendum Choices"] [Text] When the negotiations on membership in the European Union (EU) are concluded, Finland will have two choices: to say either yes or no to membership. There are no intermediate choices. Like the other countries, we have been promised that a referendum on the matter will be organized here too. If voters were also offered an "I can't say" choice, perhaps neither of the principal choices would receive a majority vote and the outcome could be interpreted in any way one likes. The law governing the procedure for a referendum that is at present in effect constitutes a problem. It requires that the voter be given the opportunity to state that "he does not support any of the choices offered." The committee that has been studying the referendum is coming to the conclusion that voters must be afforded the opportunity to abstain. But then the chief question to arise is how abstentions are to be taken into account. An abstention means that the voter either does not take a stand on the question or leaves it in the hands of the decisionmakers. The abstentions may add up to a very large number if they are given equal weight as a third choice. According to the government, a referendum will only be organized if the outcome of the negotiations is to be approved. The decisionmakers can interpret the abstentions the way they want to, that is, in favor of membership in the EU. Counting them this way, EU membership could be approved, even if there are fewer yes votes than no votes. That does not seem right. On the other hand, it would be unfair to assume that there are more yes votes than no votes and abstentions combined. Then an abstention would in practice be the same as a no vote. If abstentions are given the same weight as yes and no votes, the whole referendum may go all wrong. Let us remember what we intend to determine: Are Finns saying yes or no to EU membership?
