FBIS4-38725 "drsov106_b_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-106 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Yeltsin Support for Financial Service Bill Sought Yeltsin Support for Financial Service Bill Sought MK0206082094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 2 Jun 94 p 2 MK0206082094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Aleksandr Bekker report in the "Projects" column: "Boris Fedorov Has Appealed to Boris Yeltsin. The Ex-Minister Proposed to Use the Law to Protect Consumers' Rights in the Sphere of Financial Services"] [Text] The recently proliferating "instances of collapse and outright fraud on the part of such financial establishments as the Independent Oil Concern, Fisko, and Impulsinvest" has prompted State Duma subcommittee chairman Boris Fedorov to turn to Boris Yeltsin. The former finance minister drew the president's attention to the fact that apart from material losses, thousands of defrauded citizens are losing trust in the reforms and the policy pursued by the head of state. The emergence and collapse of "scam" companies is the result of weak legislative regulation; moreover, state bodies, in Mr. Fedorov's opinion, have shunned decisive action. This situation is used by the media, spreading advertisements for a multitude of dubious firms. Invoking his right to initiate legislation, deputy Fedorov officially submitted to the State Duma a draft law On Protecting Consumers' Rights in the Sphere of Financial Services. The author subsumes under the category of financial services soliciting deposits, conclusion of contracts on any forms of monetary fund management, and any form of mediation in securities operations. Said services may be provided both in the Russian national currency and in foreign exchange. These services may be provided only based on a license issued by the Central Bank, the Finance Ministry, or another regulating body. To make sure that the consumer does not make a blind choice, an article in Fedorov's draft obligates the provider of financial services to present all the relevant information, an unambiguous description of his services, and the actual interest rate on income or fixed dividend at an annual rate, if such is guaranteed. For its part the Central Bank and government institutions, in order to curb the activity of bogus firms, shall verify, on requests from private citizens or corporate entities, the authenticity of financial services offered by their organizers. The Central Bank and the Finance Ministry must regularly publish both "black" and "white" lists of firms that have received licenses and forfeited the right to operate on the financial services market. "Violators of the convention" are to be fined to the extent of 1,000 times the minimum monthly wage. Punishment is also to be apportioned to directors of media outlets that have advertised subsequently banned firms providing such "services." The fine, however, is envisioned at only half the above rate. It is extremely important that "in the event that the activity by an organization offering financial services is suspended...the body responsible for this decision...be obliged to take all possible measures to protect the impounded funds, including from inflation...by temporarily investing them in reliable and sufficiently profitable financial market instruments." Noting that its passage through the Duma can drag out, Boris Fedorov asked Boris Yeltsin to use this draft in preparing a corresponding presidential edict.
