FBIS3-26173 "drchi023_a_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Foreign Ministry Holds Weekly News Briefing More on Human Rights Issue HK0302084294 Hong Kong AFP in English 0829 GMT 3 Feb 94 HK0302084294 Hong Kong AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Beijing, Feb 3 (AFP)--China slammed Thursday a US State Department report that criticised Beijing's human rights record, labelling it "utterly unreasonable" and a gross distortion of the facts. [passage omitted] The publication of the report and China's aggressive response is sure to further hamper Sino-U.S. negotiations over Washington's renewal of China's most-favoured-nation (MFN) trading status, which President Bill Clinton has tied to significant progress in human rights. [Foreign Ministry spokesman] Wu also accused Washington of using the human rights issue to undermine China's sovereign rights, reiterating that Beijing is "resolutely opposed to interference in our internal affairs under the excuse of human rights." In a clear reference to the detention of political prisoners, Wu stressed that the functioning of China's judiciary "is something that the Chinese government cannot interfere in, let alone any foreign forces." "It is not appropriate to mix human rights issues and legal issues," he added. The U.S. report said China had released some prominent political dissidents, but continued to hold hundreds and perhaps thousands more, and often engaged in torture in prisons, especially in sensitive regions such as Tibet. "Fundamental human rights provided for in the Chinese Constitution frequently are ignored in practice, and challenges to the Communist Party's political authority are often dealt with harshly and arbitrarily," the report said. [passage omitted] Asked if China was willing to make gestures in the human rights area in order to make it easier for Clinton to recommend MFN renewal, Wu simply reiterated the government's position of holding dialogue with other countries "on the basis of equality and mutual respect."
