FBIS3-55057 "drsov004_g_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Jan 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Popular Movement Leader Outlines 3 Main Political Groupings WS3112084893 Minsk SEM DNEY in Russian 25 Dec 93 p 3 WS3112084893 Minsk SEM DNEY Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Interview with Sergey Gaydukevich, chairman of the Popular Movement of Belarus, by Andrey Korabelnikov; place and date not given: "There Are Only Three Forces in Belarus"] [Excerpt] There are 13 political parties and over 100 different movements in Belarus today. A SEM DNEY correspondent has interviewed People's Deputy Sergey Gaydukevich, chairman of the Popular Movement of Belarus [PMB], on the real political power of these organizations. [Gaydukevich] There are many parties and movements. However, that does not imply that they are cardinally different. The world has long been acquainted with the pendulum principle. This principle accounts for only two determining forces. These forces can be assessed in many terms, but in their essence they are either "right" or "left." Political power is also controlled either by the former or the latter -- it never rests in the middle. Therefore, any party or movement gravitates either to the "right" or to the "left." One force stands for the superiority of government property and the implementation of major social programs, the other stands for the superiority of the private sector and the reduction of state subsidies for social security programs. A state that tries to stop the movement of that pendulum is in dire straits. Unfortunately, this is the situation in which we find ourselves. There are only three real political forces in the Republic: the PMB, the Belarusian Popular Front [BPF], and...the Council of Ministers. All the others are satellites. With regard to the Council of Ministers being a third political force, it is an obvious fact. It is not without reason that people speak about Kebich's policy; no other politicians or economists are mentioned. In our situation, this force speaks of reforms, but, thus far, its declarations have not been supported by practical actions. The second influential force was -- and remains -- the BPF. This organization has a concrete political and economic program. BPF representatives work in different command structures, participate in Supreme Soviet activities, and exert significant influence on mass media. The determining factor in their activities is private property. However, their proposal for the resolution of the national question has pushed many people away from the BPF. The BPF is supported by fewer and fewer people. The third force is the PMB, which is a peculiar union of unions. We bring together 22 parties and movements from throughout the Republic. What does that mean? It means that all these organizations are united in one front. Their independence is secured, but common goals will be achieved together. The basic principle of our movement is the return of a strong system of state power, as well as economic diversity with social security guarantees for workers. [passage omitted]
