FBIS4-3027 "drchi074_a_94015" FBIS-CHI-94-074 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General GATT Meeting Concludes With `Marrakesh Declaration' GATT Meeting Concludes With `Marrakesh Declaration' OW1604022694 Beijing XINHUA in English 0159 GMT 16 Apr 94 OW1604022694 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Marrakesh, Morocco, April 15 (XINHUA) -- A ministerial meeting of GATT ended here today with the adoption of the world's biggest trade deal designed to frame a better global economic order. The deal, or the "Marrakesh declaration," which formally endorses the Uruguay-round trade accords reached last December, was signed by ministers from more than 120 industrial and developing countries. The deal provides for a 40-percent cut in the world's tariffs, a move which will add some 200 billion U.S. dollars to the global income every year in the next decade. The declaration officially approved the creation of a World Trade Organization (WTO) to replace GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) in theory from January 1, 1995, marking "a new era of global economic cooperation" and in response to the widespread wish for "a fairer and more open multilateral trade system." It said that the developing countries have played "a remarkably active role" in the Uruguay round, "a historic step towards a more balanced and integrated global trade partnership." China signed the Uruguay-round accords and an agreement on the WTO, which will pave the way for its re-entry into GATT and for its WTO membership. The less developed countries should enjoy "more favorable treatment," the declaration stressed, pledging continued support to them in trade and investment. It said that the WTO, the new world trade watchdog, will increase aid "substantially" to developing countries. In the declaration, the ministers hailed the conclusion of the Uruguay-round trade talks as a historic achievement, which will boost "trade, investment, employment and incomes all over the world." They also put emphasis on environmental issues and sustainable development. The ministerial meeting in the Moroccan oasis city started Tuesday and was attended by 124 nations.
