FBIS4-59576 "drnes094_s_94012" FBIS-NES-94-094 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 SOUTH ASIA Iran Reaction Continues to Alleged Embassy Bugging Reaction Continues to Alleged Embassy Bugging UK `Absolutely Untrustworthy' NC1405194594 Tehran JOMHURI-YE ESLAMI in Persian 30 Apr 94 p 15 NC1405194594 Tehran JOMHURI-YE ESLAMI Persian BFN [Editorial: "The British--Once Again on the Wrong Path!"] [Text] In the name of God, the compassionate, the merciful. It appears on the basis of current facts and figures that Iranian-British relations will never acquire any stability. The British seem constantly itching to disrupt existing relations with Tehran by taking advantage of the situation. If we were to assess the history of Iranian-British political relations over a 15-year period, we would conclude that these relations were never trusting. On one day the British Government--in its emulation of the United States and as a sign of sympathy with Washington--mars relations with Iran because of the fall of the den of spies [U.S. Embassy in Tehran]. However, when it stands to lose, it grovels for eight years for the restoration of relations. Eventually, because of the requests and pleading on the part of London, relations were resumed. On another day the mischievous British, who have used the unfortunate Salman Rushdie as a tool for their policies, once again broke off relations and then apologized and relations were resumed. Today, once again the British have adopted a new policy in their propaganda and are making new claims. The response to the latest British claims is something that pertains to our Foreign Ministry, which on principle has delivered a firm and poised response on this matter. However, it is essential that our officials should study this dossier and learn the appropriate lessons. They should reach the conclusion that the British are not reliable people and therefore it is necessary that the level of relations with London should be reduced to a minimum, especially in the economic field. We should not forget that even on sending our students to England the British sought to capitalize on this issue for political leverage. They even deprived our students at the doctorate level from presenting their dissertations and expelled them in a hostile and unprincipled way. With such a black dossier, the British are absolutely untrustworthy and the objective of their latest game has not yet been revealed. In any case, it is necessary that the Foreign Ministry and the decisionmaking centers be vigilant and appraise all aspects of the issue so that the London Government cannot capitalize once again on this foolish politico-propagandistic game. The experience of the past 15 years since our Revolution proves that it is only possible in this manner to make London realize that it is mistaken in its calculations and is treading the wrong path.
