FBIS3-61434 "jpust001___94032" JPRS-UST-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 6 January 1994 ENGINEERING AND EQUIPMENT NUCLEAR AND NON-NUCLEAR ENERGY Certain Issues of Developing Electromagnetic System of Tokamak-Type Fusion Reactor 947F0045A Moscow IZVESTIYA ROSSIYSKOY AKADEMII NAUK: ENERGETIKA in Russian No 5 Sep-Oct 93 pp 81-88 947F0045A Moscow IZVESTIYA ROSSIYSKOY AKADEMII NAUK: ENERGETIKA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by V.A. Glukhikh, St. Petersburg; UDC 621.039.6.02] [Abstract] The design and operating principles of Tokamak fusion reactors, their principal parameters, and recent advances in controlled nuclear fusion (UTC) research are outlined, and the performance indicators of T-15, TFTR (US), JT-60 (Japan), JET (Euratom), and ITER (joint development by Euratom member-countries together with the United States, Russia, and Japan) are compared. The specific requirements imposed upon the reactor's electromagnetic system--the most complicated and expensive component reaching more than 20% of the entire structure's price tag--and the three key problems which must be solved in developing the electromagnetic system, i.e., developing a superconducting cable, electric insulation, and structural cryogenic materials, are discussed in detail. The three principal stages of the research program aimed at solving these problems--examining short samples and determining the current carrying ability in magnetic fields of up to 12 T or more, developing production practices for making 500 m long conductors and examining model coils made from this conductor, and examining model toroidal and poloidal field coils under the conditions which simulate actual windings operation--are presented. A schematic diagram of the ITER fusion reactor and conductor and test bench design drawings are cited. Two winding and conductor fabrication methods developed by the Inorganic Materials Institute imeni A.A. Bochvar are summarized, and the outcome of the early R&D efforts is analyzed. Two brands of steel have been selected for the electromagnetic system: 03Kh20N16AG6 and 03Kh13N9G19AM2. The conclusion is drawn that the findings obtained thus far attest to the possibility of developing an electromagnetic system for an ITER reactor with a 22 MA plasma current and a fusion power on the order of 1 GW. Large-scale research at the second and third stage must address the scientific and engineering issues related to developing these unique structures. Figures 4; tables 4; references 2: 1 Russian, 1 Western.
