FBIS4-25592 "drchi113_n_94020" FBIS-CHI-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 Economic & Agricultural Official Orders Closing of Illegal Gold Markets Official Orders Closing of Illegal Gold Markets OW1206121594 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0321 GMT 10 Jun 94 OW1206121594 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [By reporter Sun Jie (1327 2638)] [Text] Beijing, 10 Jun (XINHUA) -- Speaking at a meeting in Beijing today, Cui Dewen, vice director of the State Gold Administration under the Ministry of Metallurgical Industry, called on localities to resolutely shut down illegal gold markets before the end of this month. Cui Dewen pointed out the recent appearance of unauthorized gold transaction points in some regions and the brisk illegal transactions of gold there. The existence of illegal gold markets leads to the loss of gold products. Localities must conscientiously implement the guidelines set out in the relevant circular issued recently by the State Council General Office; immediately organize banks, industry and commerce departments, public security bureaus, customs, gold industry, and gold and jewelry production management departments to take forceful measures; further rectify illegal gold markets; and strictly investigate and handle cases of illegal sales of gold products by gold-producing enterprises. Concerned personnel and major local officials will be held responsible if illegal gold markets are found in their regions after 1 July. Cui Dewen stressed that the state exercises fixed management over the production, processing, and wholesale and retail sales of gold and jewelry. Localities must immediately crack down on units that illegally sell gold and jewelry without the approval of the People's Bank of China. Gold futures trading is strictly prohibited, and the establishment of various types of gold futures markets is also strictly prohibited. All levels of gold management departments and production enterprises should enhance their management over finished gold products. Gold mines must turn over all the gold they produce to the state, they must not engage in illegal transactions, and they must not retain gold for their own use.
