FBIS3-33267 "drlat035_i_94012" FBIS-LAT-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 Nicaragua Decree Outlines Organization PA1802144994 Managua Radio Nicaragua Network in Spanish 1100 GMT 18 Feb 94 PA1802144994 Managua Radio Nicaragua Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Decree No. 5-94 issued by Nicaraguan President Violeta Chamorro in Managua on 17 February; from the "This Morning" newscast] [Text] The president of the Republic of Nicaragua, by virtue of her powers, decrees: Article 1 The Social Communications Directorate is created. For brevity's sake, from here on in this decree it will be called the Directorate. It will be under the Presidency of the Republic. The Directorate will be in charge of reporting the activities of the Presidency of the Republic and the executive branch to achieve better dissemination of their work, programs, and projects. Article 2 The directorate will have the following principal functions: A. Be in charge of the information services of the Presidency of the Republic and the executive branch. B. Report the activities of the government in general, proceeding to improve their dissemination. C. Coordinate the official spokespersons and officials in charge of public relations of the various executive branch institutions to achieve a coherent dissemination of the government plans and activities. D. Compile and process information about events of interest to the government of the Republic. E. Direct the publicity of the executive branch institutions to streamline the use of resources and transmit a more coherent image of the government's actions. F. Establish relations with various local and foreign media and with public and private organizations involved in this activity. Article 3 A general director and two deputy directors appointed by the president of the Republic will be in charge of the Directorate. The deputy directors will cooperate with the general director in the activities he assigns them for the better development of their functions. Article 4 The directorate will have an advisory council formed by the number of members the president of the Republic decides and appoints. This council will be headed by the general director, and its organization and functions will be regulated by the respective regulations. Article 5 The Social Communications Directorate will replace the Information and Press Directorate of the Presidency of the Republic [DIPP], which was created by Decree 9-90, without interruption of all its rights and obligations. Article 6 All assets and enterprises that had been assigned to the administration of the DIPP, which is dissolved with this decree, are transferred -- without interruption of rights and obligations -- through this decree and for the same motive to the Social Communications Directorate that is created here. Article 7 The Finance Ministry, in coordination with the Social Communications Directorate, will appoint a board to liquidate the DIPP to determine the assumption or transfer of the assets and liabilities of that directorate, in accordance with what was previously stated. Article 8 The general director will organize the functioning of the Directorate and the efficient coordination of its informational activities and programs. Article 9 Presidential Decree No. 9-90, creating the DIPP and published in LA GACETA No. 98 on 23 May 1990, is abolished. Article 10 This decree will enter into force after its publication by any media, not precluding its subsequent publication in LA GACETA, the official gazette. Issued at the Presidential House in Managua on 17 February 1994. Signed: Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, president of the Republic
