FBIS4-20498 "jpcst006___94025" JPRS-CST-94-006 JPRS Science & Technology China 28 March 1994 Microelectronics ese 28 Ja American Chip Maker Scouts Out the Market American Chip Maker Scouts Out the Market 40100047A Beijing CHINA DAILY (BUSINESS WEEKLY) in English 28 Mar 94 p 8 40100047A Beijing CHINA DAILY (BUSINESS WEEKLY) English CSO [Article by Zhao Jinming] [Text] Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD), America's fifth-largest maker of integrated circuits, has worked out a comprehensive plant to open up the market and contribute investment in China. As a first step, AMD is organizing a series of seminars in the country to foster its relationship with Chinese customers and build up recognition, said Jerry Lynch, AMD's vice-president of sales and marketing for the Asia-Pacific region. Seminars held in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou earlier this month focused on programmable logic devices. Next week, exchanges on telecommunications products will be held in Shanghai and Shenzhen. To boost sales on the mainland, AMD has selected Nanco Electronics Supply Ltd. as its new distributor. The company set up its first China office in Beijing eight years ago and has since expanded its regional distribution network, with an office in Shanghai. It plans to open another office in Guangzhou this year. Though AMD is late to enter the Chinese market, indirect sales of its products on the mainland are not small, said Lynch, adding that AMD regards China as a big potential market. AMD is also interested in establishing joint ventures in the second half of this decade. ``But, at present, we will try to learn what China needs in the field,'' Lynch said. While selling products, AMD intends to train Chinese technicians to improve China-made electronic products, said Angie Ko, AMD's regional marketing manager. Set up in 1969, AMD specializes in microprocessors -- computer chips -- and related computer and telecommunications equipment. The company has manufacturing plants in the US, Europe and East Asia.
