FBIS4-21645 "jptnd009___94032" JPRS-TND-94-009 JPRS PROLIFERATION ISSUES 13 February 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA INDIA Plant To Extract Uranium Proposed for Kerala Plant To Extract Uranium Proposed for Kerala 94WP0091C Bombay THE SUNDAY TIMES OF INDIA in English 13 Feb 94 p 23 94WP0091C Bombay THE SUNDAY TIMES OF INDIA English CSO [Text] Bombay, February 12--A plant for recovery of uranium from phosphoric acid is proposed at Alwaye, Kerala, where a pilot plant set up by the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre is in operation for about three years. The technology used is developed by BARC [Bhabha Atomic Research Center], which will be joining hands with a few fertiliser companies in putting up the plant. The project report is under consideration. The pilot plant is in the campus of FACT (Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore Limited), which is one of the companies interested in the new project. SPIC [expansion not given] and Paradip Phosphates are said to be the others. The proposed plant will be put up adjacent to the factory. India is one of five countries to have the technology for extracting uranium from phosphoric acid produced by fertilisers companies. The rock phosphates used by the companies contain some amount of uranium which has to be recovered to make the acid as also the effluents radiation-free. There is also interest abroad in the BARC technology. For instance, the chairman of the Syrian Atomic Energy Commission, during his visit to the city last month, evinced a keen interest in getting the technology. The proposal is being examined. A special reference to the technology was made by Mr A.N. Prasad, director of BARC, at the inaugural function yesterday of the three-day national symposium on "organic reagents--synthesis and use in extractive metallurgy," organised by the Board of Research in Nuclear Science (BRNS). While Prof M.M. Sharma, director of the University Department of Chemical Technology, dealt with the important role played by solvent extraction in the field of extraction metallurgy, Mr Prasad highlighted applications of solvent extraction techniques for nuclear and common metals and materials production and processing. Prof Sharma stressed the need to take into account techno-economic aspects while developing production processes for various organic reagents. Dr C.K. Gupta, director, materials group, BARC, recalled the pioneering work by the Uranium & Rare Earth Extraction Division in the field of solvent extraction and synthesis of organic reagents used in the process and said technology for production of some organic solvents was ripe for passing on to industry.
