FBIS4-64949 "drweu090_q_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-090 Daily Report 4 May 1994 TURKEY Azerbaijani Ambassador: Karabakh Not Party to Conflict Azerbaijani Ambassador: Karabakh Not Party to Conflict NC0605180494 Ankara TURKISH DAILY NEWS in English 4 May 94 p 3 NC0605180494 Ankara TURKISH DAILY NEWS English BFN [Report by Nazlan Ertan] [Text] Ankara--Azerbaijan's acceptance to sit at the same table with representatives of Nagorno-Karabakh in peace talks in Bishkek does not mean Baku has recognized this enclave as a party to the Karabakh conflict, Azerbaijani Ambassador to Ankara said Tuesday [10 May]. On the eve of the three-day peace talks hosted by Kyrgyzstan, Ambassador Mamed Novruz ogly Aliyev told the Turkish Daily News that Azerbaijan still regarded Nagorno-Karabakh as part of its territory and not as a separate party to the conflict. Novruz ogly's remarks flatly contradicted those of Vladimir Shumeyko, chairman of the upper chamber of Russian Parliament, who was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying that Azerbaijan had stated its readiness to recognize Nagorno-Karabakh as "one of the parties in the conflict." Shumeyko's remarks coincide with new Armenian attacks north and east of Karabakh and a new round of peace talks in the Kyrgyz capital, Bishkek, between Parliament leaders from Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan, as well as representatives from Karabakh. "We have sat at the same table with representatives of Karabakh in international meetings before. We have no objection to their presence. Be they of Armenian or Azerbaijani origin, they are representatives of our people in this enclave and we are ready to listen to their problems. But we do not recognize them as a party to the conflict," Novruz ogly said. "They are there as the representatives of Karabakh. Nagorno-Karabakh has no Parliament and no parliamentary leader," he said, referring to the self-declared Karabakh Parliament that previously passed a resolution of annexation to Armenia. "They will not have the same status at the table as the other participants."
