FBIS3-39791 "drweu035_q_94017" FBIS-WEU-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 TURKEY DEP Leader Comments NC1902214094 London Kanal-6 Television in Turkish 1700 GMT 19 Feb 94 NC1902214094 London Kanal-6 Television Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Text] There are still repercussions from the bomb attack on Democracy Party [DEP] headquarters in Ankara. It was announced that the police are continuing with the investigation, but so far no one has been detained. President Demirel and some politicians condemned the bomb attack. In his turn, DEP leader Hatip Dicle said they will participate in the elections regardless of all the pressure on the party. [Begin recording] [Metin Corabatir] The bomb experts conducted an investigation at the building where the explosion took place. The teams, which could not enter the building last night because of severed power lines, collected evidence in connection with the explosion. It is believed that the highly explosive bomb, which was planted in the building's elevator and which killed one person and injured 20, was identical in structure to the bomb that was planted in the building last week and which also caused damage. A number of German parliamentarians visited DEP headquarters and expressed their sympathies. Hatip Dicle, who organized a news conference at DEP headquarters, held the government responsible for the attack. Dicle also severely criticized Speaker of Parliament Husamettin Cindoruk, who opposed the dispatch of observers to the local elections by the European Parliament [Dicle] Now, I am asking the esteemed Cindoruk: The day you wrote a letter to the European Parliament, the counterguerrillas again bombed our party's headquarters. Now, how can you claim that under these conditions there could exist a just and free election atmosphere? Mr. Mentese made a very unfortunate statement yesterday. He said the DEP bombed its own building. An interior minister cannot lower himself to that level, or make such base statements. [end recording] Interior Minister Nahit Mentese reacted very strongly when he was told that Hatip Dicle used the word base. Mentese accused Hatip Dicle of being a traitor to the country. Upon being informed of Hatip Dicle's words used against him, Interior Minister Mentese said: What else could be expected from a traitor to the country? The entire nation has risen up against Hatip. He makes fun of the nation, while young reserve officers die. Can I ever accept such a man as my counterpart?
