FBIS3-13013 "drnes045_s_94017" FBIS-NES-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 Iran Commentary Views Cooperation With India, China LD0603203594 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran in English 1930 GMT 6 Mar 94 LD0603203594 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed commentary] [Text] Close to the end of the visit to Tehran by China's foreign minister and vice premier, Qian Qichen, Mr. Dinesh Singh, India's external affairs minister, arrived in the Iranian capital. Concurrence of the visits of these two major strategic Asian countries' foreign ministers to Tehran has drawn attention of the world's political circles to the tripartite talks among Iran, India, and China. Significance of this matter lies in the fact that, under the new global conditions, the concept of security and power has undergone a change in qualitative terms. The world is now about to enter the phase where political, economic, and military regionalism will replace earlier equations of polarized power in the Cold War era at international level. It is assumed the strategic location of the three interrelated zones in geographical and historical terms--namely, the Islamic zone and the zones of the Chinese and Indian civilizations--under the new global conditions and in a realistic survey, can turn India, Iran, and China into a well-integrated group. Upon adding Pakistan to this group, one can say that there will emerge a regional power pole. Such a pole will have an undeniable impact in safeguarding regional and world peace and in motivating national development in these countries. The Islamic Republic of Iran is the center of the Islamic civilization. India, too, is the center of the Indian civilization, while China enjoys a similar position in the Confucian civilization. Growth of mutual cooperation in these three zones of historic civilization can strengthen Asia's independence in all aspects. The factor which can turn such an alliance into a desirable group in the contemporary world underlies that the group enjoys all resources for development in terms of natural resources, work force, and technology. Based on the vastness of the groups geographical limits--ranging from the Middle East to the Indian subcontinent and east Asia--and its population, which is nearly half of the world, this point becomes clear. In the event of total realization of these resources, not only the group will be able to respond to all of its needs but will also become a model encouraging the enhancement of cooperation in the entire Asian continent. Upon considering the triangle of power, comprising Tehran, New Delhi, and Beijing as a well integrated group, one can say without any doubt that the equation of international power will come to face more diverse pressures from the Western world and the new UN-sponsored world order. Such a situation will not only increase this group's power to confront the covetous designs of the West but will also boost the capacity of each of the countries included in this power triangle for confrontation in political and economic spheres.
