FBIS4-42261 "drweu105_p_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-105 Daily Report 28 May 1994 GREECE Dailies View U.S Policy on Greek Minority in Albania Dailies View U.S Policy on Greek Minority in Albania Wrong To Place `Hopes' on U.S. NC2805200694 Athens RIZOSPASTIS in Greek 28 May 94 p 5 NC2805200694 Athens RIZOSPASTIS Greek BFN [From the "Our View" column: "Search for Guardians"] [Text] The latest crisis that broke out in Greek-Albanian relations as a result of the provocations of the Tirana government brought to the foreground again the issue of the general orientation of the current government's foreign policy. Irrespective of the final outcome, the developments of the past few days cause great concern for the delicate balance of powers in the Balkans. This is especially true when one takes into account that a number of factors tend toward instability, and there are many things that exist or have been fabricated that can in any time cause the situation to explode. The U.S. State Department's positions regarding the Greek arguments on the violation of the Greek minority's rights in Albania seek to justify the Tirana government. The main result, though, is that the State Department's positions belie the hopes placed by the government of PASOK [Panhellenic Socialist Movement] on the development of particularly "warm" relations with the United States. From the beginning of its term, this government has tried by all means to win the favor of the United States in order to use it in dealing with almost all foreign policy problems (Skopje [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia--FYROM], Greek-Turkish relations, the Cyprus issue, relations with Albania). In order to gain this favor, the government has pretty much "put itself" at the service of U.S. foreign policy and its aims in the Balkans. The government justified this choice as a necessary answer to the offending positions of Greece's EU [European Union] partners. As is known, in recent years the Albanian leadership has capitalized on the U.S. intention to gain an advanced outpost in the "hot" zone in the south of the former Yugoslavia by offering "land and water." Consequently it won the title of a "U.S. protectorate." As a result, when the crisis in Greek-Albanian relations broke out as a result of the incident at Episkopi, the Greek Government placed many hopes that it would be settled by U.S. intervention with Albania. This obvious expectation was also raised during Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou's trip to the United States, where, among other things, the government offered to play the role of "Trojan horse" for U.S. economic penetration of the Balkans. At that time, the current National Economy Minister Ioannis Papandoniou characteristically said in New York: "The Balkan people do not want the Americans very much, because of their past as a superpower." The "clearing up" of this "past," which has been transformed into a more agonizing "present," was assumed by the government. But now what? Ever since PASOK came to power, we said that the "carte blanche" handing of all unsettled disputes to the United States not only would not be in Greece's favor, but on the contrary would worsen conditions. The history of this "subjection," for which PASOK has successfully passed the test, teaches us that giving in to the orders of imperialism is the worst service to the national interests. There is a scope for exercising national policy in the Balkans. The issue is that the government does not appear willing to abandon the search for "guardians."
