FBIS4-62949 "drsov097_a_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-097 Daily Report 18 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev Praises Results of Meeting Kozyrev Praises Results of Meeting LD1805143094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1317 GMT 18 May 94 LD1805143094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Lyudmila Aleksandrova] [Text] Moscow, 18 May -- Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev has highly praised the results of today's Russian-Finnish summit attended by the presidents of the two countries: Boris Yeltsin and Martti Ahtisaari. During a conversation with journalists at the end of the talks, he said that Finland has given Russia great support in the implementation of its initiative to create a post of the commissioner for Baltic sea countries for human rights, including the rights of people belonging to ethnic minorities. This complicated matter will be discussed at the forthcoming meeting in Tallinn between representatives from the Baltic sea countries, which will also be attended by the Russian foreign minister. It is the Finnish diplomacy, according to him, which played a mediatory role and helped to work out a compromise according to which the commissioner has been given a clear mandate to deal with human rights in the Baltics. "High standards reached in the area of human rights in Finland, Sweden, and other countries of the Baltic sea must be emulated," continued the minister. "We are not demanding privileges for the Russian speaking population, but we are demanding equality and will not compromise on this." Andrey Kozyrev said that in August there will be meeting of representatives from the Barents sea countries and that Finland is involved in the preparation of the meeting. Andrey Kozyrev noted that not all the questions on the agenda were easy, "But what is important is that they are not at the heart of a political dispute." One of the most important positive factors in Russian-Finnish relations is the fact that neither side has any territorial claims. "All these matters have been fully settled through bilateral agreements and through the CSCE," he said.
