FBIS3-49868 "dreeu012_b_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 BULGARIA Minority in Serbia's `Western Outlands' Discussed AU1801211294 Sofia VECHERNI NOVINI in Bulgarian 13 Jan 94 p 6 AU1801211294 Sofia VECHERNI NOVINI Language: Bulgarian Article Type:BFN [Rosa Popova report: "Discussion About the Western Outlands"] [Text] The situation of the Bulgarian minority in the Western Outlands [in southeastern Serbia] is a controversial and crucial problem for Bulgaria. As a result of political assimilation, the fate of those compatriots is not enviable, as noted in a recent discussion organized by the Bulgarian Socialist Party [BSP] Supreme Council's Commission on Ethnic and National Issues. Representatives of the "Western Outlands" Union, of the Orthodox Church, and of the U.S. Embassy in Sofia participated in the meeting. After nearly 70 years of neglect, the problem of the Western Outlands is regaining prominence in the eyes of the public, Prof. Momchil Todorov, chairman of the "Western Outlands" Union, declared. In talking about assimilation we should not imply that the number of Bulgarians in those areas is diminishing, but we should take into account the emerging pro-Yugoslav trends and the alienation from their Bulgarian roots and traditions. Nevertheless, in discussing such delicate relations, we should manifest great tolerance for the Republic of Serbia, academician Ilcho Dimitrov pointed out in his statement. The question of the Western Outlands should be dealt with in the context of a general concept on the national question as a whole, Prof. Dimitrov added. The fundamental solution of this issue and of all other problems related to the situation of our compatriots living abroad should be part of a comprehensive Bulgarian state policy on the national question. By opening up a similar discussion about all the crucial problems related to the so-called Macedonian issue, as well as to the situation of our emigres in Bessarabia and Moldova, the BSP intends to submit a special document related to state policy on the national question.
