FBIS3-41516 "jpten003___94008" JPRS-TEN-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 7 February 1994 CHINA State To Provide Low-Interest Loans for Environment Projects HK1401065494 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 14 Jan 94 p 1 HK1401065494 Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:BFN [By staff reporter Zhu Baoxia: ``State Gives Go-Ahead to Green Foundation''] [Text] The central government is to set up a foundation to provide low-interest loans to major environmental projects, it was announced yesterday. The foundation is meant to be a stable source of low-interest finance to fight widespread pollution, with no extra burden on the State budget, said Xie Zhenhua, director of the State Environmental Protection Agency (Sepa). Xie told an expert meeting in Beijing yesterday that the country s environment had been deteriorating in all but a few places for years. One of the major factors in the growing problem has been a lack of cash, Xie said. In the 1980's, the State invested 64.7 billion yuan (about $11.3 billion at the old exchange rate) on environmental projects, 0.6 percent of gross domestic product over the decade. Experts say at least 75 billion yuan ($8.6 billion at the current exchange rate) more is needed in the next six years, if the State is to contain worsening pollution. Xie stressed the government should be just one source of cash and more channels must be found to guarantee quick, sustainable environmental protection. The repayable foundation system is one of the more feasible and effective approaches to attract cash, he said. It aims to provide cash mainly to industrial pollution-control projects which will be repaid from the resulting savings the factories make. The foundation will be built with cash from the State budget, grants and loans from international organizations, foreign governments and individuals and domestic donations. Its draft programme being discussed at the expert meeting which ends today suggests a national environmental protection investment company be set up to organize fundraising and loans. The company, which is subordinate to Sepa, will be responsible for collecting funds, selecting projects and supervising the use of loans. Priority would be given to cross-province pollution control and environmental projects outlined in international and bilateral agreements. The company will also invest in pollution-control projects in major State-owned enterprises to set an example for other industries. Xie said Sepa is set to start pilot environmental projects in 21 provinces and cities, including Beijing, Guangzhou, Liaoning and Heilongjiang. The national environmental foundation programme was based on an experiment first introduced five years ago in Shenyang, a heavy industry city in Northeast China's Liaoning Province. Shenyang, with over 5,000 industrial enterprises, has long been one of the country's most seriously-polluted cities. The Shenyang Environmental Protection Investment Company (Sepic) has loaned 162 million yuan (over $28 million) to local factories since 1988 to help technical renovation designed to control industrial pollution.
