FBIS4-43773 "drweu119__a94002" FBIS-WEU-94-119-A Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 ANNEX International Affairs Claes Discusses `New Strategic Triangle' Claes Discusses `New Strategic Triangle' BR1706141894 Brussels BELGA Database in French 1740 GMT 16 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1706141894 Brussels BELGA Database French BFN [Article signed ALB/MTH: "Claes: You Must Fight for Peace and Stability Every Day"] [Text] Oslo/Brussels, 16 Jun (BELGA) -- "West Europe has enjoyed 50 years of peace and prosperity. Contrary to what many young people believe, this is not to be taken for granted. You must fight to maintain this stability every day," Belgian Foreign Minister Willy Claes declared at a NATO seminar in Oslo on Thursday [16 June]. The Belgian minister spoke of the "new strategic triangle" formed by the European Union (EU), the United States, and Russia. "It is vitally important for all of us to build a solid and balanced collaboration between these three major players," Mr. Claes declared in a communique issued by the Foreign Ministry in Brussels. As regards the United States, the minister welcomes the fact that it wishes to continue to fulfill its role in Europe, coupled, however, with a greater effort by the Europeans themselves. On the subject of Russia, Claes stressed the difficulty in predicting the country's future, as well as its future internal and external policy. It was clear last week at the NATO meeting in Istanbul that Russia is increasingly emerging as a major power. The problem is also to know how Russia can be positively included in the "strategic triangle" of which the minister spoke. As regards the EU, the minister regretted that the joint foreign and security policy still has a great deal of progress to make and that the Union does not have adequate resources to deal with a crisis such as in the former Yugoslavia. Mr. Claes pointed out that under the Belgian EU presidency, no effort had been spared in promoting dialogue with the United States, and that the EU was going to sign a partnership agreement with Russia in Corfu. "It is hoped that this agreement will support the country's economic reforms and stability," the minister said.
