FBIS3-25981 "drchi022_v_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 TAIWAN DPP Looks To Forge Closer Ties With Business Community OW0102085294 Taipei CNA in English 0722 GMT 1 Feb 94 OW0102085294 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By S. C. Tsai] [Text] Taipei, Feb. 1 (CNA) -- Shih Ming-teh, chairman of the opposition Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), Tuesday [1 February] pledged that the party would strengthen cooperation with Taiwan's business community. During a breakfast meeting with senior business executives on the 1994 economic outlook, Shih said a series of similar meetings will be held to promote understanding between the DPP and the domestic business circle. More than 20 business executives were present at the Tuesday meeting, while the DPP was represented by Shih, chairman Yang Huang Mei-hsing of the foreign affairs department, chairman Chiang Peng-chien of the China Affairs Committee, and legislators S. P. Chen, P.H. Peng, F. H. Shen, and T.T. Hsu. Chang Kuo-an, chairman of the Fengchun Group, expressed the hope that lawmakers of the major opposition party will help revise outdated rules and regulations to cope with the economic development vital to Taiwan's future. The statement was echoed by Chen Sheng-tien, chairman of the Sampo Group. Chen said lawmakers must monitor the executive branch with a view to improving executive efficiency. Two major problems now facing the Taiwan economy are how to create wealth and the equitable distribution of wealth, Chen added. On Taiwan's policy toward investment in Mainland China, Hsu Hsien-jung, president of Prince Motors Co., Ltd., pointed out that the government should map out a set of workable measures for the private sector to follow. "It's a trend that domestic enterprises will increase investments in Mainland China," he noted. Moreover, Hsu stressed, the government should set a timetable for further financial liberalization in its ambition to build Taiwan as an Asia-Pacific business operations center. Liu Tai-ying, chairman of the China Development Corp., however, said he saw nothing in the DPP's industrial policy. "I don't understand its attitude toward trade ties across the Taiwan Strait," he added. Liu is concurrently chairman of the ruling Kuomintang's enterprises management committee. Shih said after the meeting that the party is not anti-business and any such impression is a mistake. To enhance understanding between the party and private enterprises, similar meetings will also be held in central and southern Taiwan, he noted.
