FBIS4-16861 "drsov076_o_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-076 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 Uzbekistan Karimov, Li Peng Stress Developing Ties Karimov, Li Peng Stress Developing Ties LD1904162194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1408 GMT 19 Apr 94 LD1904162194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent] [Text] Tashkent, 19 Apr -- The development of relations between China and the countries of Central Asia will not be to the detriment of its ties with the other CIS countries, including Russia. This was stated today by PRC State Council Prime Minister Li Peng following the talks which took place with Uzbekistan President Islam Karimov this morning at the Palace of Friendship. "We hope," said the Chinese prime minister, "that the CIS states will maintain friendly relations among themselves and will cooperate for the sake of regional stability and development." The head of the Chinese Government is in Uzbekistan on an official visit. Tashkent is his first port of call on his marathon tour around the neighboring countries in the course of which he is to visit Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, and Mongolia as well. Today an agreement was concluded on granting a Chinese loan to Uzbekistan, but the amount is not known. The package of intergovernmental documents signed also included an agreement on air traffic, a protocol on granting material and technical aid to Uzbekistan gratuitously, and an agreement on cooperation between the Chinese Committee for the Promotion of International Trade and the Ministry of Foreign Economic Ties of Uzbekistan. A representative of the Chinese delegation reported to journalists that Islam Karimov and Li Peng discussed a wide range of bilateral, regional, and international problems. In the opinion of Islam Karimov, Central Asia represents an extensive market with enormous potential. The expansion of Uzbek-Chinese cooperation, he stressed, corresponds to the fundamental interests of the two peoples and also favors regional stability and prosperity. In his turn Li Peng noted the personal contribution of the president of Uzbekistan to the development of relations between the two countries. Speaking of trade and economic ties, he called the successful activity of the Uzbek-Chinese joint enterprises already operating "just a beginning" and invited Uzbek entrepreneurs to go to China to study experience and expand business contacts. The Chinese prime minister noted that that there are no fundamental contradictions between the interests of China and Uzbekistan, and cooperation between them can develop on a mutually advantageous basis. He stressed the willingness of China to maintain a regular exchange of views with Uzbekistan and hold consultations on regional and international issues for the purpose of strengthening mutual understanding and trust. On behalf of PRC President Jiang Zemin, Li Peng invited Islam Karimov to visit China in the second half of this year. The leader of Uzbekistan previously visited the PRC in March 1992. The entrepreneurs accompanying Li Peng also concluded a number of deals with Uzbek partners in the sphere of the petroleum industry, construction, metallurgy, the textile and paper industries, and electronics. It has been decided, for example, to build a joint enterprise for the production of paper. China will also deliver a line for the assembly of domestic electrical appliances.
