FBIS3-19223 "drweu050__a94016" FBIS-WEU-94-050-A Document Type:Daily Report 12 Mar 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Berlusconi Files Complaint With President on Inquiries BR1403153394 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 1338 GMT 12 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1403153394 Rome ANSAMAIL Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Berlusconi Complains to President About Magistrates"] [Text] Rome, 12 Mar (ANSA) -- [Forza Italia leader] Silvio Berlusconi has filed an official statement with President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro complaining of the judicial handling of investigations into Berlusconi's Fininvest media and publishing empire, the president's office announced Saturday [12 March]. Scalfaro has forwarded Berlusconi's complaint to the self- governing disciplinary body of the judiciary, the Higher Council of Magistrates (CSM), of which Scalfaro is also chairman, a presidential communique said. The statement, drawn up by Berlusconi and his lawyers, has not been made public but was prompted by recent requests from public prosecutors in Milan for arrest warrants for six top Fininvest executives, including Marcello dell'Utri, who heads the Publitalia '80 advertising giant. Berlusconi yesterday said he was writing to the president to raise a problem concerning judges' conduct. "The fact is, you cannot apply different criteria for different people. For certain political parties, enquiries are being shelved or put off. For others, on the other hand, enquiries are being stepped up, putting hard-working groups in the stocks." Berlusconi's decision to write to the head of state was called into question by Milan's chief prosecutor Francesco Saverio Borrelli who in a television interview said Berlusconi was "going about things totally in the wrong way." Borrelli noted that neither the president nor the CSM have the power to intervene in judicial enquiries or measures taken by judges in court cases. "They have disciplinary duties but we are very far away from hypotheses which involve the aspect of disciplining magistrates," he added.
