FBIS3-60483 "jptep001___94090" JPRS-TEP-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 4 January 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA UKRAINE Doctor Views Rise in Infectious Diseases in Kiev AU1512093193 Kiev HOLOS UKRAYINY in Ukrainian 11 Dec 93 p 2 AU1512093193 Kiev HOLOS UKRAYINY Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Yet Another Calamity"] [Text] The number of diphtheria cases in Kiev continues to grow. At present, 523 such cases have been recorded. This fearsome infection has also struck 53 children. The number of diphtheria cases is particularly high among workers in the trade sphere, medical institutions, public catering, and transport. Quite a number of other infectious diseases, among them many exotic ones, brought from other countries, can also be observed. As Lyubov Nekrasova, the city's chief sanitary-epidemiologic doctor, stated at a news conference, this does not conclude the list of misfortunes that have afflicted and continue to afflict Kievans. From the middle of November, the number of acute respiratory diseases has risen. In the doctor's opinion, this is due to the unsatisfactory heating of offices, production premises, and schools, and also to the fact that people have to spend much time at stops of public transport due to the deterioration in the public transportation sphere. As predicted by the Ukrainian Influenza Center, in the first quarter of the next year, an epidemic of flu is expected not only in Kiev, but also throughout Ukraine. In the capital, the epidemic will rage in January and February. The city state administration is trying to influence such a development of events and to take preventive measures. Presidential representative in Kiev Leonid Kosakivskyy signed a directive meant for improving the sanitary-epidemiologic situation. However, the situation continues to be complex. The shortage of medicines and vaccines makes itself felt. There is not enough money to procure them. For example, there are not enough antidiphtherial preparations for vaccinating teenagers, conscripts, students, and persons from risk groups. A sum of $12,500 is necessary for purchasing them. It only remains to rely upon the enthusiasm and ingenuity of those people who remain on the alert and are ready to protect citizens' health.
