FBIS3-1838 "drchi041_k_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Reportage on NPC Standing Committee Meeting Further on Election OW0203102494 Beijing XINHUA in English 1005 GMT 2 Mar 94 OW0203102494 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 2 (XINHUA) -- The Credentials Committee of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC) submitted a name list of nine NPC candidate deputies to the NPC Standing Committee for deliberation today. They have been elected by the Standing Committees of provincial people's congresses and approved by the Credentials Committee of the NPC Standing Committee. The nine candidates are Zhang Rongmao and Liang Zengbiao from Liaoning Province, Zheng Longzhe from Jilin, Jin Nengchou from Fujian, Li Rongqin from Shandong, Li Changchun from Henan, Wei Jisong from Guangxi, Chen Shineng from Guizhou and Zhang Xiuming from Xinjiang. Chen Shineng was elected governor of Guizhou Province by the Guizhou Provincial People's Congress last year. The nominations will be subject to deliberation by the Sixth Session of the NPC Standing Committee, which began today. The new candidates are supposed to replace the deputies who have died, resigned or been discharged from their positions. Five deputies, Yang Lieyu, Aisin Giorro Pu Jie from Liaoning Province, Fan Haogu from Henan Province and Gao Xianhua from Sichuan Province, died of illness during the past year. Aisin Giorro Pu Jie was a brother of Aisin Giorro Pu Yi, China's last emperor. One deputy, Wu Disheng, former mayor of Shenyang City in Liaoning Province, died in a plane accident last year when he was visiting Israel. A deputy from Shandong, Jiao Zuguang, asked to resign from the position of deputy to the NPC, and his request was approved by the Standing Committee of the Shandong Provincial People's Congress. Two deputies, Wang Zhengguang from Yunnan, and Xu Xiaocheng from Xinjiang, were deprived of their NPC deputy status for corruption and other illegal practices. Wang Zhengguang, former head of Wenshan Prefecture in Yunnan, is being investigated by the local procuratorate for taking bribes.
