FBIS3-59188 "drweu019aa_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 28 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS World Economic Forum Session Opens in Davos GATT Chief Proposes New Forum AU2801115394 Paris AFP in English 1129 GMT 28 Jan 94 AU2801115394 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Davos, Switzerland, Jan 28 (AFP) -- GATT chief Peter Sutherland, arguing that world trade policy should not be decided solely by the leading economic powers, proposed on Friday [28 January] the creation of a top-level forum including developing states. He said the forum could meet regularly at prime minister and trade and finance minister level, and draw institutional support from the World Bank, International Monetary Fund and new World Trade Organisation (WTO). Sutherland told the World Economic Forum here that new cooperative structures were necesssary to follow up on last month's global trade pact hammered out under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Bodies such as the Group of Seven industrialised powers or the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development left out some of the world's fastest-growing economies in Asia and Latin America, the GATT director general said. "The fact is that the countries which will increasingly provide our best hope for economic growth and new markets are simply not represented where it most counts," he said. He called for structures that will "recognise the realities of the 21st century," adding, "We cannot continue with a majority of the world's people excluded from participation in global economic management." Sutherland told some 1,500 political and business leaders here that his proposed forum would include include developing countries, economies in transition as well as states of the 24-member OECD. "Setting up such a forum is the logical step next in the development of global economic cooperation for which the success of the Uruguay Round has done so much," Sutherland said. He said the world had to treat money, finance and trade in an integrated way and find ways of coordinating discussions on the problems of Russia, for example, now spread out over several groups. Sutherland also warned that the successful conclusion of the GATT Uruguay Round after seven years of negotiations did not eliminate the threat of protectionism from the world trade scene. The major powers were showing a stubborn readiness to handle their trade disputes unilaterally and notions of managed trade and barriers to low-cost imports in the name of saving jobs were still alive, he said. Sutherland said such talk hampered Western efforts to promote free-market reforms among the former communist bloc. "To call on others to implement economic reform has a rather hollow ring to it if at the same time you maintain regime of managed trade or retain restrictions in key sectors," he said. The Irishman called on the United States, European Community and Japan to rapidly ratify the GATT accord and take the lead in providing the WTO with the means to fulfil its mandate to settle trade differences.
