FBIS3-20368 "drweu061_n_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 Denmark Norway Iran Expels Norwegian Consul in Retaliation PM3003110094 Oslo AFTENPOSTEN in Norwegian 28 Mar 94 p 4 PM3003110094 Oslo AFTENPOSTEN Language: Norwegian Article Type:BFN [Rolf L. Larsen report: "Iran's Response -- Expels Norwegian Consul"] [Text] Two days after Norway expelled Iranian Consul Mohammad Movahed, Iran has retaliated by expelling Arne Lundby, Norway's consul in Tehran. "Norwegian Ambassador Birger Bye was yesterday summoned to the Foreign Ministry in Tehran and was told that Consul Arne Lundby, the second in command at the Norwegian Embassy, must leave the country before 4 April," acting Foreign Ministry press spokesman Arthur Baste Knudsen said. The Foreign Ministry is as yet undecided whether and how to respond to the expulsion from Iran. After the expulsion, the Iranian Embassy in Oslo has five employees with diplomatic accreditation, while Norway has two employees with the same status after the expulsion of Lundby. Lundby has been on vacation in Norway and was expected back in Tehran in the early hours of Monday morning [28 March]. Birger Bye, Norway's ambassador in Tehran, was not available by telephone on Sunday. "We gave a clear reason for our expulsion and do not think that this reaction from Iran is fitting," Baste Knudsen said. The Foreign Ministry's official reason for the expulsion was that the Iranian consul engaged in activities that were incompatible with his diplomatic status. A high-ranking source in the Foreign Ministry told DAGBLADET on Saturday that Movahed had been spying on his fellow countrymen in Norway. Baste Knudsen was unwilling to confirm this. Four Iranian diplomats have been expelled from Sweden for the same reason. According to the NRK/Dagsrevyen program, Iranian radio announced on Sunday that the Norwegian consul had been expelled because he had engaged in activities incompatible with his diplomatic status. According to the Foreign Ministry, no official explanation has been given for the expulsion of Consul Lundby. The Foreign Ministry therefore considers that the expulsion is a retaliation. Consul Lundby has worked in Iran since last fall. He has also served as embassy secretary in Canada.
