FBIS4-52349 "dreas090_q_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-090 Daily Report 3 May 1994 AUSTRALASIA Australia U.S Air Force Pilots Said `Acting Like Cowboys' U.S Air Force Pilots Said `Acting Like Cowboys' BK0305104094 Hong Kong AFP in English 0727 GMT 3 May 94 BK0305104094 Hong Kong AFP English BFN [Text] Darwin, Australia, May 3 (AFP) -- United States air force pilots, on air exercises over here, were acting like cowboys and should be stopped, a local political leader said Tuesday. Recent manoeuvres involving US marines from the Japan-based Marine Group 12 have angered residents in this northern Australian city complaining about the noise and frequency of flights. "If we cannot control these people, if we can't tell them they've got to abide by the rules that we set... if they won't do that, then they've got to stop coming," the Northern Territory's Labor opposition leader Brian Ede told national radio. "We cannot allow people to decide that they're going to treat the Northern Territory (and) Darwin as though it is some place where they're going to have a bit of a jaunt." Australia's Defence Minister Robert Ray has announced two separate studies into the noise effects of air exercises over Darwin, and the regional government also has instituted its own investigation. Ede said some US pilots had left their flight paths and made flyovers across Darwin suburbs. "We want an immediate ban on those cowboys," Ede said. Ede's comments drew an angry reaction from the adjutant of Marine Group 12, Captain Iric Bressler. "That's totally false," he said. "Our pilots have strict regulations. They fly off strict flight plans, and they go exactly where they're supposed to go and come back... I'm kind of irritated about it." Earlier this month, it was revealed that, in March, two FA-18 Hornet aircraft flown by the marines mistakenly dropped dummy bombs as close as 100 metres to a hut containing Americans and Australians. A subsequent report into the incident at Delamere bombing range, about 350 kilometres (215 miles) south of here, blamed pilot error. The US marines are due to leave here next week after three months of training.
