FBIS4-15474 "drsov068_a_94024" FBIS-SOV-94-068 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Warns on Serb `Extremism' Warns on Serb `Extremism' LD0704210594 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1853 GMT 7 Apr 94 LD0704210594 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Vitaliy Churkin has urged the Russia's Choice parliamentary group to support the government's decision to join NATO's Partnership for Peace program. Russia's membership in the program would "determine a model on the basis of which relations between Russia and the West will be built in future" and would mean that Russia had opted for cooperation instead of isolation, Churkin said at a meeting of the group, to which he was invited to give the Foreign Ministry's position on the current developments in the former Yugoslavia. Parliament this week put on its agenda a motion for lifting economic sanctions against rump Yugoslavia, Croatia's Serb Krajina and the Serb Republic in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The motion was made by the parliamentary group of Vladimir Zhirinovskiy's nationalist Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). Asked whether the LDP group's pro-Serb line had any impact on the Foreign Ministry's position, Churkin said the ministry "has had to pursue its political line under considerable political pressure since the times of the former Supreme Soviet." But internal political struggles have no effect on the ministry's course, which enables Russia to make active efforts to settle the Yugoslav crisis "together with the world community and without conflicting with the world community," Churkin said. He said unconditional support for Serbia would mean support for Serb extremism, which would be "dangerous for the entire Serb people." All parties to the conflict are southern Slavs, so Russia is not interested in the Serbs alone, Churkin said. Besides, Russia is a "multinational and multireligious state," something the Foreign Ministry took into account when sending an additional contingent for the Sarajevo peacekeeping force. Part of the contingent were members of Muslim communities in Russia, he said.
