FBIS4-1169 "drafr079_a_94016" FBIS-AFR-94-079 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda Government, RPF Talks in Arusha Fail To Take Place Government, RPF Talks in Arusha Fail To Take Place Tanzania To Continue Mediation EA2404203594 Dar es Salaam Radio Tanzania Network in Swahili 1900 GMT 24 Apr 94 EA2404203594 Dar es Salaam Radio Tanzania Network Swahili BFN [Text] The Government of Tanzania has again stressed its intention to continue seeking ways to bring about peace in Rwanda in order to save the lives of Rwandans. This was expressed by the minister of foreign affairs, Joseph Rwegasira, at a news conference regarding the peace talks which were scheduled to take place in Arusha today. Rwegasira said the delegation of the Rwandan Patriotic Front, RPF, led by its secretary general, Theogene Rudasingwa, vowed to stop fighting in Rwanda tomorrow and he stressed the need for all sides involved in the conflict to implement the Arusha peace agreement. However, Rwegasira, on behalf of the prime minister and first vice president, John Malecela, who is the chairman of the current talks, said even if the delegation of the Rwandan Government failed to arrive either today or tomorrow, the government [of Tanzania] would use diplomatic channels to communicate with that side to restore peace in Rwanda through a cease-fire. The UN secretary general, Dr. Butrus Butrus-Ghali, has called on both sides fighting in Rwanda to stop the killings immediately and reach an agreement to implement the resolve for peace, reached in Arusha last year. In a statement issued in Arusha today, the UN secretary general called on both sides to cooperate with the UN team which is assisting them so that the team can fulfill its duties as directed by the UN Security Council. Butrus-Ghali also expressed his concern over the prevailing situation in Rwanda, where these two groups are not showing signs of ending their conflict [words indistinct]. Dr. Butrus-Ghali said the United Nations has decided to let its peace-keeping force stay in Rwanda, provided that the two sides stop fighting and stop killing officers of the United Nations in Rwanda and other aid organization officials and innocent civilians.
