FBIS3-38366 "drweu022_a_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 AUSTRIA Haider Presents Demands for Policy Toward Foreigners AU0202113094 Vienna DIE PRESSE in German 2 Feb 94 p 6 AU0202113094 Vienna DIE PRESSE Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report signed "ett": "Policy Toward Foreigners: New FPOe Advance"] [Text] Vienna -- Yesterday, Tuesday, exactly one year after the petition for a referendum on foreigners, the Freedom Party of Austria [FPOe] gave the starting signal for a new action regarding the policy toward foreigners. Since the main demands of the petition for a referendum called "Austria First" have not been fulfilled by the government, the initiative "Austria First II" is now being prepared. At a news conference, FPOe Chairman Joerg Haider announced that the FPOe will focus on the policy toward foreigners in its Nationalrat election campaign. A catalogue of demands is being developed by a working group (with Secretary General Herbert Scheibner, security spokeswoman Helene Partik-Pable, and Vienna City Councillor Hilmar Kabas). Central points are: - A stop to immigration, which is indispensable; - Measures, above all for the reduction of the number of guest workers who have only been in Austria for a short time; - The imperative deportation of foreigners who have come into conflict with the law; - Strict punishments for the employment of illegal employees. If the government is not prepared to establish order, this will be a subject of political discussion before the Nationalrat election, Haider announced. The petition for a referendum will not be repeated: "We do not need it," Haider said because the Nationalrat election provides the opportunity for secret votes anyway. There the people can take revenge for the government's "policy of announcements." The new FPOe initiative regarding the policy toward foreigners is necessary because the government apparently has "not learned anything" from the debate on the petition for a referendum, the FPOe chairman said. According to Haider, the number of cases where foreigners who have come into conflict with the law but are not deported are increasing. Also the public has been "deceived" by the statement that foreigners pay more social security contributions than they get. According to the Social Ministry, except for contributions to unemployment insurance, the collected amounts cannot be separated. Partik-Pable criticized: The number of "illegal foreigners" continues to increase. The FPOe announcements triggered a wave of indignant reactions: "Incredible agitation against foreigners" (Willi Fuhrmann, floor leader of the Social Democratic Party of Austria -- SPOe). SPOe Executive Secretary Josef Cap talked of a hidden petition for a referendum on foreigners. Haider is not prepared to learn from his mistakes, Austrian People's Party [OeVP] Secretary General Ingrid Korosec criticized; for OeVP security spokesman Hubert Pirker, Haider is "an ignorant who does not listen to reason."
