FBIS3-32978 "drlat033__a94007" FBIS-LAT-94-033-A Document Type:Daily Report 17 February 1994 ANNEX Brazil Creation of South American Free Trade Zone Suggested PY1502021094 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 13 Feb 94 p 8 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY1502021094 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Silvia de Souza Costa] [Text] Brazil is proposing that ALADI [Latin American Integration Association] be transformed into a regional negotiation forum similar to GATT to promote the creation of a South American Free Trade Area [Area de Livre Comercio Sul-Americana -- ALCSA]. According to Ambassador Paulo Nogueira Batista, the idea, presented by Foreign Minister Celso Amorim on 11 February during the ALADI meeting in Montevideo, was well received by the other 10 countries that are members of the organization. "The foreign ministers were very comprehensive and now we intend to strengthen contacts so as to prepare a concrete proposal as soon as possible. We hope this will be possible during the first half of the year in order to begin the free trade process on 1 January 1995," Nogueira Batista said. Minister Amorim explained in Montevideo the details of ALCSA which was presented by President Itamar Franco to the Rio Group at the end of last year. During informal meetings with his colleagues, Franco discussed the Brazilian initiative whose objective is "to favor economic and social development through accelerated free trade" among the South American countries within a maximum period of 10 years. The beginning of this agreement would be the existing structures of Mercosur and the Andean Pact. "We understand that the free trade negotiations should be limited to goods and tariffs and nontariffs, through which we could simplify and make possible the faster approval of these agreements," the foreign minister said. Minister Amorim said that the creation of ALCSA "will reinforce the action capability of Latin America in a hemispheric and international scope." Ambassador Nogueira Batista said that any eventual negotiation with NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement among the United States, Canada, and Mexico) should take place only on a second stage. According to the ambassador, the summit meeting summoned by U.S. President Bill Clinton for the second half of the year will be political and will not deal with trade matters. An indication of the good reception given to the Brazilian proposal was the decision of the 11 ALADI members (Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Venezuela, and Uruguay, besides Brazil) to strengthen the association.
