FBIS4-16598 "drsov075_u_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-075 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 Latvia Ulmanis on Requirements for Russian Troop Withdrawal Ulmanis on Requirements for Russian Troop Withdrawal LD1504194894 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1628 GMT 15 Apr 94 LD1504194894 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Presidential Bulletin" feature: compiled by Nikolay Zherebtsov, Andrey Petrovskiy; edited by Vladimir Shishlin] [Text] President Guntis Ulmanis speaking in Riga said the signing of a package deal with Moscow on Russian troop withdrawals was largely hinged on a solution to the problem of repatriation of retired servicemen of Russia and the former Soviet Union residing in Latvia. To bring this about, the negotiating teams will have to amend the initialled agreement on social security nets for retired Russian servicemen with permanent residence in Latvia, Ulmanis said. Ulmanis also considers it necessary to create an international support fund by Latvia, Russia and western countries to help towards voluntary repatriation of Russian servicemen (The Latvian government on Thursday had approved Ulmanis' proposal to set up an appropriate working group-IF). Nothing short of this can help defuse tension over the issue of retired servicemen whose presence here is widely seen as being undesirable, Ulmanis said. He thinks the fund can also help repatriate 180,000 non-Latvians who are willing to settle in Russia and other CIS states. The signing of the pullout agreement will be complicated unless the repatriation issue is resolved, Ulmanis said. IF Note: The initialled agreement binds Latvia to ensure continued residence and non-discrimination of retired Russian servicemen in areas such social security and medical care. Official counts put the number of such pensioners at 22,000 with 3,500 of them granted Latvian citizenship. Ulmanis reiterated that no agreement would be signed with Moscow until the Russian president recalled his decree of April 5 providing for the setting up of a Russian army base in Latvia. He considers it to be a tactical move to probe a possible reaction from Latvia and the West rather than a mistake as Russian officials try to present the decree.
