FBIS3-40799 "jpnea008___94009" JPRS-NEA-94-008 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 15 February 1994 NEAR EAST ALGERIA Reactions to Dedication of Nuclear Reactor 94WP0045Z Algiers EL MOUDJAHID in French 22 Dec 93 p 3 94WP0045Z Algiers EL MOUDJAHID Language: French Article Type:CSO [Interviews with officials following nuclear reactor dedication, by M.B. and A.B.; place and date not given] [Text] Mr. Li Dingfan, Head of the Chinese Delegation: `A Sound Base for Scientific Development in Algeria' Vice-minister of the People's Republic of China, Mr. Li Dingfan is also vice-president of the Chinese Atomic Energy Agency and a university professor. In addition to his functions, he was heading the Chinese delegation that helped build the Es Salem reactor. He kindly answered our questions on this project, which constitutes a symbol of Algerian-Chinese friendship. [EL MOUDJAHID] How would you evaluate this project? [Dingfan] Today is a joyful day for everybody. It is an important page in Chinese-Algerian collaboration. It is memorable. I expressed this in writing in the visitors' book. I hope that this blossom of nuclear science and technology, grown by the Algerian and Chinese parties, will bear fruit as soon as possible. [EL MOUDJAHID] What does this project mean to you? [Dingfan] It is the living symbol of cooperation in development through energy. At least, it is a sound base for scientific development in Algeria. We may say that it boosts the Algerian people's reputation throughout the world. [EL MOUDJAHID] Will the Algerian-Chinese cooperation in the nuclear sector continue? [Dingfan] If there is a desire for cooperation, there is no doubt that we shall be available and present. We have been collaborating for six years. I hope that Algeria will be able to continue its development peaceably and peacefully. I wish that the people may enjoy the benefits of this reactor. Mr. Abdellah Laid (Doctor in Nuclear Physics): `Possibilities for Serious Work' Being a researcher at Ain-Oussera is not a pleasure; it is a passion which, alone, makes it possible to overcome all problems. Mr. Abdellah Laid is head of research at the physics department. He talked to us about it. [EL MOUDJAHID] How important would you say this reactor is? [Laid] It is very important for the future of the nuclear sector in Algeria. The entire nuclear sector will be concentrated around this site. The reactor design will allow the peaceful use of nuclear energy. For instance, we will be able to dope selenium, to produce radioisotopes, which are very important in Algeria for nuclear medicine and for the industry. Studies and surveys of manufacturers and hospitals throughout the country have shown that there is a large demand for radioisotopes. This reactor being equipped with irradiation channels, we can produce these radioisotopes for medicine and the industry. For research and agriculture, some radioisotopes are currently used in small amounts, but we can supply more now that we have this reactor. [EL MOUDJAHID] Could you tell me where you studied? [Laid] I have a doctorate in nuclear physics. I studied my specialty in England for a few years. [EL MOUDJAHID] Have you received offers to work in other countries? [Laid] Yes, but I preferred living in my country. It is very important for us. Especially considering that, this time, things are taken seriously and we have the possibility of doing serious work. [EL MOUDJAHID] Could you tell us how much you get paid? [Laid] I cannot tell you. But it is insignificant compared with foreign offers. I am not interested in money; rather, I am interested in encouraging researchers and having them work around this tool. We have here a great many researchers who deserve every kind of encouragement. The Minister of Foreign Affairs: `A Symbol of the Strengthening of Peace and Security' [EL MOUDJAHID] Mr. Minister, how would you evaluate this new nuclear acquisition? [Minister] It is a universal factor for anything that has to do with the use of nuclear energy for peaceful ends, especially in the sectors of agriculture, health, and of course energy. Many countries produce nuclear electricity. In Algeria, there are huge potential uses for nuclear energy, including the desalination of sea water. Today, we very explicitly mentioned that our nuclear program was set up for peaceful purposes. Algeria solemnly announced that it now intends to adhere to the nuclear nonproliferation treaty. This rules out any possibility of using it for military purposes. That was the message given at this inauguration. At the same time, we wanted the inauguration to take place under conditions of absolute openness. The international press as well as the entire diplomatic corps accredited in Algiers were present. This project is a symbol of the strengthening of international peace and security. It also shows that our country possesses a powerful scientific and technological potential, that Algeria is the kingpin of Maghreb and that it currently contributes much to consolidate not only Maghreb unity, but also everything that contributes to the economic, cultural and social development of the Maghreb community. [EL MOUDJAHID] How would you evaluate relations between Algeria and the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA]? [Minister] Mostly, we should note that we have excellent relations with the IAEA. Its general director just sent a message on the occasion of this inauguration. [EL MOUDJAHID] This inauguration coincides with the 35th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Algeria and China. How would you evaluate these relations? [Minister] First, I would point out that these relations developed satisfactorily since, during our national liberation struggle, China was one of the first countries to recognize Algeria as a sovereign state aspiring to independence. After independence, we developed our relations and strengthened them in the economic, commercial, and cultural sectors. This Ain Oussera center is the best example of the development of our relations. The Minister of National Education: `The Hard Core of Research' [EL MOUDJAHID] Could you tell us why it was the Ministry of National Education that was the nuclear reactor project leader? [Minister] This project is in line with Algeria's research policy. The research sector depends on the ministry delegated to higher education which, as its name indicates, is itself delegated to the Ministry of National Education. [EL MOUDJAHID] What benefit does Algeria derive from this reactor project? [Minister] It is an important, even a decisive stage, following the first stage, which was that of the Nour reactor. The latter was a 1-MGW [as published] research reactor. The new Essalam reactor has a 15-MGW power output; in other words, it allies research and production, especially the production of radioisotopes for agriculture, medicine, and pharmacy. It is also a future provider of services for product control and analysis through nuclear methods. We have reached a stage where Algeria can use this nuclear tool for its economic and social development. [EL MOUDJAHID] What benefits did Algeria derive from the operation of the first Nour reactor? [Minister] In spite of its modest capacity, Nour enabled Algerian researchers to access the nuclear field for the first time. Note that this is the peaceful nuclear field since we are talking about peaceful nuclear activities. Nour enabled us to access this huge and extremely complex field, to familiarize us with it, and it enabled our researchers to master the essential aspects of nuclear-related research. [EL MOUDJAHID] Is the research personnel entirely Algerian? [Minister] Yes, 100-percent Algerian; but we wish to increase their number. According to our Chinese friends' evaluations, Algerian researchers are of appreciable quality. They are young, very dynamic, dedicated in spite of difficult living conditions. Some are away from their families. Therefore, we should train more personnel so as to provide this reactor with optimum human capacities in order to benefit from all the possibilities it offers. Currently, there are fewer than 100 researchers and technicians; we should increase that number to 300 researchers, technicians, and engineers. [EL MOUDJAHID] On several occasions, technicians and researchers mentioned their difficult working conditions. Have you considered taking care of their complaints? [Minister] First, I would like to say that most of them were educated in Algeria, in universities and research institutes. We have 17 research centers, this is the 18th; in a way, it is the hard core. Its personnel was educated in Algerian schools and Algerian universities. I just promised them that we would very seriously consider the matter of their material living and working conditions. We must improve these conditions. The Minister of Agriculture: `Multiple Applications' The impact on agricultural production is manifold. Applications to agronomic research are varied. To study problems of nutrition or fertilization, we often use fertilizers that have been rendered radioactive so we can see what happens to these elements in plant nutrition. There are various applications in plant biology, in conservation, and even in seawater desalination. If we can manage to control desalination costs through the use of nuclear energy, it will be extremely useful for agriculture, through many future projects, for instance, in irrigation. The only problem is one of cost. At any rate, as far as conservation or fertilization are concerned, applications have become quite common in certain countries. This might happen in our country, too. If we put our agricultural economy in order. The center is there; so are the researchers, and the land close by; all we have to do is to create the environment required to mobilize these capacities and technologies in order to enable certain sectors to use nuclear energy.
