FBIS4-9714 "drlat063aa_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-063 Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Belize Leaves Central American, EU Summit Belize Leaves Central American, EU Summit PA3103040994 Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 1254 GMT 29 Mar 94 PA3103040994 Mexico City NOTIMEX Spanish BFN [Report by Lucia Perez Moreno] [Text] Athens, 29 Mar (NOTIMEX) -- Belize today abandoned the 10th Central American and European Union [EU] Foreign Ministers' Meeting after Greece, the host country, withdrew its observer status. The incident occurred after the Guatemalan delegation asked Theodoros Pangalos, current chairman of the European Council of Ministers, to withdraw Belize's status as observer at the ministerial meeting. "Belize's participation in the San Jose meetings will depend on the context of negotiations on the territorial dispute," it was stated to NOTIMEX by Guatemalan Foreign Minister Gladys Marithza Ruiz de Vielman. Guatemala and Belize established diplomatic relations in 1981, although the two countries have yet to settle a territorial dispute. "We were invited by the council's chairman. We do not consider this the place to discuss differences between Guatemala and Belize," said Ursula Brown, Belize's ambassador to the United Kingdom, shortly before her departure. A participant in the meeting said Greece made "a mistake in formalities" when it invited Belize as an observer without first consulting with the Central American country. The problem arose when the Belizean representative stood close to the EU and Central American foreign ministers when posing for a group picture of the meeting, which is currently being held at an elegant hotel on the outskirts of the Greek capital. Belize, with a population of 200,000, achieved its independence from the United Kingdom in 1986, and Guatemala has demanded the return of part of their common border since then. Although Belize had been invited to participate as an observer in other international forums on Central America, this was the first time it had been invited to participate in the San Jose Summit.
