FBIS3-1828 "drchi041_w_94010" FBIS-CHI-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong PWC `Unhappy' With Government's Airport Financing Proposal HK2802054894 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 28 Feb 94 p 3 HK2802054894 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Doreen Cheung in Beijing] [Text] The China-appointed Preliminary Working Committee said yesterday the Hong Kong Government's latest financing arrangements on the Chek Lap Kok airport and its associated rail link failed to address their concerns. Speaking after a two-day session, Hong Kong co-convenor Nellie Fong Wong Kut-man said they were unhappy with the size of borrowings, since the level of $23 billion had gone beyond the threshold of $5 billion as stated in the Memorandum of Understanding on the airport projects. They urged the Government to count borrowings for the airport body and the airport railway as government debts. Members also insisted that the land grant of the sites along the airport railway should be included in the annual land disposal programme, and a monitoring body to control construction costs should be set up, Mrs. Fong said. Although the financing package failed to address their concerns, Mrs. Fong declined to say whether they had found the proposal unacceptable. She said they would like to see an early resumption of the airport experts' talks. Mrs. Fong said if the British/Hong Kong side maintained that debts for the airport body and the Mass Transit Railway Corporation should not be taken as government borrowings, it would not be possible for both sides to make any progress on the issue. Another working committee member, Tam Yiu-chung, said they were worried that the Government might borrow another $5 billion on top of the $23 billion loans for airport and rail link if they were not taken as government debts. The Hong Kong Government has said that the $5 billion ceiling only applied to government borrowings and should not include borrowings by the two bodies. The Chinese side co-convenor, Gao Shangquan, added that if the total amount of debts exceeded $5 billion, it should then be subject to negotiations between both sides. A source close to the Chinese side said Beijing would like to see Britain make clear the size of debts which had gone beyond the $5 billion level and then formally seek Chinese approval for the extra borrowings. Mr. Tam said they felt that the Government should be able to increase its cash injection in the airport projects given its strong fiscal reserves. Mrs. Fong said the 58 hectares of land along the airport railway should not be granted in one go as requested by the British side. She said all land grants should be part of the Land Commission's land disposal programme. Mrs. Fong gave an assurance that China had already pledged to grant all 58 hectares along the airport railway before 1997. Asked if the Government should revise estimates on the land sale income along the rail link, Mrs. Fong said it was not a big problem because all the income would go to the public funds regardless of its source. Referring to reports about abuse of funds in the Provisional Airport Authority, Mrs. Fong said members felt it was necessary to form a monitoring group to control costs as well as to ensure progress of the construction works. She said the Airport Consultative Committee had failed to control costs of the airport projects.
