FBIS4-22877 "jpust008___94080" JPRS-UST-94-008 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 31 March 1994 ENGINEERING AND EQUIPMENT NUCLEAR AND NON-NUCLEAR ENERGY Computer Aided Design of Windmills Computer Aided Design of Windmills 947F0062 Moscow ENERGETICHESKOYE STROITELSTVO in Russian No. 11, 1993 pp 69-73 947F0062 Moscow ENERGETICHESKOYE STROITELSTVO Russian CSO [Article by N. S. Golubenko, G. M. Galimov, V. T, Perekhrest, A. P. Lozovskiy, A. V. Trubin, T. V. Andreyeva, V. Ya. Krivokorytov, A. V. Shipilevskiy, Yuzhnoye Design Bureau] [Abstract] The Yuzhnoye design bureau has designed a number of windmills for energy production using CAD packages. The YeSKD package creates drawings and transmits information to other programs. It is based on AUTOCAD 10.0 and has a program package written in AUTOLISP. The ASSISTENT system automates the production of design documentation. SKHEMA designs circuitry and conduit for electrical, pneumatic, pneumatic-hydraulic, kinematic, and other types of systems. SPETSIFIK formulates specifications and uses guidebooks to standardize parts, materials and nomenclature. These program packages are general-purpose systems for machine building. Yuzhnoye developed a program to determine the aerodynamic properties of windwheels with a horizontal axis of rotation. The program is written in FORTRAN. The automated control system of one windwheel is described The problems of designing these systems are discussed. A proposal to construct a system to automatically regulate the angular velocity of a windwheel is discussed. Figures 2. <graphic> <capt> Figure 1. Flow chart of program to determine the aerodynamic properties (ADP) of a windwheel (WW) with a PC. <annot> Key (top to bottom): Flow chart of main program; input of initial data of design variants; input of parameters of graphic device; input of geometric parameters of support cross sections; input of ADP of WW profiles; determination of geometric parameters of calculated cross sections using linear interpolation between support cross sections; beginning of variants loop; calculation of blade cross sections using iterations method in the theory of elementary flows; do the iterations converge? (yes to side, no below); calculation of cross sections in turbulent flow mode; calculation of integrated ADP of WW; end of variants loop (no to side, yes below); output of results; end of program.</graphic> <graphic> <capt> Figure 2. Flow chart of program to calculate optimal windwheel parameters. <annot> Key (top to bottom): initial data: calculation of power, initial and calculated wind speed, number of blades, profile design limits; calculation of geometric parameters of blades; program to calculate ADP of WW; input of additional initial data: diamater of WW, number of revolutions of WW, etc.; preparation of graphic device; calculation of equations P = f(V) for various WW revolution numbers where P is WW power, V is wind speed; calculation of output of electric energy for a given region; selection of optimal WW parameters.</graphic>
