FBIS4-15549 "drsov069_a_94015" FBIS-SOV-94-069 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Denounces Exercises With U.S. Denounces Exercises With U.S. AU0804153194 Paris AFP in English 1456 GMT 8 Apr 94 AU0804153194 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Moscow, April 8 (AFP) -- A senior defense official said Friday that U.S. and Russian troops would hold joint exercises in Russia later this year, but the announcement sparked an angry outcry from hardline lawmakers. "American troops will never set foot on Russian territory," ultranationalist deputy Vladimir Zhirinovskiy said shortly after Deputy Defense Minister Georgi Kondratyev announced the planned exercises to the State Duma. "Officers who think they can get an extra star from organizing this kind of exercise should remember that the regime here will change one day and they will lose everything," Zhirinovskiy stated. Kondratyev said the joint exercises, agreed to during the Russian-U.S. summit in January, would be held in July in the southern Urals region of Orenburg and would be conducted by the 27th Motorized Division of the Russian Army and the U.S. 3d Mechanized Infantry Division. A total of 250 soldiers from each country, most of them officers, were to take part in the exercises, Kondratyev said, adding that they would focus on exploring ways Russian and U.S. troops could coordinate work in peacekeeping operations. The Russian side would be equipped with 10 armoured vehicles and 23 cars while the U.S. participants would have only 35 cars, he stated. Kondratyev stressed that the U.S. Government would pay all expenses for its troops, estimated at two million dollars, and noted that the U.S. troops would arrive supplied with all the food needed for the exercises. Russian expenses for the exercises would be about 100 million rubles (55,000 dollars), he said. Zhirinovskiy and other hardline deputies however denounced the plan and one, Alexander Mikhailov, called on the Duma to appeal to President Boris Yeltsin and to the government to cancel the exercises. "Who will keep an eye on the Americans and who will guarantee us that they will not start recruiting spies in the heart of Russia!" said Alexander Nevzorov, another hardline nationalist and former television commentator.
