FBIS3-61270 "jpusr005___94005" FBIS-USR-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 26 January 1994 RUSSIA POLITICAL AFFAIRS Newspaper To Run Tatar Affairs Insert 944F0263B Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 11 Jan 94 p 1 944F0263B Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Natalya Polezhayeva, editor in chief of ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA: "First Swallow"] [Text] ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA is beginning publication of the first all-Russian Tatar newspaper. This event--I am not afraid of using lofty words--is a signal one. There are a good many ethnic publications in Russia and, incidentally, not only on the territories of various national formations; for example, Tatar-language newspapers are published in Tyumen and other cities. This is the first time that an ethnic publication has been accorded the status of a statewide newspaper. BERDEMLEK-YEDINSTVO will be distributed in a circulation of more than 1 million in all the country's cities and villages. ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA has not only initiated and implemented this idea but has provided its broad shoulders to the new paper by offering its pages, subscribers, printing facilities and distribution network, thereby ensuring YEDINSTVO's success from its very first steps among a broad range of readers. The idea met with an enthusiastic response from the president of Tatarstan. Thanks to the personal involvement of Mintimer Sharipovich Shaymiyev, it has been possible to put together the newspaper's first issue in a short time. Its founders are ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA and the Government of the Republic of Tatarstan. It will come out once a week. We have decided to publish it in Russian, because the newspaper is aimed at millions of Tatars living throughout Russia, many of whom do not know their native language. But we will help them learn it: lessons in Tatar will be included in every issue. Together with Tatar journalists, we will tell about the present day, history, culture, customs and holidays of Tatarstan. Our readers of all nationalities will be able to come to better know and love this people, which is one of Russia's numerically largest peoples. Let us hope that YEDINSTVO will be the first but not the only ethnic publication to be an all-Russian publication. Our newspaper is prepared to collaborate not only with individual republics but also with confederations and public centers of Ukrainians, Germans, Jews, Koreans and other peoples living in Russia but lacking their own national formations on its territory. Bon voyage, BERDEMLEK.
