FBIS4-43085 "drweu113_m_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-113 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 SWITZERLAND Bulgaria's Daskalov Assesses Relations, Departs Bulgaria's Daskalov Assesses Relations, Departs AU0906204694 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network in Bulgarian 1600 GMT 9 Jun 94 AU0906204694 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network Bulgarian BFN [Text] The official visit of Foreign Minister Stanislav Daskalov to the Swiss Confederation has ended. For more details, we have contacted Foreign Ministry spokesman Radko Vlaykov, who is accompanying Mr. Daskalov, in Bern: [Begin Vlaykov recording] The visit could be described as very successful because our bilateral relations and the prospects of developing them was thoroughly reviewed with Foreign Minister Flavio Cotti. The two ministers noted with satisfaction the ascending development of bilateral relations and the significance they attribute to conducting a regular political dialogue. Special attention was devoted to specific aspects of developing financial-economic cooperation between Bulgaria and the Swiss Confederation. In this context, the Bulgarian side stressed its high assessment of the assistance that Switzerland renders to Bulgaria in implementing the democratic reforms in the country. This assistance is in the form of financial and technical aid and contributes toward the country's balance of payments. Mr. Cotti stressed the great progress marked in Bulgaria in recent years in restoring the functions of the democratic system. The possibility of implementing specific joint projects was also discussed. The prospects for intensifying technological cooperation in various areas are very good. It should also be mentioned that Mr. Cotti highly assessed Bulgaria's consistent position on the crisis in the former Yugoslavia and stressed the importance that Switzerland attributes to Bulgaria's policy in the Balkans as a stabilizing factor in the region. Minister Daskalov was also received by President Otto Stich. The readiness of the two countries to intensify bilateral cooperation was reiterated in the ensuing talk. [end recording]
