FBIS3-40248 "jpeer004__s94011" JPRS-EER-94-004-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 1 February 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Serb Missionaries Arrive in Zvornik-Tuzla Area 94P20307B Belgrade PRAVOSLAVLJE in Serbo-Croatian 1 Dec 93 p 1 94P20307B Belgrade PRAVOSLAVLJE Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:CSO [Article by M. Mijic: "The Seed Is Planted, Missionaries Arrive"] [Excerpts] The new 1993/94 academic year has started in the schools of the Zvornik-Tuzla eparchy with renewed joy among the students. The curriculum was enriched by much desired religious education, banished from schools almost 50 years ago. The awakened Serbian people, waging a war for national freedom, have also started to wage the battle for spiritual awakening, return to the Orthodox religion, and life worthy of their ancestors. These ancestors lived and survived in the Bosnian dark melting pot thanks to their Orthodox faith. The government and the assembly of the republic of Srpska, aware of the significance and role of religion for Serbs, passed the law on introducing religion in schools on the territory of the republic. Based on the decrees of the constitution of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the decision of the ministry of education, science, and culture of the republic of Srpska, the draft law on primary and secondary schools in the republic of Srpska, and the demonstrated needs in the area, the Zvornik-Tuzla bishop, G.G. Vasilije, appointed 102 religious teachers in 259 elementary schools in his eparchy on 30 August 1993. [passage omitted] The believers of the Zvornik-Tuzla eparchy, aware that a people which fights for its freedom can never be conquered, welcomed the teachers of the greatest area of knowledge -- religion -- and are ecstatic about the return of the Church and Orthodoxy. The instruction will be carried out according to the educational program adopted in accordance with general regulations of the curriculum in the elementary schools of the republic of Srpska. The seed has been planted in the Lord's field, and the missionaries have arrived.
