FBIS3-29921 "dreas037_c_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 North Korea Remarks by Japan's Ozawa on DPRK Criticized SK2402104694 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1013 GMT 24 Feb 94 SK2402104694 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, February 20 (KNS-KCNA) [dateline as received] -- Japanese figures criticised Secretary General Ozawa of the Japan Renewal Party for insulting and slandering the DPRK on FUJI television. Akira Iwai, chairman of the Japan Committee For Supporting the Independent and Peaceful Reunification of Korea, in a statement branded Ozawa's outcry as a deliberate one to foster among the Japanese people the "suspicion of nuclear development" by the DPRK. The Japanese people must not be deceived by his false talk, he said. Hiroshi Wakabayashi, secretary of the same committee, in a statement said: "Ozawa preached for `building a system to counter a crisis,' groundlessly claiming that some change would take place in the DPRK. This revealed Ozawa's ulterior intention not only to slander the DPRK but also to malrevise the constitution and fascistize the government power." Ippei Koyama, former vice-president of the House of Councillors, said Ozawa's outcry is just like Japan's past extensive propaganda about "threat from the Soviet Union" and is a drama to deceive the people. Military analyst Ayazo Kubo in a statement said he could hardly represss indignation, hearing the TV address of Ozawa devoid of an iota of culture. Michinao Zuchiya, chairman of the Nagano, Japan, Prefectural People's Council For Supporting the Independent and Peaceful Reunification of Korea, in a statement criticised Ozawa's address as an outburst putting a spoke in the wheel of DPRK-U.S. talks and antagonizing the DPRK. The nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is attributable to the U.S. nuclear weapons deployed in South Korea, he said. "The Japanese government must show sincerity for the improvement of Japan-DPRK relations including establishment of diplomatic relations," he urged.
