FBIS3-12866 "drnes044_n_94008" FBIS-NES-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 LEBANON PSP Names Command Council, Deputy Leaders NC0603152394 Shanayh Voice of the Mountain in Arabic 1230 GMT 6 Mar 94 NC0603152394 Shanayh Voice of the Mountain Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Statement by Sharif Fayyad, secretary general of the Progressive Socialist Party, PSP, followed by a question and answer session with unidentified reporters, after a meeting of the PSP General Assembly in B'aqlin on 6 March--recorded] [Excerpts] [Fayyad] The PSP General Assembly met today in the absence of PSP leader Walid Junblatt, who is indisposed and has to stay in bed. The Assembly approved the final draft of a political document, discussed organizational matters, and elected members to the PSP Command Council. The PSP charter and statutes stipulate that the Assembly has to approve nominations to the Command Council. Accordingly, the Assembly approved the formation of the 18-member Command Council. The Assembly elected eight Command Council members. These are: Durayd Yaghi, Sharif Fayyad, Joseph al-Qazzi, Mahdi Shahadah, Bassam Daww, Kamal Mu'awwad, Antoine al-Asqar, and 'Awad Sulaybah. The eight were elected unopposed. The PSP leader appointed six members to the Command Council. These are: Jamal Isma'il, Mustafa Yahya, Halim Abu-Fakhr-al-Din, Ibrahim Ayyub, Khalil Ahmad Khalil, and 'Isam al-Halabi. In addition to these 14 members, the Command Council will include the following parliamentary deputies: 'Ala-al-Din Sirru, Ayman Shuqayr, and Akram Shuhayyib, as well as the PSP leader, bringing the total number to 18. The PSP leader appointed Durayd Yaghi and Antoine al-Ashqar as his deputies. He also appointed the following colleagues as his advisers: Fu'ad Salman, Ghazi al-'Aridi, Dawud Hamid, and 'Isam al-Jawhari. [passage omitted] [Reporter] [words indistinct] What are the most salient features of the political document? [Fayyad] We will release a written copy of the full and final version of the political document as it was approved today to the media, thus placing it at everybody's disposal. [passage omitted]
