FBIS3-596 "drafr047_c_94021" FBIS-AFR-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Analyst on `Disquieting' Aspects of Constitution MB1003135394 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1314 GMT 10 Mar 94 MB1003135394 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Dirk van Zyl] [Text] Cape Town Mar 10 SAPA -- Political analyst Dr Frederik van zyl Slabbert says he finds disquieting vagueness surrounding interim constitutional powers and competence of different governmental levels, such as regional and central. In his column "Barskyk" [Close Up] in the latest edition of the Afrikaans independent intellectual journal DIE SUID-AFRIKAAN, he writes: "My interpretation is that the central government is ultimately going to have over-arching power." Further aspects that Dr Slabbert, a former leader of the opposition in the South African Parliament and now policy director of the Institute for Democracy in South Africa, finds disquieting are: - The lack of proper entrenchment of the Bill of Rights. "For me Clause 33 is unclear and simply sinister when it says that entrenched rights may be limited by legislation. On both the points communist Party Chairman) Joe Slovo and his comrades have won hands-down."; and - The electoral system on which the constitution is based. "The particular form of proportional representation tends itself to party-rigidity, domination and rivalry. It hampers alliance-forming and the promotion of electorat tolerance." Dr Slabbert says when this is further blurred by "populists who use democretic rhetoric like `everything can be rewritten by the democratically-elected representatives of the people'," in which the people have virtually no choice about for what and for whom voting takes place, "there is trouble." Taking everything into account, the conclusion can hardly be avoided that if the interim constitution remains as is, and becomes the final one, "the politics of the country will be reduced to a simple rivalry of power monopolies between parties". On the constitutional process, Dr Slabbert writes that the question is: Can the problems of government be divorced from the problems of constitution-writing? "Particularly if it is the same bunch of people grappling with the same problems. How long is the good faith going to continue?"
