FBIS4-34911 "drlat123_c_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-123 Daily Report 25 Jun 1994 MEXICO Resignation Discussed With Salinas Resignation Discussed With Salinas PA2506023194 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network in Spanish 0000 GMT 25 Jun 94 PA2506023194 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network Spanish BFN [From the "Evening News Panorama" newscast] [Text] Interior Secretary Jorge Carpizo McGregor has unexpectedly resigned from the post he assumed on 10 January. In a letter addressed to the president of the republic, Dr. Carpizo McGregor explained that his decision to resign was prompted by a political party's unrelenting attempts to tarnish the 21 August federal elections. The Presidency of the republic reported that President Carlos Salinas asked Interior Secretary Carpizo McGregor to reconsider his resignation. They talked for several hours in President Salinas' office, but no agreement was reached. The president of Mexico said he hopes Dr. Carpizo reconsiders his decision, and Dr. Carpizo responded: "Give me some time, Mr. President. We will discuss this issue again this weekend." This is the current state of affairs. There have been reactions from several officials following Carpizo's resignation. The National Executive Committee of the National Action Party [PAN] regretted Dr. Carpizo's decision and asked him to reconsider his decision. PAN Mexican presidential candidate Diego Fernandez de Zevallos echoed this request. [Begin Fernandez de Zevallos recording] As a citizen and as PAN Mexican presidential candidate, I ask Dr. Carpizo McGregor to withdraw his resignation for the good of Mexico. I make this request considering my perception of Dr. Carpizo McGregor as an exemplary citizen and an honest official who must continue at the Interior Secretariat for Mexico's well-being. Thank you, that is all. [end recording] PRD [Party of the Democratic Revolution] presidential candidate Cuahutemoc Cardenas Solorzano also spoke about Carpizo's resignation. Cardenas is currently in Tuxtla Gutierrez, Chiapas State. He demanded that Jorge Carpizo McGregor explain his reasons for resigning from his post of interior secretary, which includes his post as president of the General Council of the Federal Electoral Institute.
