FBIS4-40008 "drsov113_f_94023" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 National Affairs Government on Rules Out Closing Down Chernobyl Government on Rules Out Closing Down Chernobyl LD1006180094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1700 GMT 10 Jun 94 LD1006180094 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondents Viktor Demidenko, Mikhail Melnik] [Text] Kiev 10 June TASS -- "The halt of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant will not change the general situation, bearing in mind the operation of Chernobyl-type reactors at other power plants of the Dnieper River basin near the Ukrainian borders. Nobody is going to halt them," says a report of the Ukrainian Government circulated here today in response to the campaign of the Greenpeace international non-governmental ecological organization which demands an immediate halt of the Chernobyl plant. In the opinion of the Ukrainian Government, this problem should have a comprehensive solution. Nuclear reactors have been given preference in development of power engineering over the past decades. Ukraine has practically not modernized thermal power plants and power plants of other types. The majority of them now have worked-out technical resources and equipment which require immediate modernization and the introduction of modern ecological technologies of burning. Thus, the Ukrainian thermal power engineering will not compensate the halt of the nuclear power plant which counts for almost 10 per cent of electricity production capacities. The government is doing much to raise the plant's safety. There are no deviations in its work. Two units are working in the permitted capacity regime. The state of the "shelter" facility over the damaged unit, as well as of the whole plant is under permanent control of the State Committee for Supervision over Nuclear Safety. "The complete halt of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant will turn it into the largest energy consumer from a major energy producer. Some 300 million kilowatt-hours of electricity will be needed to keep the technical state of the plant every year, not to mention huge state allocations," says the document. One should also not forget about social problems. One can understand the demands to immediately halt the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. "However, this problem can have a constructive solution only through the modernization of the whole energy complex, which Ukraine will not be able to do without international assistance. "The intention of the G7 to discuss assistance to the Ukrainian power engineering, including the safety of its nuclear power engineering and the future of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, is a great hope. "There are no doubts that all problems related to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant will be further solved with due account of the requirements of population safety and environmental protection," says the report.
