FBIS4-47586 "jpust013___94140" JPRS-UST-94-013 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 23 June 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Risk Factors Affecting Morbidity of Chernobyl Nuclear Risk Factors Affecting Morbidity of Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant Accident Clean-Up Crew 947C0178C Moscow MEDITSINSKAYA RADIOLOGIYA in Russian Vol. 38 No. 10, Oct. 93 pp. 28-31 947C0178C Moscow MEDITSINSKAYA RADIOLOGIYA Russian CSO [Article by V.K. Ivanov, A.I. Mikhalskiy, A.M. Petrovskaya, S.Yu. Chekin, Scientific Research Institute of Medical Radiology and Management Problems Institute at Russia's Academy of Sciences] [Abstract] The interrelationship between the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident clean-up crew morbidity and the factors affecting it is studied on the basis of reports accumulated by the State Chernobyl Registry. To this end, pathological states diagnosed as ``mental disorders'' and ``nervous system diseases'' are selected due to the fact that more than 10% of the patients have been identified as having these ailments. The following characteristics are considered as the risk factors: the date of arrival to the accident zone, the length of stay in the zone, and the external irradiation dose. This selection is dictated by the assumption of the stress-induced mechanism of these illnesses. The disease detection time following the arrival at the zone for the patients who came before and after the 120th days after the accident and bar charts of the disease risk distribution for the proportional and kurtosis models are plotted. An analysis shows that arrival at the accident zone before the 120th day and the duration of stay are indeed the principal risk factor for the development of mental and nervous system disorders. The external irradiation dose is identified as a risk factor which only slightly affects morbidity; it is speculated that this factor is an artifact arising due to the statistical correlation between the length of stay in the zone and the irradiation dose received therein. The conclusion is drawn that a simple proportional model describes morbidity most adequately while the model which reflects kurtosis is not consistent with morbidity. Figures 4; tables 2.
