FBIS4-33890 "drlat114bb_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-114 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS Central American Leaders Meet on Proposals for Summit Central American Leaders Meet on Proposals for Summit PA1306203594 Paris AFP in Spanish 1858 GMT 13 Jun 94 PA1306203594 Paris AFP Spanish BFN [Text] San Jose, 13 Jun (AFP) -- The Central American presidents agreed to propose at the Cartagena summit an endorsement of Ibero-American ecological and trade integration and to request specific actions to promote the isthmus' "unrestricted" access to third markets. After a second working session that concluded today at noon, the Central American presidents signed in San Jose a joint declaration outlining proposals for the area with the Ibero-American summit in mind. This summit will open in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia on Tuesday. "We propose that Ibero-America incorporate ecological integration into efforts toward economic and social integration. It is necessary to combine subregional integration agreements so it will be possible in the near future to create a large free trade zone," states the document, which was read by Guatemalan President Ramiro De Leon Carpio . De Leon emphasized the need for the Ibero-American community to increase technical and financial aid to Central America to fight poverty; promote fair, sustainable development; and consolidate its democratic process after enduring the previous decade's severe crisis aggravated by the "Cold War." The document states: "Renewed international solidarity with Central America should be expressed in concrete actions in the field of trade exchange, thus clearing the way for unrestricted access of the isthmus' products to the Ibero-American community's markets." According to the presidents, ecological integration will allow the establishment of Ibero-American environmental laws, the signing and implementation of an agreement in favor of nature, and the transfer of technology to benefit all productive sectors. The Central American presidents also agreed to request the participation of the Ibero-American nations as extraregional associates of the Central American Bank of Economic Integration to finance regional development projects. The declaration was signed by Presidents De Leon Carpio, Carlos Roberto Reina (Honduras), Armando Calderon Sol (El Salvador), Violeta Chamorro (Nicaragua), Guillermo Endara (Panama), and Jose Maria Figueres (Costa Rica). The Costa Rican president stressed that despite internal differences Central American countries must face the "challenges" of development together as an example of the isthmus nations' "brotherhood." In addition, the presidents called for a Central American ecological summit to be held in Nicaragua 12-13 October as well as for an international conference for peace and development in Central America, slated for 24-25 June in Honduras. After the mini summit, the first working session of which was held on Sunday night, the Central American presidents will travel to Cartagena together in a plane provided by the Colombian Government.
