FBIS3-26017 "drchi022_n_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 Economic & Agricultural `Central Leader' Comments on Economic `Soft Landing' HK0102114594 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO in Chinese 28 Jan 94 p 2 HK0102114594 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN ["Special dispatch": "Central Leader Urges People to Seize Opportunity to Carry Out Reform Well; Macroeconomic Regulation and Control Last Year Only Tackled the Symptoms But Not Root Cause, and `Soft Landing' of Economy Is Still Needed This Year"] [Text] Beijing, 27 Jan (TA KUNG PAO)--A central leader recently stressed in a speech that in 1994, China's economy still needs a "soft landing." He also stressed the need to seize the opportunity to carry out the reform well, and completely solve problems arising from development. This central leader said that macroeconomic regulation and control in 1993 only tackled the symptoms but not the root cause. Some problems which have emerged in the forward progress since the rapid development in 1992, were not solved last year, and could not be solved last year; if efforts were made to solve them last year, it would mean a "hard landing," big fluctuations, and vibrations in the society. The method adopted during macroeconomic regulation and control in 1993, was to tackle the symptoms, so it could only achieve limited goals, such as checking the inflationary trend, the growing trend of excessively large scales of capital construction, and the trend in which large amounts of money were being released by banks. The number of construction projects underway at this moment is three times that of 1991. We must continue the "soft landing" in 1994, and capital construction cannot rise rapidly. This central leader said that the duty of macroeconomic regulation and control has not yet been fulfilled, and it has not "landed" at this moment, therefore it must continue the "soft landing" this year. If it always "does not land," or even flies upward, a "hard landing" is needed when problems erupt, by then, the consequences are hard to predict, and changes in the society will be unimaginable. This leader pointed out that the reform in 1994 indeed has to be put to a very important position. If the reform in 1994 cannot be carried out well, we will miss an historic opportunity, which will hardly come again in the future. If we can carry out the reform well, completely solve problems arising from it, and really embark upon the road of sustained, rapid, and healthy development, then, conditions will be good; we must cherish this good pattern, situation, and opportunity, really work solidly for eight or 10 years, then, China can really be counted as a strong nation in the world. Of course this is not judged in terms of per capita figure, but in terms of overall quantity, which will show a relatively strong national strength.
