FBIS4-41641 "drsov123_f_94026" FBIS-SOV-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 National Affairs Kravchuk on Rejection of Joint Black Sea Fleet Control Kravchuk on Rejection of Joint Black Sea Fleet Control WS2406111994 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network in Ukrainian 1000 GMT 24 Jun 94 WS2406111994 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network Ukrainian BFN [Text] President Leonid Kravchuk today began his working trip to southern Ukraine with a visit to Dzhankoyskyy rayon in the Crimea, our special correspondent Vitaliy Naumenko reports. The economy in this part of the Crimea is literally paralyzed by the lack of diesel fuel on the eve of the harvest campaign. Due to adverse weather conditions, thousands of hectares of crops have perished. It is expected that the harvest will be significantly lower than usual. As the head of our state noted, the main goal of his visit is to examine the state of affairs in the agricultural sector of Dzhankoyskyy rayon, and to take quick, decisive, and efficient measures to provide assistance. Answering a question from a correspondent of Ukrainian radio, citing the fact that some of Leonid Kravchuk's rivals in the presidential race support a joint command over the Black Sea Fleet, Leonid Kravchuk stated that this standpoint is shared by neither the Russian leadership nor President Boris Yeltsin. Everyone has come to the conclusion, Leonid Kravchuk said, that the fleet can be either single or divided, but there will be no peace under this unusual -- so-called joint -- status. By the way, Leonid Kravchuk noted, servicemen of the Black Sea Fleet understand this. Leonid Kravchuk also stated that, according to legislation adopted by our Supreme Council, Ukraine should have three types of armed forces -- land, air, and naval. Therefore, he, as president, executes Ukrainian laws. If the Black Sea Fleet was to fall under joint command, the law would have to be amended, and one would have to state that Ukraine does not need a navy. The president also noted that he advocates, and will continue to advocate granting as many powers as possible to the Crimea, provided Crimea remains an integral part of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution and international norms. Otherwise, if there is a coup against Ukraine's territorial integrity, all this will make no sense, the president emphasized.
