FBIS3-18291 "drweu040_p_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 GREECE Deputies Demand Rights for Greeks on Imbros Island NC2502165394 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA in Greek 23 Feb 94 p 2 NC2502165394 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Report by Mary Pini] [Excerpt] During a recent visit to Imbros, deputies from every party of the Greek Chamber of Deputies ascertained the "shrinkage of the Greek community and the outright violation of human rights." The same deputies formed a parliamentary interparty initiative on Greek issues "to meet the needs of changing times," they said. They all signed a declaration aiming at salvaging Hellenism outside Greek borders as well as on Imbros island. The above were announced yesterday by these deputies during a news conference held together with members of the association of Greeks from Imbros and Constantinople (IKTAR) at the Foreign Correspondents Union room. The declaration calls on Greeks everywhere to coordinate action in support of human rights, not only in Imbros, but also among all people, and calls attention to the danger of losing traditions. At the same time, the declaration calls for recognizing the rights of Greek Orthodox people outside Greece's borders and for maintaining their identity, freedom, and dignity. The declaration also urges implementing international law and the principles of UN decisions and the international accords in Cyprus, Imbros, Tenedos, North Ipiros, and everywhere there are Greeks. The deputies noted that in Imbros, there are no schools, church or doctor. PASOK [Panhellenic Socialist Movement] deputy Konstandinos Bandouvas noted that the island's doctor was killed last September in a peculiar traffic accident. During the news conference, the deputies stressed that everybody demands the establishment of Greek schools in Imbros as well as a position for a Greek consular employee. PASOK deputy Dhimitrios Vounatsos promised to see that the Greek Government raise the issue of schools officially with the Turkish Government and international organizations. [passage omitted]
