FBIS3-59840 "jpnea001___94030" JPRS-NEA-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 6 January 1994 NEAR EAST REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Editorial Warns of Civil War 94LD0003C London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 19 Oct p 7 94LD0003C London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Language: Arabic Article Type:CSO [Article by 'Uthman Mirghani] [Text] The current crisis in Yemen seems to be more graver than preceding ones, particularly since some parties have begun talking daily with voices growing louder about endangered unity and the possibility of divisiveness returning. Reading the statements of President 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih and his deputy Salim al-Bid one would feel the widening alienation between them, and would sense the depth of the political crisis and the danger threatening Yemeni unity. In a press interview with him before the election of the new presidential council, President 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih said that a collective style of leadership is a communist party tradition that has proved its failure. He believes that al-Bid's going into seclusion will probably continue "perhaps because some think that results can be achieved by going into seclusion. But his deputy 'Ali al-Bid believes that the General People's Congress Party [GPC] is dominating the unitary state. He asserts that he will not go to Sanaa unless it really becomes the capital of the Yemeni Republic (the unitary state), and not of the Yemeni Arab Republic (formerly northern Yemen). Because the differences between the president and the vice president and between the GPC and its ally the YSP [Yemeni Socialist Party] are really deep, the election of a new presidential council and the confirmation of 'Ali al-Bid in his position as vice president, although he was not sworn in with the rest of the council members, does not mean that the crisis is over and the dangers to unity have receded. Rather, what happened was maintaining the status quo and keeping the crisis in suspension, with all what this may entail in terms of paralyzing the government and impeding merging the institutions and consolidating national unity. It is no secret that failure to complete the merger of the armed forces underscores the danger the political dispute between the GPC and the YSP poses to unity. Al-Bid recently confirmed what certain reports said about armed forces put on alert during the recent elections, which has almost set off a serious problem between the former two Yemenis. Many quarters believe that the YSP does not want to lose the army card before its demands are realized and its differences with its northern allies are solved. Maintaining the status quo involves great dangers, particularly since the building of unity needs a consensus of views and building bridges of trust in order to overcome the many difficulties and obstacles which we have seen plague even a developed and rich country like Germany. Circumstances have decreed that difficulties of unity in Yemen be coupled with difficulties of democracy, thereby heightening pressures on the nascent unitary state. Overcoming such difficulties cannot be realized by the expression of wishes, but rather by hard work and unlimited patience because the alternative would be not only the collapse of unity but also the possibilities of a bloody civil war in which the biggest loser will be Yemen and the Yemenis.
