FBIS4-31524 "dreeu112_i_94009" FBIS-EEU-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Forced Mobilization of 1,500 Croats Ordered Forced Mobilization of 1,500 Croats Ordered AU0906161894 Zagreb VJESNIK in Serbo-Croatian 9 Jun 94 p 48 AU0906161894 Zagreb VJESNIK Serbo-Croatian BFN [HINA report: "Draft Orders for All Officials in Croatian Institutions"] [Text] Mostar -- The communal secretariats of Tuzla, Lukavac, Zivnica, and Banovici, have in the past few days opted for a forced mobilization of some 1,500 Croats into the Bosnia-Herzegovina Army, Radio Herceg-Bosna reported on Wednesday. As reported by the correspondent of the Herceg-Bosna radio station in Tuzla, the military police of the Bosnia-Herzegovina Army 2d Corps -- after serving draft orders -- immediately transfers the Croats into the Bosnia-Herzegovina Army ranks and the military strongholds on Mt. Majevica and Mt. Konjuh. The draft orders were served to high-ranking officials in all Croatian institutions. The Herceg-Bosna radio reports that among the mobilized are two members of the Croatian Democratic Community [HDZ] Regional Council in Tuzla, 14 presidents of HDZ branches, Josip Simic, president of the Croatian "Hrvatski Dom" Society, Drago Juric, manager of the "Sol" company, Janko Divkovic, president of the HDZ Youth in the Tuzla region, and the majority of members of the "GLASNIK HDZ SOLI" [newsletter] editorial board. The radio stresses that the consequence of this mobilization of Croats is their massive exodus from the region, in which they are aided by the Bosniak authorities, who are taking care of all the paperwork needed for leaving Tuzla. Colonel-General Milivoj Petkovic, head of the Croatian Defense Council [HVO] General Staff in the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosna, confirmed that a note on the mobilization of Croats had arrived from Tuzla on Tuesday. "We have informed Kresimir Zubak, president of the Bosnia-Herzegovina Federation, about this," General Petkovic told Croatian Radio Herceg-Bosna on Wednesday, and added that this would "create numerous problems." General Petkovic assessed that this was "incorrect of the Muslim authorities," and that it was a "calculated move."
