FBIS4-9922 "drlat064_m_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-064 Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 Brazil Telecommunication Cooperation With PRC Viewed Telecommunication Cooperation With PRC Viewed PY0504013794 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL in Portuguese 30 Mar 94 p 13 PY0504013794 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL Portuguese BFN [Article by Heloisa Magalhaes from Buenos Aires] [Text] The Chinese telephone network grew by 51 percent in 1993 with the installation of 5.83 million phones, a little less than the total number of lines Brazil had in 1992. This is the largest, most booming market in the world in this field. In face of this market force, the Chinese Communications Ministry has sent a strong message regarding deregulation policy to the representatives of the International Telecommunications Union which is sponsoring its first meeting aimed at developing countries. Zhu Gaofeng, Chinese vice minister of Posts and Telecommunications, will visit Brasilia on 4 April. He said: "It is not possible to follow only one development model in the field of telecommunications; there is not one model that can be adapted for all countries. Developing countries have become the greatest market in this field, which is why international financial institutions cannot establish short-term conditions. Partnerships with countries that need a lot of investment must follow a model of equal and mutual benefit." He is negotiating with the Brazilian Government the first stage toward a possible "joint venture" [preceding two words in English] in the field of telecommunications and postal services. Based on a scientific and technological cooperation agreement signed between the two governments in Beijing in 1993, the partnership foresees the integration of private companies like Promon Telecommunications, Darum, and Ericsson. These cooperation agreements will benefit: The postal system: through development of a new postal policy, organization of the postal network, administration of services, marketing, courier, payment orders, and manufacture of new equipment. The telecommunications system: through a new policy for voice and data transmission services, rural communication using satellites, point-to-point and mobile systems; through fiber optics; through administration and planning of telephone networks and value-added services. The agreement also contemplates the joint development of telecommunications equipment.
