FBIS3-10653 "drlat047__a94009" FBIS-LAT-94-047-A Document Type:Daily Report 10 March 1994 ANNEX Brazil Cardoso Threatens Use of Imports To Fight Price Hikes PY0903163094 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 8 Mar 94 Business and Finance Section p 7--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY0903163094 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL Language: Portuguese and Finance Article Type:BFN [Text] Sao Paulo -- Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso has threatened to reduce the import tax rates to prevent speculation. Cardoso promised: "We are going to reduce the import tax rates and bring cheaper products into the country." His strategy is based on the "surprise factor." Whoever doubts the government's capacity to discourage abusive price increases, Fernando Henrique maintains that he is prepared to face speculators. "We are prepared to act firmly, especially against prices established by oligopolies. These increases have a short life if we have a firm government -- and we do. We are determined to lower those prices, and we are not going to announce how we are going to do so," he exclaimed. Fernando Henrique said that he is going to use imports only to halt price markups. The minister hopes that with the beginning of the harvest prices will start to drop, but insisted he is going to fight price increases. "These increases were attributed to a possible price freeze, but the government did and will not freeze prices. Therefore, it is mere speculation." As for salaries, the minister does not believe in an automatic salary adjustment for the inflation rate because "the URV [real value unit] will automatically adjust salaries." "There will only be a real salary increase when prices do not increase. That business of increasing salaries by 80 percent and prices by 120 percent is deceitful, and I do not agree with it." Once again Fernando Henrique said that the minimum salary is "very low," but insisted that this problem cannot be solved by decree. "I want the minimum salary to become a mere reference figure, that in practice it not be the salary earned by anyone, because if this could be solved by decree I would increase it to $500 instead of $100."
