FBIS4-66916 "jptac005__l94031" JPRS-TAC-94-005-L JPRS Arms Control 13 May 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA KAZAKHSTAN Seminar Discusses Aftermath of Semipalatinsk Nuclear Tests Seminar Discusses Aftermath of Semipalatinsk Nuclear Tests LD1305093694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0848 GMT 13 May 94 LD1305093694 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Valentin Pavlov] [Text] Barnaul May 13 TASS -- Residents in the Altay territory were subjected to radiation from 58 explosions between 1949 and 1990, including the first thermonuclear weapon test in August 1953, said speakers at the three-day session of the Scientific Council in Barnaul on the appraisal of Semipalatinsk explosions aftermaths on the Altay territory population. Results of investigations confirm that the radioactive fallout of nuclear detonations at the Semipalatinsk proving ground covered nearly the entire Altay territory. People received doses on the verge of radiation injury in some areas. Over a third of population living in fallout areas died in the first five-seven years after the 1949 explosion. A new wave of oncological diseases, hemopathies, diseases of hematogenetic organs and genetic mutations is now observed when the third generation of radiated people has become child-bearing. These and other facts from the history of Soviet nuclear testing were revealed at the above-mentioned session which ended its work on Friday. It was attended by scientists from nearly 60 research institutions. Physicists, chemists, biologists, doctors and sociologists discussed the results of last year's research work and progress in implementing the "Polygon" comprehensive programme in the Altay territory, providing for urgent measures to overcome aftermaths of nuclear explosions, to improve the ecological situation and people's health as well as to give a boost to social and economic development of afflicted villages. The session mapped out guidelines for further research. Valentin Koptyug, president of the Siberian branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, pointed to the great importance for the international scientific community of massive medical checkup of irradiated people, which was carried in the Altay territory for the first time in the world. According to scientists, this session of "the programme on distant radiation aftereffects of nuclear tests at the Semipalatinsk proving ground on the Altay territory population" (official name of the session) has also become an important stage in preparations for an international conference on the "radtest" (radiation test) programme to be held in the Altay territory next September.
