FBIS4-15876 "drsov070_b_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-070 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military & Nuclear Issues Radiation Official on Conditions at Nuclear Stations Radiation Official on Conditions at Nuclear Stations LD0804222594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1335 GMT 8 Apr 94 LD0804222594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Mikhail Karlov] [Text] Moscow, 8 Apr -- Accidents are possible at any nuclear power station. Not for technical reasons, either, although the state of many stations does indeed give rise to anxiety among specialists, the ITAR-TASS correspondent learned today from Valeriy Sorokin, head of the Main Administration for Radiation Catastrophes (formerly Roskomchernobyl) of the Russian Ministry for Civil Defense, Emergencies, and Natural Disasters. There are a number of reasons for potential accidents, the specialist believes. Equipment works as well as the people who operate it. At present the professional level of nuclear power station staff has fallen sharply. Previously, many highly-qualified nuclear workers wanted to work at stations because of the financial and social privileges -- these have not been in evidence for the last three or four years. Top class nuclear power workers are leaving for commercial organizations. It is frightening when nuclear power station workers go on strike because for several months they have not been paid their wages, averaging about 100,000 rubles. Many left under pressure of public opinion when Chernobyl started to be linked with nuclear power workers. Some believed nuclear stations should be eliminated. Sorokin is of the view that there is a lack of due supervision at stations. Gosatomnadzor [State Committee for Supervision of Nuclear and Radiation Safety] -- which grew from the former Ministry of Medium Machine-Building -- essentially runs itself. At all nuclear power stations practically all its representatives are former staff of the stations themselves and are to a great degree dependent upon the management there. Things are hard for Russia today. But it must choose the priority areas of life and the problems that must be solved first of all.
