FBIS3-38113 "drweu020_e_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Unionists See Adams Visa Decision as `Despicable' PM3101103694 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 31 Jan 94 p 1 PM3101103694 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:BFN [Hugh Davies report: "Gerry Adams Gets U.S. Visa"] [Text] New York -- The United States has granted Mr Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, a visa to attend a conference on Northern Ireland in New York tomorrow in a move expected to enrage the Government. He is being allowed to stay 48 hours in Manhattan, but is forbidden to venture beyond a 25-mile radius of New York. Mr Adams is also banned from engaging in any "direct or indirect" fundraising for the IRA. Huge security is expected for the visit. A White House statement said the decision represented the administration's effort to "support this important peace process." Assurances had been sought from Mr Adams that he would renounce violence and support the joint declaration. The IRA gets its money through NORAID in America. The organisation said: "The announcement means that the long censorship by visa denial has been broken." White House advisers to President Clinton apparently overruled State Department hawks who persuaded him to stop Mr Adams visiting Manhattan last year because of his suspected direct involvement in IRA operations. Mr Adams has been banned for 20 years and it was the persuasive power of two Democratic Irish-American politicians -- Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Senator Edward Kennedy -- that swayed Mr Clinton. The pair joined 38 other politicians to urge Mr Clinton to reverse his opposition, arguing that the Sinn Fein leader's appearance at a critical juncture of the peace process could help by easing Sinn Fein into the mainstream and showing IRA hard-liners that there is credibility to be gained through negotiation. Mr Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionists, has also been invited to the conference, organised by the National Committee on American Foreign Policy, but said that if Mr Adams attends he will stay in Belfast. Mr John Hume, the SDLP leader, Mr James Molyneaux, the Unionist leader, and Dr John Alderdice of the Alliance Party are also invited. Mr John Taylor, the Ulster Unionist MP for Strangford, condemned the visa decision as "despicable" and accused the Clinton administration of giving in to Washington's Irish lobby.
