FBIS3-5662 "dreas047_n_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 Vietnam Do Muoi Holds Talks With DPRK Party Delegation BK1003150994 Hanoi VNA in English 1430 GMT 10 Mar 94 BK1003150994 Hanoi VNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Hanoi VNA March 10 -- General Secretary Do Muoi received in Ho Chi Minh City yesterday a delegation of the Workers' Party of Korea (WPK) led by Hwang Chang-yop, secretary of the party Central Committee in charge of external relations affairs, which paid an official friendship visit to Vietnam from March 7-10. During the reception, General Secretary Do Muoi welcomed the visit as an important contribution to the consolidation and development of the friendship between the parties and peoples. He thanked the Korean people for their support for the Vietnamese people's struggle against US aggression. He reaffirmed that the Vietnamese party, Government and people have always supported the cause of socialist construction, and the struggle for peace, sovereignty and reunification of the Korean people. For his part, Hwang Chang-yop informed Do Muoi of the achievements recorded by the Korean people in recent years, and expressed his wish to further develop the solidarity and friendship between the two parties and peoples. Mr. Hwang conveyed president Kim Il-song's invitation to Mr. Do Muoi to visit the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The Vietnamese leader accepted the invitation with pleasure. DPRK Ambassador to Vietnam Han Min-chol was also present at the the event. The same day, advisor to the party Central Committee Nguyen Van Linh received the Korean guests during which the former expressed his satisfaction at the fine development of the relationship between the two parties and peoples, and wished that it would be further developed. Mr. Hwang also conveyed President Kim Il-song's invitation to Nguyen Van Linh to visit the DPRK and the latter accepted it with pleasure. While in Vietnam, the WPK delegation met with Pham The Duyet, Politburo member of the Communist Party of Vietnam Central Committee [CPV CC] and secretary of the Hanoi party committee, Vo Tran Chi, Politburo member of the CPV CC and secretary of the Ho Chi Minh City party committee. It had working sessions with the Vietnam Union of Peace, Solidarity and Friendship Organizations, the Vietnam-DPRK Friendship Association and the Vietnam Committee for Solidarity With the Korean People. It also toured some economic and cultural establishments in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. The delegation left Ho Chi Minh City today, concluding its visit to Vietnam.
