FBIS4-58146 "drnes084_s_94002" FBIS-NES-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 SOUTH ASIA Iran U.S. `Ploys' Exaggerate Tehran's Military Goals U.S. `Ploys' Exaggerate Tehran's Military Goals LD2904170794 Tehran IRIB Television First Program Network in Persian 1415 GMT 29 Apr 94 LD2904170794 Tehran IRIB Television First Program Network Persian BFN [Unattributed commentary] [Excerpts] The fifth of Ordibehesht [25 April] this week was the 14th anniversary of the U.S. abortive military attack on Tabas. A glance at events during this relatively lengthy period demonstrates that Washington has never abandoned attempts to attack Islamic Iran by various means. But just as in its attack on the Tabas desert all its attempts have somehow failed. The continuous confrontation between the Islamic Republic of Iran [IRI] and the United States since the victory of the Islamic revolution has been one of the most complex confrontations of the recent decades, which have engaged two international political entities. Ploys and parameters exploited by Washington in this confrontation are very diverse and extensive. In the field of politics, the White House takes advantage of its influence in such international forums as the United Nations and Amnesty International. It does not miss an opportunity either to persuade or force member countries of such regional bodies as the Persian Gulf Cooperation Council and the Arab League to pressure and isolate Iran. [passage omitted] At present Washington is carefully monitoring every military purchase by Tehran. By exaggerating the Islamic Republic's military objectives and by repeating allegations that Iran is seeking to acquire nuclear weapons, it is pursuing some sort of covert embargo. Also in the confrontation against the Islamic revolution, the White House is extensively exploiting the lever of economic pressure. American officials exploit their relations with major European or Asian states to carefully monitor any expansion of economic ties between Iran and these states. To check the IRI's economic capabilities, the American officials on occasion have been prepared to pay a high price. These sorts of reactions by such a country as America seems odd and incredible, unless one tries to analyze these stances by understanding the depth of imperialism's grudge against Islam. In the face of the diverse and extensive ploys designed by the U.S. strategists to confront the Islamic revolution, the IRI leadership, while being vigilantly aware of the complexity of an all-embracing struggle, is relying on two basic axes: First on Islam as a comprehensive and effective system to realize the revolution's short-term or long-term goals; and second on maintaining the people's presence to strengthen legitimacy of the regime. On the surface these two factors seem so simple, but they provide so much strength and have the potential to divert the continuous Washington-Tehran confrontation to favor the Islamic revolution in practice.
