FBIS3-52085 "drlat020_q_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 Paraguay Christian Democratic Leader Questions U.S. Troops' Mission PY2801180494 Asuncion HOY in Spanish 28 Jan 94 p 4 PY2801180494 Asuncion HOY Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Christian Democratic Party (PDC) President Miguel Angel Montaner said that the U.S. offer to send a unit of 600 military engineers to build schools in the country was questioned during President Juan Carlos Wasmosy's last meeting with political leaders. The main objection was that the social action offered in the package was small while the armed presence was very strong. The political leader, who is a member of the president's official entourage currently touring Ecuador and Peru, said Ambassador Jon Glassman's offer on 10 January "was not laid out very well and probably will have to be brought up again or will be rejected." What was laid out wrong? It was really a request for social action, but a very small one, with very strong participation by U.S. armed personnel to carry out exercises, but not joint exercises with our troops but with Ministry of Public Work forces. We think the proposal was badly laid out because the promised social action is small. They propose building eight schools, a program that any parents association can undertake, and some eight artesian wells, all with a large military detachment. Their presence could create problems at a time we are consolidating our democracy. It is not convenient for the U.S. image as a leading democratic country and it is not convenient for the image we, Paraguayans, must have of ourselves. Montaner said that as a result of a meeting at the presidential residence, "President Wasmosy has taken up the responsibility with a lot of integrity and without involving anyone. He has assumed the responsibility. I think the offer must be rejected. On the other hand, we can tell the Americans that we really need help fighting drug trafficking and implementing social action programs, but not with the proposed political style." Asked if the president will reject the U.S. offer, Montaner said: "The proposal was made to the president of the Republic and he will be responsible for rejecting it."
