FBIS4-10471 "drlat071_g_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-071 Daily Report 9 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA Guatemala Minister on Army Support for Civilian Forces Minister on Army Support for Civilian Forces PA1304020894 Guatemala City PRENSA LIBRE in Spanish 9 Apr 94 p 3 PA1304020894 Guatemala City PRENSA LIBRE Spanish BFN [Text] Defense Minister Mario Enriquez Morales said yesterday: "The Army is ready to go into the streets to support civilian security forces and to fight the wave of violence Guatemala is experiencing." He made these statements during his speech to Congress and affirmed them as the special session concluded. He stressed this plan is part of the new project drafted by the government's security cabinet to face the current situation. He added the military institution is constitutionally empowered to support civilian security forces by using its 47,000 agents; we must follow President Ramiro de Leon Carpio's instructions, because we are part of the executive branch, he said. Government Minister Danilo Parinello Blanco also talked about the joint project, which could become effective in the next few hours. He added the security cabinet has planned the creation of assault, elite, and investigative police units. The first police unit will initially have 300 men and 600 men after 90 days, while 200 men will be assigned to the elite police unit. The investigative police unit will have military support. All these plans will be implemented despite the Government Ministry's current economic status. Deficiencies At the deputies' insistence, Parinello Blanco said his institution, especially the National Police (PN), has a number of deficiencies. Among the shortcomings, he mentioned the lack of economic resources and technology and the shortage in staff to work in all the regions. The official cited the fact that 1,027 agents are at the service of diplomatic institutions and individuals. He added a policeman must buy his uniform and shoes, and should he use his weapon he must use his 750-quetzal salary to buy ammunition. Among the projects to be implemented, he said there is the possibility of establishing an emergency telephone number, similar to the U.S. 911 emergency phone number. Historical Plenary Session Deputies interrogated the two officials at a historic plenary session. The main topics addressed were the murders of Jorge Carpio Nicolle and Constitutionality Court President Epaminondas Gonzalez, as well as the recent attack on Legislator Obdulio Chinchilla Vega and other violent actions throughout many regions. Fernandez's Testimony Colonel Jose Fernandez Ligorria, chief of staff of the Defense Ministry, testified yesterday he has no links with the Chinchilla attack; on the contrary, he learned of the anonymous letter on 5 April and offered the deputy protection.
