FBIS3-58445 "drweu009_q_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 TURKEY Declaration, Agreements Signed TA1301121094 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1100 GMT 13 Jan 94 TA1301121094 Ankara TRT Television Network Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Text] Georgian Head of State Eduard Shevardnadze, currently visiting Ankara as the official guest of President Suleyman Demirel, concluded his contacts today. A friendship, cooperation, and solidarity declaration, as well as agreements and protocols envisaging bilateral cooperation in various fields, were signed in Ankara today. In a statement at the signing ceremony, Demirel said that various international and regional issues, as well as bilateral relations, were discussed during the talks held in Ankara with the visiting head of state and his delegation. Recalling that a friendship, cooperation, and good-neighbor agreement was signed between Turkey and Georgia during his visit to Tbilisi last year, Demirel noted that the protocol signed today complements this agreement. The declaration, agreements, and protocols will further enrich the relations between the two countries, Demirel remarked. Stressing that the Turkish-Georgian border is extremely active from an economic viewpoint, Demirel added: Our peoples know and love each other. It is up to us to create the necessary political and legal basis to expand this cooperation, and this is what we are doing. Demirel concluded by saying that Shevardnadze's visit turns a brand new page in bilateral relations. Also addressing the signing ceremony, Shevardnadze declared that Turkey's importance in the region is constantly growing and attributed this to President Demirel's efforts. The talks in Ankara were extremely beneficial, Shevardnadze remarked, adding: We had the opportunity to refine our views with regard to the future of our bilateral relations. Shevardnadze stated that complete agreement was reached on all the regional issues raised during the talks. After the speeches, protocols envisaging cooperation in the agricultural, economic, industrial, commercial, scientific, and technical fields, as well as an agreement on mutual assistance and cooperation in customs and a tourism cooperation agreement, were signed separately by the two countries' ministers. Meanwhile, Demirel signed the [word indistinct] of (Noda Kamaitsi), Georgia's first ambassador to Ankara.
