FBIS3-21511 "jptac003___94014" JPRS-TAC-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Arms Control 7 March 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Disarmament Negotiator Comments After Talks in Kiev MK1202104094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 12 Feb 94 p 2 MK1202104094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Pavel Felgengauer report under the "Talks" rubric: "Russian-Ukrainian Nuclear Missile Marathon Continues. Kiev Is Ready To Get Rid of the Weapons, but After Some Bargaining"] [Text] This week a high-ranking delegation including Yuriy Dubinin, special envoy and chief of the Russian Federation state delegation to talks with Ukraine; Atomic Energy Minister Viktor Mikhaylov; and Colonel General Yevgeniy Maslin, from the 12th Main Directorate of the Defense Ministry, held difficult talks in Kiev on specific measures to eliminate Ukrainian nuclear weapons. Upon returning to Moscow, Ambassador Yuriy Dubinin told your SEGODNYA correspondent that "we have agreed on the content of the document that will enable us to implement the agreements on eliminating nuclear arms in Ukraine, which were reached by Presidents Yeltsin, Kravchuk, and Clinton on 14 January." Presently, the results of the talks are being "reported" to the presidents of Ukraine and Russia. According to official reports, however, President Yeltsin has caught a cold and is currently inaccessible. Meanwhile, the Russian and Ukrainian delegations agreed that until the results achieved in Kiev are approved, no details about the process of the talks should be made public. No press conferences. It was disclosed, however, that they had "entirely substantive talks in Kiev" that were held in "a constructive and businesslike atmosphere." Translated from diplomatic-speak into plain language, this usually means a tough showdown. The Kiev military and political establishment had long ago decided in principle to get rid of what it sees as costly, dangerous, and rather useless nuclear weapons, but the bargaining over the deal's specifics is set to be long and tedious.
