FBIS3-4222 "drchi059_w_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Newspaper Urges Mainland To Crack Down on Renegade Officials HK2603083694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 26 Mar 94 p 18 HK2603083694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Respect the Law"] [Text] The plan by Dr Philip Cheng Hui-ho to sue the Hunan authorities for illegal detention and withholding his passport is a courageous but vital step in the long-running battle to ensure the safety of Hong Kong businessmen working and travelling in China. Even if his case fails, he will have struck a blow for the rule of law and shown the way for others to try to win redress. The American passport holder, who arrived back in the territory this week after having been kept in China for seven months and virtually held to ransom over a business dispute, is just one of a string of Hong Kong businessmen who have been held in similar cases. In January, another businessman, Chong Kwee-sung was released through the intervention of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, after he had been held incommunicado for more than 30 months. Mr Chong's release came just three days after Secretary for Security told the Legislative Council that at least four Hong Kong people were in detention in China as a result of commercial disputes. He said the Government had received eight reports involving a total of 10 people in similar situations over the previous three years. It is high time the Chinese authorities involved in these cases were asked to account for their actions in court. Hong Kong cannot object if those suspected of breaking Chinese law are arrested or put on trial. But it is not acceptable for businessmen to be arrested over commercial disputes unless there are suspicions of criminal fraud. Even in criminal cases prisoners should not be held incommunicado for long periods or detained with neither a trial nor an explanation. Commercial disputes should be settled in the courts, not by arresting a company representative and then holding him until his family or employer bail him out or indemnify his Chinese business partners. China has made tremendous progress in improving its judicial and legal systems in recent years. It should not tolerate officials who show no respect of the law, such as those who had detained Dr Cheng for seven months without a good reason, to tarnish the country's reputation.
