FBIS4-66433 "jpjst020__l94019" JPRS-JST-94-020-L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 14 January 1994 Energy Hitachi Chemical Co. Develops Cost-Effective Wastewater Hitachi Chemical Co. Develops Cost-Effective Wastewater Treatment System 94FE0402J Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 14 Jan 94 p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0402J Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN Japanese CSO [Text] Hitachi Chemical Co., in cooperation with its subsidiary, Hitachi Chemical Technoplant, developed a wastewater purification system that efficiently cleans up domestic wastewater and runs on about 40% less electricity than conventional systems of its kind. The system simultaneously performs nitrogen and BOD (biological oxygen demand, a pollution index) processing. Along with that, the way the system purifies wastewater results in a shorter process and reduces the area needed for installation by about 30%. With the increase in public resources, Hitachi Chemical sees an increase in the demand for the construction of water treatment facilities. The company will sell its system to municipalities, and aims for sales of about ¥1 billion during FY94. The system that was developed is a ``go-round-style intermittent aeration-purification tank HKN-type'' facility made of steel-reinforced concrete. Two computer systems, the ``DO controller'' and the ``sludge controller,'' automatically control the task called ``aeration,'' which purifies the nitrogen, BOD, etc., by feeding oxygen into wastewater that is swirled around the purification tank. The aeration can be done efficiently because the computers determine the amounts of pollutants in the water by means of sensors, and then the system feeds in the appropriate amount of oxygen, without wasting any. The running cost is low because of the 40% reduction in the amount of electric power needed. The system can reduce BOD and nitrogen to below 10 PPM to 15 PPM, respectively, and meets the strictest standards set forth by the Water Pollution Prevention Act. In the past, the construction of a tank for that level of purification necessitated the task of obtaining authorization and designation by the Ministry of Construction. The new purification tank, however, is the first of its kind in the industry that only requires general authorization and general designation, and thereby obviates the preliminary application work.
