FBIS3-45799 "drchi015_p_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Central-South Region Guangdong Secretary on Promotion of Fine Arts OW1801023194 Beijing XINHUA in English 0118 GMT 18 Jan 94 OW1801023194 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Guangzhou, January 18 (XINHUA) -- South China's Guangdong Province, formerly regarded as a `cultural desert', has made great efforts to boost fine arts to help it keep pace with the province's rapid economic development. The reform and opening drive has made Guangdong an economic giant in the country. But its cultural development has long lagged behind, with pop music and vulgar video shows flooding this southern province. To establish a better image, Guangdong has decided to elevate the fine arts, as stated by Xie Fei, governor of Guangdong Province. Since 1991, the provincial government has stipulated that three percent of revenues from ballrooms, karaoke clubs and pop music concerts be collected as special funds for the creating and performing of serious and folk arts. Subsidies are provided to performing troupes of serious music, folk song and dance, theater and local opera. Recently, Guangdong has earmarked huge sums to host varied art festivals, build performing and exhibition halls and improve all kinds of arts facilities. Frequent large-scale art festivals, such as the international dance festival, the international Guangdong opera festival, and the Guangdong art festival, have effectively promoted the fine arts and enlarged cultural exchanges with foreign counterparts. The foundation of the Guangzhou music hall has been laid, with an estimated investment of 50 million yuan. Construction of the Guangdong museum, art gallery, and international Guangdong opera center is also speeding up. A symphony fund and provincial ballet ensemble will be set up soon. The common prosperity of both pop and serious, foreign, and folk artistic forms has greatly enriched the life of people in Guangdong and further cultivated and improved their tastes in serious arts.
