FBIS4-51781 "dreas085_d_94024" FBIS-EAS-94-085 Daily Report 3 May 1994 South Korea To Suspend Status on Other Goods To Suspend Status on Other Goods SK0305081294 Seoul YONHAP in English 0543 GMT 3 May 94 SK0305081294 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] Seoul, May 3 (YONHAP) -- The European Union is poised to stop granting Generalized System of Preference (GSP) status to such South Korean products as consumer electronics, cars, semiconductors and footwear, indicating the union no longer sees Korea as a developing country. According to a report released by the Korea Trade Promotion Corp. (KOTRA) Tuesday, the European Association of Consumer Electronics Manufacturers (EACEM) has demanded that the EU commission withdraw the GSP status of South Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Hong Kong. The group insists that GSP treatment, intended to promote economic progress in developing countries, actually benefits only a few advanced developing nations. In a report titled "The effect of GSP on the European consumer electronics and lightning apparatus industries," the EACEM argued that GSP treatment only enables the advanced developing countries to further penetrate the European market, KOTRA said. In compliance with the demands of the EACEM and other industry members, the EU commission is likely to withdraw special treatment for consumer electronics from South Korea and other advanced developing countries beginning July 1 when the commission announces its GSP policy for 1994, according to the KOTRA report. Meanwhile, the European Association of Automobile Manufacturers (ACEA), the European Electronic Component Manufacturers' Association (EECA) and the European footwear industry have joined forces with the EACEM in demanding the suspension of GSP status for goods from South Korea and other advanced East Asian Countries -- in the form of complaints filed with the EU commission over the past months. KOTRA sources believe the EU's move foreshadows a formal decision to suspend special treatment for cars, semiconductors and footwear from East Asian countries. Officials from KOTRA expect that the new EU policy on GSP effective July 1 will include suspension of GSP status for such key South Korean exports as textile products, autos, semiconductors and footwear. They noted that the associations of various industries, which asked the EU commission to drop GSP treatment for products from advanced developing countries including South Korea, represent each industry and are influential enough in Europe to sway public opinion. Moreover, Europeans no longer consider South Korea to be a developing country, they added.
