FBIS3-50749 "drlat005_m_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 Brazil Increasing Market `Uncertainty' Reported PY0601213094 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO in Portuguese 29 Dec 93 p 15 PY0601213094 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [From the "Economic Panorama" column by Miriam Leitao] [Text] The Central Bank [BC] is behind in its internal debt renegotiation schedule by $10 billion. This means that titles representing a third of the total internal debt fell due and were not sold in the market again. The past two BBC [Central Bank Bond] auctions failed. Another auction failed in November. The BC has not accepted the market interest rate with the argument that it does not want to appear to agree with the expectation of a 40-percent inflation rate in January. Market agents, in turn, argue that they lost approximately $500 million from September to December for anticipating rates below the real ones. Pactual Bank economist Paulo Guedes said the $10 billion that was not renegotiated was "pure nitroglycerine. In theory, that money is loose and can go anywhere." "The picture is not good at all," said Pablo Haddad of the Garantia Bank. Haddad, a former BC director himself, thinks the information available on the economic plan "is not very clear and not very consistent," increasing economic agents' uncertainty. "The market demands high rates for prefixed titles [certificates that earn interest without monetary corrections] and looks at post-fixed titles [certificates earning interest and monetary corrections] with great mistrust because the index can be changed at any time," Paulo Guedes argued. Today the Treasury will try to sell NTN's [National Treasury Notes] indexed to the foreign exchange rate and the TR [referential interest rate]. Whatever the result of today's auction -- it is expected that the Treasury will be luckier than the BC -- the climate of apprehension with which the market reaches the end of the year makes us look back with nostalgia to the efforts to extend debt payments months ago. At that time the BC was selling bonds with six months to one year maturity with increasingly lower interest rates. Now debt bonds mature at shorter intervals, interest rates are higher, and the uncertainty is greater.
