FBIS4-61948 "drsov091_b_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-091 Daily Report 10 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Yeltsin Appeals to Deputies for Cooperation Yeltsin Appeals to Deputies for Cooperation LD1005130394 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1058 GMT 10 May 94 LD1005130394 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [Text] Moscow, 10 May (ITAR-TASS) -- President Boris Yeltsin of Russia signed a federal law 8 May "On the status of a deputy of the Federation Council and the status of a deputy of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Federal Assembly." In this connection the president of Russia also sent a letter to deputies of the Federation Council and the State Duma. The text of this document, which was released by the presidential press service today, follows: "Esteemed deputies! "Today I signed the federal law `On the status of a deputy of the Federation Council and the status of a deputy of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Federal Assembly'. "This was a difficult decision, in as far as some juridical aspects evidently require further revision and some are not in line with the Constitution; and there are prerequisites which the electorate could justifiably condemn. "But there is something else I understand, too: you and your aides need of the law as a whole, it is necessary for effective legislative work. "At the same time I understand that we need to live not only in accord with one another, but also in accord with the Constitution and the law. I am therefore following up this letter with a list of amendments which would have been submitted to you had I rejected the law. As guarantor of the Constitution, I propose you should suspend the validity of those normative acts which contravene the Constitution. Following this, I believe it to be necessary to examine the proposals submitted, including those which fall within the context of conciliation procedures, and to adopt these as amendments to the law currently in effect without waiting for decisions of the Constitutional Court. "I regard this decision as one of the steps toward implementing the Treaty on Public Accord. I therefore believe it is necessary to make this letter public. "Esteemed deputies! I am counting on your wisdom and understanding, and I hope for further fruitful cooperation." [Signed] B. Yeltsin.
