FBIS3-37206 "drsov031_a_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev, UK's Hurd Sign Agreement on Cooperation LD1502131394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1302 GMT 15 Feb 94 LD1502131394 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Andrey Serov] [Text] Moscow February 15 TASS -- The agreement between the government of the Russian Federation and the government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on education, science and culture was signed in Moscow by Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev and British Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs Douglas Hurd. The agreement stating the striving of the two coutries for the development and strengthening of friendly relations define cooperation in education, science and culture as one of the ways of the deepening of mutual understanding between the peoples of Russia and Great Britain. The document, specifically, envisages assistance to exchanges between educational establisments, the study of languages and literature and the working out of educational programmes. The governments agreed to provide scholarships for studies and training in higher educational establishments. Writers, artists, performers, musicians, film makers and architects developing direct contacts between the two countries also have a right to count on state support. Every side will be encouraging the opening in its territory of centres of culture, education and information of the other side, the document says. The governments of Great Britain and Russia intend to promote direct cooperation between the press, publishers, television and radio broadcasting and other organisations of the two countries in information area. Copyright protection is also envisaged by the agreement. The document points to the need to expand cooperation between youth organisations in the areas of tourism and sports. Ties between united towns will be further developed. The British Council will be assisting the implementation of the agreement as the main representative of the government of the United Kingdom. Appropriate Russian agencies will play a similar role on the Russian side.
