FBIS3-20144 "drweu059cc_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS EU Foreign Ministers Meet To Discuss Enlargement, FYROM NC2603183194 Athens ET-1 Television Network in Greek 1700 GMT 26 Mar 94 NC2603183194 Athens ET-1 Television Network Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Report by Foivos Karzis in Ioannina] [Excerpts] The EU [European Union] foreign ministers' unofficial meeting began with some delay. The Yugoslav crisis and the EU's enlargement are at the center of discussions. According to reports, on the Yugoslav issue, the ministers examined the possibility of appointing a special commissioner for the area of Mostar. The 12 ministers also discussed the issue of The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia [FYROM] and Greece's countermeasures. The Greek side stressed that the issue is primarily political and time should be allowed so ongoing mediation efforts produce results. In the framework of the discussion, the ministers discussed the recent letter by [FYROM President] Kiro Gligorov to EU Commission President Jacques Delors. [passage omitted] The foreign ministers of many countries also referred to the issue of Skopje as they arrived in Ioannina, and it appears that our partners now recognize the political aspect of the issue even though they continue supporting the lifting of Greece's countermeasures. [passage omitted] The issue of the EU's enlargement caused the first change to the meeting's agenda. It is a change that could prove important in its own particular way. [Begin correspondent Simos Kedhikoglou recording] Despite procedural difficulties, the issue of the EU's enlargement will be at the center of the 12 ministers' discussions. A working group has already been set up to examine all the parameters of the problem. In addition, Alternate Foreign Minister Theodhoros Pangalos is having bilateral contacts with his counterparts. At the same time, the Greek presidency will present its own proposal with the support of the EU Commission and its president, Delors, in an attempt to seek a mutually acceptable solution. Indicative of the importance of the issue of the EU's enlargement are the remarks of the foreign ministers during their arrival at Ioannina, where they did not refrain from straightforward attacks against the countries that oppose the enlargement, mainly Britain. EU Commission President Delors was more reserved than all the others as he limited himself to a meaningful hand gesture. The general spirit is one of reserved optimism that the problem will be solved but there is an understanding of the difficulties. [end recording] [passage omitted]
