FBIS4-36866 "drnes114dd_94011" FBIS-NES-94-114 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 Palestinian Affairs Hamas Renews Call for Prisoner Release Hamas Renews Call for Prisoner Release TA1306191494 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1700 GMT 13 Jun 94 TA1306191494 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1700 GMT 13 Jun 94 Hebrew BFN [Report by correspondent Shlomi Eldar] [Excerpts] The issue of the Palestinian prisoners is turning into the central issue in the territories in anticipation of Yasir 'Arafat's arrival. Hamas [Islamic Resistance Movement] and the rejectionist organizations are calling for mass demonstrations in the Gaza Strip to protest the delay in the release of the prisoners. A leaflet distributed today says that the terrorist Rabin -- as the leaflet depicts him -- cannot be expected to release the prisoners. Almost 300 prisoners who according to the Oslo agreement must remain in the autonomous area are grounded in Jericho at the present time. Our correspondent Shlomi Eldar reports: [Begin Eldar recording] The pressure being exerted by the families of the Palestinians behind bars imprisoned in Israeli prisons is growing. In a mass demonstration organized by George Habash's Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, Habash's picture was hoisted alongside that of thousands of prisoners. So far Israel has released less than one half of the security prisoners it promised to release, and this issue tops all other issues on Gaza's public agenda. This pressure has reached 'Arafat. He knows that without affecting the release of the prisoners he will not be able to come to Gaza and Jericho with peace of mind. Today he sent Brigadier Ziyad al-Atrash to address the crowds on his behalf. [passage omitted] Al-Atrash will in all likelihood convey a message to 'Arafat advising him not to arrive in Gaza and Jericho before he succeeds in dissolving this protest movement. The thousands of demonstrators later held a protest march in Gaza City, chanting slogans calling for the release of the prisoners. [passage omitted] [end recording]
