FBIS3-14199 "drnes057_o_94003" FBIS-NES-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 SYRIA Paper Stresses U.S. Role in Peace Talks JN2403095494 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0545 GMT 24 Mar 94 JN2403095494 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [From the press review] [Text] Under the headline "Peace and the U.S. Role," TISHRIN writes: President Hafiz al-Asad has received a message from U.S. President Bill Clinton concerning the peace process and means of promoting it. He also discussed recent developments with U.S. envoys Dennis Ross and Martin Indyk and the two officials reaffirmed the United States' commitment toward achieving a just and comprehensive peace. The paper adds: In fact, U.S.-Syrian contacts have continued ceaselessly since the recent Geneva summit. Washington has repeatedly voiced its appreciation for Syria's vital role in the peace process and paid tribute to its sincere efforts. The paper says: After the Hebron massacre, the world became convinced that the only way to end tension in the region and establish peace is to put an end to the Israeli occupation -- Army and settlements, to return the occupied territories to their rightful owners, and to accept the objective and balanced Syrian proposals. The paper notes what President Hafiz al-Asad said -- that partial solutions do not make peace and that the only possible peace means the end of occupation and the return of rights. This is the honorable peace and the peace of the brave. The paper stresses that the events that have occurred since the signing of the stumbling Oslo agreement have confirmed that Syria was right and that the peace of the brave, which it advocates, agrees entirely with the UN Security Council resolutions and the substance of the U.S. initiative. They also show that without this peace, the Middle East will have no chance of escaping the cycle of violence and turmoil. TISHRIN concludes by saying: Undoubtedly, the United States has a principal role to play in bringing about the desired change in the Israeli position, considering the huge aid it gives to Tel Aviv and its patronage of the peace process and commitment to achieving a just and comprehensive peace.
