FBIS3-37335 "drsov032_a_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Tajik Premier's Moscow Talks Reported MK1502114094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 15 Feb 94 p 3 MK1502114094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Konstantin Smirnov and Grigoriy Selyaninov: "Russia's Talks With CIS Partners. Central Asia Republics Update Their Positions"] [Excerpts] Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan government delegations were in Moscow on Saturday. Agreed with Kyrgyzstan was the volume of mutual deliveries in 1994. The subject of negotiations with Tajik Premier Abdudzhalil Samadov was broader -- not only trade and economic cooperation in the current year, but also updating the side's positions in connection with the republic's joining the ruble zone. [passage omitted] The Tajik delegation faced a more difficult task. Among other things, it was to finalize the questions of the country's joining the ruble zone. Those were also discussed with Economy Minister Aleksandr Shokhin and Central Bank Chairman Viktor Gerashchenko. Tajikistan received the Bank of Russia's "okay" for setting aside for the republic the second batch of 60 billion rubles in cash to be exchanged for the old money on condition that Dushanbe provides collateral in gold. It is this condition that proved unacceptable for Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan last November when projects for a ruble zone consisting of six states were actively discussed. To all appearances, neither can Tajikistan, despite the assurances that it is ready to enter the ruble zone, fully meet this condition. Instead, Moscow has been offered two electric power stations -- the Nurek and the Rogun. The Tajik side also promises to introduce into its legislation on foreign investments specific changes to safeguard Russia's interests. The difficult military-political situation in Tajikistan makes the wisdom of such acquisitions rather debatable for Russia. A Russian government delegation led by German Kuznetsov, deputy minister for cooperation with the CIS countries, is leaving for Dushanbe today. The delegation is to specify the Russian side's stance on the questions of Tajikistan's joining the Russian monetary system.
