FBIS3-9423 "dreeu057_k_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 CROATIA Talks To Resume 29 Mar AU2303160694 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 23 Mar 94 AU2303160694 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Text] On his return to Knin, Slobodan Jarcevic, member of the delegation of the republic of Serbian Krajina [RSK] at the negotiations in Zagreb and foreign minister, held a news conference. Jarcevic said that both sides agreed not to mention the possible political solutions during the talks and to discuss only a cease-fire and the end of hostilities. Dragoljuib Stankic reports from Knin: [Stankic] The main reasons why the RSK delegation had accepted the invitation to take part in the negotiations is the desire of the Serbian side that peace be established and hostilities end. This was stated by Foreign Minister Slobodan Jarcevic at the beginning of the news conference, adding the following: [Begin Jarcevic recording] Messrs. Vital Churkin and the U.S. ambassador guaranteed us that they would exert their influence on the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that it no longer resorts to arms and crosses the border that has been established between the RSK and Croatia with the agreement reached in Geneva on 23 November of 1991, and whose lines were confirmed by the agreement in Sarajevo on 3 January 1992. [end recording] [Stankic] According to Jarcevic, the negotiations in Zagreb were not prepared in the best possible way, because both sides only acquainted themselves with the proposed maps on their arrival in the Russian Embassy. Considering that the border of some 1,600 kilometers is running through many villages and towns, and that there are many disputed facts, both delegations need to consult their governments so that the interests could be articulated in a much better way at the new negotiations. Thus, the talks have not been broken, but will resume next Tuesday [29 March]. At this meeting, new maps will be presented. These, as Jarcevic said, will not deviate even one meter from the real situation on the ground. Journalists' questions mainly referred to the possible political solutions. Slobodan Jarcevic said several times that this was not discussed. He mentioned the resolve to finally establish peace as the most important result of the talks yesterday.
