FBIS4-14347 "drnes083_s_94013" FBIS-NES-94-083 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 Iran Meets Hashemi-Rafsanjani Meets Hashemi-Rafsanjani LD2904103794 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0930 GMT 29 Apr 94 LD2904103794 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Text] In a meeting with Malian President Alpha Oumar Konare, President Hashemi-Rafsanjani placed emphasis on the Islamic Republic of Iran's foreign policy which stresses cooperation with African countries in general and Muslim countries in particular. During this morning's meeting, the president of Mali expressed pleasure about visiting Iran. He pointed out that unity among Muslim and other nations plays an effective role in the resolution of world problems, and called for the expansion of relations with Iran. He added: Your excellency is well aware of the situation in African countries and particularly in Mali, as well as the problems of that continent, and I feel that I am able to hold discussions with your excellency in all fields. In response, Hashemi-Rafsanjani thanked Mr. Konare for his sincere remarks and referred to Iran's foreign policy, giving priority to cooperation with Muslim countries and said: We are ready for extensive cooperation with the Muslim and friendly country of Mali in all fields of interest to the two countries. He added: Your country can be a powerful country in agriculture and animal husbandry, and your plentiful natural resources can play a decisive role in solving your country's problems. Underdevelopment there should be seen as an outcome of the colonialism which dominated your country for years. The president said: We hope that you succeed in overcoming your problems through your work and through solidarity now that you are independent. We in Iran had some good experiences and are ready to cooperate with you, and Islam, which is the common bond between the two countries, can play a significant role in ever expanding cooperation. Also during the meeting, the problems of the Islamic world, particularly problems of Palestine and Bosnia-Herzegovina, were discussed and the two sides stressed the need for further solidarity among Islamic countries in order to solve problems of the Muslim people of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
