FBIS4-39589 "drsov111_d_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-111 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 Regional Affairs Government Reshuffle in Sverdlovsk Oblast Government Reshuffle in Sverdlovsk Oblast MK0906100094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 9 Jun 94 p 3 MK0906100094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Russian BFN [Valeriya Ochinyan report: "Changes in Sverdlovsk Oblast Administration. Sverdlovsk Governor Gets Rid of `Old Guard'"] [Text] It has taken Sverdlovsk Oblast Governor Aleksey Strakhov five months to finally decide on a reshuffle in the administration. He announced the move in yesterday's sitting of the oblast government. Despite the many expectations, however, the fired officials were not the men of former governor Eduard Rossel, but rather members of the "old guard" who used to work in Sverdlovsk with Boris Yeltsin and Oleg Lobov. The shakeout, the possibility of which Aleksey Strakhov warned about back in his first days as governor, has affected the positions of importance for the oblast: Having been relieved of their positions are Aleksandr Nebesnov, deputy administration head for transport and communications; Sergey Turunovskiy, administrator of affairs; Anatoliy Tarasov, head of the foreign economic relations administration; and Galina Ivanina, head of the organizational department. Incidentally, Mrs. Ivanina is the only "casualty" whose dismissal was explained by the administration's head himself; he accused her of "working for the Duma." The cause of Mr. Tarasov's dismissal is also clear, however, for he is being identified with the abuses by the oblast's special exporters of strategic raw materials who were recently exposed by a commission of the Control Administration under the president. According to informed sources, so protracted a hiatus between Mr. Strakhov's appointment as governor and the start of the personnel "purges" is attributed to the difficulties of selecting personnel to fill key positions in the oblast. One can still suppose that the governor will not draw the line at parting with the mentioned officials, and the administration is in for new waves of dismissals. At the same time, observers think, the fired officials cannot be identified at all as "Rossel's people" because most of them had been working in the oblast [Communist Party] executive committee ever since Boris Yeltsin was secretary of the oblast committee, and Oleg Lobov chairman of the oblast executive committee. Experts who predict Mr. Rossel's comeback as governor think Strakhov's reshuffle would stand any of his successors in good stead because discernible behind the current change is the desire to replace the old-style administrators with younger ones, capable of flexible methods of work.
