FBIS3-52398 "drnes002_d_94001" FBIS-NES-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 Libya JANA Political Editor Assails VOA Commentary LD0401093994 Tripoli JANA in Arabic 0725 GMT 4 Jan 94 LD0401093994 Tripoli JANA Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Tripoli, 4 Jan, (JANA) -- Voice of America [VOA] has relayed a commentary in which it attacks the brother leader of the revolution and distorts his addresses to the masses who rushed to receive him everywhere in the Great Jamahiriyah. In its commentary, which expresses the views of the U.S. Government, VOA piled accusations against Libya irresponsibly and without any proof. JANA's political editor has commented on this. He says: This commentary could be explained on the basis of two facts: First, it is a hysterical reaction to the huge demonstrations of anger and defiance that erupted everywhere in the Great Jamahiriyah, and to the scenes of the human flood in which the masses joined their leader, declaring the historic decision of the Libyan people to defend their sovereignty and right to an independent honorable life. Second, it is an attempt to overtake and cover-up the new evidence that has appeared recently, which confirmed Libya's innocence to the accusations of the so-called Lockerbie case, and also to overtake and cover-up the exposure of the political aims beyond these accusations. The editor added: The irresponsible attack on the existing Jamahiri system in Libya is an attack on the options chosen freely by the Libyan people, and in which they have become the first people in history to declare the people's authority. This marked the start of the era of the masses in which the people can control their authority, wealth, and weapons, and decide their own fate directly, without being represented by anyone. As for the quotations taken from the leader's addresses -- used by the commentary in order to support the accusations directed by the VOA -- as usual, they deliberately distorted these addresses and cut them to fit these accusations. VOA forgot that all the speeches that it quoted were made in public, were relayed by radio and TV, and the whole world heard them. The U.S. Government, whose official views are expressed by VOA's commentary, understands, perhaps before anyone else, that Libya is innocent of all the accusations directed by the radio in its commentary. The American Government and the world know that Libya has condemned terrorism and no longer allows any organization suspected of connections with terrorism to be present on its territories. Libya has invited the UN secretary general to send a commission to confirm that Libya is free of any alleged camps for training terrorists, but there was no response to this invitation.
