FBIS4-48689 "drafr101_d_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-101 Daily Report 21 May 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Chissano Addresses Cabo Delgado Rally 21 May Chissano Addresses Cabo Delgado Rally 21 May MB2105131094 Maputo Radio Mozambique Network in Portuguese 1030 GMT 21 May 94 MB2105131094 Maputo Radio Mozambique Network Portuguese BFN [Text] In Cabo Delgado today President of the Republic Joaquim Chissano inaugurated the graphite plant in Ancuabe District, 100 km from the provincial capital, Pemba. Our reporter Remigio Membe reports from the area: There are now two factories for processing mining products. The marble factory was inaugurated in 1993 by the head of state. The graphite plant belongs to a South African businessman, and the study for locating the minerals was carried out by a Bulgarian company which specializes in mining exploration. The president of the Republic, who began his visit to Cabo Delgado yesterday, addressed a mass rally in the Chiure District capital after concluding his visit to Nampula Province. In Chiure Chissano said he is visiting the countryside to acquaint himself with the people's problems and to reassure them that the war is over in Mozambique. He urged the population to end hatred and concentrate on national reconstruction. Answering a question from the head of state, the Chiure residents said that the economy and social infrastructures were destroyed by the Mozambique National Resistance [Renamo], adding that all citizens and the government need to be involved in national reconstruction. President Chissano also appealed to the Chiure residents to prepare to vote in October for the candidate which they believe promises a better future for Mozambique. He said the elections must be fair and democratic. Before leaving Chiure District, Chissano visited the local health center, noting the shortages of beds, mattresses, an ambulance, as well as technical and medical personnel. Besides inaugurating the graphite plant, the president of the Republic might currently be addressing a mass rally in the same area. At about 1630 today the Mozambican head of state is scheduled to be in Pemba, after an hour and a half journey from Ancuabe.
