FBIS3-38223 "drweu021_a_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 AUSTRIA Ciampi Supports Austria's Membership AU0102105594 Vienna WIENER ZEITUNG in German 1 Feb 94 p 1 AU0102105594 Vienna WIENER ZEITUNG Language: German Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Italy Supports Austria at European Union"] [Text] Vienna -- Italian Prime Minister Carlo Azeglio Ciampi has assured Austria of Italy's full support for Austria's speedy accession to the European Union [EU]. After a one and one-half hour talk with Chancellor Vranitzky, Ciampi said on Monday [31 January] that Italy has always supported Austria's EU membership. Ciampi stressed Italy's interest in intensifying the struggle against international crime and came out in favor of ever closer cooperation with Austria in this area. He particularly stressed the problem of money laundering. Vranitzky said that, before borders are abolished within the European Union, it must be ensured that the combating of international crime will continue. He added that the Austrian National Bank is already checking the influx of money from abroad and this has proved its worth so far. Vranitzky told the Austria Press Agency APA that more far-reaching steps, such as the abolition of the anonymity of savings accounts, are not under discussion. After the talk with Ciampi, Vranitzky stated that membership negotiations with the European Union must be concluded completely by the end of February and individual items must not be removed and negotiated at a later date. At a press conference with Ciampi, he affirmed Austria's full commitment to the European Union's Maastricht Treaties. In the Italian delegation it was stressed that Ciampi had emphasized to Vranitzky that there will "not be any exceptions" for new EU members. A second Denmark is out of the question for Italy. Ciampi and Vranitzky also discussed south Tirol's protests against the new Italian election law, which excludes the South Tirolean People's Party from the distribution of a quarter of the parliamentary seats because of a 4-percent clause. Vranitzky said that Ciampi proved to be "greatly flexibile" on this question, and he assumes that the problem will be solved after the forthcoming parliamentary elections. The war in the former Yugoslavia also received broad space in the talks with Vranitzky. After the meeting with Vranitzky, Ciampi was received by President Thomas Klestil and then went to Parliament, where he was welcomed by Nationalrat President Heinz Fischer. After a lunch with Vranitzky, Ciampi returned to Rome by plane in the afternoon.
