FBIS4-14400 "drsov062_a_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Panov Qualifies Military Assistance to DPRK Panov Qualifies Military Assistance to DPRK PM3003145794 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 31 Mar 94 p 3 PM3003145794 Moscow IZVESTIYA Russian BFN [Gennadiy Charodeyev report: "Treaty With Pyongyang on Military Assistance Still Valid"] [Text] "In accordance with the existing treaty between the USSR and the DPRK Russia will provide North Korea with assistance in the event of unprovoked aggression against it, but it will decide this solely on the basis of its own analysis," Russia Deputy Foreign Minister Aleksandr Panov has said during a meeting with journalists. The news agencies took these words as an expression of support for Kim Il-song's regime. However, the Foreign Ministry took a calm view of that. They gave IZVESTIYA the following explanation: "The Treaty on Friendship, Cooperation, and Mutual Assistance between Moscow and Pyongyang was signed in 1961. This document has no time limit -- the sides automatically extend it every five years. In 1995 we will decide whether to extend it for another term or sign a new treaty with North Korea. It is valid today, albeit pro forma, and this means that Russia would provide the DPRK with the requisite assistance if it decided that Pyongyang was the victim of aggression. What is more, under existing legislation the North Koreans will only receive military assistance once parliament has adopted a corresponding decision," a Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman stressed. During his conversation with journalists Aleksandr Panov had described the situation on the Korean Peninsula as "teetering on the brink of war." In the deputy minister's opinion, Moscow's recent initiative calling for the convocation of an international conference involving the six interested states -- China, the United States, Japan, Russia, the DPRK, and the ROK -- along with representatives of the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency, is in the interests of a settlement on the Korean peninsula.
