FBIS3-11944 "drlat060_a_94011" FBIS-LAT-93-060 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Ciego de Avila, Camaguey End Workers Parliaments FL2803003094 Havana Tele Rebelde and Cuba Vision Networks in Spanish 0100 GMT 27 Mar 94 FL2803003094 Havana Tele Rebelde and Cuba Vision Networks Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] At the meeting concluding the workers parliaments process in Ciego de Avila, Pedro Ross Leal, secretary general of the Cuban Workers Federation, said that workers parliaments are a solid step toward achieving economic efficiency. The development of these parliaments was in keeping with one of the principles proposed in that process: to think up measures and to act immediately. That is what was discussed in the summary of the workers parliament process. The tasks implemented, which have already solved specific problems in economic and services fields and which were presented to and debated by the workers, were also discussed at the meeting. For example, the La Cuba Miscellaneous Crops Enterprise was highlighted. In the first two months of this year, the enterprise's plantain harvest increased by 18,000 quintals. This was achieved with a 135,000-peso reduction in labor costs because of the measures adopted by enterprise workers. Similar cases can be found in sugar harvest, construction, and services activities. Approximately 96,000 workers participated in the parliaments that were held at the various work centers of Ciego de Avila Province. In these parliaments, ideas to improve economic efficiency, restructure domestic finances, and improve discipline at the work centers were presented. Meanwhile, at the meeting concluding the workers parliament process in Camaguey Province, participants reached the consensus that the continuation of the workers parliaments will depend on the attention given to the aspects and problems presented at each work center. The reduction of agricultural and sugar industry subsidies, greater control of resources, discipline, efficient use of the work force, and, above all, the need to efficiently produce more were topics that were reiterated during the 3,919 workers parliaments in Camaguey Province. In evaluating the process of the workers parliaments, Pedro Ross said: [Begin Ross recording] We can say that we are satisfied with this process, which is now beginning. There are some who say that the process has terminated, that is not the case. This process is the beginning of a much longer and moire important process of following up on the ideas presented by the workers. [end recording]
