FBIS3-61370 "jpusr007___94028" FBIS-USR-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 31 January 1994 UKRAINE ECONOMIC AFFAIRS Official Discusses National Employment Program 944K0586A Kiev MOLOD UKRAYINY in Ukrainian 11 Jan 94 p 1 944K0586A Kiev MOLOD UKRAYINY Language: Ukrainian Article Type:CSO [Interview with Oleksandr Yehorov, deputy head of the Employment and Job Market Administration, by Volodymyr Oliynyk, under the rubric "How To Be Bankrupt"; place and date not given: "The Labor Ministry's Move Against Unemployment"--first paragraph is MOLOD UKRAYINY introduction] [Text] As we know, in anticipation of the structural reorganization of the economy this year, Ukraine's Ministry of Labor drafted a National Public Works Program. In connection with this measure, our correspondent met with Oleksandr Yehorov, deputy head of the Employment and Job Market Administration. [Oliynyk] Mr. Yehorov, what is the goal of the National Public Works Program? [Yehorov] First, this program was drawn up as part of the effort to implement one of the points of the government's action plan for 1994. Second, this is the first time that such a program has been drafted as a separate document. Third, the program is designed to provide work for those left without jobs as a result of the structural reorganization of the economy and to avert landslide unemployment due to mass layoffs. [Oliynyk] Can we regard the National Public Works Program as a panacea in the struggle against unemployment? [Yehorov] I would not put it that way. This program should we viewed as part of a complex of measures aimed at overcoming the negative phenomena of mass unemployment. Its implementation is closely linked with the implementation of the state and territorial employment programs for 1994 and subsequent years. Actually, what this means is carrying out measures within the framework of the principal document--the National Employment Program. [Oliynyk] What kind of public works does the program foresee? [Yehorov] We concluded that the labor force made available by layoffs should be employed primarily on priority undertakings--i.e., projects and facilities that serve the vital needs of the people and improve the social infrastructure. First and foremost, this applies to such important economic complexes as the agrarian, transportation, and housing and public utilities sectors. For example, such large projects as the construction and reconstruction of the trans-European highway including the creation of a complete transportation infrastructure: Germany--Poland--Ukraine--Russia and Central Europe--central Ukraine--the Near East; the construction of plants to manufacture building materials. Incidentally, all these projects are long-term and not limited to 1994 and 1995. [Oliynyk] This is a very large task, and one need not be a specialist to understand that this requires a very large number of people and a very large amount of money? [punctuation as published] [Yehorov] Your observation is very true, and I will respond to it. In light of the variable nature of the situation in the job market and given the crisis conditions that mark the development of this situation, scientific estimates indicate that in 1994 there will be 2.4 million people without work, of whom 1.5 million will have unemployed status. Let me remind you that in 1993, there were only 275,000 people who were not working and only 78,000 with unemployed status. As to funds, estimates show that we will need at least 52.6 billion karbovantsi (in July 1993 prices) for regional projects alone. The total cost of implementing the measures provided for in the program will amount to nearly a billion karbovantsi in 1994. [Oliynyk] Would it not be better to use this money to support unprofitable enterprises or simply for paying out unemployment benefits? [Yehorov] Of course not. Structural reorganization is a painful operation, but once it is over, we will have a sound economy. As far as the cost of organizing and implementing the National Public Works Program is concerned, despite the fact that it is obviously a loss-making proposition, it will ultimately relieve social tensions--to begin with, because people will have work, and secondly--and this is very important--the state will get the main highways it so badly needs and the housing and public utilities infrastructure will be improved, inasmuch as the state has never had enough resources to get around to the construction and ordering of the latter.
