FBIS3-47241 "dreas007_d_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 South Korea NUB Delivers Report on Trends in North Korea SK1101063294 Seoul TONG-A ILBO in Korean 11 Jan 94 p 5 SK1101063294 Seoul TONG-A ILBO Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [Article by Pak Che-kyun] [Text] It is estimated that because of the damage caused by the cold weather last year in North Korea, the harvest of its major grains, including rice and corn, has decreased by 15-20 percent compared with the average crop of 5.10 million tonnes. In the case of steel production, however, due to reinforcement of facilities at the Chollima steel mill in Nampo city and the Hwanghae steel mill in Songnim city, production has increased by about 200,000 tonnes. At the National Assembly Foreign Affairs and National Unification Committee on 10 January, the National Unification Board [NUB] reported on trends in North Korea based on recently obtained information. The following are trends in North Korea in the political, economic, military, and social fields, as reported by the NUB. Politics It seems that while strengthening the unity centered on the two "leaders" Kim Il-song and Kim Chong-il, the "Kim Chong-il era" will be formulated on a full scale. At the 8 November 1993 journalists congress, North Korea called President Kim Il-song "the great leader," and Kim Chong-il, chairman of the National Defense Commission, "the sagacious leader of our party and people." Nevertheless, dissatisfaction over Kim Chong-il is increasing among the North Korean people. There are rumors of discontent by the people saying: "Rice and meat were sufficient in the seventies but our lives became difficult from the time the "thoughtless child" Kim Chong-il started to carry out politics." Therefore, the North Korean authorities are strengthening surveillance of the people through the State Security Defense Department, which has been placed under the control of Kim Chong-il. Economics During the early part of last year the volume of trade with China, North Korea's largest trading partner, increased 39 percent compared with 1992. Export was $120 million and import was $310 million. However, the volume of trade with Japan decreased by 2.6 percent compared with 1992. Export was $110 million and import was $110 million. In 1992 North Korea established a series of laws to lure foreign capital, such as the foreign investment law. Nevertheless, in 1993 only three joint venture companies were set up. Among the 120 joint venture companies established in North Korea, only 20 remain at this time. The provisions North Korea imported from Thailand, Canada, China, and other countries from January to August last year amounted to 645,000 tonnes. It is expected that the crude oil North Korea imported during the first half of the last year amounted to 1.1 million tonnes. It seems that the electric power situation in North Korea has worsened. It has been learned that the operations of large plants and power stations, including the Sunchon vinalon complex, Sariwon potash fertilizer plant, and Tongpyongyang thermal power station, have actually stopped. It has been reported that to overcome such an economic difficulty, the party has transferred the task of working out economic policy to the Administration Council. Military North Korea has constantly built up war potential by deploying additional large-caliber long-range guns along the front line and by reinforcing district commands. By deploying 170-mm self-propelled artillery with a range of 54 km and 240-mm multiple rocket launchers with a range of 70 km along the front line, North Korea brings Seoul and Suwon into target range. In addition, North Korea has augmented the three division-level district commands of Yanggang Province, Chagang Province, and North Hwanghae Province into corps level. Setting up last year as the "year to complete war preparations," North Korea has stockpiled war supplies large enough to conduct war for three or five months without external supplies. It has also reinforced underground facilities. Society Capitalist concepts are flowing into North Korea through foreign students, traders, diplomats, and Chinese compatriots. Western-style fashions are spreading among youth. Youth with long hair have been appearing in Pyongyang City since 1987. Since 1988, youth have enjoyed listening to rock music and disco dancing in secret. Blue jeans and bell-bottomed trousers have been catching on among youth since 1990. As a result of life difficulties, phrases, such as "Let us live together," "Let us share things equally," and "Let us make an arrangement," are catching on among residents. Even slang -- calling thieves "life coordination committees," calling robberies "redistribution of wealth," and calling stolen goods "life coordination committee's goods" -- are spreading. Since 1989, private loan businesses have been frequent among black-market merchants in North Hamgyong Province districts. The Korean card game, "go-and-stop," has been spread in North Korea by Chinese compatriots and Chinese emigrants.
