FBIS3-33214 "drlat035_f_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 El Salvador Salaverria Urges UN To End Human Rights Supervision PA2002042594 San Salvador Canal Doce Television in Spanish 0300 GMT 16 Feb 94 PA2002042594 San Salvador Canal Doce Television Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by William Melendez; from the "Up to Date" newscast] [Text] Foreign Affairs Minister Miguel Angel Salaverria said today that the government continues its efforts to get the country removed from the UN permanent supervision list in connection with the human rights situation. The foreign affairs minister believes that the situation with respect to human rights has changed substantially since signing the peace agreements, which generated a series of changes. Salaverria says that following that improvement in the protection of the right to life the government continues making efforts to be removed from the UN list. [Begin Salaverria recording] We will not see El Salvador's removal from the list until the end of February or the beginning of March. The human rights commission meeting lasts five months. [end recording] Salaverria admitted that there are still after effects of the war that show up as violent acts, but they are of a criminal nature. The minister says that the removal of El Salvador from the list following the observations by Pedro Nikken, independent human rights expert sent by the United Nations, is possible with the strengthening of institutions such as the Human Rights Ombudsman. [Begin Salaverria recording] We must strengthen our own institutions. We have a human rights ombudsman; we a have human rights prosecutor. They are strengthening their offices, and they are strengthening their techniques. We hope that one day there will not be a need for international observation. [end recording] The minister said that although results on the efforts to place the country in a new stage regarding respect for human rights are still not known, several UN member countries have expressed their support for the initiative.
