FBIS4-25686 "drchi114_h_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-114 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 West Europe UK Firms Seek New Trade Agreements UK Firms Seek New Trade Agreements HK1306035094 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 13 Jun 94 p 2 HK1306035094 Beijing CHINA DAILY English BFN [By Chang Weimin: "UK Group To Search For Trade Agreements"] [Text] A hundred British bankers, traders and industrialists hope to expand their stakes in China with a 15 day tour of a dozen cities in September. Sir Peter Cazalet, vice-president of the China-Britain Trade Group, said he hoped the mission would usher in a new era for Chinese-British co-operation. The hosts are the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Co- operation, China International Trust and Investment Corporation, Ministry of Construction and the Bank of China. Senior executives from major conglomerates, such as APV plc, General Electric Corporation and National Westminster Bank, will discuss wide ranging business issues with the Chinese. Sir Peter, also chairman of APV, one of the world's largest food and beverage equipment manufacturers, was in Beijing last weekend preparing for the visits. The corporate executives expect to see Chinese leaders, Sir Peter said. APV, which has provided equipment to hundreds of companies in China, has just completed paperwork for an equipment manufacturing plant in Beijing. According to Sir Peter, the new plant, in its initial phase, will manufacture fluid handling components such as valves, pumps, clamps and fittings of international standards. The plant, to be located in the northeastern suburbs of Beijing, will be a base for business expansion of APV, which has offices in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. "We need experience for operations in China, and the plant will be a test site for seeing how deep and warm the water really is in the country," he said. In an interview with CHINA DAILY, Sir Peter said APV has a long- term commitment to the "dynamic, enormous" Chinese market. It plans further investments at a later date. Market surveys are under way to check out prospects for making larger equipment in China. At some future date, APV will launch ventures to manufacture stainless steel pumps and heat exchangers. Chinese graduates from several colleges such as Wuxi Light Industry College will be trained under APV's Seligman Fellowships. Trainees may spend time learning their jobs in Britain. More training programmes will help upgrade technology for increasing food and beverage exports, he said. The revolution of eating and drinking habits in China to meet modern community requirements will take a long time to accommodate APV's long-term operations in the country, Sir Peter said. He said the mix of food and beverages produced in China is becoming more hygienic and nutritious. APV will help Chinese accelerate the process.
