FBIS4-21151 "jptdd016__l94030" JPRS-TDD-94-016-L JPRS Narcotics Reaction to the 1994 U.S. State Department International Narcotics Control Strategy Report 6 April 1994 EAST ASIA TAIWAN Justice Minister Says Resources Mobilized To Fight Narcotics Justice Minister Says Resources Mobilized To Fight Narcotics OW0604101494 Taipei CNA in English 0755 GMT 6 Apr 94 OW0604101494 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Y. C. Tsai] [Text] Taipei, April 6 (CNA) -- Taiwan has mobilized its resources to fight a war against narcotics, which has already paid off handsomely, Justice Minister Ma Ying-jeou said Wednesday [6 April]. In 1993 alone, Ma pointed out, more than 6,400 kilograms of drugs were seized here. The amount far exceeds seizures recorded in previous years, he noted. In addition, the Ministry of Justice's Investigation Bureau has foiled a number of drug trafficking efforts with the help of international cooperation and information exchanges, he stressed. As an international business operations center, Taiwan has been used by drug traffickers as a transshipment point, he added. The minister pledged that the government would spare no effort in combating the drug problem. Moreover, he said, Taiwan's anti-drug efforts have won recognition from the United States. The 1993 International Narcotics Control Strategy Report issued by the U.S. State Department Monday said that authorities in Taiwan are increasingly involved in combating the rapidly growing drug abuse problem, and that Taiwan's drug laws are being strengthened. "In 1993 there were no reports of corruption in connection with narcotics law enforcement in Taiwan," the report said. Ma made these remarks while fielding questions at the Legislative Yuan. Meanwhile, Director Wu tung-ming of the Investigation Bureau said that a report made by a U.S. House of Representatives delegation last year also praised Tawian's efforts in dealing with drug issues. The delegation visited Taiwan last August for an anti-drug meeting. Taiwan has done a good job in customs inspection, Wu asserted, saying 14 percent of containers entering and leaving Taiwan are inspected, compared to the United States' 12 percent. The war against narcotics calls for increased information exchanges and increased international cooperation, he stressed.
