FBIS3-42367 "jptot007__l94044" JPRS-TOT-94-007-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 16 February 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Islamic Groups' Overseas Fund-Raising Activities Examined PM0702171494 London THE GUARDIAN in English 7 Feb 94 p 6 PM0702171494 London THE GUARDIAN Language: English Article Type:BFN [Kathy Evans report: "Congregations Run `Charity' Gauntlet"] [Text] As the main prayers of the week end on a Friday lunchtime, the departing congregation at Regent's Park mosque in London has to run the gauntlet of dozens of young men raising money for holy wars against foreign governments. "Fight the Algerian junta!" A bearded man in his 20s stands beside a grisly montage of photographs portraying, he says, victims of torture by the Algerian government. One youth says he comes from Nubia and is raising money for the overthrow of the Mubarak government. "Help the jihad in Egypt," he cries, trying to out-shout another youth who says he is collecting for Palestine. Giving money to charity is a religious obligation for wealthy Muslims. The past five years have seen an explosion in the number of Muslim charities not dedicated to purely humanitarian aims, say Western counter-terrorism experts. In almost every mosque in Britain, Muslims are being encouraged to "Spend in the name of Allah." Nothing is said about who receives these donations destined for Bosnia, Palestine, Iraq, Algeria and other places. Islamic organisations with overseas connections include: The Young Muslims Has headquarters in Nottingham and branches around the country. Organises charter trips to Sudan and Iran for young Muslims. Also offers summer holiday camps featuring lectures from Sudanese politicians, Kashmiri mojahedin and black American Muslim leaders. Al Muntada al Islami Based in Parsons Green, west London. Has its own mosque and school. Appears to function as a haven in London for the Middle Eastern Salafi movement, known for strict religious orthodoxy. Said to be popular with Gulf radicals as well as Algerians and Lebanese. Has nearly £250,000 in the bank and gave nearly £160,000 in "overseas relief" last year. Muslim Welfare House One of the oldest Muslim organisations in London, based in Finsbury Park. Said by the Algerian government to be a fundraiser for the Algerian Islamic group FIS [Islamic Salvation Front], transferring money to activists subsequently convicted of terrorism. Its director, Syrian-born Mahmoud Khani, is said to be "ill overseas." Acting director says the organisation does not permit political activity in the mosque and has been regularly visited by Scotland Yard. The Murabitoun -- Soldiers of Liberation Run by Abdul Qadir al Sufi, a former Scottish librarian, bit part player in Fellini films and now a convert to Islam. Campaigns for British Muslim community to be self sufficient, with its own banking system and courts. Very active during Rushdie affair. Palestine and Lebanon Relief Fund Said by Israel and Arab press to be a principal conduit of funds for the Palestinian Hamas movement. Israeli officials say much of the money is spent on weapons. Fund officials say the money goes to the zakat committees in occupied territories for orphans, widows and hospitals. Other Palestinian charities say zakat committees are controlled by Islamacists. Islamic Foundation Headed by Professor Kurshid Ahmed, known in Pakistan as the vice-president of Jamaat Islami, the country's largest radical party, which has connections to extremist parties in Afghanistan and Kashrnir. Jamaat activists were said to be behind the original burning of Salman Rushdie's book in Bradford. According to last published accounts in 1990, the foundation gave nearly £90,000 to a fund for Kashmir: no details of expenditure. Has seven-acre compound in Leicester which hosts Islamic conferences. Islamic Studies Centre Birmingham-based, said to be the base of Surour Zeinabbidine, a senior ideologue of a radical movement opposing the Saudi regime. The Syrian-born cleric reportedly introduced a number of the leaders of the kingdom's opposition movement to the idea of political Islam.
