FBIS3-5488 "dreas045_a_94016" FBIS-EAS-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Guidelines Drawn Up To Eradicate Bid-Rigging OW0403151394 Tokyo KYODO in English 1130 GMT 4 Mar 94 OW0403151394 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 4 KYODO -- The government's fair trade watchdog unveiled Friday [4 March] new draft guidelines designed to eradicate rampant bid-rigging activities on tenders for public works projects. The Fair Trade Commission (FTC) will formalize by summer the draft calling for strict controls on a wide range of activities related to bids on public works projects to replace the current standards established in 1984, FTC officials said. The new guidelines will classify suspect corporate activities into three categories -- those that violate the Antimonopoly Law, those that do not, and those that are on the borderline. Such acts as selecting before bidding takes place firms expected to get the orders on public works projects, rigging bid prices or deciding the minimum tender price, will be stipulated as violation of the law. The draft also says exchanging information on bids, including bidders' business records or tender prices, has a high probability of violating the Fair Trade Law. Exchanging information about the prospect of firms' participation in bids or forming joint ventures for bidding will also fall into the category of acts that could violate the law. The existing guidelines allow firms to exchange information about bids as long as they do not select the successful bidder or set the tender price, but the system is regarded as being full of loopholes to allow bid-rigging practices. The FTC move comes against the backdrop of prosecutors investigating corrupt relations between politicians and construction companies over public works projects and the United States harshly criticizing the closed nature of the Japanese construction market. The construction ministry, since last December, has been tackling a wholesale review of the bidding system for public works projects to secure fairness and give wider access to foreign competitors under the open-bidding system expected to be introduced in April, ministry officials said. The FTC will finalize the draft guidelines after hearing views from ministries involved and economic organizations, as well as from the U.S. and the European Union, the officials said.
