FBIS3-36356 "drsov024_r_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 Azerbaijan Armenia Blamed for Failure of Mission NC0402084894 Baku TURAN in English 1641 GMT 3 Feb 94 NC0402084894 Baku TURAN Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Armenia Again Destroyed the Signing of Cease-Fire Agreement"] [Text] Baku, February 3 (TURAN) -- Tofik Zulfugarov, the chief of the Division for the Conflicts and Political Regulation of the Armenian-Azeri Conflict, attached to the Azeri Foreign Ministry said at the press conference in Baku today "Azerbaijani side possesses numerous facts, including the testimonies of the Armenian officers taken prisoners in Kelbadzharshiy region recently proving the direct participation of the military units of the Republic of Armenia in fightings against the Azeri army in Karabakh and around [it]. Moreover, the documents and maps with instructions, withdrawn from the prisoners of war testify that all the operations are being worked out by the General Staff of the Armenian Republic. So, there is an armed conflict exactly between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Touching upon the problem of regulation of the conflict T. Zulfugarov said that the recent visit of the Special Russian Envoy Kazimirov to Baku was concerning the signing of cease-fire agreement. As Tofik Zulfugarov said "Azerbaijan stands for the political regulation of the conflict and is ready to cease hostilities in order to assist solving the problem. But we insist that the cease-fire agreement is signed between Armenia and Azerbaijan as they are the parties to the conflict." Mr. Zulfugarov said that Armenia says it is "responsible only for the situation on the Armenian-Azeri border, but the cease-fire agreement have to be signed between Azerbaijan and Nagorno-Karabakh." "So, Armenia's conditions are directed at attaching the Nagorno-Karabakh status of the party to the conflict, and in perspective -- an independent party at the talks. We cannot agree to this," T. Zulfugarov said. Zulfugarov said that for the destructive position of Armenia the meeting between Azeri Foreign Minister Gasan Gasanov and Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev did not take place. Zulfugarov also said that the documents, testifying the participation of the Armenian Army in the aggression against Azerbaijan are sent to the UNO [United Nations Organization] Secretary General, to the CSCE Secretariat, NATO secretary general, European Soviet [Council of Europe] and a number of international organizations. "Our position is clear, constructive and has elements of compromise", Zulfugarov said.
