FBIS4-7486 "dreeu063_p_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-063 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 POLAND Comment on Walesa's Rejection of New Popiwek Law Comment on Walesa's Rejection of New Popiwek Law WS0104112594 Warsaw RZECZPOSPOLITA in Polish 1 Apr 94 p 4 WS0104112594 Warsaw RZECZPOSPOLITA Polish BFN [Commentary by Piotr Aleksandrowicz: "In the Market Direction"] [Text] The president vetoed the new popiwek [tax on excess wage increases] because he had sound reasons to do so. He believes that this law gives the administration a lot of power to make decisions concerning tax burdens; it poses a threat to the implementation of the property law and to the development of private entrepreneurship; it strengthens administration at the cost of the parliament. The Sejm may override the veto; however, the question arises whether it could just ignore the arguments submitted by the president. It seems that, approximately since 1991, there have been reasons to believe that the administrative control of wages in the state-owned sector might be replaced by macroeconomic control and negotiations between employees and employers. The fluidity of companies was limited, the money supply is under control, and inflation is increasingly lower; the unemployment level, however, is high, which curbs wage demands as well as the development of competition. There is no doubt that the departure from the administrative control of shaping wages would be a step in the direction of market economy principles. The popiwek, a solution that seems indispensable in the first and second year of transformations, became an increasingly less observed relic of the past as the situation was more and more stabilized. However, it was in a way comfortable to some authorities, establishments, and companies: It freed them from some of the responsibility for the economic results. Abolition of the popiwek would reinforce the demands submitted by the National Bank of Poland, which should pursue a definitely anti-inflation financial policy. Similarly, it would set higher requirements for banks and the government in the area of execution of credits, taxes, and bankruptcies. Finally, the ministries exercising owner's supervision would have to fill higher requirements as well. The owner should demand responsibility from the directors and not, as it used to be, succumb to joint pressure of employees and their bosses. However, because the state is not an efficient owner, what we need is consistency in privatization and in the development of competition. Neither the president's decision nor its approval by the Sejm threaten to cause chaos and higher inflation--on condition that the government will be the government, the owner will be the owner, and the central bank the central bank.
