FBIS3-51356 "drlat012aa_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Menem Opens World Conservation Summit in Buenos Aires PY1801230694 Buenos Aires BUENOS AIRES HERALD in English 18 Jan 94 pp 1, 18 PY1801230694 Buenos Aires BUENOS AIRES HERALD Language: English Article Type:BFN [Article by Carmen Pignotti] [Excerpt] The focus of international co-operation should spread from politics and economics to the environment, President Carlos Menem said last night [17 January] at the opening session of a world conservation summit in Buenos Aires. Menem, who described the environment as the key issue facing humanity, said global action was crucial to turn the current tide of depletion of natural resources. "Little by little, the era of wars is being overcome, we owe it to ourselves now to leave behind the wars against nature, which are also wars against us," Menem told delegates to the 19th general assembly of the World Conservation Union (IUCN). Among its immediate plans for environmental action, Argentina will upgrade its federal Environment Secretariat to ministerial rank and create a new 70,000-hectare natural reserve in San Juan province, Menem announced. The "El Leoncito" reserve will provide protection to several ecosystem and will be run by the National Parks Administration. Menem noted the reserve's creation would mark the 90th anniversary of the country's first national park, Nahuel Huapi. Describing the environment as a priority on his agenda, Menem said plans to create a ministry in charge of the environment would be crystallized after the much-vaunted reform of the National Constitution. The IUCN assembly -- an event held every three years -- brings together delegates from over 800 governments, state agencies and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) from some 125 countries for a 10-day marathon of special seminars, plenary debates and workshops. Menem described the current assembly in Buenos Aires, the largest gathering of world environmental leaders since the United Nations Earth Summit in 1992 in Rio de Janeiro, as "a unique opportunity to start generating a model for civilization that will maintain the harmony of the planet." "Ecology is not only one of the issues attracting the interest of the world, it is the main issue that humanity should be taking care of," said Menem. Delivering the keynote address at the assembly's inauguration, outgoing IUCN President Sir Shridath Ramphal placed the stress of today's environmental problems on the issues of consumption and population, undergoing the weaknesses of the Earth Summit. The Rio summit produced two international conventions and a detailed plan for action, known as Agenda 21. "The silence guilt, a forlorn hope that if decisions can be deferred long enough and solutions sought in other directions, changing the lifestyles of the rich may not after all be necessary. But silence does not change reality," Sir Shridath declared. [passage omitted]
