FBIS4-48499 "drafr098_d_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-098 Daily Report 19 May 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Malawi Banda Concedes Defeat Banda Concedes Defeat MB1905163894 Blantyre Malawi Broadcasting Corporation Network in English 1600 GMT 19 May 94 MB1905163894 Blantyre Malawi Broadcasting Corporation Network English BFN [Text] His Excellency the president, ngwazi [paramount chief] Dr. Kamuzu Banda, has conceded defeat in the country's first multiparty elections held on Tuesday. In a broadcast to the nation today, the president said although the results of the election have not been officially confirmed [words indistinct] every indication was that Mr. Bakili Muluzi was the clear winner in the contest for the Presidency of this country. He congratulated Mr. Muluzi and offered him his full support and cooperation as he takes over the presidency (?of the country). The ngwazi said as one of the incoming opposition parties, the Malawi Congress Party [MCP] will work with the United Democratic Party [UDP] government for building a better, democratic Malawi. In his speech the president thanked all Malawians for having allowed him to be their leader for the past 31 years [words indistinct] upholding the four cornerstones of the MCP -- namely, unity, loyalty, experience, and (?discipline). He said the four cornerstones [words indistinct] for the long standing political stability and for the continuing social and economic development in this country. The ngwazi also pointed out that the peaceful transition into multiparty democracy the country has undergone since last year has won Malawians respect. At this point, the president advised that despite the vigorous campaign during which many unkind things were told at [words indistinct] the political parties in this country should remain friends and not enemies. He urged all Malawians to bury their political differences and to work together for a united and prosperous new Malawi. The ngwazi then appealed to MCP supporters and those of other losing parties to accept their defeat honorably and [words indistinct] and advised members of the victorious United Democratic Party, UDF, to celebrate their victory with [words indistinct] and understanding and not with (?vengeance).
