FBIS3-15080 "drsov041_a_94025" FBIS-SOV-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Israel's `Only Choice' Is To Expedite Palestinian Autonomy PM0103172194 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 1 Mar 94 First Edition p 3 PM0103172194 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Leonid Mlechin article: "In the Near East One Madman May Destroy What the Leaders of Several States Have Built With Difficulty"] [Excerpts] The massacre in the mosque which one madman carried out will cost the Jewish state dear. Terrorist reprisals are simply the most obvious of troubles which may occur. The positions of PLO Chairman Yasir 'Arafat and his entourage, which took the risk of recognizing Israel's right to exist despite being cursed by many Palestinians who are sure that the only way to resolve all their problems is to cast the Jews into the sea, have been weakened. The Palestinian uprising in the occupied territories which began after the bloodshed in the mosque on Friday is terrifying the Israelis. Neither negotiations with the Palestinian Arabs nor peace with them -- only force of arms --- seems to be a guarantee of their security. In looking for protection, the Israelis are turning to right-wing parties, opponents of the negotiations with 'Arafat and of the return of the occupied territories to the Arabs. Yitzhaq Rabin's government may lose its support. Israelis are full of doubt about peace negotiations with the Arabs because it is the Jews who must make all the real concessions (including returning the territories). The Arabs, on the other hand, are being asked for something metaphysical -- to recognize Israel and conclude peace with it. But a treaty is not a docket for a purchase. It can be dissolved, then it is no longer possible to return land. To the Israelis this exchange -- taking into account the Arabs' hatred toward the Jewish state -- seems to be unequal and unreliable. But the Israelis have no choice. [passage omitted] The only correct response by Israel to the massacre in the mosque is to accelerate talks with the PLO and grant the Palestinian Arabs autonomy as soon as possible. Otherwise, Israel will have an uncertain and lonely future which is dependent on a narrowing circle of friends.
