FBIS3-6654 "dreas054_c_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 North Korea Daily Blames ROK for Failure of N-S Talks SK2003084394 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0832 GMT 20 Mar 94 SK2003084394 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["South Side Must Bear Responsibility for Stalled Working Contact" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 20 (KCNA) -- The working-level contact for the exchange of presidential envoys between the North and the South which was held Saturday was foiled due to the South side's behavior. Commenting on this, a NODONG SINMUN analyst today says now the South Korean ruling quarters will be unable to duck their criminal responsibility for bringing the North-South relations again to an unpredictable phase of confrontation to attain their political aims. The news analyst notes: The whole course of the working-level contact tells that the South Korean authorities are, indeed, a group of heinous anti-national, anti-reunification separatists only seeking confrontation, division and war. If the South side had really intended to exchange special envoys, it should have admitted and apologized for its criminal act in having abused the working contact to attain its political purpose and shown an affirmative response to the just proposal of the North side. The South side, however, insulted the North side's proposal to take the stand and attitude of national independence as a "far-fetched redundancy". This is virtually a declaration that it has no intention to exchange special envoys. At the negotiating table the South side let loose a string of provocative remarks getting on the nerve of the dialogue partner, and, behind the scene, made a virtual declaration of confrontation and war like "strong countermeasure". This was a deliberate and premeditated act to put the brakes on the DPRK-U.S. talks by foiling the working-level contact for the exchange of special envoys. The South Korean people will never pardon the Kim Yong-sam group for foiling the working contact for the exchange of special envoys and bringing the North-South relations to a worst phase. The South Korean authorities must admit and apologize to the nation for their criminal act in having abused the exchange of special envoys for their political stratagem to obstruct the DPRK-U.S. talks.
