FBIS3-35480 "drnes038_j_94005" FBIS-NES-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Abyan Governorate Urges Salih To Withdraw Forces JN2402185394 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1700 GMT 24 Feb 94 JN2402185394 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Message addressed to the chairman and members of the Yemeni Presidential Council on 24 February] [Text] In the name of God, the merciful, the compassionate. Esteemed brother Lieutenant General 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih, Presidential Council chairman and commander in chief of the Armed Forces: Greetings of the revolution and unity. While we do not want to remind you of the stands, sacrifices, and heroic deeds, that the sons of the Abyan Governorate have registered at various stages and of their national militant role in achieving unity and democracy, we would like to stress that the situation in Abyan Governorate has become grave as a result of the barbaric provocations and killings to which the governorate's honorable and innocent sons are being exposed. We urge you to face up to your responsibilities and your historic mission, which you pledged to God to carry out for your people and your homeland. While we take pride in the fact that Abyan has been destined to be the cradle of the revolution and the revolutionaries, we are displeased by the negligence displayed toward the governorate and its achievements. In addition to losing its best and noblest men, as well as being deprived of most of its rights and needs, Abyan Governorate is being exposed to killings and torture. (?Most parts) of the governorate are still to this moment besieged by the most lethal machines of destruction and death, which were brought by the advocates of division to settle purely divisionist scores. Brother Presidential Council chairman, brother members: While we are addressing you, our hearts are bleeding because of what is happening to our sons, daughters, mothers, brothers, and sisters. While we reiterate our readiness to continue to offer more sacrifices for the sake of unity, we do not want our governorate, Abyan, to be the hotbed of the conflict, which would not serve the homeland or the people's interest. Therefore, we urge the withdrawal of all the military units from the governorate, as well as the implementation of the contents of the accord document, as the only solution to the crisis. While we urge you to abide by this, we call on the parties in the coalition; all the political forces, represented by the Dialogue Committee; all the political organizations; and the vocational and creative popular organizations to close ranks in the face of threats to our unity and the implementation of the Amman accord. Brother Presidential Council chairman, brother members: The state of loss being experienced by the sons of the Abyan Governorate, throughout the republic, and abroad as a result of statements transmitted by print and electronic media organs, prompts us to urge, through this message, a halt to this media propaganda that only harms our governorate. At the same time, we call for the facts to be clarified to our people through the military committee and the Political Forces Dialogue Committee so that we, as well as our people's masses, can unveil those behind the bloody conflict from which the sons of Abyan -- who are faithful to God, the homeland, the revolution, and unity -- are suffering. May God grant you success in maintaining the interest of the homeland and people. Peace and God's mercy and blesses be upon you. [Signed] The sons of Abyan Governorate
