FBIS4-29584 "dreas118_a_94014" FBIS-EAS-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Minister Comments on DPRK Issues in Beijing Minister Comments on DPRK Issues in Beijing Tokyo Faces DPRK's `Revenge' OW1806115394 Tokyo KYODO in English 1132 GMT 18 Jun 94 OW1806115394 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Beijing, June 18 KYODO -- Former Japanese Defense Minister Taku Yamasaki said Saturday that North Korea hopes to set up diplomatic ties with Japan, but will seek revenge if Tokyo supports economic sanctions against Pyongyang. Yamasaki arrived in Beijing on Saturday after holding four days of discussions on the nuclear issue in North Korea with Kim Yong-son and Hwang Chang-yop, both secretaries of the Workers' Party, and Kim Chang-kon, vice director of the party's international department, he told reporters at Beijing airport. Although the North Korean officials said Pyongyang hopes "to establish formal diplomatic ties with Japan as soon as possible," they warned Japan that revenge would be taken if Tokyo supports pending U.N. Security council economic sanctions, he said. The North Korean leaders also reiterated that economic sanctions against Pyongyang would be regarded as "a declaration of war," said Yamasaki, a member of Japan's main opposition Liberal Democratic Party. Yamasaki, a House of Representatives member who formerly headed the Defense Agency, said the North Koreans renewed a pledge to freeze their nuclear program, including abolishing their radiochemical laboratory, if their present graphite-based nuclear reactor is replaced by a light-water reactor. North Korea is now developing a graphite reactor capable of producing weapons-grade plutonium, while a light-water reactor does not produce such plutonium. Kim Yong-son told Yamasaki that International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors would not be allowed to inspect two suspected nuclear sites which North Korea has not declared to the IAEA because the "facilities are military facilities," he said. Yamasaki said he did not meet former U.S. President Jimmy Carter during his stay in Pyongyang. Carter also left North Korea on Saturday following a four-day visit.
