FBIS4-20297 "drweu083_p_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-083 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 GREECE Papandreou Meets Butrus-Ghali, Comments on UN Talks Papandreou Meets Butrus-Ghali, Comments on UN Talks NC2804211894 Athens ET-1 Television Network in Greek 2030 GMT 28 Apr 94 NC2804211894 Athens ET-1 Television Network Greek BFN [Text] Consultations on Skopje [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Yugoslavia--FYROM] continued today at the top level in UN Headquarters, where Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou met with the UN secretary general. Our New York special correspondent Roula Kambouryianni reports. [Begin recording] [Kambouryianni] No specific positive developments can be discerned on the Skopje issue. However, UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali did not ask for Security Council intervention, and the mediation effort by Cyrus Vance is continuing. This is what Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou said after his 40-minute meeting with Butrus-Ghali in the presence of Foreign Minister Karolos Papoulias and Mr. Cyrus Vance. Before the meeting, Mr. Butrus-Ghali held consultations both with Mr. Vance and with Matthew Nimetz, State Department special coordinator on the Skopje issue. In addition to the Skopje question, the Cyprus and Bosnian issues were also discussed. As the prime minister said, however, we did not touch on matters of substance. After the failure of the talks on the confidence-building measures, the Greek side expressed its regret for the deadlock in the Cyprus issue because of the Turkish intransigence. [Papandreou] We expressed our regret for the course of the Cyprus issue. There have already been 20 years of occupation, and the process should change so that we end with a solution acceptable to the people of Cyprus, a solution that will be just and lasting. [Kambouryianni] Responding to a Turkish correspondent's question on relations with Turkey, the prime minister said that we hope they will improve, and we are doing all we can in this direction. Coming out of UN Headquarters, Mr. Vance described the meeting as very positive. He said: We have cooperated with Mr. Papandreou in the past; let us hope that progress will be made soon. The prime minister and members of the Greek delegation will leave for Athens today. [end recording]
