FBIS3-57287 "drsov016cc_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 January 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS Envoy Says Date for Armenian-Azerbaijani Summit Not Set LD2401165194 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1520 GMT 24 Jan 94 LD2401165194 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: by correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboynikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy, and others] [Text] A concrete date for the possible meeting between Azeri President Gaydar Aliyev and his Armenian counterpart Levon Ter-Petrosyan in Moscow has not been fixed yet, the special envoy of President Yeltsin, Vladimir Kazimirov, who leads Russia's mission for settling the conflict in Karabakh, told INTERFAX on Monday [24 January]. "Meetings on such a level should be prepared very carefully," he pointed out. "It's premature to mention concrete dates before concluding preparations that would ensure success for the proposed summit," he said. According to Kazimirov, Russian mediators intend to continue the work they are conducting "in the three major points of the conflict" -- Baku, Yerevan, and Stepanakert, as well as in Moscow. "As long as we are at this stage, I am not in a position to say when this work can be raised to a higher level," the diplomat said. The meetings held in Moscow recently by Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev with his Azeri and Armenian counterparts Gasan Gasanov and Vagan Papazian, as well as with a spokesman for the leadership of Nagorno-Karabakh, Arkadiy Gukasyan, showed that "the stands taken by the conflicting sides drew somewhat closer," he noted. Nevertheless, the talks were "rather complicated," Kazimirov said. "We are dealing with one of the fiercest and longest conflicts in the territory of the former USSR. Therefore it would be naive to believe that the entire knot of problems will be untangled to the satisfaction of all the parties concerned overnight. We proceed from the assumption that a settlement will be gradual, that it will consist of searches for compromises on virtually all points," the diplomat said.
