FBIS3-44012 "drafr015_d_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola UNITA Radio on Dos Santos, Wife, `Corrupt' List MB2401141594 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro in Portuguese 1200 GMT 24 Jan 94 MB2401141594 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Jose Eduardo dos Santos and his wife, First Lady Ana Paulo dos Santos, are at the head of the list of corrupt people in Angola. Reliable reports reaching our news desk today confirm that the Futungo de Belas couple is involved in cases of corruption and stealing Angola's wealth. Those sources say that Jose Eduardo dos Santos is losing credibility in the international community because it has been found that he has great personal wealth and that he has links with corrupt Angolan figures. [passage omitted] The international community has found that Eduardo dos Santos has property and large financial investments both in the country and abroad. The amounts in his coded bank accounts in Italy, Switzerland, and France are also known. Ana Paulo dos Santos, his wife, is also involved in corruption. [passage omitted] There are other threads to the Futungo de Belas web of corruption. They have been uncovered by the international community, which believes corruption in Angola can only have reached its present dimensions because the Angolan president is both involved and protecting others. Those sources say it is no accident that the best known figures involved in corruption are all proteges of and close to Jose Eduardo dos Santos. The names listed include Jose Leitao, who made a 30 percent profit in the recent $180 million weapons deal with Russia; Joao de Matos, currently Angolan Armed Forces chief of General Staff; Alberto Neto, head of an aviation company that works almost exclusively with the military sector; Norberto dos Santos, minister of assistance and social reintegration; Agriculture Minister Isaac dos Anjos; and Territorial Administration Minister Paulo Kassoma. [passage omitted] Those sources added that other figures involved in Jose Eduardo dos Santos' web of corruption are: Finance Minister Emanuel Carneir, Deputy Petroleum Minister Desiderio Costa, and Noe Baltasar, Angola National Diamond Enterprise director general. [passage omitted]
