FBIS4-56662 "drlat089_b_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-089 Daily Report 6 May 1994 Barbados Haiti MNP-28 Accuses Clinton of Violating Sovereignty MNP-28 Accuses Clinton of Violating Sovereignty FL0605231594 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole in French 1600 GMT 6 May 94 FL0605231594 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole French BFN [Text] MNP-28 [National Patriotic Movement of 28 November], led by Dejean Belizaire, reacted to the threats of military intervention in Haiti and the total embargo planned against Haiti. Belizaire accuses the U.S. President of violating the national sovereignty of the Republic of Haiti. The former president of the National Assembly condemns the behavior of the international community, which is trying, he says, to impose a solution from the outside to a crisis that is above all, Haitian. It is up to Haitians to solve the problems of power and of the political regime in Haiti, stated Belizaire on this new twist in the political crisis: [Begin Belizaire recording] Haiti is an independent, sovereign state, bound through mutual respect to cooperate with the other states in the hemisphere and with the international institutions. But it is up to Haitians and to Haitians alone to solve the problems of power and political regimes in this country. It is desirable under the exceptional circumstances of this crisis, however, that the opposing parties understand that in their search for a durable solution, they must be open to mutual concessions or to pay an unavoidable price. Second, the institution of democracy in Haiti, as is the case for all countries in the hemisphere, will be the product of the economic, political, and social contradiction game, and of a long process. But it cannot in any way be imposed from the outside. The 19 years of U.S. military occupation, beginning in 1915, only broke the dynamic struggle of the Haitian people for change, and interrupted the country's process of democratization. Third, a total and complete embargo and military invasion as a means of solving the Haitian crisis is a monumental, gross mistake from which the international community must immediately dissociate in order to safeguard its distinguished image and the future of its relations with the Haitian people and with the authentic political parties, the only ones that are permanent, durable, and unfailingly attached to the fate of the sovereign Republic of Haiti. [end recording]
