FBIS4-41538 "drsov123_b_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 RUSSIAN NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Prosecutor's Office Discusses Organized Crime Prosecutor's Office Discusses Organized Crime PM2706082994 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 24 Jun 94 First Edition p 2 PM2706082994 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Report by Vladimir Klimov: "Working Together"] [Text] Yesterday's enlarged sitting of the collegium of the Russian Federation General Prosecutor's Office involving prosecutors from the republics, krays, and oblasts, and military and transport prosecutors, was devoted to the theme of the fight against crime. State structure representatives, including Presidential Staff Chief S. Filatov, Federation Council Committee Chairman I. Kostoyev, and Human Rights Committee Chairman S. Kovalev, took part in the collegium's work. The trend toward a rise in organized crime, which is destabilizing the atmosphere in society, was noted in the report by Acting General Prosecutor A. Ilyushenko, as well as in the speeches by regional prosecutors and those by the leaders of law enforcement organs. Various appraisals of the president's edict were heard. Federal Counterintelligence Service Director S. Stepashin declared: "I am in favor of violating the rights of the individual if that person is a criminal." S. Kovalev categorically disagreed with this conclusion, placing the emphasis on the unswerving fulfillment of human rights and compliance with the spirit and letter of the Constitution. Other speeches also noted the possible danger of "going too far" in terms of human rights compliance when fulfilling the president's edict. The collegium called on prosecutors to consider the fight against crime and the coordination of the actions of the law enforcement bodies the most important area of their activity. It was proposed that constant surveillance over compliance with legislation be guaranteed when carrying out measures stipulated by the president and the parliament to protect the population from organized crime.
