FBIS4-24601 "drchi105_f_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-105 Daily Report 30 May 1994 Near East & South Asia Hu Jintao Meets With Visiting Syrian Party Officials 30 May Hu Jintao Meets With Visiting Syrian Party Officials 30 May OW3005160994 Beijing XINHUA in English 1431 GMT 30 May 94 OW3005160994 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, May 30 (XINHUA) -- Hu Jintao, member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, met with Omar al-Abdalia, vice-president of the Higher Political Academy of Syria, and his party here this afternoon. Hu is also a member of the secretariat and president of the Party School of the CPC Central Committee. Extending his welcome to the Syrian guests, Hu said that the friendly exchanges between the CPC and the Arab Ba'th Socialist Party of Syria have been expanding since the two established relations in 1986. The recent visit to Syria by the CPC delegation has further promoted the friendly relations between the two parties and the two countries as well, he said. Hu said that it is mutually beneficial for the Party School of the CPC Central Committee and the Syrian Political Academy to strengthen bilateral contacts and exchange experience in school management and in training cadres. Hu noted that China will firmly support the just cause of the Palestine and Arab peoples to gain national independence and to safeguard their national sovereignty, and that it will continue to strive for promotion of the peace process in the Middle East. Vice-President Abdalia said that through the visit, they have witnessed with their own eyes the great achievements that China has made in its reform and opening to the outside world. He said that China's political stability and high-speed economic development have made a deep impression on them. Abdalia said that they have learned a lot from the CPC Party School in teaching, research and cadre training. Wang Jiaqiu, member of the CPC Central Committee and vice-president of the Party School of the CPC Central Committee, was present at the meeting.
