FBIS4-67013 "jptdd019__l94075" JPRS-TDD-94-019-L JPRS Narcotics 29 April 1994 WEST EUROPE GERMANY Court Decision Allows Hashish, Marijuana Consumption in Court Decision Allows Hashish, Marijuana Consumption in Small Quantities AU2904103794 Berlin DIE WELT in German 29 Apr 94 p 1 AU2904103794 Berlin DIE WELT German BFN [Unattributed report: "Karlsruhe: Hashish Consumption Permitted"] [Text] Karlsruhe -- The possession and consumption of hashish and marijuana in small quantities will no longer be punishable. In a verdict released yesterday, the Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe decided that the authorities must turn a blind eye if cannabis products are procured or imported solely for occasional private use and if there is no danger to third parties. In its decision, the Second Senate failed to specify the meaning of "small quantities" and "occasional private use," but placed the laender under an obligation to define these terms in order to coordinate the procedure for adopting new rules on discontinuing criminal proceedings. So far, only Schleswig-Holstein has defined these limits. Schleswig-Holstein courts consider a "small quantity" to mean up to 30 grams, on the assumption that this is a one-week supply for a single person. At the same time, the Constitutional Court confirmed the ban on drugs as set down in the law on anesthetics, thus rejecting seven appeals from German courts that had said that permitting a limited use of drugs might not be in conformity with the Constitution, especially because of the different way of treating hashish and alcohol. According to the Constitutional Court judges, the difference in sentences that can be meted out for the misuse of hashish, alcohol, and nicotine does not collide with the constitutional principle of equality. The misuse of alcohol involves dangers similar or even greater than those posed by the misuse of hashish and marijuana, but it should be borne in mind that there are many possible uses of alcohol, most of them not leading to a state of intoxication, whereas in the case of cannabis products, intoxication figures in first place. Needless to say, there is no "right to be intoxicated." After a long period of time, the number of drug-induced deaths in Germany once again clearly increased in the first quarter of the year. The Interior Ministry in Bonn said that the number of such deaths increased from 343 to 372 against the first quarter of 1993, an increase of 8.5 percent. The number of first-time consumers of hard drugs went up by 16.8 percent, reaching 2,250.
