FBIS3-7671 "dreas061_m_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 Thailand Paper Supports Policy BK3003115694 Bangkok NAEO NA in Thai 30 Mar 94 p 3 BK3003115694 Bangkok NAEO NA Language: Thai Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Safe Areas in Cambodia"] [Text] The Phnom Penh Government and Khmer Rouge troops were engaged in heavy battles for the control of Cambodia's Pailin township several days ago. Consequently, over 25,000 Cambodians fled the fighting to take safe refuge at Phakkat Village in the border district of Pong Nam Ron of Chanthaburi Province. For humanitarian reasons, Thailand had to allow these refugees to stay on its soil on a temporary basis, which was a truely praiseworthy act. The Thai Government has clearly announced worldwide that Thailand has no policy of taking any more refugees, following the recent permanent closure of all refugee camps in the country. An interesting point to note regarding the influx of the Cambodian refugees is the proposal put forth by the National Security Council [NSC] for the setting up of safe areas inside Cambodian territory. The NSC said that the situation after the formation of the Cambodian Government has been relatively safe for the setting up of a haven accessible to the UNHCR officials to provide direct assistance to war victims. The reasons cited by the NSC in making such a proposal are compatible with the Thai Government's intention not to allow Cambodians to take refuge in Thailand following the closure of the refugee camps. The past policy of the government in providing shelter to the war-displaced Cambodians was made, besides for humanitarian reasons, on the grounds that Cambodia in those days was under the control of warring factions, none of which were recognized by the world community. But now Cambodia is now ruled by the national government, the latter must be responsible for the safety and well-being of the Cambodian people. We fully support such a clear-cut policy of the Thai Government and NSC. We must tell the world that things have changed. The UNHCR and other countries have the right to ask Thailand to reopen the refugee camps. However, Thailand has the right to reject their request because we also have to work on our own problems. Thailand's philanthropic activities in connection with the Cambodian refugees have been praised by some countries. But, at the same time, many other countries criticized the way Thailand handled the refugee problem in spite of the fact Thailand gained nothing from keeping the refugees in the country. This is an important issue that requires careful and thorough consideration. It is recommended that Prime Minister Chuan Likphai issue a statement to tell the world that Thailand is not obligated to walk along the path drawn by the UNHCR.
