FBIS3-16029 "drsov049_s_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Georgia Shevardnadze Comments on Visit to Canada LD1103145294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0610 GMT 11 Mar 94 LD1103145294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Nikolay Setunskiy] [Text] Ottawa, 11 Mar -- Talks between Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien and Georgian head of state Eduard Shevardnadze, who paid a one-day working visit to Canada, ended in the Canadian capital on Thursday evening with the signing of a Canadian-Georgian declaration of friendship and cooperation. The talks, which were attended by Canadian External Affairs Minister Andre Ouellet and Georgian Foreign Minister Aleksandr Chikvaidze, centered on the situation in Georgia, the UN's possible role in settling it, Canada's assistance, and also questions of Canadian-Georgian relations. "We realize perfectly well that the situation in Georgia is an extremely difficult one, and we would like to help it, particularly with supplies of Canadian wheat, and also technical assistance," Jean Chretien said at a meeting with journalists at the end of the talks. In a brief response, Eduard Shevardnadze expressed gratitude to Canada for its understanding of Georgia's problems and for its expression of solidarity with it. He noted that the signed declaration is a good basis for the further development of relations between the two countries. Canadian External Affairs Minister Andre Ouellet, in an interview with an ITAR-TASS correspondent, said: "We discussed the situation in Georgia in the context of the task to achieve peace in that region. He (Shevardnadze) asked Canada for support in setting up the UN peacekeeping forces. The prime minister made it clear that he would give such support and would inform the United Nstions that the implementation of the peace mission is an urgent task. The prime minister made it clear that because of the very important commitments we have undertaken at this time in Bosnia and Croatia, it would be difficult for us to send troops (to Georgia), but the prime minister expressed a readiness to do so if the United Nstions requests that a certain number of technical and military advisors, which could become an inalienable part of the peacekeeping mission, should be sent." At the conclusion of the visit, Eduard Shevardnadze was received by Canadian Governor-General Ramon Hnatyshyn, after which he left Ottawa for home.
