FBIS4-49240 "drchi086_h_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-086 Daily Report 3 May 1994 West Europe Li Ruihan Continues Visit to Finland Li Ruihan Continues Visit to Finland Meets With President 3 May OW0305164794 Beijing XINHUA in English 1632 GMT 3 May 94 OW0305164794 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Helsinki, May 3 (XINHUA) -- Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari today met Li Ruihuan, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC). Both leaders expressed satisfaction over Sino-Finnish ties and said they are ready to further promote the all-round development of the political, economic and trade relations between China and Finland. Li said his visit is the first of its kind by China's CPPCC chairman to Europe and the purpose is to deepen mutual understanding, expand exchanges and enhance cooperation. The Chinese leader is currently on an official goodwill visit to five European countries -- Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Belgium. China and Finland are far off in distance but enjoy close links, Li said, adding that both countries have tremendous potentials for mutual cooperation. On his part, President Ahtisaari said Finland and China have been enjoying sound relations, which have not been affected by changing international situation. He stressed that finland is fully understanding the Chinese Government's efforts to define its policy according to China's own historic and practical conditions. In a meeting with Finnish Parliament Speaker Riitta Uosukainen, Li said that China, which is deepening reform and accelerating its opening to the outside world, can learn a lot from Finland especially in advanced technology and management expertise. Uosukainen said the Finnish Government attached great importance to its relations with China, to China's viewpoints and the will of the Chinese people. While Finland needs to strengthen its ties with the European Union, she said, it is even more willing to enhance its friendship and cooperation with China.
