FBIS4-64292 "drweu084_l_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 SPAIN Aznar Rallies Support for Center-Right Group Aznar Rallies Support for Center-Right Group BR2904143694 Madrid ABC in Spanish 29 Apr 94 p 28 BR2904143694 Madrid ABC Spanish BFN [Unattributed report: "Aznar in London To Explain People's Party Solutions to Spain's Economic Crisis"] [Text] London - [Spanish People's Party leader] Jose Maria Aznar yesterday visited the British capital on what was essentially an economic mission, since one of the main items on his agenda was to speak in the Founders' Hall in the City of London before a large gathering of business representatives, explaining how the People's Party views the current economic crisis being experienced by Spain. The People's Party leader stressed the situation in which the Socialist government has placed the Spanish economy, and the solutions that the leading opposition party is proposing to dig the country out of the crisis. Meeting With Portillo In addition, Aznar lunched with the British Chief Treasury Secretary Michael Portillo, with whom he has good personal relations and who is considered to be one of the Conservative Party's strong men, in the same mold as former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. He also planned to meet with Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd. On this occasion, Aznar's agenda did not include a meeting with British Prime Minister John Major, with whom he has had the opportunity to meet at other times. Meeting With Cavaco in Lisbon Today, continuing with his plan of contacting European leaders, the People's Party leader will travel to Lisbon where he is to meet with Prime Minister Anibal Cavaco Silva. One of the aims of this trip is to propose to the head of the Portuguese government that his Social Democratic Party drop the Liberal Democratic and Reform Group and join the European People's Party. The European Christian Democrats want to be the largest force in the European Parliament after the 12 June elections, which is why every effort is being made to unite all the associated political forces. To achieve this objective, it is necessary to get other formations to join the People's Group in the Strasbourg parliament, like the Italian Christian Democratic Center which could pull in Berlusconi's MEP's, or those of the French center-right, with whom the group would acquire a major Christian Democratic component. Cavaco Silva won the Portuguese general elections on 6 October 1991 to become the European prime minister with the best endorsement from the voters, while no other head of government in the European Union has ever managed two absolute majorities with more than 50 percent of the votes. Curiously, he maintains good relations with [Spanish Prime Minister] Felipe Gonzalez and, since both men have been occupying the highest position in government in their respective countries, bilateral relations have improved considerably and some of the outstanding contentious issues have been solved, to the extent where both men describe the change undergone as an "historic turning point."
