FBIS3-20986 "jpest006___94023" JPRS-EST-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 9 March 1994 WEST EUROPE NUCLEAR R&D Germany: Encapsulated Ge-Detector Developed for Euroball Project 94WS0156B Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT in German 10 Dec 93 p 8 94WS0156B Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT Language: German Article Type:CSO [Article by SEL: "Encapsulated Ge-Detector"] [Text] Aachen/Juelich--An encapsulated Ge-detector has been developed by the Juelich research center (KFA [Nuclear Research Facility]) in collaboration with the University of Cologne's Institute for Nuclear Physics and the Intertechnique company in Strasbourg. The ultrahigh-vacuumtight, encapsulated germanium detector was brought to production readiness in the main Department of Technology within the framework of the Euroball project. The so-called Euroball is a gamma spectrometer that is being developed through European cooperation and will be used for experiments in the field of high-precision gamma spectroscopy. With it exotic nuclei of borderline stability can be studied. In addition to greater reliability, the advantages of the Ge-detector are protection of the extremely sensitive surface of the detector as well as ease of operation and interchangeability. Furthermore, it is possible to join Ge-detectors together into complex detector arrangements of any kind whatsoever. These detectors can be regenerated without any problems when there is radiation damage by heating them up in standard ovens. The range of applications of Ge-detectors includes gamma spectroscopy for the identification of exotic atomic nuclei, applied research, protection against radiation and of the environment, and applications in the field of medicine. Furthermore, the Ge-detectors presented by the KFA nuclear physics institute in Juelich in the journal "Inside KFA" (No. 3) can be used in industrial production control and space. In connection with technology transfer, the Juelich research center has concluded a licensing agreement for the production of encapsulated Ge-detectors with Intertechnique. A patent for the production process has been applied for at the German Patent Office. This year a total of 16 detectors were produced and delivered.
