FBIS3-53144 "drnes008yy_94008" FBIS-NES-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks PLO-Israeli Negotiations Continue in Taba Delegates Draft Agenda on Differences NC1101193194 Cairo MENA in Arabic 1819 GMT 11 Jan 94 NC1101193194 Cairo MENA Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Taba, 11 Jan (MENA)--A slight breakthrough was made in the Palestinian-Israeli talks in Taba today when Dr. Nabil Sha'th, political adviser to Palestinian President Yasir 'Arafat, and Amnon Shahaq, Israel's deputy chief of staff, following a closed meeting this evening agreed on the agenda of talks to be held by the two delegations tomorrow, Wednesday. Israeli sources said after the second meeting, which concluded at 1800 [1600 GMT] today, the drafting committee had started to formulate a draft agenda in light of two papers submitted by the Palestinians and the Israelis. The draft agenda outlines the views of each party and the apparent differences in views over the area of Jericho, the crossing points, and the settlements in Gaza. The Israeli source, who declined to be named, pointed out that the draft agenda includes all the points of difference, which will be left to a later stage. The source noted that the current round of Taba talks is expected to conclude on Wednesday or Thursday at the latest and that a new round of talks will be held on Monday in Taba. Informed sources noted that the absence of 'Uzi Dayan, head of the General Staff's Planning Department, from today's talks contributed to the slight breakthrough resulting from the talks held between the two heads of delegations during the morning session. From the Palestinian side, the drafting committee comprises 'Abd-al-Razzaq al-Yahya, former commander of the Palestine Liberation Army; and Dr. Camille Mansur, holder of a doctorate in law from the Sorbonne University. The Israeli side of the committee includes General David Agmon, adviser to the chief of staff on the intifadah; Yoel Singer, Foreign Ministry legal adviser; and military prosecutor (Alan Shif).
