FBIS3-30394 "dreeu023_c_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Klaus `Angry' Over Austrian Stance on Temelin LD0202195794 Bratislava Rozhlasova Stanica Slovensko Network in Slovak 1730 GMT 2 Feb 94 LD0202195794 Bratislava Rozhlasova Stanica Slovensko Network in Slovak 1730 GMT 2 Feb 94 Language: Slovak Article Type:BFN [Text] Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus expressed alarm today about Austria's consistently voiced doubts about the completion of the Temelin nuclear power plant construction. He pointed out that the Czech Government's stance on this matter is final. Our Prague correspondent Daniela Galikova reports in more detail: [Galikova] According to Vaclav Klaus, the Czech Government does not identify itself with Austrian Chancellor Vranitzky's idea of a nuclear-free Europe. However, this does not mean that the government denies Austria's right to hold its own view. Nevertheless, being the government of an independent state, the Czech Government is also entitled to a different view. I am angry that Austria does not take seriously the fact that the Czech Government's decision on completing the construction of the Temelin nuclear plant is final. I do not understand the reasons for the debate on not completing the Temelin power station or rebuilding it to use gas fuel. [Begin Klaus recording] Why should I continue to write letters or issue statements because somebody on the Austrian side seems to hold the view that we did not in fact mean our decision and that it was a joke by the Czech Government or perhaps an attempt to prod our neighbors? This is simply untrue. Should I put this in stronger terms or in very strong terms? I am simply saying it. [end recording] [Galikova] The Czech prime minister went on to say that the entire affair has gone beyond the framework of the present Austrian Government's usual attitude toward the completion of Temelin. He goes so far as to consider this to be inappropriate, especially in the context, which he mentioned, of his talks a few days ago with officials from Switzerland and Germany, whose nuclear power stations are as close to the Austrian border as is Temelin. However, there are no protests against them. As regards Austria's attempt to choose whom they consider to be a weaker partner and use them as a testing ground, I have to say that we are not a weaker partner, Vaclav Klaus stressed when speaking in Prague a few hours ago.
