FBIS3-20850 "jpeer010__s94010" JPRS-EER-94-010-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 11 March 1994 CROATIA Budget for 1994 Sent to Parliament 94P20519A Zagreb VJESNIK in Serbo-Croatian 11 Mar 94 p 3 94P20519A Zagreb VJESNIK Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:CSO [Article by Drazen Jambrovic: "The Budget Must Not Be Expanded"] [Excerpts] Zagreb -- The success of the stabilization program depends on the approval of the state budget, which was adopted after several months of preparations and sent to the Parliament last week. The budget totals about 5.2 billion German marks [DM], DM1.5 billion more than in 1993. According to Prime Minister Nikica Valentic, this is a "firm budget that must not be expanded, not even by a dinar." To exceed the set parameters could endanger the stabilization efforts. Firm budget limitations have been set to reign in very high public expenditures. Of the total DM5.2 billion, DM1.8 billion is devoted to pension payments, DM1.3 billion to health insurance, DM1 billion to local government expenditures. The total public expenditures amount to more than DM9 billion, or 50 percent of the GNP, estimated to be DM18 billion, including the "grey economy" and money transfers from abroad. According to Valentic, there is reason for alarm when total public expenditures surpass 50 percent of the country's GNP, even for a country at war. This is why expenditures and the budget must not be increased despite a series of justifiable requests. Saying that without increased production there is no chance of covering public spending, Valentic added that the government had taken certain steps in this direction in the areas of construction, shipbuilding, agriculture, tourism, and industry. [passage omitted] Excise Taxes by 1 July Excise taxes, special taxes on oil derivatives, alcohol, beer, nonalcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and imported cars will be introduced by 1 July. The tax reform continues with the introduction of the excise tax on six new products (coffee had already been taxed earlier). The next step is the introduction of the value-added tax. [passage omitted]
