FBIS4-46220 "jptot023__l94006" JPRS-TOT-94-023-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 30 April 1994 INTERNATIONAL UK Press Reports Iran's Involvement With IRA UK Press Reports Iran's Involvement With IRA Iran Missiles Wanted 94WR0146C London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 30 Apr 94 p 4 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94WR0146C London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH English CSO [Article by Richard Savill, in Belfast: "IRA `Wanted Iran Missiles'"] [Text] Iran called in Britain's senior envoy to formally deny any plot to arm and fund the IRA. Mr Jeffrey James, charge d'affaires in Tehran, was told the allegations were unfounded but British officials say they have information linking top Iranian intelligence figures with the IRA. The IRA may have been attempting to procure a large shipment of weapons from Iran in preparation for taking the terrorist campaign into the next century, security sources said yesterday. Despite the Anglo/Irish peace initiative, the sources believe a hardline faction within the IRA remains intent on replenishing and updating its arms. High on its list of priorities are sophisticated surface-to-air missiles capable of being used against military helicopters in Northern Ireland, the sources believe. Twenty SAM-7 ground-to-air missiles were found among a cargo of Libyan-supplied arms on board the IRA gun-running vessel, the Eksund, which was captured off France in 1987. As a result of the Eksund discovery, military helicopters in Northern Ireland were equipped with protective devices and pilots were forced to switch flying patterns. Recent evidence in the American courts suggest the IRA has tried to obtain the more advanced Stinger ground-to air missiles which security sources acknowledge would pose a serious threat. Helicopters are used to carry VIPs during visits to Ulster and the Army depends on them to operate in the so-called "bandit country" along the border. A security source said the IRA would probably like to acquire more anti-aircraft type weapons and the reason they had not been successful in using them so far was a lack of training.
