FBIS4-14587 "drsov063_a_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-063 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Mediator on Progress in Georgian-Abkhazian Talks Mediator on Progress in Georgian-Abkhazian Talks MK0104103094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 1 Apr 94 p 3 MK0104103094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Igor Rotar report under the "Talks" rubric: "Main Problem is Refugees. Another Stage of Georgian-Abkhazian Settlement"] [Excerpts] Consultations between the delegations of Abkhazia and Georgia on a settlement of their conflict were held in Moscow yesterday with Russia's mediation. The new Georgian-Abkhazian meeting was prompted by a recent appeal by the Russian Government expressing concern over the resumption of hostilities and calling on the warring sides to sit at the negotiating table once again. It was decided not to discuss Abkhazia's future status (the sides should only agree on a cease-fire) during these consultations, which were intended to focus on the return of refugees. Deputy Foreign Minister Boris Pastukhov, personal representative of the Russian president, told NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA on the eve of the talks: "I cannot say that we have achieved a significant breakthrough, but now the achievement of a compromise has finally become a reality. We have conducted intensive work with the Abkhazian delegation and now the final result depends on the Georgian side." In Pastukhov's view, the Russian side has managed to convince the Abkhazians to soften considerably their criteria for the definition of "refugees to be banned from entry." Initially, the Abkhazians insisted on including in this category "all those who participate in the hostilities on the Georgian side." Now they have agreed that the following categories will be denied the right of return: those responsible for military crimes; regular criminals; and those taking part in military operations or currently undergoing training at special military camps in western Georgia. According to Boris Pastukhov, the Abkhazian side was very reluctant to agree with the definition of the third category. The personal representative of the Russian president said that, according to UN military observers' estimates, there are three military camps in western Georgia, each of them providing training for around 1,000 refugees from Abkhazia. Pastukhov is certain that the Georgian side has to accept the current definition of the "refugees banned from returning:" "What is more important, after all: The problem of 3,000 intransigent young people, or the fate of around 300,000 refugees (the figure given by the Georgians themselves). If the Georgians really want peace, they are obliged to agree to the plan." [passage omitted] During yesterday's talks, however, the sides never came to a definite solution. Despite that, the Russian president's personal representative is not losing his optimism: "We have achieved considerable success and are steadily moving ahead toward our goal. Final conclusions should be drawn after the end of the talks, the new round of which is scheduled for 4 April."
