FBIS4-35658 "drnes106_a_94004" FBIS-NES-94-106 Daily Report 28 May 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria Foreign `Speculation' Over Nation's Future Viewed Foreign `Speculation' Over Nation's Future Viewed LD2905014794 Algiers ENTV Television Network in Arabic 1900 GMT 28 May 94 LD2905014794 Algiers ENTV Television Network Arabic BFN [Announcer-read commentary] [Text] At a time when Algeria is making every possible effort to solve all the problems of its multifaceted crisis, statements emerge from overseas trying to turn Algeria into a test ground and political laboratory in an attempt to cover blatantly their rivalry over Algeria and the region. It is normal for crises to occur in societies and states, but the increasing number of those who have ambitions in Algeria is not normal. Circles and institutes in capitals of world superpowers made various speculations about our future. But the prescription they have made out for us to pull through the crisis does not succeed in concealing the political, economic, and financial interests of these circles themselves. This prescription might then be described as a talisman of interests by contemporary oracles competing to interpret Algeria's crisis according to their self interests. It is true Algeria is in need of economic help to carry out a series of comprehensive economic reforms to pull through the crisis. Algeria has negotiated with international institutions in this regard and for this purpose. The president made this clear in his meeting with the diplomatic corps by saying Algeria's crisis was not eternal but a temporary one Algeria was capable of pulling through. We should, nevertheless, wonder about the responsibility and duty of international institutions that supposedly are a result of civilized international relations. Algeria's strategic and economic weight is very well known to governments and investors who are leading the free economy or the market economy on a world scale. Algeria's standing in the whole of North Africa should not be underestimated, and its stability positively reflects on the whole region. In fact statements that interfere in our internal affairs -- statements that unfortunately are sometimes reported by our newspapers -- only prove the importance of Algeria. Algeria is not an American-European spoil of war. Algeria today is composed of a number of functional institutions and efforts are being made to combat the ordeal from which Algeria is emerging.
