FBIS4-19661 "drweu077_l_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-077 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 SPAIN Industry Minister Sees Signs of Economic Recovery Industry Minister Sees Signs of Economic Recovery PM2004085694 Madrid YA in Spanish 13 Apr 94 p 23 PM2004085694 Madrid YA Spanish BFN [Unattributed report: "Eguiagaray: `We Are on Path of Economic Recovery'"] [Excerpt] Madrid -- Industry Minister Juan Manuel Eguiagaray announced yesterday that the survey of employers on the industrial climate with respect to demand, output, stocks, and prices improved by 60 percent between April 1993 and the end of February 1994. Eguiagaray pointed out with these figures that "we are in an economic recovery, albeit less rapid than we would like, but all the indicators show moderate positive growth." The industry minister denied on the same occasion that the government will approve fiscal measures to encourage industrial vehicle sales similar to those approved for private cars which are 10 years old. "I have never said that," he stressed, "and I believe that I clearly denied it when I was asked about in Barcelona, Monday." Nevertheless, he specified that the government is studying measures for this kind of vehicle, but that they will never be of a fiscal nature. Orders The minister emphasized that the main element of recovery during February was foreign trade, but that the domestic trade balance has also improved considerably. Business prospects are the most favorable since 1991, the minister stated, with a 5-percent increase in February over January, especially due to the improvement in orders both from abroad and from the domestic market. Eguiagaray emphasized the trend in the demand for power, which, following the sluggishness of 1993, registered a 0.8 percent increase in the first three months of the year. On prices and wages, the minister said that the trend in wages in 1993 was increasingly correct, and stated that the improvement in industrial competitiveness was a result more of the reduction in personnel than of the fall in unit labor costs. The minister drew attention to industrial prices, "since the recovery," he said, "could lead to a rise in these prices in 1994, although, according to the data at our disposal, it does not seem that this will happen, and so profit margins should not increase because of the rise in prices." The factors which, according to the Industry Ministry, affect the favorable trend in the sector are a certain revival of the Spanish economy, the reform of the labor market, the reduction of interest rates, the sustained recovery of the U.S. and British economies, and the positive effects on competitiveness in the prices of industrial products. [passage omitted]
