FBIS4-60344 "drnes100_s_94001" FBIS-NES-94-100 Daily Report 23 May 1994 Iran Saudi Police Said Creating `Problems' at Hajj Camp Saudi Police Said Creating `Problems' at Hajj Camp LD2305105194 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0930 GMT 23 May 94 LD2305105194 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Text] Glorious ceremonies were held at the leader's hajj headquarters last night on the third night that pilgrims to the House of God camped at the holy land of al-Mina. Our correspondent reports: [Unidentified correspondent] Dear listeners of the midday bulletin of the Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran: I speak to you from the holy land of al-Mina. Tens of thousands of Iranian and non-Iranian pilgrims took part in ceremonies held at his eminence the leader's headquarters in the holy land of al-Mina last night. The chants of Death to America and Death to Israel of the participants could be heard all over the camp where the Islamic Republic of Iran's hajj caravans stayed. At the same time fully equipped Saudi special commandos surrounded the leader's headquarters and the area where the Iranian pilgrims resided and controlled comings and goings and created problems for the Iranian pilgrims. So many pilgrims had gathered at the ceremony that the leader's headquarters and the tents beside it were filled with people. During the ceremonies, Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi, one of the Qom Seminary scholars, spoke on the philosophy of the uprising of His Holiness Abraham, peace be upon him, and the implementation of divine orders at that holy land. He stressed: What was special about the action taken by His Holiness Abraham was the breaking of idols and his decisiveness against infidels and the declaration of the disavowal of the infidels. Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi referred to the leadership role of the velayat-e faqih [guardianship of the supreme jurisconsult] in guiding the Muslim society toward understanding God and said: We believe that the Islamic Republic is in line with the implementation of Islamic principles and the uprising of the idol-smashing Abraham. Therefore the Muslim and revolutionary people of Iran continue to listen to the command of the leader of the revolution and implement their duties. He pointed out: The day that the late imam [Khomeyni] decreed that the disavowal of the infidels ceremonies should be held, the Iranian nation obeyed the order and even sacrificed a great deal of blood for that holy cause. Today also, abiding by the orders of his eminence the leader, it treads the path of its supreme ideals. Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi said: If the disavowal of the infidels ceremonies were cancelled in holy Mecca and our people put up with it, this was to protect the sanctity of that divine sanctuary [the Ka'bah]. And it was due to the discernment and vigilance of the leader of the Islamic revolution that the ceremonies were cancelled.
