FBIS4-15263 "drsov067_b_94032" FBIS-SOV-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military & Nuclear Issues Debts, Security, Supplies Threaten Nuclear Industry Debts, Security, Supplies Threaten Nuclear Industry LD0604152594 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1100 GMT 6 Apr 94 LD0604152594 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Russian BFN [Passages within quotation marks recorded; from the "Novosti" newscast] [Text] [Correspondent] Experts are already worried about the situation on Russian nuclear power stations. For example, it has become perfectly clear that the security system for strategic sites, which include nuclear power stations, will have to be completely rebuilt. Special services employees say that since the Ministry of Internal Affairs took over the command of the special group Vympel, which specializes in preventing any terrorist threat, this subunit has practically ceased to exist and there is no one to defend nuclear sites. At the same time there is also many other problems. The state owes half a trillion rubles to employees of nuclear stations. This has forced them to send picketers to Moscow. The leadership of the nuclear industry trade unions says that nuclear power stations are experiencing difficulties not only with wages: [I. Fomichev, deputy chairman of the Central Committee of the Nuclear Industry Trade Union] "There is enough fuel for about a month." [Correspondent] A threat of stoppages by nuclear power stations means not only a loss of 12 percent of electric energy. For regions like Chukotka this is a question of life and death. Only a law prohibiting strikes on strategic sites stops employees of nuclear power stations from going on strike. However, new demands have come from provinces on the last day of authorized pickets of state institutions in Moscow. [Fomichev] "Unfortunately, because the government continues to ignore our problems, the workforce is beginning to put forward political demands. Unfortunately the people we voted for, the people whose responsibility is to solve these problems, are not doing it."
