FBIS3-33809 "drnes021_j_94007" FBIS-NES-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Kidnapped French Tourists Reportedly Unharmed NC2901114994 Paris AFP in English 0954 GMT 29 Jan 94 NC2901114994 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] Sanaa, Jan 29 (AFP) -- Negotiations were underway Saturday [29 January] to free three French tourists kidnapped by Yemeni tribesmen at odds with the government, with officials here saying the three were unharmed. The tourists, including two women, were seized last Sunday by tribesmen in a bid to force the Yemeni government to build a road through their region, Yemeni sources and French officials said Friday. They were being "treated like guests and their security is not in danger," an interior ministry source told AFP on Saturday. The ministry is negotiating their release. Another source familiar with the negotiations and who declined to be identified said talks between the kidnappers and the authorities had still not made progress. The three were abducted on Sunday in Hajjah province, 200 kilometers (120 miles) northwest of the capital Sanaa, while on a tour organized by Club Aventure (Adventure Club), company director Yves Godeau said in Paris. Terres d'Aventure (Lands of Adventure) denied earlier reports from Yemen that it was the tour operator involved. Ahnum tribesmen were holding Henri Heslot and his wife, both retired agriculture professors, as well as cardiologist Brigitte Fontaine, 42, to press the government into building a road through their region. The powerful Hashid tribes, whose land surrounds the Ahnum, have altered the direction of the road. "The kidnappers don't want to endanger the lives of the three French (tourists), but are protesting against the chief of the Hashid tribes, Shaykh 'Abdallah al-Ahmar, who altered the direction of the road," the source said. Al-Ahmar, who is Yemen's parliamentary speaker, heads the Islamic al-Islah Party, which is part of the government coalition. In Paris, the French Foreign Ministry said the French embassy in Sanaa had asked the authorities to try to obtain their immediate release and said the three were in "good health and well treated." [passage omitted]
