FBIS4-16186 "drsov072_a_94030" FBIS-SOV-94-072 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Chief of Staff on PRC Trip, Pressure on DPRK Chief of Staff on PRC Trip, Pressure on DPRK LD1404110794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1032 GMT 14 Apr 94 LD1404110794 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Grigoriy Arslanov and Vyacheslav Tomilin] [Text] Beijing April 14 TASS -- The Russian Defence Ministry attaches prime importance to the development of relations with the Armed Forces of China. We remember that we are linked by the common border stretching for 4.5 thousand kilometers. My generation remembers periods of confrontation, including military, particularly in border areas. Russia and China have worked out a common position -- relations between the two countries and their armies must become good-neighbourly and fraternal in character -- Russia's Chief of Staff Colonel-General Mikhail Kolesnikov said in an interview with ITAR-TASS today. During his visit to China, which ended today, General Kolesnikov had talks with his Chinese counterpart Zhang Wannian and Deputy Chairman of the Central Military Council of the Chinese People's Republic Liu Huanqin. In the course of the talks, General Kolesnikov said, "The two neighbours conducted a frank exchange of views. We stick to the policy of further rapprochement between the armies of the two countries and regard China as an equal partner. We have what to share [as received] with China, including in the military-technical sphere", he said. General Kolesnikov explained that he means deliveries of different kinds of armaments and military equipment, in which China is interested and sending Russian military specialists to China to help partners in making proper use of the deliveries, and the training of Chinese officers in Russian higher schools, up to the General Staff Academy. China expressed the desire to continue negotiations on further interaction along all these lines on a regular and planned basis. General Kolesnikov said he had a frank exchange of views with Chinese colleagues about the Korean peninsula nuclear problem. "Our viewpoints are quite close. Russia and China, two of the officially recognised five nuclear powers, are categorically against any proliferation of nuclear technologies", he said. According to the Russian general, the situation in Northeast Asia is further complicated by "the unfairly tough pressure" that is being brought to bear on Pyongyang by international organisations, including the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency, as well as the United States. On the other hand, he said, North Korea is sticking to "a tough and inflexible stand". Both sides should be more yielding if they want a solution that would suit all, General Kolesnikov said. As concerns his impressions from visiting Beijing and Shanghai, General Kolesnikov stressed that radical economic reforms are being carried out in China in conditions of political stability, and the country looks "like one large construction site".
