FBIS4-6378 "dreas076_c_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-076 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 North Korea Political Parties Abroad Denounce U.S. Moves Political Parties Abroad Denounce U.S. Moves SK2004152394 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1509 GMT 20 Apr 94 SK2004152394 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["'UN Security Council Must Retract `Presidential Statement' at Once' " -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, April 20 (KCNA) -- The anti-DPRK moves of the United States has been denounced by political parties and organisations of different countries. The Communist Party of Bangladesh (Marxist-Leninist) in a statement April 3 said that the United States is egging the International Atomic Energy Agency on to demand an unwarrantable "inspection" of the nuclear sites of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. "This is contradictory to the agreed conclusions reached at the DPRK-USA contact in New York for a package solution to the nuclear issue and is a crafty artifice to deploy its 'Patriot' missiles in South Korea," it noted. It said current developments showed that the United States does not have the slightest intention to solve the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula in a peaceful way but still schemes to stifle the DPRK by the policy of strength. The Arab Progressive Baath Party in a statement on April 5 denounced the anti-DPRK moves of the United States in creating a grave crisis on the Korean peninsula and urged the United States and South Korea to stop the "Team Spirit" joint military exercises for good and all. The Luxemburg Committee for Support to Korea's reunification in a communique pointed out that the socalled "nuclear issue" of North Korea must be solved through dialogue and negotiation between the parties concerned. The Burundi-Korea Friendship Association and the Burundi Group for the Study of the Chuche Idea in a joint message of protest said that the United States and its followers were motivated by an intention to stifle the DPRK in bringing the "nuclear issue" of the Korean peninsula to the international rostrum and demanded that the UN Security Council retract the "presidential statement" at once. A statement of the all-India trade union congress warned that the United States must bear full responsibility for the consequences of its acts of threat to the peace and security of the Korean peninsula.
