FBIS4-51639 "dreas084__a94002" FBIS-EAS-94-084-A Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 ANNEX Japan Barshevsky Interviewed on Framework Talks Barshevsky Interviewed on Framework Talks `Summary' of Comments OW3004143394 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 23 Apr 94 Morning Edition p 4--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW3004143394 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN ["Summary" of remarks during interview with Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Barshevsky by correspondent Shigeru Komago; place and date not given] [Text] 1. Without agreeing on the fundamental understanding needed to realize the agreement made last July, Tsutomu Hata, deputy prime minister and foreign minister, and U.S. Trade Representative [USTR] Mickey Kantor confirmed in Morocco that the situation is not ripe to restart the unofficial meetings aimed at resumption of the Japan-U.S. economic framework talks. At that time, Foreign Minister Hata indicated the policy that he would take USTR Kantor's proposal back to Japan and study it. We are waiting for his reply. The stance of the United States regarding policies toward Japan will not be changed by a change of administrative power in Japan. 2. On the bases of the clauses on government procurement and other clauses of its comprehensive trade law, the U.S. Government, (regardless of whether or not the framework talks will be resumed), will pass judgment by the end of April on how Japan is abiding by the accord on government procurement of electrical communications and medical equipments. 3. Japan's macroeconomic policies, designed to significantly reduce its current account surplus by stimulating domestic demands, and market liberalization in different fields are equally important for resumption of the framework talks. Regarding macroeconomic policies, we are asking Japan to spell out its long-term views on ratio between current account surplus and the gross domestic production (GDP). 4. It will be difficult for us to resume even unofficial meetings unless we have a prospect that a Japanese reply will break the deadlock on some points. No decisions have been made whether we will hold official meetings at ministerial level or the unofficial meetings between vice ministers. The situation is unclear as to whether or not we will be able to come to a conclusion on the framework talks by the July summit of the developed countries (Naples summit).
