FBIS3-10782 "drlat049_j_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Panama PRD Candidate Remarks on Electoral Violence PA1203232394 Panama City Circuito RPC Television in Spanish 2300 GMT 9 Mar 94 PA1203232394 Panama City Circuito RPC Television Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Ciro Ortega; from the "RPC Television News" newscast] [Text] Ernesto Perez Balladares, PRD [Democratic Revolutionary Party] presidential candidate, urged other political parties to avoid provocations and refrain from engaging in electoral violence. Perez Balladares met with members of the Colon Free Zone Users Association today. He explained to the businessmen the need to reform the law creating the Free Zone, so as to make it more functional and to bring it in line with the demands of the world's economic market. According to the PRD leader, if he wins the elections he will appoint the Free Zone manager from a list of nominees proposed by those businessmen. Perez Balladares emphasized the need for a Panama City-Colon highway, which will become a reality during his administration. [Begin recording] [Perez Balladares] There are between 12,000 and 14,000 daily vehicle transits on this road. With appropriate tolls, this would translate into high revenues that could very well pay for the highway, should it be done by private enterprise. This is what we want to do. [Unidentified reporter] What do you think of electoral violence and how it affects the PRD, given there has been some questioning and the Justice and Peace Commission is conducting an investigation? [Perez Balladares] I think certain media, not you, have blown foolish incidents out of proportion. This must not be interpreted as a justification, because I do not justify these incidents. We are conducting an investigation so we can punish those responsible, if anyone is found, but let me tell you something: People usually let their emotions go during the political season; consequently, we ask our supporters to avoid confrontation. Let's not hold our political rallies at the same time our political adversaries do. Although they are not our enemies, they are still our adversaries. On the other hand, I call on the media to discourage violence with ill-intended and false reports. I also urge other parties to avoid situations we may regret in the future. [end recording] Perez Balladares said he will observe the Justice and Peace Commission's decision on a possible sanction over an alleged attack by PRD supporters against members of the PDC [Christian Democratic Party] and Arnulfist Party.
