FBIS4-25036 "drchi107_w_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-107 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Official Says Human Rights Commission `Unnecessary' Official Says Human Rights Commission `Unnecessary' HK0306052994 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS in English 3 Jun 94 p 2 HK0306052994 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS English BFN [By Rain Ren] [Text] China yesterday dismissed the controversy about a human rights commission and freedom of information legislation as irrelevant. Zhang Junsheng, the deputy director of the Hong Kong branch of the New China News Agency (Xinhua), said Hong Kong people already enjoyed "all kinds of freedom and their human rights are well safeguarded". "In the Basic Law, their freedoms and human rights are protected," he said. "There is a whole chapter in the mini-constitution which spells out clause by clause the fundamental rights and duties of Hong Kong residents. It also stipulates that provisions in three international conventions as applied in Hong Kong will remain in force after China takes over. "So it does not matter whether we support or oppose the idea, the fact is that it is completely unnecessary to set up such a human rights commission again.... If the commission was to be set up, we've made it clear that it will be dismantled after 1997." Zhang was responding to reports that the Government has turned down measures to set up a human rights commission and increase freedom of information because it fears upsetting China. The Government is today expected to announce a compromise package of other anti-discrimination measures including an equal opportunities commission and a United Nations convention to protect women's rights. The Chief Secretary, Anson Chan, said yesterday that the Government was fully committed to protecting human rights but there had to be some measures that were "durable". "What we want to do in the coming weeks and months is to give careful consideration to the next steps that we should take to strengthen human rights and will have the opportunity of continuing both now and after 1997," Chan said.
