FBIS3-16297 "drsov050_e_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Krachuk Previews Meeting With Nixon LD1403224894 Kiev Radio Ukraine World Service in Ukrainian 1900 GMT 14 Mar 94 LD1403224894 Kiev Radio Ukraine World Service Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN [Text] [Announcer] A meeting between Ukraine's President Leonid Kravchuk and former U.S. President Richard Nixon is to take place soon. What does Leonid Kravchuk himself expect from this meeting? Volodymyr Tatarenko asked him to answer this question: [Begin recording] [Kravchuk] The principal goal of the meeting is to involve private capital in Ukraine. We are setting such a goal while discussing this issue in the United States because we know that, and it seems to me that I had already said this at the news conference: No matter what credits are granted to us, unless private capital is invested in Ukraine, because it makes the bulk of the capital...[pauses] By the way, do you know how much the United States invests in foreign countries annually? Four hundred and fifty billion dollars. Can you imagine this? Half a trillion dollars are invested. But it is not the state that invests, but private firms. These are the Morgan, General Motors, Pepsi Cola, Johnson and Johnson, and so on and so forth. They have capital and they invest it. So, to involve them we here have to act relevantly adequately. That is to say, conditions, protection of [investments], and a market itself must be created. However, there should be promotion. Therefore, the main goal of my meeting with vice president [title as heard] Mr. Nixon is to agree on how to involve private capital in Ukraine. This is the main thing. And to exchange opinions on the political situation. He has relevant instructions from relevant circles in the United States and he wants to draw his own conclusions proceeding from his own observations. [Unidentified correspondent] And what if he meets the opposition leaders? [Kravchuk] He is welcome to do this. I will not object to this. I will even propose this to him. Let him listen to the opposition leaders. I would only want him to ask them to show him their programs. Not just words, but programs. Because, there are quite a few amateurs whose hobby is to talk a lot. If he considers their programs and they are better and more effective, believe me, we will glorify our dear opposition. [end recording]
