FBIS3-8212 "dreeu044_i_94008" FBIS-EEU-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Buha: Serbs Will Never Accept Federal Bosnia LD0603173094 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1711 GMT 6 Mar 94 LD0603173094 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Belgrade, March 6 (TANJUG) -- Bosnian Serb Foreign Minister Aleksa Buha said on Sunday that Bosnian Serbs would never agree to a federal Bosnia-Herzegovina. Speaking at the day of Orthodox and Slav unity event organised in central Belgrade by the international Serbian community and the Belgrade-based non-governmental White Rose anti-racist organization, Buha said that the international community was advocating "a dual plan of a federation and confederation," instead of trying to separate Bosnia's three warring nations which can no longer live together. Under strong U.S. pressure, Bosnian Croats and Moslems signed an agreement last Tuesday undertaking to form a Moslem-Croat federation in the former Yugoslav Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, and subsequently enter into a loose confederation with neighbouring Croatia. "The Croats and Moslems cam unite without us, if they want to, but they cannot unite against us," said Buha and added there could certainly be "no return to any sovereign and integral Bosnia-Herzegovina." The concept of Moslem-Croat federation is intended by Washington to make it possible for the Moslems to preserve an integral Bosnia-Herzegovina, enlarge the territory under their control and gain access to the sea. Last, but not least, it should create a firm negotiating and, possibly military, bloc against the Bosnian Serbs. President of the White Rose organization Radomir Smiljanic said that the "Serbs are demonstrating their desire for a speedy signing of just peace for Bosnia-Herzegovina" and added that the day of Orthodox and Slav unity was being held simultaneously in all world capitals which have Serb communities. "The world has met with Islamization, Germanization, conversion to Roman Catholicism, but it has never heard of conversion to Orthodox Christianity, because nothing like that has even been practiced," Smiljanic said. He added that "Serbs have never in their history waged crusades, they have only defended their peace and freedom."
