FBIS4-39423 "drsov110_b_94034" FBIS-SOV-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military & Nuclear Issues FCIS Detains Group Trying To Sell Uranium Dioxide FCIS Detains Group Trying To Sell Uranium Dioxide LD0706181694 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1356 GMT 7 Jun 94 LD0706181694 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Employees of the St. Petersburg Department of Russia's Federal Counterintelligence Service (FCIS) to combat terrorism have conducted an investigation and detained a group of people who intended to sell more than three kilograms of uranium dioxide (the share of uranium-235 isotopes is 90%). The people involved in this case were detained early March after the first information was received by the FCIS. Leader of the Department's press service Yevgeniy Lukin underlined in his interview with Interfax that during this month employees of the service managed to reveal all places where this strategic material was kept and not to lose even a gram of this material which presents radioactive danger. A total of 3.05 kilograms of powder were confiscated, part of it was kept under conditions presenting danger primarily for the life and health of the criminals and their relatives. They kept it in a glass pot and a metal retort. Decontamination operations were conducted in one of the suburbs of St. Petersburg where the powder was kept. A butcher of a food shop and a plumber were among the people who tried to sell this strategic raw material. Employees of the St. Petersburg Department established that the uranium was stolen from one of the enterprises belonging to the Automobile Industry Ministry and situated near Moscow. The case which was instituted in accordance with Article 223, part 3 of the Criminal Code -- robbery of radioactive materials -- was transferred to the prosecutor's office to St. Petersburg for further investigation. The FCIS does not rule out that the stolen uranium-235 can be sold abroad. According to some estimates, the price of one gram of this substance which is used in atomic industry is 300 dollars. The press service of the St. Petersburg department reported that the president was informed about this case by a special report.
