FBIS3-10296 "drlat043_t_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 Venezuela Senate Approves Financial Law in First Debate PA0403034994 Caracas EL DIARIO DE CARACAS in Spanish 3 Mar 94 p 22 PA0403034994 Caracas EL DIARIO DE CARACAS Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Armando J. Pernia] [Text] Last night in its first debate, the Senate unanimously approved the Emergency Law on the financial system. The Senate Finance Commission, however, is studying a number of modifications to the bill to eliminate several unconstitutional angles. According to Senator Haydee Castillo, modifications will be to made to Article 5 because the [General Bank] Superintendency cannot prohibit the transfer of properties, instead it must ask a judge to prohibit it. There will also be changes to Article 8 so the assistance preferential rates principle, strongly opposed by Radical Cause and MAS [Movement toward Socialism], can be established. The Senate also proposed extending the deadline for the delivery of Central Bank of Venezuela credits and Deposit Guarantee Fund assistance to financial institutions to three years. The other modification would require bank directors as well as auditors in any financial organization to present a sworn statement of their assets. Senator Orlando Fernandez announced that the accounting subcommission had agreed to summon all Banco Latino directors since 1992 for questioning. They have already scheduled Ricardo Cisneros, Giacomo Leon, and Fernando Laurio to appear at noon next Tuesday. Apparently, Leon and Cisneros are in Venezuela but Lauria is abroad. Parliamentary sources, however, emphasized that the possibility of Cisneros or Leon attending the meeting are very slim. Haydee Castillo said the parliamentary summons will be sent out this week. MAS Senator Orlando Fernandez reported that financial sectors are exerting pressure to see that the freedom on bail benefit and the compulsory sworn assets statements are eliminated from the law, on the argument they are "unconstitutional." Furthermore, Senator Jose Lira claimed the Italo Bank is about to "get its hands on" the Sociedad Financiera Latino through a stock transfer operation. According to Fernandez, the alleged embezzlement of Banco Latino trust funds amounts to 30 billion bolivares.
