FBIS3-59759 "jpjst004__l94045" JPRS-JST-94-004L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 27 January 1994 Physics Mitsubishi Electric Corp. Develops High Output Green Light Laser 94P60068A Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO in Japanese 24 Nov 93 p 5 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94P60068A Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] Mitsubishi Electric has developed short-wavelength, high-output oscillation technology using a solid-state YAG laser. It was difficult to obtain the high-output short-wavelength laser light because the wavelength conversion element, which transforms the YAG laser light (infrared light) into short-wavelength light, tends to cause crystal destruction. The company avoided crystal destruction by bringing about a ``gentle frequency conversion.'' It achieved this by lengthening the frequency conversion element and increasing the optical beam size of the YAG laser by an order of millimeters 10 times that of conventional types. Using this technology, Mitsubishi achieved the oscillation of 24 watt green laser light. Furthermore, it is said that not only green laser light but also blue laser light and other high output oscillations are possible. The solid state laser which oscillates short-wavelength laser light consists of an excitation light source, a YAG laser (a yttrium-aluminum-garnet laser doped with niobium), a nonlinear optical material which is the wavelength conversion element, and other components. The excited YAG laser emits 1064 nanometer infrared light which, after passing through the wavelength conversion element, oscillates green, blue and other short-wavelength light. However, the wavelength conversion element crystal was too brittle to withstand the strong infrared light. The company enlarged the spot size of the infrared light entering the wavelength conversion element by an order of millimeters for the purpose of dispersing the energy and, at the same time, it lengthened the wavelength conversion element. Several crystals were connected together because the maximum size for the wavelength conversion element crystal is 10 millimeters. The optimal phase matching of their adjoining parts has been designed in order to minimize conversion loss. Accordingly, even when high output infrared radiation enters, the destruction of the wavelength conversion element crystal does not occur. Employing this technology, and using a KTP (potassium titanate phosphate) wavelength conversion element which halves the wavelength, a 24 watt (electric power input 4.9 kilowatts) green laser light (532 nanometer wavelength) generation was attained. This is double the output achieved up until the present time and it is said that it is possible to have an output of more than 100 watts. Moreover, this technology can be applied to other wave conversion elements, such as KNb<inf> 3</inf> (potassium niobium<inf> 3</inf> ) which converts the wavelength to one third -- a blue wavelength.
