FBIS3-47468 "dreas009_a_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 January 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Reaction to Kantor's Remarks on Reviving 301 Further on Takemura Response OW1301051294 Tokyo KYODO in English 0304 GMT 13 Jan 94 OW1301051294 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Jan. 13 KYODO -- Japan voiced concern on Thursday [13 January] over a possible move by the United States to revive the "Super 301" trade measure through an executive order. Saying Tokyo and Washington have agreed to do their utmost to achieve progress in bilateral framework trade talks, Chief Cabinet Secretary Masayoshi Takemura told a news conference that the resurrection of the U.S. measure would run counter to the accord. "We want the U.S. to act cautiously," the top government spokesman said. "Super 301," in effect from 1988 to 1990, required the U.S. Government to conduct an annual review of trade barriers abroad and impose trade sanctions if those barriers were not removed within a year. Takemura's comment came after U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said Wednesday the administration of President Bill Clinton may renew the punitive measure through an executive order in connection with bilateral trade "framework" negotiations. "That would be an option," Kantor told a group of Japanese reporters. Touching on the framework talks, Kantor said Washington will insist on setting quantitative criteria to gauge the openness of Japanese markets. Japanese and U.S. negotiators have become bogged down on how to define and set "objective criteria" in the negotiations, which are being held under the bilateral trade framework accord reached last July. Washington wants to use the level of imports in other group of seven major industrialized nations as the "norm" for Japan to follow. Japanese officials call the U.S. position unacceptable, saying such measures would amount to setting aside a specific market share for foreign goods and services, tantamount to managed trade. Earlier Thursday, a government source also expressed displeasure about the potential revival of "Super 301." "Negotiations will be impossible if they are based on retaliatory actions," the source said. Stressing that Tokyo will continue efforts to further open the nation's markets, the source said Japan and the U.S. should talk with each other on the principle of an equal partnership. Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa will meet Clinton on February 11 in Washington to assess progress in the framework talks.
