FBIS3-22586 "jptep006___94054" JPRS-TEP-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 7 March 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Problems in Hospital Administration Noted Waiting Time Fines 94WE0037C London THE GUARDIAN in English 27 Sep 93 p 16 94WE0037C London THE GUARDIAN Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by David Brindle, Social Services Correspondent: "`Daft' Waiting Time Fines for Hospitals"] [Text] Hospitals are being fined for failing to treat patients within the waiting time limits set by the Patient's Charter, under an initiative introduced without publicity by the Department of Health. The department is imposing cash penalties equivalent to the cost of the operation that has not taken place -- though the patient still has to be treated. The scheme was condemned last night as nonsensical by critics who questioned how a hospital failing to meet government performance criteria could be helped by punishment which further weakened it. David Blunkett, Labour's shadow health secretary, said: "You couldn't get dafter if you really tried." Under the charter, no patient should wait more than two years for any procedure. Since April, this limit has been cut to 18 months for cataract, hip and knee operations. Latest official data show more than a million people in England waiting for hospital admission at the end of June, of whom 65,465 had been waiting more than a year -- a rise of 15.6 percent in three months. The penalty system applies to funds distributed under the department's waiting list programme. This money is allocated centrally, irrespective of the health service market, for local health authorities to tackle long treatment queues. If monitoring reveals that a patient has been waiting longer than the appropriate charter limit, the department claws back £4,000 in the case of a knee operation, £3,600 for a hip or £900 for any other procedure. The money is taken from the regional health authority concerned which then docks it from the relevant district authority or the hospital concerned, depending on which is deemed responsible for the failure. A hospital may still be required to do the operation or the patient may be placed elsewhere -- but, in either case, the funding is lost. The fines may, moreover, be increased by the regional authority. The South West Thames region is adding a £1,000 "administration fee" for every month that a patient goes over the limit. A hospital with a patient waiting 20 months for a knee operation would therefore be fined £6,000. A spokeswoman for South West Thames said it had so far fined Worthing district authority for one patient and Croydon for two, with the penalty being passed on to Mayday hospital in the Croydon district in at least one case. According to the department, the scheme has been agreed by regional managers. A spokesman said it had been well accepted as a reasonable and effective sanction against low performers. "The logic of it is that if they do fail on commitments the whole of the health service has signed up to, then they know they are going to incur the penalty," the spokesman said. Mr. Blunkett said: "This is the kind of nonsense which arises from applying market forces to a caring service, which will result in the NHS penalising those at the sharp end for failings in the system and for under-resourcing. "There is a danger of a spiralling downwards where financial penalties result in further failings to achieve targets, fewer operations and ever increasing waiting lists."
