FBIS3-26888 "drchi032_f_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 Near East & South Asia XINHUA Interviews Official on IRIB Leadership Change OW1202191094 Beijing XINHUA in English 1848 GMT 12 Feb 94 OW1202191094 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tehran, February 12 (XINHUA) -- Managing director of the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB) is reported to be changed after the IRIB was criticized by the Iranian Majles (parliament) since last November. According to the local daily "KAYHAN" today, the IRIB Chief Mohammad Hashemi, brother of Iranian President Hashemi-Rafsanjani, has resigned from his post, and Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance 'Ali Larijani would replace him. In a telephone interview with XINHUA, an official from the IRIB neither confirmed nor denied the report, saying that only the Iranian leader 'Ali Khamene'i would decide whether the IRIB chief will be changed. He said that he did not know if Mohammad Hashemi has given his resignation. However, the state-run television tonight reported that Iranian leader 'Ali Khamene'i received Mohammad Hashemi and some IRIB directors today, praising the IRIB for its achievement during the past years. IRIB has come under criticism for being too liberal. Last November, a committee appointed by the Iranian Majles issued a long report, criticizing the IRIB for abusing its budget, broadcasting non-Islamic programs, using staff members of former shah regime. The report brought out a hot debate between the Majles and the IRIB and some IRIB directors were forced to resign. "KAYHAN" also said that Deputy Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance Ahmad Pournajati [spelling of name as received] would be caretaker of the ministry before President Hashemi-Rafsanjani appointed a new minister. The newspaper quoted sources "in some political circles" as saying that Kamal Kharrazi [spelling of name as received], the top man of Iran's United Nations mission, would be called back to head the Guidance Ministry, and would be replaced in New York by Hashemi. The aim of the reshuffle is believed here to create a better working relationship with the local press.
