FBIS3-47117 "dreas006_m_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 Thailand Official Discusses Agency for Burmese Refugees BK0801150494 Bangkok Radio Thailand Network in Thai 1200 GMT 8 Jan 94 BK0801150494 Bangkok Radio Thailand Network Language: Thai Article Type:BFN [Text] Khachatphai Burutphat, deputy secretary general of the National Security Council [NSC], talks about the problem of Burmese refugees fleeing the danger of war into Thailand's border areas since 1984. He says there are about 50,000 of them in Tak Province, 10,000 in Kanchanaburi Province, and several thousands in Mae Hong Son and Prachuap Khirikhan Provinces. Under the original plan, these people will be sent back to Burma once the situation has improved and there is no fighting. But they have not been sent back yet because they claim that the situation in Burma is never safe for them. The NSC deputy secretary general said these Burmese refugees have been here for more than 10 years now. They received help from seven or eight private organizations, the so-called NGO [preceding word in English], which have been allowed to carry out operations without strict control by Thai authorities. Some of those NGO officials are involved in political activities with the refugees. Certain organizations used Thailand, which has diplomatic relations with Burma, as a transit point for certain leaders of the resistance ethnic minority groups to leave for a third country where they can launch resistance activities against the Burmese Government. Such an act could affect relations between Thailand and Burma as well as security along the Thai border. In order to promptly control these refugees, Khachatphai Burutphat said that concerned authorities would form an apparatus in order to oversee these people. At the beginning, existing officials will be told to take strict action against them. The new agency to be set up will deal with these refugees based on humanitarian principles, but it will not permit them to engage in any kind of activities in violation of Thai law or activities which will affect security along the Thai-Burmese border.
