FBIS4-49609 "drchi089_q_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-089 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 Southwest Region Tibet's Basang Receives Nepalese Senator Tibet's Basang Receives Nepalese Senator OW0905092994 Lhasa XIZANG RIBAO in Chinese 28 Apr 94 p 1 OW0905092994 Lhasa XIZANG RIBAO Chinese BFN [Unattributed report: "Basang Meets Nepalese Guests"] [Text] Basang, deputy secretary of the Tibet Autonomous Regional CPC Committee and vice chairman of the regional committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, cordially met in Lhasa with visiting Nepalese Senator (Bandi) and his wife yesterday evening. Basang said: China and Nepal are close neighbors linked by mountains and rivers. Friendly exchanges between the two countries and friendship between the two peoples date back to ancient times. In recent years in particular, the increase in mutual visits by high-ranking leaders of our two countries has promoted understanding and friendship between the peoples of our two countries and has strengthened bilateral friendly cooperation. Basang said: The Tibet Autonomous Region and Nepal have scored marked achievements in exchanges and cooperation in the fields of economy, trade, transportation, and culture. There are broad prospects for cooperation in the future. Appreciating Basang's remarks, Senator (Bandi) expressed the hope that economic and trade cooperation between Nepal and the Tibet Autonomous Region will continue to expand. (Bandi) and his wife arrived in Lhasa for a visit on 26 April. This is his fifth visit to China. During their stay in Lhasa, the guests have visited the Potala Palace, the Johkang Temple, Bargor Street, and other places of historic interest and scenic beauty. (Bandi) and his wife will leave Lhasa for Beijing on 28 April. Present during the meeting were Ma Guanghua, secretary general of the regional people's congress; Chen Bing, deputy director of the regional foreign affairs office; and (Adigali), acting consul general of the Nepalese Consulate General in Lhasa.
