FBIS3-9413 "dreeu057_y_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal Zagreb Envoy on Relations With Croatia AU2303183094 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 23 Mar 94 AU2303183094 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Interview with Veljko Knezevic, head of the office of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in Zagreb, by an unidentified correspondent; place and date not given -- recorded] [Text] Prior to his departure to Zagreb tomorrow, Veljko Knezevic, head of the office of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in Zagreb, was received by Federal Prime Minister Radoje Kontic. After the talks, Mr. Knezevic made a statement for the Radio and Television of Serbia and TANJUG. [Correspondent] What did you discuss with Prime Minister Kontic? [Knezevic] My trip to Zagreb tomorrow. Prime Minister Kontic spoke about the importance he and thus the Yugoslav Government attach to the beginning of the process normalizing relations between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Croatia. He expressed a certain optimism that this normalization would occur even quicker than presently thought. I would like to see this happen. I am also optimistic to some extent that the normalization will take off regardless of the delays and possible difficulties that will arise, as our relations are naturally very complex and very [word indistinct]. [Correspondent] In which segments [words indistinct] do you expect this normalization to be established first? [Knezevic] I think that normalization will begin in the already designated, as you said, segments. As you can see, we are trying to establish PTT [post, telephone, and telegraph] links to start solving and resolving the complex humanitarian problems. I think that the nature of things will be such that it will in fact be economic relations that will lay the foundations for everything, that these relations will perhaps move the fastest toward some kind of normalization, on the basis of mutual interests. When and how the complete political solutions will be found remains to be seen.
