FBIS4-63826 "drsov101_a_94026" FBIS-SOV-94-101 Daily Report 25 May 1994 RUSSIAN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS No Agreement With U.S. Proposed Nuclear Test Control System No Agreement With U.S. Proposed Nuclear Test Control System LD2505110394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1017 GMT 25 May 94 LD2505110394 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Vyacheslav Bantin] [Text] Hiroshima May 25 TASS -- Russia cannot agree with a recent U.S. proposal on an international control system, which will be necessary if an international agreement on stopping nuclear arms tests is concluded, ITAR-TASS learned on Wednesday [25 May] from reliable Russian sources participating now in the U.N. disarmament conference in the Japanese city of Hiroshima. The multilateral talks to conclude an international agreement on stopping nuclear tests which started in Geneva last January, centre on a system of control. According to the above sources, the American side recently offered its own model of control which presupposes the simultaneous application of six verification systems and the establishment of appropriate global structures. Russian experts believe that it will take at least ten years to implement the U.S.-brokered model. Besides, it presupposes huge financial outlays, which is objected not only by Russia, but also by other nuclear powers. In contrast to Washington, Moscow believes that the application of two systems -- seismic and atmospheric control -- is quite sufficient. According to these sources, this viewpoint is backed by many participants in the nuclear tests talks in Geneva, including Japan. The U.S. proposal, the official reply to which Moscow plans to give in the next few days, puts in jeopardy, as the sources stressed, the chance of the timely signing of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty which expires next year. This is explained by the fact that most treaty participants, members of the Non-Aligned Movement in the main, insist that the nuclear powers should conclude an agreement on stopping nuclear tests. They agree to prolong the treaty for unlimited duration only under this condition.
