FBIS4-40827 "drsov119_a_94029" FBIS-SOV-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Further on Kozyrev-Galanos Meeting Further on Kozyrev-Galanos Meeting LD2006201994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1839 GMT 20 Jun 94 LD2006201994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By diplomatic correspondent ITAR-TASS Dmitriy Gorokhov] [Text] Moscow, 20 Jun--When Andrey Kozyrev received Alexis Galanos, chairman of the Cypriot House of Representatives, at the Russian Federation Foreign Ministry on 20 June, he said that the development of Russian-Cypriot dialogue was "very active." The present round of a regular exchange of opinions, which is taking place with the participation of the representatives of both the executive and the legislative powers, followed the talks between the Russian foreign minister and Cypriot Foreign Minister Alexandros Mikhailidhis, who visited Moscow during the first 10 days of June. Kozyrev believes that the process of a comprehensive development of relations between the two countries is in keeping with the current "revival of spiritual and historical aims of Russia's foreign policy." Moscow and Nicosia have a similar point of view on many international problems. The head of the Russian diplomacy said, in particular, that they were going to continue providing assistance in the settlement of the Cypriot problem. In this instance, he said, the parties had a chance to compare their views and found out that their actions were similar. Galina Sidorova, political adviser of the Russian minister, said to journalists that Nicosia acknowledged Moscow's positive role in the Cypriot settlement once again during the talks. One of the topics of conversation was a report prepared by the secretary general of the United Nations, which spells out all the aspects of the problem and proposes a plan of action that the world community could take in this matter. According to her, Nicosia has taken a positive stance with regard to Russia's joining the Council of Europe. Beginning in November, Cyprus will be chairing the foreign ministers committee of the Council of Europe, and our partners have stressed their determination to facilitate this process.
