FBIS3-11573 "drlat056_i_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 Nicaragua Genie Murder Trail Continues Deputy Minister To Testify PA2303013694 Managua Radio Corporacion in Spanish 2300 GMT 22 Mar 94 PA2303013694 Managua Radio Corporacion Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "Five O'Clock Sharp" newscast] [Text] Deputy Foreign Minister Jose Bernard Pallais has been summoned to testify in the Jean Paul Genie murder trial. The judge advocate today summoned Pallais to testify as a witness in the trial against eight security escorts of General Humberto Ortega, chief of the Nicaraguan Army, for the murder of a young man in 1990. At the time of the crime, Pallais was deputy government minister and was involved in the investigations, according to Judge Advocate Lieutenant Lester Gallo, who explained to Pallais the reasons behind his being called to testify. The military court last month opened the trial in connection with the death of Jean Paul Genie Lacayo, who was sprayed with gunfire when he attempted to drive past a military caravan along the road to Masaya on the outskirts of Managua. Gen. Humberto Ortega made statements [words indistinct] as a defendant, and, after the inquiry concluded, the judge advocate asked him not to leave Managua. This was interpreted by the press as a form of house arrest. The restraining order will be in force throughout the duration of the murder trial, which, according to defense attorney Mariano Barahona, could last anywhere from three weeks to more than a month. Deputy Foreign Minister Pallais is a member of the Tripartite Commission created by Violeta Chamorro's government to investigate the murders of former contras, which took place between 1990-1992 -- murders to which members of the EPS [Sandinist People's Army] have been linked. This commission also includes members of the Catholic Church and the OAS, and it has pointed its finger at the EPS as a violator of human rights in light of the fact that the EPS failed to try those soldiers allegedly responsible for the murders.
