FBIS3-7975 "dreeu041_b_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 BULGARIA Military Officials Discuss Budget Petition AU0203123094 Sofia KONTINENT in Bulgarian 28 Feb 94 p 1 AU0203123094 Sofia KONTINENT Language: Bulgarian Article Type:BFN [KONTINENT staff report: "Minister Reportedly About To Order Arrests To Quell Revolt in Army"] [Text] The KONTINENT correspondent in Khaskovo reported that dozens of garrisons throughout the country are allegedly supporting the petition that the coordinators and chairman of clubs of the Rakovski Officers Legion have been organizing during the past few days. The main demand in the petition is that 37 billion leva should be allocated to defense, in line with the estimate submitted by the General Staff. The Legion's members also demand that the new defense act should contain provisions regulating servicemen's civil rights. Defense Minister Valentin Aleksandrov reportedly reacted very strongly and ordered measures to be taken against a revolt in the army. The organizers of the petition escaped arrest by a hair's breadth, KONTINENT was informed by a source who preferred to remain anonymous. Valentin Aleksandrov, Chief Military Prosecutor Lilko Yotsov, and Military Counterintelligence chief Colonel Stoyanov held a high-level meeting recently in Sofia to discuss the situation. On Saturday 26 February Chief of General Staff General Lyuben Petrov is reported to have summoned representatives of the Rakovski Legion. They reportedly assured him that they had no intention to raise a revolt and destabilize the army. The chief of General Staff also received assurances that the Legion would continue to observe the agreement signed with the defense minister that rules out the use of force to resolve disputed issues. The initiators of the petition told KONTINENT correspondent Aleksandur Bozhkov that the petition will continue, and it will be handed in to parliament in a civilized manner. President Zhelev and Prime Minister Berov were briefed by Defense Minister Aleksandrov on the situation among the troops.
