FBIS4-32972 "drlat105_c_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-105 Daily Report 27 May 1994 MEXICO Six Candidates Accept Invitation Six Candidates Accept Invitation PA2805150494 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 27 May 94 PA2805150494 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 27 May 94 Spanish BFN [Report by Teresa Salazar from the "Early Morning" newscast] [Text] Six opposition candidates accepted the invitation Ernesto Zedillo, Mexican presidential candidate for the Institutional Revolutionary Party, made to hold a debate. The National Action Party said it will think about it. Most of the candidates of the small parties accepted Zedillo's invitation to hold a new public debate over their presidential proposals. Diego Fernandez de Cevallos turned down the invitation but later said he would think about it. [Begin Fernandez de Cevallos recording] I have said I believe it is improper to gather the nine candidates at the same place at the same time, however, my secretary general told me, using a phrase that has become famous and that has been used by presidents: I only ask you not to be fearful. [Solo les pido que no se hagan bolas]. [end recording] Alvaro Perez Trevino, presidential candidate for the Authentic Party of the Mexican Revolution, accepted the invitation, but said the only drawback would be if the debate were used to attack another candidate. Jorge Gonzalez Torres, presidential candidate for the Green Ecologist Party, said the debate represents a point of hope for democracy which is demanded by the Mexican people. Cecilia Soto, candidate for the Labor Party, said she is ready for the debate. [Begin Soto recording] I understand it is a ratification of his 12 May proposal to hold a debate. I am ready to hold a debate, tonight if necessary. [end recording] Rafael Aguilar Talamantes from the Cardenist Front for National Reconstruction Party, accepted the debate and designated a representative for the negotiations prior to the talks. Pablo Emilio Madero, candidate from the National Opposition Union, said a civilized step forward in Mexican democracy depends on the confrontation of government programs. Marcela Lombardo from the Popular Socialist Party confirmed her participation in the debate as long as it is a display of proposals, projects, and possible solutions to the country's problems.
