FBIS4-46787 "jpusr060___94030" FBIS-USR-94-060 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 18 May 1994 UKRAINE POLITICAL AFFAIRS Pro-Kravchuk Position Rejected by Workers Pro-Kravchuk Position Rejected by Workers 944K1282B Kiev NEZAVISIMOST in Russian 18 May 94 p 2 944K1282B Kiev NEZAVISIMOST Russian CSO Article by S. Furmanyuk: "A Coal Face Argument"] [Text] It is unlikely that the visit by L. Kravchuk to Yenakiyevo, the site of a meeting of the president with directors of coal, by-product coke, and metallurgical enterprises, will clarify anything in the complex mutual relations between the center and the oblast. Leonid Makarovich, naturally, was unable to refuse the directors their request to do everything possible to halt the collapse of the economy and production. He promised to help with the settlement of unpaid accounts between enterprises and with the granting of extensive technical credits for the basic branches. But in return he took back to Kiev with him what he came for. At a joint meeting an appeal to the parliament and the government was adopted (with the president as the third addressee) proposing the ensurance of order and prosperity in the country through the transfer of local and presidential elections to a later more "feasible" date and the introduction of strict presidential rule. Local political leaders have not had time yet to comment on the results of the conference at Yenakiyevo, but it is unlikely that the results will have any effect on the mood at the grassroots level. It seems that no one is trusted any longer. No matter how insistently Yu. Belomestnov, director of the Oktyabrskoye Mine Administration, appealed to his workers to halt the strike that started on Saturday 14 May, for example, they refused to go down to the coal face. "It is better to go hungry on the surface, than to work hungry in the mine," declared Petr Moyseyenko, deputy chairman of the local Independent Miner's Union, and that argument outweighed all of the reasoning by the administration which showing the miners that "things are what they are." In April the administration fulfilled the state order in full shipping coal to consumers but the wages are yet to be credited to the bursary. At the Abakumov mine, however, which is officially designated as a priority candidate for closure, wages were paid to the workers on time. At Donetsk they are certain that this is not a coincidence. It was specifically the labor collective at Abakumov mine which turned out to be the only one in Donbass to have nominated I. Plyushch, the former speaker of parliament, as candidate for president. That is why "things are what they are there." Are the leaders of state enterprises in the oblast expecting similar "pressing economic measures," having supported the president on the rescheduling of elections set for June?
