FBIS3-20939 "jpest005___94056" JPRS-EST-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International Economic Competitiveness 3 March 1994 WEST EUROPE CORPORATE STRATEGIES Germany: Research Called Essential during Industry Crisis 94WS0122A Berlin INGENIEUR DIGEST: WIRTSCHAFT & UNTERNEHMEN in German, Nov 93 p 31 94WS0122A Berlin INGENIEUR DIGEST: WIRTSCHAFT & UNTERNEHMEN in German, Nov 93 p 31 Language: German, Article Type:CSO [Article by Dr. Andreas Mueller, interviewer for INGENIEUR DIGEST] [Text] Interview: Many Chances in the Recession Prof. Dr.-Eng. Hartmut Weule, on the Daimler-Benz AG [Aktiengesellschaft = Corporation] board of directors responsible for research and engineering, warns against underestimating research during crises. Q. You call for a different research policy in Germany. Why? A. Although both government and industry pump a lot of money into research and development, there is no equivalent output in terms of innovations good enough to be entered into the world market. There is simply something wrong with the way research and development in Germany are being managed. For instance, assistance to medium-scale research is based on insufficiently strategy-oriented considerations while at the same time mission-oriented large-scale research facilities are engaged in too wide a range of tasks. Q. Has, because of this, German research been knocked down? A. No, there are downright very promising signs. I am thinking of the EC (European Community) Project AIT: "Advanced Information Technology in Design and Manufacturing" as an example. Spurred by Daimler-Benz, it could revolutionize the entire European Aero-Space Flight industry. Because it brings user and provider of information technology together during the development and production processes. Positive signs are also coming from the "Round-Table Microelectronics", launched by Siemens, IBM, Bosch, and Daimler-Benz as well as from the "Consensus-Group Production Technology." Innovative projects and research strategies regarding microelectronics and production technology in the application-oriented industry are being developed here by thinking 15 years ahead. Q. But will Germany gain something from this during the very next few years already? A. No. Especially in a time of crisis affecting both the economic boom and the business structure, however, it would be wrong to aim for better short-term results only. While the current strained economic condition creates problems, it also harbors good chances for the German economy. Q. What chances? A. One could apportion the research budgets in new ways and change the modality so as to soften up structures which have become rigid. Using its ASIC's (Amorphous-Silicon Integrated Circuits) in the indispensable key technologies such as microelectronics, Daimler-Benz plans to recover lost ground vis-a-vis Japan and the U.S.A. by way of international collaboration. In environmental engineering, moreover, we want to assume the top position from the very start. Wherever necessary we will enter into strategic alliances with other research partners. I am thinking here of energetics and space flight particularly.
