FBIS4-38988 "drsov108cc_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-108 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS CIS Countries Support Yeltsin on Abkhazia CIS Countries Support Yeltsin on Abkhazia LD0306154294 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1320 GMT 3 Jun 94 LD0306154294 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] The CIS Executive Secretary, Ivan Korotchenya, has told Interfax that a majority of CIS countries gave support to President Yeltsin's call for deploying collective peace-keeping forces in the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict area. Now they are awaiting Moscow's political decision on this matter. According to Korotchenya, he came to Moscow to inform the Russian president of the results of his recent mission during which he consulted the leaders of CIS countries in connection with the initiative of Boris Yeltsin, who is the chairman of the Council of the Heads of Commonwealth States. As Korotchenya said, all CIS leaders "see the need to deploy peace-keeping forces in the conflict area, and many undertook to despatch observers there and give as much material aid as they can." Some CIS countries "may deploy their peace-keeping contingents in the conflict zone after the necessary consultations," Korotchenya added. As regards the CIS countries which joined the Council of Collective Security, Minsk alone has not taken its final decision on Yeltsin's appeal. It will determine its stand, when the parliament convenes for a session after June 23. Moldova, Ukraine and Turkmenistan, which did not sign the Treaty on Collective Security, have not reacted to the Russian president's call so far. With reference to the Federation Council's failure to approve the deployment of Russian peace-keepers in the conflict area, Korotchenya said he hopes that the upper chamber of Russia's parliament will resolve this issue positively when it reconsiders it. The deployment of peace-keepers requires the approval of Russia's president, who promised in his appeal that Russian servicemen will form the backbone of collective forces, Korotchenya said. "As far as I know, the military are ready to all intents and purposes; they are waiting for a political decision. Abkhazia, Georgia and the Caucasus as a whole are also waiting for it," said the CIS executive secretary. According to Korotchenya, the deployment of peace-keepers in the conflict zone is designed to indicate that the CIS is capable of resolving its internal problems on its own, without the participation of the U.N., the CSCE, or other international organizations.
