FBIS4-16440 "drsov074_b_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-074 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Opposition Leaders on Draft Civil Accord Document Opposition Leaders on Draft Civil Accord Document PM1504131794 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 15 Apr 94 First Edition p 2 PM1504131794 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Yevgeniy Skukin account of interviews with Vasiliy Lipitskiy, chairman of the People's Party of Free Russia; Vladimir Lysenko, cochairman of the Republican Party of the Russian Federation; and Viktor Ilyukhin, representative of State Duma communist faction; place and date not given: "We Are Discussing the Draft Agreement on Civil Accord"] [Text] Stabilization Means a Change of Policy Vasiliy Lipitskiy, State Duma deputy and chairman of the People's Party of Free Russia: The worrying thing about this voluminous document is that, despite the general nature of its wording, it contains harsh sanctions for violations, the majority of which can be interpreted liberally, like, for example, "destabilizing the situation within society." At the same time the agreement allows the application of sanctions up to and including the dismissal and removal of a deputy from his seat. I consider that the agreement may become a cause for limiting political freedom, and this cannot be allowed. One more point. In order to achieve accord there should be policy changes. Agreements Must Be Implemented Vladimir Lysenko, State Duma deputy, chairman of the subcommittee for developing federal relations, and cochairman of the Republican Party of the Russian Federation: The way I regard the draft is complex, as the president has already signed various documents of this type on many occasions, but not one of them has played a significant role as they were subsequently violated. What is more they were not violated by political forces but by the president. For example, an agreement was concluded with 15 parties in 1991 which subsequently faded into oblivion. So you cannot really rely on the agreement being equal at the moment. But the draft does contain positive elements. For example, with regard to a moratorium on changing a Federation component's status and the borders between Federation components. We Are Ready To Present Our Own Solutions Viktor Ilyukhin, chairman of the State Duma Security Committee and representative of the communist faction: An accord is possible if several of our demands are met. First, if there is a change in the direction of the Russian reforms. It is not possible to reconcile oneself to the masses becoming impoverished. As the government is not putting forward any ways of extricating ourselves from the crisis, we will present our own solutions. Second, the team which has brought the country to collapse has still not been changed to this day. Third, we consider that the authorities should undertake never to use the Army for punitive purposes against the people.
