FBIS3-1565 "drchi039_k_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Jiang Zemin Urges `Extra Efforts' on Corruption OW2802103494 Beijing XINHUA in English 1021 GMT 28 Feb 94 OW2802103494 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, February 28 (XINHUA) -- Jiang Zemin, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, today called for extra efforts to combat corruption, in order to boost the flesh and blood bonds between the party and the people. Cases of corruption, especially those major and serious ones that have already been exposed, must be thoroughly investigated and severely dealt with, Jiang said. The party chief made the remarks here today at the Third Plenary Session of the CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, calling upon party committees and governments at all levels to attach more importance to the anti-corruption drive. He said the fight against corruption, an important means to guarantee economic reforms, opening to the outside world, development and social stability, has achieved marked results since the convening of the second plenary session of the commission last August. Jiang pointed out that the current anti-corruption campaign must agree with and serve the basic principles of the party and be conducted in line with the overall situation of the country. The work must be carried out firmly and more effectively, Jiang stressed. It can't be expected that the anti-corruption drive will be completed in a single battle. It will be a long-term and arduous task, the party chief noted. Pointing to the seriousness of corrupt phenomena that have been exposed, Jiang vowed that the party has the might and determination to carry the struggle forward to the end. He said "the ideology of long-term fighting should be kept in mind without a bit of slackening, and an `amiable environment' for corrupt activities is by no means permitted." The general secretary also summed up the experiences of the previous period in the anti-corruption campaign as trusting and relying on the broad masses, and joining the mobilization of people in exposing indications of criminal activity and investigations by judicial departments and party discipline inspection bodies. Members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee Li Peng, Li Ruihuan, Liu Huaqing and Hu Jintao attended today's meeting.
