FBIS3-4660 "dreas039_c_94013" FBIS-EAS-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 North Korea Japan Said To Throw `Wet Blanket' on IAEA Deal SK2602052594 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0500 GMT 26 Feb 94 SK2602052594 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["They Must Not Put Brakes on Solution to Nuclear Issue of Korean Peninsula" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, February 26 (KCNA) -- Japanese reactionaries are these days making thoughtless remarks throwing a wet blanket over the agreement on an inspection for guaranteeing the continuity of safeguards which was reached between the DPRK and the International Atomic Energy Agency, according to reports. At the Japan-U.S. summit, Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa showed "a responsible reaction" over the "nuclear issue" of the DPRK and, at the the budgetary committee of the house of representatives recently, he urged "a special inspection" of military sites in the DPRK. And he did not forget to cry for "continued pressure on North Korea" whenever an opportunity presented itself. In an article contributed to THE WASHINGTON TIMES, former Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said that "economic sanctions" must be imposed on "North Korea" if it refuses to accept "a special inspection." And Japanese Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata also vociferated about "special inspection" at a recent press conference. Such remarks of Japanese reactionaries are dastardly utterances intended to bar the progress of the agreement reached between the DPRK and the IAEA with much difficulty. What they seek in this is to force unreasonable "special inspection" upon us, disarm us and stifle anthropocentric socialism of Korean style. Considering that the "special inspection" is one of the fundamental reasons that compelled our republic to declare its withdrawal from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, to call for this inspection is an act designed to force us out of the treaty. In that case, a very dangerous critical situation will be created on the Korean peninsula, and it will not bring good results to Japan, either. The Japanese reactionaries must act with discretion, looking squarely at the current trend, and stop putting brakes on the progress of the solution to the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula.
