FBIS4-25673 "drchi114_e_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-114 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 Southeast Asia & Pacific Australian Deputy Premier Meets With Leaders Australian Deputy Premier Meets With Leaders More on Talks OW1306134594 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1005 GMT 13 Jun 94 OW1306134594 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [By reporter Yang Guojun (2799 0948 6874)] [Text] Beijing, 13 Jun (XINHUA) -- Premier Li Peng met with Australian Deputy Prime Minister Brian Howe at Zhongnanhai today. He expressed the hope during the meeting that the governments and enterprises of China and Australia will take a further step to strengthen exchanges and cooperation and to maintain the development momentum of bilateral relations. Li Peng said: As a result of the concerted efforts made by both sides, Sino-Australian relations have developed greatly in recent years, with many high-level visits and contacts occurring between departments of the two countries. He noted that during the current visit, Brian Howe has held effective talks and consultations with Vice Premier Zhu Rongji and key Chinese departments. The talks and consultations will be of positive significance to the promotion of mutually beneficial Sino-Australian cooperative relations. Li Peng said: China and Australia, which are both located in the Asia-Pacific region, share common interests in maintaining regional security and national defense stability and in promoting regional economic cooperation. He stated that China and Australia, which are highly complementary in terms of their economies, enjoy a good cooperative foundation. Brian Howe Said: The Australian Government, which very much values its relations with China, is willing to maintain consultations and to strengthen cooperation with China in international and bilateral fields. He noted that his current China visit is to obtain an understanding of China's reform and opening up and experiences in social development. He said he has learned a lot about China. This morning, Li Tieying, Chinese state councillor and minister in charge of the State Commission for Restructuring the Economy, and Beijing Mayor Li Qiyan met with Brian Howe and his party separately. Minister of Construction Hou Jie signed with Brian Howe a memorandum of understanding on housing and urban development.
