FBIS4-26599 "drchi121_w_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-121 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Qian Qichen Meets Former Public Functionaries Qian Qichen Meets Former Public Functionaries Functionaries `Essential' to Operations OW2306122694 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1036 GMT 23 Jun 94 OW2306122694 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [By reporter Feng Xiuju (7458 4423 5468)] [Text] Beijing, 23 Jun (XINHUA) -- During his meeting with a delegation of the Association for Hong Kong's Former High-Ranking Public Functionaries in Beijing this afternoon, Vice Premier Qian Qichen said it is extremely important to have a stable contingent of public functionaries during Hong Kong's transition period. The delegation was led by Chen Naiqiang, Hong Kong's former secretary for lands and works. Qian Qichen said: Public functionaries are essential in administrative operation. It is necessary to depend on public functionaries to ensure smooth take-over of sovereignty, stable transition, and the management of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region after 1997. He continued: The Sino-British Joint Statement and the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region have specific regulations concerning the continuing service of public functionaries. The purpose of these regulations is to maintain the stability of the rank-and-file of public functionaries. Qian Qichen said: "The delegation's visit to Beijing is of great significance. We support your setting up the Association for Hong Kong's Former High-Ranking Public Functionaries." He said: After Hong Kong returns to the motherland, those public functionaries who would like to stay and serve the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and its residents are indeed patriotic people who love Hong Kong. Qian Qichen expressed the hope that the contingent of public functionaries in Hong Kong will honestly perform their duties and serve the Hong Kong residents in the last few years of the transition period. Qian Qichen emphatically said: As a financial, economic, and information center, Hong Kong is an economic-type city. It should focus on its administration and ensure high efficiency in its administrative management. Lu Ping, director of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, was present during the meeting.
