FBIS3-47563 "dreas010_a_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Police Probe Military-Related Export to DPRK Kanagawa Trading Firm Suspected OW1401022294 Tokyo KYODO in English 0138 GMT 14 Jan 94 OW1401022294 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Jan. 14 KYODO -- The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department on Friday [14 January] launched a probe into the suspected export of a military-related, high-tech device to North Korea, police sources said. Police suspect a Kanagawa Prefecture-based trading company, specializing in deals between Tokyo and Pyongyang, exported a spectrum analyzer which can be converted to military use. Export of the device is regulated by the Paris-based Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (Cocom), which tries to control the sale of strategically important goods to communist countries. The spectrum analyzer can be used to improve the aiming precision of weapons, authorities said. Police also suspect the trading firm applied to the Ministry of International Trade and Industry for permission to export the analyzer using false information, the sources said. Although the device was allegedly exported to Pyongyang by the Kanagawa-based trading firm, the Tokyo-based maker of the device was not informed to which country the analyzer would be sent, police added. The manufacturer was also not told for what purpose the analyzer would be used, the sources said. They did not identify either the manufacturer or the trading firm. The sources said police will question persons concerned for alleged violation of foreign exchange and foreign trade control law. The YOMIURI SHIMBUN reported Friday that North Korea may use the analyzer for development of the intermediate-range missile called "Nodong-1." The national daily said the spectrum analyzer is able to measure more precisely the distance between a missile launcher and a target by analyzing the rebounding of a radar beam. North Korea last May successfully test-launched a Nodong-1 missile, which has an estimated range of 1,000 kilometers.
