FBIS4-56179 "drlat084__a94026" FBIS-LAT-94-084-A Daily Report 26 Apr 1994 ANNEX Cuba Delegate to ECLA: U.S. Violates UN Resolutions Delegate to ECLA: U.S. Violates UN Resolutions PA2704022194 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 2340 GMT 26 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA2704022194 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [Text] Cartagena, Colombia, 26 Apr (PL) -- Today, a Cuban representative charged that the United States is still violating UN resolutions and deviating from the spirit of cooperation that exists in America by maintaining and intensifying the economic blockade against Cuba. The statement was made by Jorge Garcia, a member of the Cuban delegation to the 25th period of sessions of the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLA), in response to a U.S. participant. The U.S. delegate to the UN forum on regional economic mechanisms tried to respond to charges made this morning by Ernesto Melendez, state minister for economic cooperation. In his speech, Melendez described as incongruous the fact that his country continues to endure -- as it has done for over one-third of a century -- the U.S. imposed economic blockade amid a continental climate of commercial liberalization. A member of the Washington committee responded later, trying to justify the economic pressure on the Caribbean island with the same arguments used 30 years ago. In his counterresponse, Garcia, an official of Cuba's State Committee for Economic Cooperation, recalled that Melendez based his charge on UN General Assembly resolutions approved by an overwhelming majority and by virtually all the representatives at the ECLA event. Such documents have the fundamental objective of ending a blatant violation of international law and recognized principles of coexistence among nations, he stated. In reality, the blockade policy that even U.S. groups have begun to question lately has been intensified. He added that Washington is seriously affecting the economic interests of U.S. businessmen. Garcia also termed Washington's policy of aggression against Cuba as disproportionate, unreal, and a failure to heed the call of the international community and U.S. allies by "disassociating itself completely from the spirit of cooperation" in ECLA. "Cuba is a small country geographically speaking, but we will continue to grow if that is what it takes to defend our legitimate right to sovereignty and self-determination," Garcia stated.
