FBIS4-29443 "dreas118_h_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Malaysia Mahathir Hopes Japan Not Influenced by U.S. Mahathir Hopes Japan Not Influenced by U.S. BK1706141794 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA in English 0848 GMT 17 Jun 94 BK1706141794 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA English BFN [Text] Kuala Lumpur, June 17 (OANA-BERNAMA) -- Prime Minister Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, disappointed with the American stand against the proposed East Asia Economic Caucus (EAEC), hopes Japan will not be influenced by Washington. Dr. Mahathir is also upset with the change in stand by the Clinton administration which had earlier said it would be open-minded towards the ASEAN proposal. Foreign press reports said Washington's latest opposition to EAEC would make it difficult for Japan to accept ASEAN's invitation to join the caucus. But, Japan is waiting to be formally informed by the U.S. Commenting on the development, Dr. Mahathir questioned the rationale of the U.S stand. He said EAEC was not a trade bloc or formal forum but merely a loose establishment for economic cooperation. We are very disappointed because, previously, the Clinton administration appeared more open minded, he told reporters after launching the World Islamic Civilisation Festival '94 here Friday. Dr. Mahathir said Malaysia and its ASEAN partners had repeatedly explained that EAEC was not a trade bloc and they would continue to do so. He also said Malaysia did not understand why EAEC was rejected. Is it because of our colour? He asked. He said Malaysia would not allow the differences over the EAEC, originally mooted by Malaysia, to jeopardise its relationship with the U.S. We will use our friendship to explain our stand (to the U.S.), he added. Dr. Mahathir had said Malaysia-U.S. ties were set for the better after his meeting with President Clinton during his recent visit to the U.S. Foreign Minister Datuk Dr. Abdullah Badawi said Malaysia hoped to get a clearer picture from Japan at the upcoming post ministerial conference of the ASEAN ministerial meeting in Bangkok later this month.
