FBIS4-46446 "jptot024__l94123" JPRS-TOT-94-024-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 19 May 1994 WEST EUROPE TURKEY PKK Supporters Said Planning To Pressure U.S. Congress PKK Supporters Said Planning To Pressure U.S. Congress NC0406145194 Istanbul SABAH in Turkish 19 May 94 p 12 NC0406145194 Istanbul SABAH Turkish BFN [Report by Sedat Sertoglu: "An Appalling Trap for Turkey"] [Text] Several groups in Europe, which are supported by pro- Greek-Cypriot and pro-Armenian elements in the U.S. Congress and Mrs. Danielle Mitterrand, have put into effect a very dangerous plan, which can fragment Turkey. These groups, which have not been effective enough in their initiatives in Europe, have managed to raise the Kurdish problem in Washington. In fact, they have already made several initiatives to influence the U.S. Congress and the newspapers. Several U.S. officials have already cautioned Ankara on the plan to divide Turkey. The Turkish Foreign Ministry officials have launched an effort to have the necessary measures put into effect against the new plan. According to the experts, the plan, which has been drawn up by several groups that support the Greek Cypriots, Armenians, and the Kurds, is as follows: The U.S. will be frequently informed that Turkey's military operations against the PKK are aimed against the entire Kurdish people in that country. Turkey will be accused of committing an act of genocide against all the Kurds. Speakers will be selected to address the U.S. Congress commissions and international platforms on the matter. That will create a wave of pressure against the Clinton administration. Next will be a move by those who are aware that Turkey will not hold talks with PKK leader Abdullah Ocalan, to persuade that organization to reduce its terrorist activities and publish bulletins to defend its case. The PKK bulletins will be similar to those the PLO published in the past. New Headquarters The next step will be an effort to find a country that will agree to host Abdullah Ocalan and his organization. An effort is being made at the present time to determine whether or not the PKK can be moved, as in the case of the PLO moving its headquarters to Tunisia after the defeat it suffered in Lebanon in the past. Two reasons have been given for that. The first is that the PKK will not be able to remain in Damascus after Syria and Israel conclude a peace agreement and the second is that Saddam Husayn will not agree to allow Ocalan and his organization to remain in Iraq because he eagerly waits for the embargo to be lifted. The experts have said that several initiatives have been made to find a new host country for the PKK either in north Africa or in Europe. As soon as Ocalan and the PKK are transferred to a new country, the Western capitals, Washington in particular, will direct pressure on Ankara to force it to hold talks with Ocalan, who will have assumed a position similar to that of 'Arafat. Ankara will be informed that Ocalan is no longer involved in terrorist activities. Meanwhile, the architects of that appalling plan will make every effort to disrupt relations between Ankara and Washington. They will use every opportunity to create friction between Turkey and the United States in the foreign policy domain. Furthermore, they will try to create a reaction in the U.S. public opinion against Turkey. Considering all that, the experts have warned Ankara to be very careful.
