FBIS3-38626 "drweu024_p_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 GREECE Government Criticizes Russia-Skopje Relations NC0302203294 Athens ET-1 Television Network in Greek 1900 GMT 3 Feb 94 NC0302203294 Athens ET-1 Television Network Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Text] Russia today established diplomatic relations with Skopje under the name the Republic of Macedonia. The Czech Republic intends to do the same. French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said in Athens that France will promote the resumption of the Athens-Skopje talks. A short time ago, the government said it is strongly dissatisfied with Russia's decision, which was made as the Skopjean Government continues its provocative policy. Government spokesman Evangelos Venizelos stressed that the government made its positions known to everyone and the international community should have realized that Skopje must change its stance to maintain security and stability, something that will benefit it as well. Correspondent Dhimitrios Latsios reports: [Begin recording] [Latsios] Russia reportedly informed the Greek ambassador in Moscow that it intended to establish diplomatic relations with Skopje a week ago. Moscow believes that the name the Republic of Macedonia is used because Russia has long recognized the neighboring state with this name. The Russian officials who contacted the Greek side noted that this move does not go against Athens and the Russian Foreign Ministry deemed that it could not be postponed, because the European partners recently made moves, forcing Russia to act to maintain its Balkan interests. After meeting Foreign Minister Karolos Papoulias, the French foreign minister referred to Skopje saying that France wants the Athens-Skopje dialogue to resume and will promote it through the diplomatic delegation it recently established in Skopje. Papoulias denied that there is a U.S. initiative on Skopje. [Venizelos] Talks could continue under UN auspices if Skopje made the right goodwill moves; they are not a Greek demand or request, but an obvious prerequisite derived from international law. Again, we call upon Skopje to comply with this obligation. [end recording]
