FBIS4-62833 "drsov097_d_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-097 Daily Report 19 May 1994 Regional Affairs Christian Democrats Hold Congress in St Petersburg Christian Democrats Hold Congress in St Petersburg MK1805103894 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian, 18 May 94, p 2 MK1805103894 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian, BFN [Vadim Nesvizhskiy report from St. Petersburg under the "Proximity" rubric: "Christian Democrats of all Countries Unite in St. Petersburg. The RCDU Has Established Contacts with the Russian Proletariat"] [Text] Leaders of Christian Democratic parties (CDP) from over 20 countries have opened their congress in St. Petersburg under the motto "Christian Democracy Today." According to Andre Louis, vice president of the Christian Democratic International, its main goal is to "devise a joint strategy of the Christian Democrats in a fast changing world." Within the three "post-Soviet" years the Christian Democrats have managed to find a niche in the legislatures of many former Soviet republics. At the end of 1992, leaders of the Christian Democratic Unions [CDU] of Russia and Armenia, and also the NDP [expansion unknown] of Georgia announced the creation of the East Europe Christian Democratic Union, later joined by the Ukrainian Christian Democrats and the Belarusian People's Front. At the conference the East Europe CDU applied for collective membership in the CDI; to all appearances, they will be admitted in the near future. It was decided to continue a dialogue with the Muslims by holding the fourth round of talks in Manila between the CDI and the RABITA (World Moslem League). At the same time, appeals were made to the RABITA, the Roman Catholic, and the Russian Orthodox Churches to send their representatives to the former Yugoslavia, a move that could help establish religious peace in the country. Members of the East Europe CDU agreed to exchange parliamentary missions. In the view of Gleb Yakunin, cochairman of the Russian Christian Democratic Union [RCDU], the Russian Christian Democrats have great chances of success, because "the country is leaning toward Christianity." This forecast was echoed by Vitaliy Savitskiy, chairman of the State Duma organizing committee on relations with religious organizations, who said: "The RCDU was the first non-Marxist party to establish close contacts with the working movement and the first Russian party to forge ties with parties in the former USSR that share its views."
