FBIS3-21224 "jpjst011__l94021" JPRS-JST-94-011L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 22 October 1993 Advanced Materials Sumitomo Metal's Rapidly Solidified Aluminum Alloy To Be Used by Mazda for Lysholm Compressor 94FE0101D Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO in Japanese 22 Oct 93 p 4 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0101D Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] The rapidly solidified aluminum alloy developed by Sumitomo Metal Industries, Ltd. (Sumitomo Metal), has been adopted for the construction of the rotor for the Lysholm compressor (a screw-type compressor) to be installed on Mazda Motor Corp.'s new automobile model, the (Yunos) 800. This compressor was originally developed by Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co., Ltd., for the world's first mirror cycle engine to achieve the dual objectives of high performance and low fuel cost. Mazda Motor Corp. decided to use the aluminum alloy for the rotor, the requirements of which included that it be lightweight, have high heat resistance, and have a low thermal expansion coefficient. The rapidly solidified aluminum alloy is produced in the form of an ingot from powder obtained by rapidly cooling and solidifying a molten aluminum alloy. The rapidly solidified alloy has a denser and more uniform structure than do alloys made by the traditional melting-casting method. In addition, it is possible to expand the limits for adding silicon and iron to the aluminum alloy with the rapid solidification process. Therefore, the new alloy is expected to become a heat- and wear-resistant, high-performance material with excellent machinability. The new compressor to be used for (Yunos) 800 of Mazda Motor Corp. has the screw-type rotor, which combines the three-winged male part and the five-winged female part. In order to provide the highest possible performance, the compressor has been designed with extremely narrow clearances between the rotating male and female rotors and between the compressor casing and the rotors. Therefore, the rotor material must be lightweight and highly heat-resistant, and it must have a low thermal expansion coefficient. Sumitomo Metal developed the new alloy to meet these requirements.
