FBIS3-38410 "drweu022_q_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 TURKEY Egyptian Foreign Minister Comments TA0102150994 Ankara ANATOLIA in Turkish 1445 GMT 1 Feb 94 TA0102150994 Ankara ANATOLIA Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Text] Ankara (AA) -- The official talks between the Turkish and Egyptian delegations held at the Cankaya Mansion, headed respectively by President Suleyman Demirel and President Husni Mubarak, have ended. Replying to reporters' questions after the talks, Egyptian Foreign Minister 'Amr Musa declared that Turkey's role in the Middle East peace process is very important and that Ankara's contributions are necessary to accelerate the process. Pointing out that cooperation is being conducted with Turkey and other regional countries in a bid to secure a just and lasting solution in the Middle East, Musa said: "We hope that a kind of peace which will please all people in the region will be attained soon." Asked if there is a deadlock in the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians, the Egyptian foreign minister responded: "There is no deadlock. There are only minor differences of opinion." In reply to a question of whether Demirel was asked to mediate, Musa said: "What we need for now is not mediation, but negotiations. Turkey and Egypt are exerting diplomatic efforts to secure a lasting and definitive peace in the area." In his statement, Muhammad Bayyumi, Egyptian minister of economy and foreign trade, announced that Turkey, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia will cooperate in the fields of commerce and investment. Various investment projects, which will create more job opportunities for the people in the region, are on the agenda, Bayyumi remarked, adding that more cooperation and investments are needed for the development of the region and this subject was also discussed during the bilateral talks. After the talks, Mubarak returned to the Sheraton Hotel. Mubarak will separately receive Prime Minister Tansu Ciller; Murat Karayalcin, state minister and deputy prime minister; and Motherland Party leader Mesut Yilmaz.
