FBIS3-52388 "drnes002_s_94015" FBIS-NES-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 Iran Khamene'i Issues Christmas Message LD0301183494 Tehran IRIB Television First Program Network in Persian 1730 GMT 3 Jan 94 LD0301183494 Tehran IRIB Television First Program Network Language: Persian Article Type:BFN [Christmas message issued by Ayatollah 'Ali Hoseyni Khamene'i -- read by announcer] [Text] In the name of God, the compassionate, the merciful. On the festive anniversary of the birth of Jesus Christ, son of Mary, the word of God, the chosen servant, and the great divine prophet, I congratulate all Christians, Muslims, and all those with faith in his eminence, in particular the Christian compatriots. Armed with miracles and a divine call for human salvation from the darkness of dualism, unbelief, ignorance, and injustice to wisdom, justice, and divine worship, Jesus Christ was chosen for a divine mission and throughout his presence among men, did not hesitate for a moment to fight evil and call for good. Such is the lesson that must be learned by Christians and Muslims -- who believe in the prophethood of his eminence. Today more than ever, humanity needs such teachings, and Islam, which completes the Christian tradition, has placed the call for the good, worship, and excellence at the top of its program. Lost humanity, which has control over the endless power of nature through the God-given knowledge, is now moving against these very aims -- and this increases the responsibility of the faithful. The dominant powers and governments, under the pretext of Christianity but in truth materialist and ignorant of the teachings and traditions of His Holiness Christ, have made life difficult for the innocent nations and peoples, and commit all forms of injustice against them. The most tragic of these examples can be found in the present condition of the world. These include the unprecedented aggression of Serbs and Croats against the Bosnian Muslims and the continued aggression of the Armenian Government against the Azerbaijan Republic. Undoubtedly the great powers, for many reasons, share the responsibility for these bitter and tragic events. I ask the Almighty to shine his light of guidance on humanity and to give victory to the forces of goodness, worship, and justice against those of evil, ugliness, and suppression. I should also thank my Christian compatriots for their stance regarding current events in the region and the world. [Signed] Seyyed 'Ali Khamene'i [Dated] 3 January 1994
