FBIS3-20390 "drweu061_p_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 GREECE U.S. Said To Want Swift Solution on FYROM NC2903201294 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA in Greek 29 Mar 94 p 4 NC2903201294 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Report by Kira Adham] [Excerpt] The United States is in a hurry for a solution to the issue of The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia [FYROM] and agreed to separate the name issue from the initial phase of dialogue. Therefore, during his meeting with EU Commissioner Hans van den Broek yesterday, Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou found it easier to reject the European Union's [EU] unilateral mediation effort. Reliable information and the recent talks between Deputy Foreign Minister Yeoryios Papandreou and his U.S. counterpart in the United States indicate that the U.S. Government is in a hurry to resolve the issue of FYROM, claiming that [FYROM President Kiro] Gligorov's state may collapse. Name Separation According to the same information, the Americans made it clear to the Greek side that they want very much to see the issue of FYROM resolved as soon as possible so that they can jointly (Greece and the United States) "discuss regional cooperation in the Balkans." The United States also seemed to have accepted the Greek position to separate FYROM's name from the initial phase of the dialogue, because maintaining stability in the region is more important. The same sources said that Washington did not put pressure on Athens to lift the Greek measures, but expressed the "wish" that "something would be done" in this direction. Diplomatic sources mentioned that Ambassador Matthew Nimetz, President Clinton's special envoy to Skopje, (who will meet the prime minister and the foreign minister today and will later go to FYROM), will undertake a very important mediation role and will have an "open line" to UN mediator Cyrus Vance. According to the same information, Vance--as he had said--intends to deal with the "substance of the issue," that is, bring the two sides back to the negotiating table. Nimetz will undertake the "details" (conditions, requirements, etc.). On the eve of the United States' active involvement in the issue of FYROM, the government essentially "stopped" the EU unilateral mediation effort. [passage omitted]
