FBIS3-20125 "drweu059_n_94010" FBIS-WEU-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Norway * Priority for Political Refugees Urged 94EN0248A Oslo AFTENPOSTEN in Norwegian 24 Feb 94 p 2 94EN0248A Oslo AFTENPOSTEN Language: Norwegian Article Type:CSO [Article by Eirik Ramberg: "Conservatives Want Stricter Asylum Measures" -- introductory paragraph in boldface as published] [Excerpt] The Conservatives feel that Norway should tighten its policy towards those who seek asylum on its shores. Many of the asylum-seekers coming to Norway are actually economic refugees. These should not be allowed to take the places of other refugees who really need them. Norway should not take in fewer refugees, but more of those Norway does admit should be on the UN High Commissioner's refugee list. "These are the ones who need asylum most," said Anders C. Sjaastad (Conservative), vice chairman of the Justice Committee in the Storting. Supports Approval The Storting will discuss refugee policy at today's session. The government made three statements concerning the situation last week. The groundwork for today's debate was laid by presentations on government policy made by Foreign Minister Bjorn Tore Godal, Districts Minister Gunnar Berge, and Justice Minister Grete Faremo. The Labor Party, the Conservatives, and Progress Party will ensure that a quorum is present in the Storting for the government resolution that will open the way for sending Kosovo Albanians back to their homeland and make visas obligatory for Bosnians. Today's debate will take the form of a preliminary exchange of ideas on a comprehensive refugee policy. Only after the government has presented its report to the Storting can a set of guidelines be formulated on the issues of temporary residence for refugees and the right to asylum. Integration? Sjaastad, the Conservative spokesman on justice issues, favored the principle of temporary residence for refugees provided that they return to their homeland as soon as it is feasible to do so. "It is clear enough that the question of integration into Norwegian society will be difficult. Refugees need to have the opportunity to adapt to daily life in Norway. But long-term undertakings such as job training or extensive education should be looked at more closely in terms of appropriateness," Sjaastad told AFTENPOSTEN. He stressed that one must meet the challenge of an increasing number of refugees "with a somewhat open mind." "We are dealing with people. It is important that attention be paid to individual needs," Sjaastad said. Dividing Line The political dividing line in refugee policy, at least in the concrete issues of visa requirements for Bosnians and the return of the Kosovo Albanians, corresponds to the EU [European Union] division. Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, the Center Party second in command and the leader of the parliamentary delegation to Kosovo, felt that the government was undermining the right to asylum. Lisbeth Holand (Socialist Left Party), spokesman for the Justice Committee, concurred and Kjell Mange Bondevik, chairman of the Christian Party, said the Kosovo Albanians must be accorded temporary residence in Norway on the same footing as the Bosnians. [passage omitted]
