FBIS3-35194 "drnes035_k_94008" FBIS-NES-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 IRAQ `Failure' of U.S.-Japanese Summit Analyzed JN2102125494 Baghdad BABIL in Arabic 16 Feb 94 p 1 JN2102125494 Baghdad BABIL Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Article by Salah al-Mukhtar: "Allies or Satellites?!"] [Text] The U.S.-Japanese summit has ended in failure. The waffler Clinton could not force the Japanese prime minister to accept firmer restrictions on Japanese trade, such as giving more facilities for the entry of U.S. products into Japan. Japan's rejection stems from the essence of U.S. policy and logic and the market economy laws. Market economy, in the U.S. book, means several things, primarily free prices, which are determined by the market's supply and demand. However, the United States, as a result of the decline in its industry and economy, cannot compete with Japan by using democratic means. Therefore, the only way to stop the Japanese march on U.S. markets is to use force. The United States has said it will impose sanctions on Japan because Japan did not restrict its trade and set limits to the free flow of goods. This position highlights two facts: The United States adheres to the market economy when this enables it to sneak into other countries, sabotage their economy, and control them. The United States, however, rejects the market economy when the other party is a stronger competitor, like Japan. Thus, the United States has clearly deviated from its capitalist economic system. The other fact is that those who are called U.S. allies are, in reality, not allies but satellites. This is because an ally enjoys independence and equal opportunities and rights. However, if this ally accepts what is unacceptable to it under normal circumstances, then it is a satellite and not an ally. The world is now taking interest in these two facts, especially those who are described as America's allies. Those people have started to realize clearly that the United States wants to turn them into slaves who carry out orders. Is it time for another Spartacus to appear and lead an uprising of the slaves of the major world powers?
