FBIS4-37315 "drnes118_k_94001" FBIS-NES-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 IRAQ Yemeni Delegation Arrives To Explain Stand Yemeni Delegation Arrives To Explain Stand JN1806104694 Baghdad INA in Arabic 0900 GMT 18 Jun 94 JN1806104694 Baghdad INA Arabic BFN [Text] Baghdad, 18 Jun (INA)--A delegation of the Yemeni House of Representatives headed by Deputy Muhammad 'Abdallah al-Kibsi arrived in Baghdad today on an official visit of several days to Iraq. In a statement to INA, Muhammad 'Abdallah al-Kibsi said that he will meet with the National Assembly speaker, as well as the leaders of professional and popular organizations and parties to explain to them the serious implications of the violation of constitutional legitimacy in Yemen by the secessionists. He will also explain to these Iraqi officials, he noted, the secessionists' efforts to abort unity, for which the Yemeni people have made great sacrifices. Al-Kibsi added: Our visit to fraternal Iraq comes in implementation of a decision the Yemeni House of Representatives has made in this regard. The objective of this decision, he said, is to enlighten the Arab and Muslim nation, chief among which are the Iraqi kinfolk and leadership represented by His Excellency President Saddam Husayn, the epitome of the nation's heroism, about the true state of affairs in Yemen. The Iraqis, he went on to say, are the most concerned to safeguard unity and democracy, and the people endowed with the best experience in resisting injustice and aggression, thanks to the Mother of Battles they have waged to deter the sinful aggressors and traitorous rulers, who are subservient to foreigners. The Yemeni parliamentarian noted the crimes the Yemeni secessionists are committing against the country's unity, security, and safety. He added: The war is not only one between rebels and legitimacy forces. It is also a war aimed against the Arab nation to humiliate it so that the enemies may achieve their goals and realize their ambitions in this part of the Arab homeland. The Yemeni official concluded by saying that the Yemeni government and people take pride in the pan-Arab positions of Iraq under His Excellency President Saddam Husayn. He also commended the leader president's heroic role in defending the causes of the Arab and Muslim nation against all forces of injustice, evil, and aggression that have targeted the present and future of this nation.
