FBIS4-17425 "drsov079_t_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-079 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia Legislative Foreign Affairs Commissions Meet Legislative Foreign Affairs Commissions Meet WS2204163194 Tallinn ETA in English 0819 GMT 22 Apr 94 WS2204163194 Tallinn ETA English BFN [From 22 April EESTI SENUMID, PAEVALEHT, p 1; "News Bulletin" No. 77/94] [Text] Friday, April 22 -- Representatives of parliamentary foreign affairs commissions of eleven countries met in Tallinn yesterday to discuss their role in the shaping of foreign policy. The commission chairmen meeting held a news conference yesterday, describing the issued discussed and the results of the meeting. Chairman of the Riigikogu [parliament] foreign affairs commission and initiator of the meeting Vello Saatpalu described the topics as the making of foreign policy by the different arms of power, the technology of foreign policy and the role of traditions and laws. Estonia has an excellent opportunity to take over the best experience of existing systems, he stressed. Riigikogu Vice-chairman Tunne Kelam pointed out that representatives of various political systems were represented, enabling to learn about different foreign political traditions. Saatpalu criticised some examples of Estonia's recent past when vital decisions had been made without involving all the relevant institutions and cited the example of Russia where the positions of the president, the foreign minister and the defence minister can widely differ. He hoped that such meetings will become regular. Foreign Minister Juri Luik and Tunne Kelam met Chairman of the Swedish parliamentary foreign affairs commission Daniel Tarschys, who was recently elected new Secretary General of the Council of Europe [CE]. They discussed the future of the CE and the Estonian-Russian relations. Tarschys stressed that Russia will have to meet the CE requirements before joining the organisation, including the one allowing member states to keep their troops in other countries only with the consent of these countries.
