FBIS4-11677 "drnes062_s_94002" FBIS-NES-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 Iran Tehran Warns Armenian Government About C-130 Incident Tehran Warns Armenian Government About C-130 Incident LD3103111194 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0953 GMT 31 Mar 94 LD3103111194 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Station commentary] [Text] The first political commentary of today is in connection with the outcome of the investigation into the cause of the crash of an Iranian C-130 plane in Nagorno-Karabakh. With the issuing of a statement by our country's Foreign Ministry, which highlights the direct role of the Armenian Government in shooting down the Iranian transport plane over Karabakh, public opinion has become more sensitive about the incident. The cause of the incident, which resulted in the death of several Iranian diplomats and their families, was scrutinized by a special investigative team, comprising Iranian Foreign Ministry and Air Force experts. Finally, in light of bona fide proof and undeniable evidence, Armenia's responsibility in the incident was ascertained. For some time now the Government of Armenia has fanned the flames of the Karabakh dispute and, by trampling on the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan, has violated that country's sovereignty. Despite ostensible support for Iran's peace-seeking and mediation moves, it has, in practice, rendered all efforts at mediation fruitless. Therefore, the shooting down of the Iranian transport plane would naturally result in Iran's doubting Armenia's goodwill and intentions. Although the Government of Armenia has so far not clearly admitted its responsibility for the shooting down of the Iranian C-130 plane, the existing proof and evidence have shed sufficient light on the matter. Therefore, it is necessary for the Armenian Government to take steps, as soon as possible, to bring to trial and punish the perpetrators of this crime. Also, the Islamic Republic of Iran reserves the right to follow up the crime and claim damages for the families of the victims. Undoubtedly Armenia should be aware of the importance of its relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran and not be influenced by foreign suggestions and mar and destabilize its relations with Iran any further. That would be of no benefit to that country. Rebuilding those ties, which have been maintained under the most difficult conditions, would necessitate a great deal of effort on Armenia's part.
