FBIS4-44837 "jpest014___94005" FBIS-EST-94-014 JPRS Science & Technology Europe/International 26 May 1994 WEST EUROPE ADVANCED MATERIALS Germany: Fiber-Reinforced Heavy-Duty Ceramics Envisioned for Germany: Fiber-Reinforced Heavy-Duty Ceramics Envisioned for Materials Development 94WS0372B Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT in German 26 May 94 p 8 94WS0372B Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT German CSO [Unattributed article: "New Materials Offer Advantages to General Mechanical Engineering"] [Text] Frankfurt. Germany's MAN Technologie AG considers it high time that the mechanical engineering field, as a whole, avails itself of the numerous applications of newly developed fiber-reinforced heavy-duty ceramics. These materials are currently being tested for use as pump and bearing parts, which, for example, could be used in the aviation and space industry. MAN Technologie AG, in cooperation with the Federal Ministry of Research, has been involved in the applications-oriented development of fiber-reinforced heavy-duty ceramics for some time now. On the basis of a known, but radically modified process, MAN Technologie has been producing semifinished products in the form of plates, pipes, and profiles. The automatic process-control system in its pilot plant has made it possible to reduce the so-called matrix infiltration time of the semifinished products by several hours. Using this system, a component having a wall thickness of 10 mm now requires only 80 hours of matrix infiltration time. Other processes would require four times this amount of time. In technical ceramics the ceramic matrix is reinforced by means of implanted ceramic fibers. Fracture toughness and breaking strain are thereby substantially increased. The material is made error- and damage-tolerant, and consequently more reliable. In addition, the thermo-shock resistance of the material reaches a level inaccessible to monolithic ceramics. Various research institutes have been studying such composite materials, also called ceramic matrix composites, for a long time.
