FBIS3-37853 "drsov037_a_94020" FBIS-SOV-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Top Brass Reluctant To Send Reinforcements to Bosnia MK2302091094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 23 Feb 94 p 3 MK2302091094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Ilya Bulavinov report: "Russian Military Wary of Boris Yeltsin's Plan for Yugoslavia"] [Text] In the near future Russia will apparently send an extra contingent of peacekeeping forces to Bosnia to reinforce the 400 paratroopers moved from Croatia to Sarajevo. This matter is currently being discussed by politicians and diplomats. Meanwhile, the Russian military are growing ever more wary of various sorts of political agreements and, according to KOMMERSANT-DAILY reports, from now on they are intent on assessing the actions by politicians from the point of view of their readiness to heed the Armed Forces' interests. Against the backdrop of universal euphoria with regard to the truce in the Sarajevo area, Russian servicemen appear to be the only ones who are not showing any particular pleasure in that regard. The top brass in Moscow has always been wary of UN attempts to have Russia enhance its military presence in the former Yugoslavia. The Defense Ministry is positively certain that should hostilities resume, under no circumstances will any Russian officers order shooting on Serbs. Accusations of supporting "religious brothers" that will be inevitably hurled against the Russian servicemen following such a refusal would give NATO a pretext to support the Muslims in response, something which may cause an escalation of the Yugoslav conflict. Pavel Grachev has suggested in a telephone conversation with his U.S. counterpart, William Perry, that the United States send in its troops to observe the truce from the side of the Bosnian Muslims. His proposal was effectively turned down (KOMMERSANT-DAILY reported the talks in yesterday's issue), so Russia will still have to reinforce its contingent in Sarajevo unilaterally. There is yet another reason for the army's reluctance to be involved in peacekeeping operations. In the Defense Ministry's view, particular importance should be attached to conflicts under way near the country's borders on CIS territory. Currently, over 16,000 Russian servicemen are involved in efforts to settle them. Unlike the "blue helmets," they have neither peacekeeping status, nor financial support from international organizations.
