FBIS4-40493 "drsov117_m_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-117 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 Tajikistan India Interested in Tajik Dialogue on Reconciliation India Interested in Tajik Dialogue on Reconciliation LD1706091894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0422 GMT 17 Jun 94 LD1706091894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Leonid Kotov] [Text] Delhi, 17 June -- India is seriously interested in a dialogue between the Government of Tajikistan and opposition groupings on national reconciliation, which is being conducted at the United Nation's initiative. However, the Indian Government has decided to leave open the issue of its participation alongside with Pakistan and Iran as an observer at these talks, a regular round of which will take place in Islamabad soon. Salman Khurshid, Indian minister of state for external affairs, stated this position of the Republic during his visit to Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan. An ITAR-TASS correspondent was informed by sources in the Indian Ministry of External Affairs that the minister of state informed Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao in detail about the results of his talks with the leaders of the central Asian countries and in particular about the situation on the Tajik-Afghan border. In the opinion of sources at the Indian Ministry of External Affairs, the situation on the border between Tajikistan and Afghanistan will be discussed during the upcoming visit of the head of the Indian government to the Russian Federation 29 June-2 July. India intends to maintain close contacts with all the participants in the inter-Tajik through its embassy in Dushanbe talks because it is very concerned about the situation on the border between Tajikistan and Afghanistan. In New Delhi's opinion, it influences the situation in the entire region and can affect India's security, which is anxious that the conflict in Tajikistan not become threatening and not become a repeat of the bloody Afghan war. Nevertheless, representatives of the Republic's Ministry of External Affairs stressed that India's official participation in the talks between the Tajik Government and opposition as an observer is deemed inexpedient as such a precedent may lead to Pakistan intensifying its demands to be included in possible talks between the Indian Government and Muslim political groupings on normalizing the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.
