FBIS4-4930 "dreas066_c_94051" FBIS-EAS-94-066 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 North Korea Countryside Begins Spring Tilling, Planting Countryside Begins Spring Tilling, Planting SK3103214994 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1506 GMT 31 Mar 94 SK3103214994 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN [Text] Pyongyang, March 31 (KCNA) -- The countryside of Korea is alive with spring farming. Agricultural working people across the country are sowing seed rice on cold-beds as demanded by the chuche method of farming to bring another bumper harvest this year. Cooperative farmers in South Hwanghae and South Pyongan Provinces situated in the western region of the country are sowing seed rice on a scientific and technical basis with efficient machines including seedling-bed-hardening, sowing and fertilizer-spreading machines. Humus pots of maize seedlings are being made briskly. Their making had progressed 70 percent nationwide as of March 26. It has already been completed on the cooperative farms in North Pyongan and North Hwanghae Provinces and Pyongyang municipality. Carpeting fields with humus soil and the production of compost and its carriage to the fields have been completed ten odd days earlier than last year on all the cooperative farms. Spring ploughing is being accelerated with the increase of the operation rate of tractors. Thousands of hectares of paddy and non-paddy fields have been tilled in a few days after the ploughing began in Chongdan, Yonan, Paechon, Sinchon and Anak Counties, South Hwanghae Province, and in Sukchon, Pyongwon and Mundok Counties, South Pyongan Province. Irrigation water is flowing into the fields upon the completion of the ploughing. Industrial establishments are actively assisting agriculture materially and technologically. Factories serving agriculture including the Kumsong general tractor works, the Hungnam fertilizer complex and the Haeju trailing farm machine factory are producing tractors, farm machines and chemical fertilizers in large quantities and sending them to the countryside.
