FBIS3-47527 "dreas009_l_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 Philippines Negotiator Discusses MNLF Truce Provisions BK1301054694 Manila MANILA BULLETIN in English 9 Jan 94 pp 1, 8 BK1301054694 Manila MANILA BULLETIN Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Vic P. Arevalo] [Excerpt] Zamboanga City -- A cease fire agreement between the government and the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) will be signed in Cotabato City today or tomorrow, depending on the availability of Nur Misuari, MNLF chairman who is reportedly still in Jolo, Sulu. The joint cease fire committee, led by Marine Brig. Gen. Guillermo Ruiz and Maj. Gen. Abdul Sarim of the MNLF, drew up the agreement after three days of meeting here last 5 to 7 January. Both panels agreed that a joint cease fire monitoring office will be set up here to monitor, review, and evaluate violations of the cease fire pact. Sub-monitoring offices will be set up in the 13 provinces of Mindanao where the cease fire is in effect. Ruiz said "the ground rules of the accord will be in effect. The MNLF will not be allowed to recruit fighters. It will also be banned from training fighters during the cease fire. MNLF rebels will be prohibited from carrying guns outside identified MNLF areas." He added "there will be no acts of terrorism or violence while the cease fire is in effect." "On the other hand, government forces will not be allowed to conduct military operations against MNLF rebels. There will no naval gunfire or shelling of pinpointed rebel areas. However, Philippine National Police (PNP) operations against criminals will continue," Ruiz said. If criminals hide in MNLF areas, the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) will pursue them -- with the MNLF's help, he added. The cease fire agreement will be signed by the joint peace panel represented by Manuel Yan, former ambassador to Thailand and AFP chief of staff, representing the government and Misuari for the MNLF. The AFP and the PNP will provide security for Misuari when he and his group will travel to Cotabato and other provinces of Mindanao. [passage omitted]
