FBIS3-11473 "drlat055_m_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 Brazil Government To Agree to Principles on Telecommunications PY1903202094 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL in Portuguese 18 Mar 94 p 11 PY1903202094 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Maria Helena Tachinardi from Brasilia] [Excerpt] At the end of the First World Telecommunications Development Conference (WTDC/94) on 29 March, Brazil will sign a letter of principles on the expansion of international communications services. The Brazilian delegation that will attend the conference will be headed by Communications Minister Djalma de Moraes. Moraes, however, will not be present at the WTDC/94 opening ceremony on 21 March. The conference will be opened by Argentine President Carlos Menem at the Sheraton Hotel in Buenos Aires. During the ceremony, U.S. Vice President Al Gore and ITU [International Telecommunications Union] Secretary General Pekka Tarjanne will deliver speeches. The conference's goal is to develop an overall strategy for telecommunications development for the year 2000. The letter of principles, which already has been approved at the technical level by 183 member countries, is one of the ITU projects for the future. The ITU is a specialized UN agency that already has formed an international working group that deals with the reformulation of the international frequencies chart. Diplomat Flavio Sapha -- head of the communications minister's office -- reported that another of ITU's concerns is to organize the frequencies chart for cellular and satellite communications. He will leave for Buenos Aires this weekend accompanying the delegation comprised of Telebras [Brazilian Telecommunications, Inc.] President Adyr da Silva and members of the Foreign Ministry's Division for Transportation, Communications, and Services. The Buenos Aires meeting will be in preparation for the Kyoto (Japan) plenipotentiary conference to be held in September. Brazilian entrepreneurs, including members of the Alcatel and Motorola companies, also will attend the Buenos Aires meeting, but only as observers, Sapha said. [passage omitted]
