FBIS3-19935 "drweu057_i_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 FRANCE Juppe Outlines Government Position on EU Voting BR2303152894 Paris LE FIGARO in French 23 Mar 94 p 5 BR2303152894 Paris LE FIGARO Language: French Article Type:BFN [Report by Baudouin Bollaert: "European Union Enlargement -- the Twelve Caught in Institutional Trap"] [Excerpt] Brussels -- [passage omitted] Compromise Being Examined German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel, who is deeply involved in the EU [European Union] enlargement process, had a long telephone conversation on Sunday [20 March] with [Foreign Minister] Alain Juppe to discuss possible compromise solutions. The most credible -- although not liked by the EC Commission, "guardian of treaties" -- would consist of granting a reasonable "period for consideration" to the member states if a minority of them reaches 23, 24, or 25 votes, instead of the 27 required to block a decision. According to Alain Juppe, France supports this solution "with three reservations": 1. It should not take the form of a protocol to be submitted for ratification, but simply that of a political commitment. 2. The period for consideration should not exceed three months. 3. This procedure should not be applied to "important questions." In Mr. Juppe's view, the current dispute should not be regarded as an "ordinary quarrel on figures." Quite the reverse, "it is the philosophy of European construction which is at stake." Hence this assertion: "Better no agreement at all than a bad agreement." Who will give in first? "The influence of a member state is measured primarily by the decisions it inspires, the actions in which it participates, and not by those it hampers," [European Affairs Minister] Alain Lamassoure said recently. "Yes to expansion, no to a more cumbersome structure." To that, [UK Foreign Secretary] Douglas Hurd replied that the British do not want to "torpedo" enlargement, and that it is possible to "reconcile" enlargement with "the protection of national interests." If nobody budges, it is almost certain that the European Parliament will not give a positive opinion on enlargement. Other national parliaments could then follow suit. That will have two consequences: First, a real crisis among the Twelve with the June European elections in the offing. Second, a lamentable impression in the four candidate countries, which have to hold referenda on membership. There is a fine mess ahead unless common sense finally prevails.
