FBIS4-48621 "drafr100_d_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-100 Daily Report 23 May 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Malawi Delay Reported in Finalizing Election Results Delay Reported in Finalizing Election Results MB2305180994 London BBC World Service in English 1705 GMT 23 May 94 MB2305180994 London BBC World Service English BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] Malawi's new President Bakili Muluzi and his United Democratic Front, the UDF, have lost little time flexing their muscles after ending the Malawi Congress Party, MCP's, 30 years in power in last week's elections. Directors of state-owned corporations have been sacked, most are seen as political appointees sympathetic to ex-President Banda, but it looks like there is going to be a delay before the election result can be finalized. From Blantyre Rachel Rawlings reports: There is a question mark over all five seats in Nsanje District, which was said to have been owned by Dr. Banda's Malawi Congress Party. The results in three will stand because there has been no special complaint received by the electoral commission, but the other two, which include that of MCP Vice President Gwanda Chakwamba have been declared void. A number of people including the powerful local chief Tengani, said to be a close associate of Mr. Chakwamba, are being taken to court over the matter. Meanwhile, former President Banda has been given until the end of the month to move out of Sanjika palace here in Blantyre. It it rumored he will move into another house in Blantyre which was also used as an official presidential residence, but is in fact Dr. Banda's personal property. It is just one of a number of large houses he owned personally, which the government paid him to use as official residences. Civil servants here are awaiting confirmation of their new bosses as President Muluzi makes his ministerial appointments. A large framed picture of Dr. Banda still hangs in the entrance to the building which houses the office of the president and Cabinet. It was a requirement to have his portrait in public places. Some shop owners have taken the pictures down, but others still remain.
