FBIS3-25240 "drafr030_d_94013" FBIS-AFR-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Deputy Foreign Minister Attacks West for Aiding UNITA LD1102164494 Lisbon Radio Renascenca in Portuguese to Europe 1400 GMT 11 Feb 94 LD1102164494 Lisbon Radio Renascenca Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Report on interview with Deputy Foreign Minister Jorge Chikoti by correspondent Berenice Bettencourt in Geneva; date not given--recorded] [Text] The Angolan Government has accused Portugal of supporting UNITA [National Union for the Total Independence of Angola]. The Angolan deputy foreign minister has told the UN Human Rights Commission that all the countries that authorize UNITA to set up offices on their soil share in the responsibility for the war, which has left over 500,000 people dead in Angola in one year alone. [figure as heard] Berenice Bettencourt reports from Geneva: [Bettencourt] Angolan Deputy Foreign Minister Jorge Chikoti denounced cases of involvement in the Angolan civil war by foreign countries, which support UNITA for reasons pertaining to their own interests and are, in his opinion, co-responsible for over 500,000 dead, 200,000 amputees, and the country's general state of famine and destruction. According to Chikoti, it is the aforementioned countries that--together with UNITA--are fomenting human rights violations in Angola. When I interviewed Chikoti, he told me he said this to the UN Human Rights Commission. [Begin recording] [Bettencourt] Which countries do you mean? [Chikoti] Well, directly, in military terms, there is South Africa. Then there is Zaire, which supports UNITA logistically and allows it free passage through its territory. The political support comes from all the western countries that still have UNITA offices on their soil and where UNITA resorts to all manner of false propaganda. As you know, UNITA has one or two offices in the United States, one in Britain, one in France, and one in Portugal. These are the very countries that have diplomatic relations with Angola at the same time, the very same countries that once expressed the wish that Angola should undergo a democratic process--which was done. So UNITA must not be allowed subterfuge. In so doing, these countries are trying to show UNITA that even though it is waging war, even though it lost the elections, they are still prepared to give it shelter. [end recording]
