FBIS3-25394 "drafr033_e_94009" FBIS-AFR-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 WEST AFRICA Senegal Government Communique Promises Maintenance of Order AB1602232194 Dakar Radio Senegal in French 2200 GMT 16 Feb 94 AB1602232194 Dakar Radio Senegal Language: French Article Type:BFN [Communique issued by the Senegalese Government in Dakar on 16 February] [Text] The department of Dakar was the scene of violent demonstrations this afternoon. These incidents occurred while a rally for political parties grouped within the Democratic Coordination [as heard] was taking place. To reestablish and maintain order and ensure the free movement of persons and the protection of property, the security forces intervened in several districts of the department. The demonstrations claimed victims among the security forces. They are Moustapha Diane (?guardian) of the peace; Ibrahima Saib, guardian of the peace; Dauda Ndour, guardian of the peace; and Abou Han, guardian of the peace. They were all members of a mobile intervention force. There was a civilian victim among the demonstrators. Civilians were also seriously wounded. The government [words indistinct] before the memory of the dead, and presents to their families its deepest condolences. The government strongly condemns these acts of vandalism, which can in no way destabilize the democratic republican institutions that are the basis of a country that respects the law. It reaffirms its solemn determination to do everything possible for the law to prevail, for state authority to be reinforced further every day, and for the security of the public to be guaranteed efficiently by the law. The instigators and authors of these acts of vandalism and destabilization shall be sought, arrested and punished acording to law. Finally, the government pays tribute to all the security forces -- police, Gendarmerie, and the National Army -- for their acts of determination and patriotism. The government expresses [words indistinct] renews support in the accomplishment of their noble mission in the service of the nation.
