FBIS4-65617 "drweu098_h_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-098 Daily Report 19 May 1994 GERMANY SPD Divided on Drug Policy SPD Divided on Drug Policy AU1905144094 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG in German 19 May 94 p 2 AU1905144094 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG German BFN [`kl'-signed report: "Dispute in the SPD Over Drug Policy"] [Text] Duesseldorf -- An open row has erupted inside the SPD [Social Democratic Party] on the subject of drug policy. On Wednesday [18 May], Peter Struck, federal general manager of the SPD Bundestag Group, criticized the SPD North Rhine-Westphalian government's decision to permit the possession of smaller quantities of drugs, even hard drugs. The North Rhine-Westphalian government defended its own decision. Partly as a reaction against sharp criticism from the federal government, however, the Duesseldorf government underscored the "provisional" nature of Justice Minister Rolf Krumsiek's drug guidelines, and called for uniform German rules laying down penalties for violating the law on intoxicating substances. According to a declaration released following a cabinet meeting on Wednesday, the waiving of criminal proceedings for the possession of small quantities of hard and soft drugs as suggested by Krumsiek does not mean a legalization of the possession of drugs, nor does it mean a relaxation of the practice of law enforcement bodies until now. With its decision, North Rhine-Westphalia is merely acting within the limits of feasibility. Interior Minister Herbert Schnoor said that the Federal Government was criticizing the North Rhine-Westphalian government's decision merely to deflect attention away from the failure of its own drug policy, which was geared strictly to prosecution rather then therapy and prevention. Evidence of the failure of this policy is the fact that since 1982, over 10,000 people have died as a result of a misuse of drugs, and almost 100,000 have consumed drugs for the first time in their lives. Although Minister-President Johannes Rau also supports the stance of his justice minister, members of the North Rhine-Westphalian government consider both the timing and the official reason for Krumsiek's decision to be wrong. They are especially critical of the fact that in his guidelines, the minister availed himself of the ruling of the Constitutional Court even though the Court has said nothing about the possession of smaller quantities of hard drugs. According to AFP, Strick called on the justice ministers of the SPD-led land governments to find a common line of policy. Strick told DEUTSCHLANDFUNK that the SPD wants no unconditional prosecution of drug consumers if they only consume soft drugs for private purposes. But Krumsiek's position goes further than this, he said. On the other hand, Johannes Singer, the drug expert of the SPD Bundestag group, defended the North Rhine-Westphalia government's decision.
