FBIS4-9014 "dreeu076__a94032" FBIS-EEU-94-076-A Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 ANNEX Bulgaria Meets With Yordanov, Matinchev, Zhelev Meets With Yordanov, Matinchev, Zhelev AU1904204594 Sofia BTA in English 1851 GMT 19 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1904204594 Sofia BTA English BFN [Report by Evgeniya Drumeva] [Excerpts] Sofia, April 19 (BTA) -- The signing of an agreement on reciprocal protection and promotion of investments was the last item on the agenda of the official visit of Sweden's Foreign Minister Ms. Margaretha af Ugglas. [passage omitted] The Swedish guest this afternoon was received in turn by National Assembly Chairman Aleksandur Yordanov, Acting Prime Minister Evgeni Matinchev, and President Zhelyu Zhelev in turn. Bilateral relations and the situation in the Balkans and former Yugoslavia in particular were in the focus of all meetings. The Yugo-conflict was high on the agenda of Ms. Ugglas' meeting with Dr. Zhelev who briefed the guest on Bulgaria's stand on this matter, said a presidential spokesman who had attended the meeting. Asked by Ms. Ugglas what he thinks could provide an outcome for the crisis, President Zhelev said that what the United Nations have done to date in former Yugoslavia is good but the actions seem to be lacking in determination. Answering a question about Russia's role in the conflict and Turkey's intentions to send blue helmets to Bosnia, Dr. Zhelev reiterated this country's principled position for noninvolvement of Balkan countries in the conflict and went on to say that with their involvement Russia and Turkey added fuel to the hostilities between Christians and Muslims. Ms. Ugglas appreciated in highly positive terms Bulgaria's policy on the Yugo-conflict and commitment to the UN resolutions. Dr. Zhelev asked Ms. Ugglas to extend his invitation for a visit to this country to Swedish King Carl XVI Gustaf. Ms. Ugglas' meetings with Aleksandur Yordanov and Evgeni Matinchev highlighted the issue of granting compensations for the embargo-related losses this country is sustaining. Mr. Matinchev thanked the guest for Sweden's support in overcoming the consequences Bulgaria's economy has suffered, as well as for its help within the framework of the G-24. After the signing of the agreement the Bulgarian and Swedish foreign ministers called a news conference, where they described the visit as an important step toward activating the bilateral contacts in all spheres. Most of the questions to the Swedish foreign minister pertained to Sweden's upcoming joining the European Union.
