FBIS3-33518 "drlat037__a94012" FBIS-LAT-94-037-A Document Type:Daily Report 24 February 1994 ANNEX Argentina National Monetary Council Reorganization Discussed PY1802021294 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 17 Feb 94 Business and Finance Section p 5 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY1802021294 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL Language: Portuguese and Finance Article Type:BFN [Article by Rodrigo Mesquita] [Text] Brasilia -- The government intends to review the structure and functions of the National Monetary Council (CMN), the financial system's main regulatory body. Nearly everything ranging from the closure of banks to intervention in financial consortiums, including state loans with federal guarantees is decided by the CMN. Central Bank [BC] President Pedro Malan said the economic team believes the CMN has suffered hypertrophy, and it wants to simplify it by transforming it into a forum for debates and the creator of norms and the main guidelines for the monetary policy and the financial system. The changes in the CMN should take place together with the process of the BC's independence, once a new special director is appointed so he can guide discussions about the reform in Congress. The CMN is made up of government and private sector representatives. Defense of the Currency The council's composition will not be changed. Private sector representatives will continue to participate but the CMN's priority will be to defend the currency by supervising the monetary policy and controlling the monetary base's expansion. The CMN is also one of the organizations that judges transgressions in the financial system. Bank directors, for example, can resort to the CMN to protest a prohibition determined by the BC. The judgment processes are slow and the sanctions, when they are issued, come with years of delay. The BC is considering making the CMN speedier. The CMN would, therefore, lose its jurisdiction over such matters. Control of the banks will remain a responsibility of a more independent BC. The economic team's objective is to mark the independence of the monetary authority when the monetary standard changes in Brazil. The strong currency defended by Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso implies an autonomous body to defend its strength. Malan hopes that the new BC directors with a fixed mandate will be defined by the end of the current administration.
