FBIS4-61636 "drsov089_b_94025" FBIS-SOV-94-089 Daily Report 6 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Investment in Russian Economy Continues To Fall Investment in Russian Economy Continues To Fall LD0605171194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1010 GMT 6 May 94 LD0605171194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Igor Ivantsov] [Text] Moscow, 6 May -- Investment in the Russian economy has continued to fall this year. During the first quarter of the year over 12 trillion rubles, originating from all sources of finance, was invested. But this was 28 percent less than the corresponding period last year, ITAR-TASS learned at the Russian Economics Ministry. State- and municipally-owned enterprises and organizations accounted for 59 percent of all investment and 45 percent of state investment. Last year the equivalent figures were 66 and 53 percent. About 50 percent of all this investment was spent on construction of production facilities. During the same period last year the equivalent figure was 65 percent. At the majority of the most important projects, financed from the federal budget, work is now at a virtual standstill. This is jeopardizing the fulfillment of this year's program for commissioning of the most important economic projects. The Economics Ministry experts say that this situation has been brought about by delays in financing projects from the budget and the failure to release preferential credit earmarked for investment. The situation with construction projects that are financed from local budgets or nonbudget sources is very difficult. Work on most of these has stopped, since subcontractors cannot continue work if they are not paid for what they do. The critical state of capital construction has had a negative impact on other spheres of the economy. During the first quarter investment in most sectors averaged about eight-10 percent of the target for the year as a whole. Foreign investment in the Russian economy remains at a low level. Such investment totalled more than 180 million dollars in the first quarter. This sum constitutes the authorized capital contributed to more than 1,300 joint ventures. However, direct investment of foreign capital actually injected into these ventures, including reinvestment and loans, is estimated at approximately 2.6 billion dollars since the beginning of this year.
