FBIS4-19565 "drweu076_n_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-076 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Sweden ABB Forms Joint Venture in Vietnam ABB Forms Joint Venture in Vietnam BR1904142794 Stockholm DAGENS INDUSTRI in Swedish 12 Apr 94 p 15 BR1904142794 Stockholm DAGENS INDUSTRI Swedish BFN [Agneta Engqvist report: "ABB Buys Leading Electrical Engineering Company in Vietnam"] [Text] ABB [Asea Brown Boveri] has gained a real head start through a strategic investment in Vietnam. The company is taking over one of the country's leading electrical engineering plants. This will be the first of at least five jointly owned companies over the next few years. "This gives us a real thrust," Ulf Rolander, ABB's managing director in Vietnam, said. According to ABB, this initiates a business that will reach an annual figure of 0.8 to 1.5 billion Swedish kronor [SKr] in Vietnam by the turn of the century. In practice, this means jobs worth hundreds of millions of kronor for ABB companies in, among other places, Finspang, Vaesteras, and Ludvika. ABB thus becomes a majority owner of a local Vietnamese company already showing a profit today. This will be the first jointly owned electrical engineering company in the country. A Dominating Position ABB takes 65 percent of the new joint venture company and the transformer company CTBT outside Hanoi takes 35 percent. CTBT has a dominating position on the market. The new jointly owned company is called ABB Transformers Ltd. The plant is to employ 600 people and produce power distribution transformers based on the most recent technology. It aims to become one of the three best of ABB's 30 plants in the world in this product sector in terms of cost efficiency, quality, and technology. "One of the tools, a low-cost piece of equipment, is already in place," Rolander explained. The plant will later add, among other things, medium-tension switch gears and power transformers to its product range. A Twofold Strategy ABB Vice President Goran Lindahl, in charge of the transmission and distribution sector, explained: "Our strategy focuses on two fronts: import of projects that attract favorable financial support from Sweden and other countries, and the creation of products with value added through local manufacturing, assembly, and engineering." This shared-risk enterprise sets a precedent, making it simpler to obtain funds from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), which often insist on local manufacturing as a condition. Development Subsidies ABB also hopes to get subsidies from SIDA [Swedish International Development Agency] and BITS [Agency for International Technical and Economic Cooperation], basing its argument on the fact that much of the project has to do with the supply of electricity to the population. The rate of energy consumption per capita in Vietnam is one of the lowest in the world. The sales volume of ABB's project is expected to reach between SKr0.8 and 1.5 billion in five years. Half the turnover is expected to come from local manufacturing and the other half from imports into Vietnam. This creates immense opportunities for ABB in Sweden, Finland, and Norway: Stal in Finspang with gas turbines, Vaesteras with signaling systems for railroads, and Ludvika with such things as high-tension switch gears.
