FBIS4-49026 "drchi084_v_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 TAIWAN Report Previews Taipei's Tariff Talks With U.S. Report Previews Taipei's Tariff Talks With U.S. OW2904094294 Taipei CNA in English 0744 GMT 29 Apr 94 OW2904094294 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Lilian Wu] [Text] Taipei, April 29 (CNA)--Vice Economic Affairs Minister Sheu Ke-sheng will lead a delegation to the United States next month to attend the second round of tariff talks between Taipei and Washington under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) framework. At the top of the agenda during the May 12-13 talks will be the size or Taiwan's tariff cuts, revisions to Taiwan's alcohol and tobacco monopoly system, government procurement agreements, and the opening of Taiwan's agricultural markets. In addition, sources said that the United States will soon submit a list of tariff requests for Taiwan's service industry. The U.S. is expected to ask Taiwan to open its transportation, telecommunications, banking, stock and futures markets. Economics Ministry officials said they hope the two sides will reach an agreement during the talks, which will then encourage other countries to hold bilateral tariff talks with Taiwan. The successful conclusion of Taipei-Washington talks will also facilitate Taiwan's bid to enter the world trade body, the officials said. After the first round of talks in Taipei, Taiwan agreed to reduce tariffs on some of the 699 farm and industrial products on a U.S. list within the near future. Other reductions will come later after revisions of related laws and regulations, according to the Board of Foreign Trade. Sheu will leave for the United States May 9. After the talks, he will travel to Geneva where he will attend the fifth meeting of the GATT working party responsible for reviewing Taiwan's bid to enter into the world trade body. Sheu is expected to hold tariff talks with Mexico and Canada during the meeting. Taiwan was granted GATT observer status in September 1992 and hopes to become a full member by the end of this year.
