FBIS3-10403 "drlat044_o_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Colombia Ministers Say `Democracy Plan' Guarantees Elections PA0703040794 Madrid EFE in Spanish 2302 GMT 6 Mar 94 PA0703040794 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Santa Fe de Bogota, 6 Mar (EFE) -- The Colombian Government today guaranteed that elections would be held on 13 March despite recent disruptions of public order. Government Minister Fabio Villegas Ramirez and Defense Minister Rafael Pardo Rueda both made statements to that effect. Defense Minister Pardo Rueda said the executive branch can guarantee that elections will be held thanks to the implementation of the "Democracy Plan." Effective today, at least 52,000 members of the Colombian Armed Forces will participate in the "Democracy Plan" to reinforce security at all strategic locations, political campaign headquarters, and public buildings. Many parts of the country that have experienced public order problems in the past few weeks will be given special protection. Minister Villegas urged Colombians to vote, noting that "the best way to face violence is by going to the polls, which will strengthen democracy." The Army, Air Force, Navy, and police force will participate in the "Democracy Plan." Defense Minister Pardo Rueda said "the rebels are not capable of stopping the elections. They are only trying to cause alarm and make their presence known through their barbaric actions." Pardo Rueda added that guerrilla actions during the past few weeks, such as placing mines in agricultural areas, "have been irrational." The defense minister admitted that the kidnapping of congressional candidates, mayors, and other leaders, along with clashes in some parts of the country, have disrupted public order. Nevertheless, the government "has not had to postpone or cancel elections anywhere in the country," he added. Colombians will go to the polls on 13 March to elect 163 representatives and 100 senators. In addition, the Liberal Party will hold a consultation to choose its candidate for the May elections among seven presidential hopefuls.
