FBIS4-26291 "drchi119_a_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Seoul Prepares for Possible Inter-Korean Summit Seoul Prepares for Possible Inter-Korean Summit OW2006052294 Beijing XINHUA in English 0434 GMT 20 Jun 94 OW2006052294 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Seoul, June 20 (XINHUA) -- South Korean President Kim Yong-sam today ordered government departments to begin thorough preparations for a possible summit meeting between the two sides of the Korean peninsula. Kim gave this directive following a ministerial meeting related to the unification of Korea, presided over by Deputy Prime Minister and National Unification Board (NUB) Minister Yi Hong-ku here Monday [20 June]. Seoul has proposed to Pyongyang to meet on June 28 to prepare for the summit, which will be the first in half century. Chances for an inter-Korean summit are at an all-time high with the top leaders of South Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) agreeing in principle to the meeting. Kim Yong-sam accepted the proposal by DPRK President Kim Il-song through the mediation of former United States President Jimmy Carter last Saturday. Carter was in South Korea and the DPRK from June 13 to 18 in "a private capacity" and exchanged views with Kim Yong-sam and Kim Il-song respectively on the Korean situation, including the nuclear issue in the DPRK. Kim Yong-sam, upon hearing of Kim Il-song's wish to meet with him at any time, anywhere, without pre-conditions, and at an early date, told Carter that he will accept the offer "without any hesitation." The South Korean Government has begun comprehensive preparations for this meeting by forming a working-level task force headed by vice-minister of the national unification board, Song Yong-tae. His group is making a variety of preparations, and is engaged in discussions to gather more details such as the time and place for the summit meeting. Observers here said that barring any unexpected developments an inter-Korean summit is likely to occur in the near future. It would be the first in the half-century of national division on the Korean peninsula. The nuclear dispute and other major issues existing between the two sides could then be discussed, providing historic momentum toward progress in inter-Korean relations, the observers added.
