FBIS3-26453 "drchi026_l_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-026 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Feb 1994 Science & Technology Reports on Xichang Satellite Launching Center Renovation Complete OW0702140394 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0940 GMT 5 Feb 94 OW0702140394 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By Central People's Broadcasting Station reporter Su Kuoshan (5685 2368 0810) and XINHUA reporter Zhou Zhifang (0719 1807 2455)] [Text] Xichang, 2 Feb (XINHUA) -- On the eve of Chinese Spring Festival, good news comes from the depth of the Dalian Mountains -- a large-scale technological renovation project for introducing high and new technologies to the Xichang Satellite Launching Center has been accomplished. Many overall testings conducted by scientific and technological personnel show that the renovated launching facilities can launch various kinds of carrier rockets and that China has enhanced its capability in conducting overall testings for satellite launches. Established in the early seventies, the Xichang Satellite Launching Center has conducted 12 satellite and rocket launches, thus making important contributions to China's aerospace undertakings. To meet the need of launching new types of telecommunications satellites by China's new types of carrier rockets, the Xichang Satellite Launching Center -- with great support from dozens of scientific research and manufacturing units across the country -- conducted a large-scale technological renovation in 1993 by using modern technologies to upgrade launching command, control, and telecommunications systems, enabling real-time command of carrier rocket and satellite launching to become even more modernized. By adopting internationally advanced computer technology, the ability of the center's computers in collecting and handling data has been greatly increased and their stability and reliability have been remarkably improved. The commanding display system becomes more quick, visible, and accurate, thanks to the use of advanced audio-visual image formation and transmission technologies. Scientific and technological personnel took one year to accomplish more than 100 important renovation projects including the launching tower system, the propellant injection system, and the testing environment for rockets and satellites. The renovated tower system is equipped with multiple functions, and its supplementary facilities have been improved. The low-temperature propellant utilization system shows that China has made new progress in the technological fields of increasing the propulsive force of carrier rockets and saving energy. The improvement of the quality of artificial environment for testing satellites and rockets can meet domestic and international requirements for launching various kinds of satellites and enhance the ability of China's aerospace industry to compete in the international market.
