FBIS4-40608 "drsov118_a_94028" FBIS-SOV-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS UN To Be Asked To Give Iraq `Trial Period,' Then End Embargo UN To Be Asked To Give Iraq `Trial Period,' Then End Embargo PM1706192794 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA in Russian 18 Jun 94 p 1 PM1706192794 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA Russian BFN [Report by Dmitriy Kulik under the "Foreign News" rubric: "Iraq Waits for Zero Hour"] [Text] For the last six months Smolensk Square has been awash with rumors that Russia will support lifting the embargo against Iraq. Moscow is concerned for the fate of the $7.5 billion which it has lost owing to the embargo. The United Nations decided to clarify just what the thinking is on this score in Moscow, and dispatched Rolf Ekeus, executive chairman of the special commission for the disarmament of Iraq, to us. Addressing journalists at a briefing, Mr. Ekeus kept repeating phrases like "we have destroyed, closed, mothballed, and dismantled".... Unfortunately, the UN representative carefully side-stepped the problems of proffering aid to the impoverished civilian population of Iraq. "The question of lifting the embargo on Iraq has been actively whipped up in Russia of late. Have you noticed changes in the Russian approach to this question?" -- We couldn't stop ourselves from asking this. Obviously, the guys in the Kremlin and on Smolensk Square are in resolute mood, as, in his reply, Mr. Ekeus merely mentioned general humanitarian values, saying not a word about Russia's position. The situation was clarified by a high-ranking staffer from the Foreign Ministry. He reported that, in contacts with the Iraqis, the Russian leadership is demanding a "softening" of their approach. Moreover, Russia intends to propose that the United Nations give Iraq a chance in the form of a six-month trial period. If in this time Baghdad "behaves in a civilized manner," then matters will move on to lifting the embargo. Nor can one forget about the ships containing equipment worth tens of millions of dollars from Russia, destined for Iraq, which, it emerges, have been moored in the harbors of Persian Gulf states for three years already, waiting for its hour to come. Judging by information from Mr. Ekeus and the Foreign Ministry, this hour may come as early as this year.
