FBIS3-10835 "drlat049_t_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Venezuela Riots, Strikes Continue in Merida for Sixth Day PA1103204794 Caracas EL UNIVERSAL in Spanish 9 Mar 94 p D29 PA1103204794 Caracas EL UNIVERSAL Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Innac Asdrubal Romero] [Text] Merida, 8 Mar -- More student demonstrations took place here and transportation service continues to be at a standstill for the sixth consecutive day. To make things worse, demonstrators threw rocks at a police patrol vehicle after unsuccessfully trying to set fire to it. During the morning there were protests in several parts of the city which later turned into riots. The police repelled the demonstrators with tear gas, while students wearing face masks threw rocks and other hard objects. Near the junior high school in the northern section of the city, several groups attacked police patrol vehicle 181. After unsuccessfully trying to set fire to it, they stoned the vehicle. Several demonstrators were hurt. Alejandro Zambrano, a student who was charged with burning a bus, was released. This was in response to the demands made by another student. Nevertheless, police still had to use tear gas to disperse the demonstrators. Merida is without transportation for the sixth consecutive day. Transportation union leaders say they are unable to work due to the lack of security, as they find the government unwilling to come to their aid. National Transportation Strike The National Transportation Federation called a 48-hour strike for Thursday and Friday, because the Ministry of Transportation and Communication has not responded to their demands. The demands include changing the preferential student fare to half price. The strike is nationwide. In the predawn hours the strike will be regional, which means there will be no transportation service in Merida or in the interior of the state. Police sources reported that masked demonstrators looted a trailer truck loaded with cosmetics on Monday.
