FBIS3-21522 "jptac003___94025" JPRS-TAC-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Arms Control 7 March 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Local CW Issues PM2402161594 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 2020 GMT 18 Feb 94 PM2402161594 Moscow Russian Television Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Vesti" newscast: Video report from Saratov Oblast by I. Deryugin and Ye. Gerasimenko, identified by caption; figures in brackets denote broadcast time in GMT in hours, minutes, and seconds] [Text] [202502] Echoes of the press scandal and legal proceedings concerning chemical weapons which have taken place in the capital can be heard also in our region, especially since one of this sector's main facilities is located right here. I am referring to Shikhany. The veil of secrecy shrouding the local military test range and two institutes involved in the development of chemical weapons in the past has been slightly lifted. However, this does not mean that fewer questions are now being asked among either the local population or the military themselves as regards the range of problems concerning chemical weapons. Reports about alleged flareups of skin diseases and other allergies, attributed to the proximity of the dangerous chemical facility, which periodically appear in the local press are rebutted by the military. However, an independent expert medical and ecological study is constantly being put off. And where should the money for such a study come from when there are no funds even for maintaining the GITOS [as heard, expansion unknown], the Shikhany institute which used to develop chemical weapons in the past and has been devising techniques for their destruction in recent years. As from the beginning of February the institute staff have been sent on indefinite, unpaid vacation. The absence of a clear state program for the destruction of chemical weapons and the uncertainty about the Shikhany facilities' participation in this process cannot but spawn new rumors and add tension to the situation. [202614] [video shows extensive views of interior, exterior of Shikhany facilities]
