FBIS3-10279 "drlat043_i_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 Nicaragua Changes Proposed To End FSLN Violence, `Caudillismo' 94CA0071A Managua EL NUEVO DIARIO in Spanish 4 Feb 94 p 4 94CA0071A Managua EL NUEVO DIARIO Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Article by Reinaldo Antonio Tefel] [Text] If we listen to the language that the political factions of Sandinism and other parties use, we notice right away that they agree on the need to democratize party programs and structures. This is positive because it offers the hope that party unity can be preserved through a convergence around several items in our program. Regrettably, however, three basic divergences underlie the formation of the factions within Sandinism: violence or public spirit, elitism or equality, and single-person leadership or collective, democratically monitored governance. The first two divergences are reflected in parallel articles by Julio Lopez Campos and Dora Maria Tellez, who are well-known representatives of two factions. Violence or Public Spirit Whereas Dora Maria Tellez gives this categorical reply to the journalist's question: "All methods of struggle are valid, except the armed struggle and (of course) every violent form of struggle," Julio Lopez, while ruling out armed struggle as an immediately viable option, says this about violence in the social struggle: "If this is called violence, then we on the left cannot be against it." We in Nicaragua have been immersed in the subculture of violence, exclusion, and annihilating victory over one's adversaries. For the first time in our history the FSLN [Sandinist National Liberation Front] achieved peaceful change from a ruling political movement to one of a different kind. We are obliged historically and morally to continue the democratic process of dialogue that we ourselves began. Sandinism must annihilate not our adversaries but rather the culture of violence, and we must begin by banishing it from our minds and behavior in public and party life. What happened to the UNO [National Opposition Union] must not happen to us. Because the UNO stubbornly locked itself up in the culture of violence by demanding the overthrow of the government because it failed to annihilate the Sandinists, it disintegrated as an alliance thanks to the good sense of a major segment of its defunct core. Elitism or Equality Julio Lopez affirms his faith in democracy, only to contradict himself later by upholding the elitism that has crippled and destroyed so many revolutions. In this regard he says: "But our party cannot be a party in which all members are equals. We must acknowledge the merits of the unselfish and self-sacrificing." I ask myself: Who will decide who is unselfish and self-sacrificing? Only the people, through transparent elections, can so decide. Dora Maria is categorical once again in describing the democratic nature of the FSLN: "...eliminate the categories of affiliate and activist and leave a single one for all: member." Without at least relative equality there can be no democracy. Major political, economic, social, and cultural differences often prevent true democracy, or at least hamper it. Can a democratic-revolutionary party build elitism into its party structures? Would it be truly democratic? Would it be truly revolutionary? Single-Person, Authoritarian or Collective, Democratic Leadership On this point I am no longer talking about the two aforementioned articles but rather about the entire Sandinist political debate and actual events, inasmuch as the proponents of the first approach are not very explicit. We all agree that the National Directorate (DN) has already played its historic role; it even accepts a change of name. Nonetheless, there is a well-organized movement to transfer the pre-eminent position and powers that the DN had to a specific post: secretary general. The argument then runs that this individual must be elected directly by the Congress in order to strengthen the post and raise it above the collective leadership bodies. Although it is not being said expressly within Nicaragua's presidentialist, caudillo-dominated political atmosphere, this would mean creating a single-person, authoritarian leadership as an organizational fact. Underlying this approach is the mistaken belief that revolution is synonymous with authoritarianism, that strongly autocratic leadership is needed. This belief is at odds with history, because authoritarianism or caudillismo swamps a revolution. The French Revolution lost its democratic, republican direction with Bonapartism, and the Russian Revolution bureaucratized socialism and blinded democracy with Stalinism. This is why many of us have called for a collective, democratic leadership: the Sandinist Assembly, with its own Governing Board, as the highest legislative body, representing the Congress, and the 25-member Sandinist National Council as the executive body that reports periodically to the Sandinist Assembly. In order to aid the functioning of the National Council, which will meet monthly, it will elect from among its members a Standing or Executive Commission of seven national secretaries who will report monthly to the National Council. The first of these secretaries will, of course, be the secretary general or political secretary, who will have important, specific functions but not predominant ones, and will not be above the other party structures. This will ensure truly effective and democratic operations and leadership, inasmuch as the Standing Commission can be responsive and dynamic and, at the same time, will be overseen by the National Council under which it functions and of which it is a part. We must remember that for many years the FSLN boasted of having a collective leadership. Although it was a top-down leadership, it did not consist of a single individual. We must develop and bring up to date the positive aspects of Sandinist history and denounce our own mistakes. Only in this way will we be able to become the democratic party of the great majority of the Nicaraguan people. 31 January 1994
