FBIS3-60695 "jptnd002___94023" JPRS-TND-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 18 January 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA EGYPT Columnist Asks U.S. To Rid Mideast of Nuclear Weapons NC1012164393 Cairo AL-AKHBAR in Arabic 6 Dec 93 p 2 NC1012164393 Cairo AL-AKHBAR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [``Comment'' column by Sayyid Mustafa: ``The Nuclear Contradiction''] [Text] In his speech before the UN General Assembly on 27 September, U.S. President Bill Clinton said that one of the most urgent priorities of U.S. policy in a post-Cold War world is the need to confront the spread of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons of mass destruction. He discussed the possibility that over 10 countries have such weapons and that there is a danger the number could increase, creating instability in various regions. The United States is trying hard to apply this policy in many places. The world is currently witnessing an escalation between the first power in the world and North Korea. This escalation has reached the level of threats of war or threats to wage abortive attacks if Pyongyang does not adhere to the agreement on placing nuclear weapons under international supervision. We also notice a strict tone when U.S. officials discuss the nuclear capacities of countries such as Pakistan, Iran, and Iraq as well as their special abilities to produce weapons of mass destruction. Often, U.S. officials shy away from answering questions on Israeli nuclear power and its effect on stability in the region. A few days ago, State Department Spokesman Michael McCurry said he needs preparation to answer such a question. In a news conference at the U.S. embassy in Cairo, Frank Wisner, undersecretary of defense for policy, said, concluding his recent visit to Egypt, that there is a confusion of positions when North Korea's nuclear power and Israel's nuclear force are discussed. His only justification for this confusion was that Israel has not signed the nonproliferation treaty and that North Korea is threatening its neighbors. The atmosphere of peace into which the region is moving badly needs this nuclear contradiction or policy of double standards applied in one area and forgotten in another to end. Washington needs to take effective measures and work together with countries in the region to rid them of the nightmare of total annihilation. Egypt, on an initiative by President Husni Mubarak to rid the region of weapons of mass destruction, was at the front of this field. The United States needs to adopt such constructive initiatives for peace to reign in the world of the new order.
