FBIS4-12812 "drnes072_v_94002" FBIS-NES-94-072 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 Pakistan Wrapup of Reports on Visit of Iranian Parliamentary Speaker Wrapup of Reports on Visit of Iranian Parliamentary Speaker Meets Leaders From Afghanistan LD1104195194 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 1630 GMT 11 Apr 94 LD1104195194 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Excerpt] Leaders and representatives of Afghan mojahedin based in Pakistan met and conferred with Majles Speaker Nateq-Nuri at the Iranian Embassy in Islamabad today. The meeting was also attended by Sebqatollah Mojadadi, the leader of the National Salvation Front, and Pir Seyed Ahmad Gilani, the leader of the National Islamic Front, and representatives of other Afghan mojahedin groups. Nateq-Nuri was informed of the latest developments in Afghanistan and the stances of Afghan groups. Those present called on Iran to take part in resolving the Afghan crisis. The Majles speaker gave a speech at the meeting, stressing that the Islamic Republic of Iran cannot be indifferent toward the events in Afghanistan. He said: Iran is prepared to participate in resolving the Afghan crisis. But the Afghan groups must demonstrate their good will. He added: During talks with the Pakistani authorities decisions were made about the serious participation of Iran and Pakistan in resolving the Afghan crisis, which will be acted on when conditions are ripe, provided the warring groups are ready. Nateq-Nuri also called for the shedding of factional and sectarian prejudices in Afghanistan. He warned: If a foreign power gains a foothold in the domestic affairs of Afghanistan the 14-year struggles of the Afghan mojahedin will be lost. He called for an end to the conflict under the banner of Islam's teachings. He said: The Islamic Republic of Iran will not begrudge any assistance in the establishment of security and an Islamic government in Afghanistan. After the meeting, the Majles speaker met and conferred with Wasim Sajad, the speaker of Pakistan's Senate. [passage omitted]
