FBIS3-100 "drafr040_b_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 EAST AFRICA Kenya Election Commissioner Warns Against Violence EA2802182594 Nairobi KNA in English 1505 GMT 28 Feb 94 EA2802182594 Nairobi KNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Nairobi, 28 Feb (KNA) -- The chairman of the Electoral Commission Mr. Zacheus Chesoni has warned outsiders out to unleash violence in Lugari constituency to keep off and give the constituents a chance to elect their own representative. Mr. Chesoni said that the constituency had no past history of violence and blamed outsiders, some of whom he said are members of Parliament, for introducing insecurity in the area. He at the same time reminded voters in the constituency to exercise their democratic rights of choosing their member of parliament without fear or intimidation. Mr. Chesoni, who was addressing a press conference in his office today, appealed to all the political parties and their supporters to restrain themselves from any acts of violence for the remaining electioneering period. He said that voting takes place as scheduled, on 3 March 1994 from 6:00 AM to 6:00 PM and said that time will only be extended in polling stations which opened late. He told all the election officials taking part in the by-election to be fair and impartial and warned that anybody found interfering with the election process will be prosecuted. He assured the voters that the commission will liaise with the police commissioner to ensure that adequate security is provided during and after the by-election. To avoid cheating, Mr. Chesoni said that only original national identity cards will be used and told those who might have lost their identity cards to keep off the polling stations. Asked whether there will be any foreign observers during the by election, Mr. Chesoni said that the British and American embassies have indicated their willingness to send their political counselors as observers on the voting day. He took issue with a local daily for criticizing the commission's decision to increase polling stations in the constituency and explained that the decision was only made to encourage more voters to turn up. He was accompanied by commissioners Samuel Kivutu and the deputy chairman, Mr. Mwathani Mbaka. [Nairobi DAILY NATION in English on 28 February on page 1 adds the following: "Heavily armed police clashed with Forum for the Restoration of Democracy [FORD]-Kenya supporters yesterday at Malava, Kakamega District, when a district officer tried to stop acting FORD-Kenya Chairman Kijana Wamalwa from opening a local party office. The paper said no-one was injured in the `pushing and brawling', during which it said the crowd shouted anti-government slogans."]
