FBIS3-11475 "drlat055_m_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 Brazil Federal Police Arrest Italian Mafioso in Rio de Janeiro PY2203034894 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO in Portuguese 17 Mar 94 p 19 PY2203034894 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] Vicenzo Buondonno, a 37-year-old Italian and member of the Mafia, was arrested on 15 March by agents from the Maritime, Air, and Border Police Precinct (DP-MAF) of the Federal Police. The warrant for his arrest was issued by the Federal Supreme Court at the request of the Italian Government, which has filed for his extradition. Buondonno, who is linked to the Camorra of Naples, was in charge of receiving drugs from other South American countries and shipping them to Europe as part of the so-called "Spaghetti Connection." Buondonno, known as Enzo, is the son of Rosario Buondonno, one of the leading members of the Camorra. Edson Antonio de Oliveira, Federal Police director for Rio de Janeiro, reported that Buondonno had been spotted in Rio de Janeiro four months ago. He was subsequently kept under surveillance by the police until the warrant for his arrest was issued. The mafioso was arrested when he was going to his apartment on 26 Barata Ribeiro Street, in the Copacabana district. The three Italians who accompanied him were released after being questioned by the Federal Police. Buondonno is one of the owners of the Baroni-Fasoli Restaurant located on Jangadeiros Street, in the Ipanema district. De Oliveira stated that Italian Mafia members "launder" drug money through their chains of restaurants -- hence the name "Spaghetti Connection." The Federal Police also discovered that Buondonno has links with at least two other Italian Mafia members -- Humberto Amaturo, who broke away from the Brasilia Federal Police but was recaptured in Bolivia, and Marco Pugliese from the Sacra Corona Unita, who was taken into custody in Rio de Janeiro. Because of the friendship between Buondonno and Pugliese the police are investigating the possibility of Italian Mafia groups having joined forces to facilitate drug trafficking. Buondonno may have something to do with the murder of Roberto Farina, one of the owners of the jewelry shop at the Copacabana Palace Hotel, who was killed in 1991.
