FBIS4-18288 "drweu064aa_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-000 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 IAEA: DPRK Could Be Isolated by Nuclear Stance IAEA: DPRK Could Be Isolated by Nuclear Stance AU0104150294 Paris AFP in English 1435 GMT 1 Apr 94 AU0104150294 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Bucharest, April 1 (AFP) -- North Korea's unwillingness to allow inspections of its nuclear installations could leave the country very isolated, the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA] warned in the Romanian capital Friday [1 April]. "Without nuclear transparency, there will not be confidence in the outside world, and I'm sure isolation will increase if there is a lack of confidence in their nuclear programme," IAEA director general Hans Blix said Friday at a press conference during a four-day visit to Romania. The warning, the latest during a long standoff on the issue, came after the UN Security Council Thursday urged Pyongyang to allow international inspections of suspect nuclear facilities, saying the Vienna-based IAEA should report back on compliance. Foreign observers fear that the country, one of the last hardline communist regimes, is developing a military nuclear capability under the cover of its energy programme. Blix said that if North Korea responded favourably to the UN request, he was ready to take up inspections again if they could be carried out in a "thorough" manner. "I hope they will be ready to do it," said Blix. Allowing IAEA access was not a "privilege" to the Agency but a "service" to the country which would allow it to dispel suspicions, he added. During a mission at the start of March, IAEA experts were stopped from taking samples at a radiochemical laboratory in Yongbyon, around 100 kilometres (60 miles) from Pyongyang. In Tokyo, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe dismissed North Korea's attitude over inspections of its nuclear installations as "unacceptable." Juppe, who raised the issue in talks with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, told a press conference that Pyongyang's attitude was "unacceptable and greatly increased the risk of (nuclear) proliferation."
