FBIS3-55062 "drsov004_m_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Jan 1994 CENTRAL ASIA Tajikistan Prime Minister Outlines `Three Important Tasks' LD0501170294 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1131 GMT 5 Jan 94 LD0501170294 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] In an exclusive interview with INTERFAX, the republic's Premier Abdulmadjid Samadov said that Tajikistan's government had three important tasks to be solved in the short term. The first was to conclude the republic's entering the ruble zone as soon as possible, which would facilitate surmounting of budget deficit which at present totals 95 Bn [billion] rubles. The premier mentioned the necessity to widely use market structures in the economy, trading of enterprises which are on the brink of bankruptcy as the government's second task. According to his estimate, there are dozens of bankrupt enterprises in all branches of the national economy already and their existence is problematic without additional state allocations. These are primarily the Tajik aluminium factory, the Vakhsh nitric fertilizers factory and several other large sites. The third task is to increase the republic's authority in the world community against the background of political and economic transformations. This will give a real opportunity to receive investments in the economy. According to Samadov, a $500 million credit would enable the republic's economy to develop without worsening the living standards of the local population. "In 1994 we shall be experiencing rather painful political processes linked with the discussion and adoption of the new Constitution, a nation wide referendum on the state system and further elections of a new parliament," said Samadov. He mentioned social security of certain categories of the population, primarily pensioners, families with many children, invalids and students, as one of the priority tasks of the government. Tajikistan's present government, a country within the CIS, takes the obligations of the previous cabinet, indicated Samadov. As far as priorities in the cooperation with other countries are concerned, we cannot but mark the role of Russia and Central Asia countries, primarily Uzbekistan, said the prime minister. In his words, Tajikistan is inclined to cooperate with the West. "We must not forget that the nation's mentality adheres to the Moslem religion," emphasized the premier and said that Dushanbe pays great attention to its relations with Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia.
