FBIS3-4337 "drchi060_v_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 TAIWAN Economic Minister's Vietnam Visit Aims at Expanded Ties OW2603090994 Taipei CNA in English 0647 GMT 26 Mar 94 OW2603090994 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Y. C. Tsai] [Text] Taipei, March 26 (CNA) -- Economic Affairs Minister P. K. Chiang left for Vietnam Saturday [26 March] in a new effort to promote bilateral trade ties. He will first visit Ho Chi Minh City and then proceed to Hanoi Sunday. Chiang said prior to his departure that he will meet with Vietnamese officials on issues involving agriculture and investment cooperation during his four-day visit. Taiwan farm experts are looking to giving a helping hand to Vietnam in such fields as aquaculture, ocean fishing, forestation, and hog-raising, while the government's international economic cooperation development fund is considering providing soft loans for Vietnam's farm mechanization projects, he elaborated. On investment ties, he noted, one major concern is runaway land prices caused by Vietnam's new land law, which became effective late last year. Construction of an industrial complex exclusively for Taiwan investors in Hanoi has been delayed because of the land price increase. Chiang added that state-run Taiwan Sugar Corp., I Mei Foods Co. Ltd., and King Car Food Industrial Co. Ltd. will enter into a joint venture with two Vietnamese sugar companies at the end of this month. President Enterprises Corp. is also mulling a food investment project in the Indochinese country. The minister also pledged that he will consult with Vietnam's financial officials on the application by the Medium Business Bank of Taipei to open a branch in Hanoi. The bank submitted the application to the Hanoi government last May. Currently, the International Commercial Bank of China has a representative office in Ho Chi Minh City and the Cathay Investment and Trust Co., Ltd. maintains a branch in Hanoi. Other Taiwan banks including Chiao Tung Bank, the first Commercial Bank, Chang Hwa Commercial Bank, the Farmers Bank of China, and Chinatrust Commercial Bank are also gearing up to follow suit. Meanwhile, Chiang said he will discuss an agreement to avoid double taxation and an accord on a temporary import system in order to facilitate bilateral trade relationships. Two-way trade between Taiwan and Vietnam totaled US$589.3 million in the first 11 months of 1993, with Taiwan enjoying a surplus of US$311.1 million. Taiwan was the largest foreign investor in Vietnam at the end of 1993 with 117 investment projects totaling US$1.53 billion.
