FBIS3-59704 "jpjst001__l94001" JPRS-JST-94-001L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan Development of Fuel Cell Technologies 7 January 1994 Development of Fuel Cell Technologies An Economic and Industrial Overview 43070018A Tokyo JAPAN 21st in English 1 Nov 93 p 15 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 43070018A Tokyo JAPAN 21st Language: English Article Type:CSO [Text] At present the Japanese economy continues along an adjustment phase and while there were indications in early spring of a partial recovery, after that the economy continued to remain flat. Although the business diffusion index (coincident index) stayed above the ``boom or bust'' threshold of 50% for the three months from February to April, in May the index fell considerable below this level. In terms of production and employment trends, there is a strong possibility that the figures for June and July will also fall below this level. While production in June increased when compared to the previous month, the level was low and even the inventory cycle shows signs of a mild recession. Employment conditions continue to deteriorate and individual consumption is sluggish, for the most part. Moreover, machinery orders (private demand), a leading indicator of capital spending, are as weak as ever. On the other hand, housing investments continue to recover and investment in public utilities is also firm. Industrial Activity The index of industrial production for June (preliminary reports) increased 1.3% compared with the previous month. On an industry specific basis, all industries except plastic goods and mining had increases. The index of producers' shipments increased 2.1% compared with the previous month. Although iron and steel, plastic goods and mining were down, all other industries had increases. Because inventories of iron and steel, general machinery and transport machinery increased, the index of producers' inventories rose 0.4% compared with the previous month. However, because the increase in shipments exceeded this, the index of the producers' inventory ratio fell 1.2% during the same period. The forecast index of industrial activity (seasonally adjusted) has forecast that production will increase 0.1% in July compared to the previous month and fall 0.9% in August for the same period. Capital Spending Looking at concurrent indicators, the June index of capital goods shipments (excluding transportation machinery) increased 3.0% over the previous month, mainly for general-use steam turbines and compressors. According to leading indicators, in June machinery orders (private demand excluding that for ships and electric power) only had a mild increase of 0.8% overall compared with the previous month because even though the manufacturing industry (up 12.0% compared with the previous month) had increases (mainly for electronic and communications equipment), the non-manufacturing sector (down 6.6% during the same period) declined. Construction orders (private sector) in June were down for both the manufacturing industry (down 50.0% compared with the previous year) and the non-manufacturing industry (down 17.8% during the same period) and as a result there was an overall decline of 24.7% compared to the previous year. This was the 15th consecutive month of decline. Housing Investment Comparing the number of housing starts in June to those of the previous year we find that while rental units declined for the second consecutive month, owner-occupied units had their first upward shift in three months while subdivided units also had large increases for the second consecutive month. This resulted in an overall increase of 4.1% compared with the previous year, for a total of 134,000 starts (seasonally adjusted annualized rate of 1,447 thousand units). (A breakdown of the raw (unadjusted) figures shows: 49,000 owner-occupied homes, up 3.8% from the previous year; 60,000 rental units, down 1.2% during the same period; 3,000 subsidized housing units, down 16.0% during the same period; and 22,000 subdivided units, up 26.6% during the same period.) Consumption According to household surveys, in May nominal consumption expenditures by all households fell 1.1% compared to the same period the previous year (real expenditures decreased 1.8% during the same period), the first decline in three months compared with the previous year. A breakdown of these results shows that the only three items of expenditure which had increases were light and heat, water and insured medical treatment and that, with the exception of cultural entertainment, which remained flat, all other items had declines. In particular, sundry and housing expenditures declined dramatically. By household category, worker households' consumption expenditures decreased by 0.5% compared to the previous year while general households' consumption also had a decrease of 2.3% for the same period. In June total sales by large retail outlets declined 3.5% over the previous year (down 4.8% after adjusting for the number of branches). This was the eleventh consecutive month of decline. Reflecting the unseasonable weather, sales of summer gifts had a slow start and the slump in sales of summer clothing continues, particularly for men's clothing. On a sector specific basis, department store sales fell 7.6% during this period (clothing down 7.7%, food and beverages down 5.1%, others down 9.3%) and supermarket sales increased 1.2% during the same period (clothing up 0.7%, food and beverages up 2.0%, others up 0.6%). Still, supermarkets are down 1.2% compared with last year after adjusting for the number of stores. Employment Looking at the employment situation for June (preliminary reports), the index of regular employment for all industries remains unchanged when compared with that of the previous month. The demand for labor continues to show signs of easing and the effective openings-to-applications ratio fell 0.07 points compared to the previous month to 0.74. In addition, at 2.50% the total unemployment rate was 0.02 percentage points lower than that of the previous month. Overtime hours for the manufacturing industry decreased 2.1% compared to the previous month (12.0 hours/month).
