FBIS4-50290 "drchi095_n_94009" FBIS-CHI-94-095 Daily Report 13 May 1994 Economic & Agricultural New Law To Set Minimum Wage, Pay Scales New Law To Set Minimum Wage, Pay Scales HK1305065694 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 13 May 94 p 1 HK1305065694 Beijing CHINA DAILY English BFN [By Cao Min: "Wage Law To Adjust Pay Scales"] [Text] The government is stepping up work on a wage law that will set up a national minimum wage and standardize industry pay scales. Speaking yesterday at a national conference in Beijing, Labour Minister Li Boyong stressed the need to reform the wage and wage distribution system. "A market economy does not preclude macro-economic control by the government," Li said. In the first half of this year, the country's pay rolls are expected to grow 25 per cent over the same period last year, the minister said. The draft of the wage law includes 10 chapters covering pay scales, minimum wage, payment, wage disputes, insurance and supervision. It says the State will control all wage-related issues through laws, macro-economic means and administrative measures. According to the draft law, wage distribution must follow four principles: -- Wage levels should rise based on economic development; -- Pay should be given based on work done; -- Priority must be given to efficiency and fairness; -- Equal pay for equal work. Based on the country's economic growth, unemployment, prices and investment, the government will also establish references for enterprises when they decide their staff's wages. The minimum wage is to be determined after consultation with representatives from local government, trade unions and enterprises. It is expected to be more than the local poverty relief ceiling but less than the current wage level of the average worker, according to the draft law. Shanghai, Guangdong and Fujian already have minimum wage laws. The four-day conference will cover labour reform, changes in calculating labour statistics and information, and medium- and long- term goals for the ministry.
