FBIS3-25305 "drafr031_c_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Right-Wing Leaders Reportedly Oppose Homeland Proposal MB1202155594 Johannesburg BEELD in Afrikaans 10 Feb 94 p 2 MB1202155594 Johannesburg BEELD Language: Afrikaans Article Type:BFN [Report by Gert van der Westhuizen] [Text] Most right wing leaders yesterday rejected a proposal providing for a right-wing homeland. However, Koos Botha, Independent MP for Wonderboom, said that Afrikaners must grab this opportunity because they will not get a "volkstaat" [Afrikaner homeland] any other way. Some time ago, the government and the ANC [African National Congress] proposed to the Afrikaner National Front [AVF] that self-determination, with the possibility of a homeland, could be added as a 34th principle of the new constitution. Botha reckons that this proposal offers the only sensible solution. "Afrikaners who are really serious about a volkstaat would then be able to indicate in the election exactly how strongly they feel about this idea." He said that a volkstaat cannot be attained through a war. "How are Afrikaners going to make war in a country where in any given region they are in the minority?" The chairman of the Afrikaner Freedom Foundation [AFF], Professor Carel Boshoff, said that the AFF believed from the start that a volkstaat had to be entrenched in the constitution. However, according to Boshoff, Afrikaners' participation in the election on the basis of this proposal is linked to further negotiations relating the minimum demands of the Freedom Alliance [FA]. "If the principle of a volkstaat is acceptable to the constitution, then there is no reason why the FA's minimum demands can also not be part of it." Boshoff said it would be of no use trying to determine the geographic region for a volkstaat through a referendum as the vote of the Afrikaner will be in the minority throughout the whole country. HNP [Reformed National Party] leader Jaap Marais rejected the proposal. According to him it is a cunning trick by the government and the ANC to get the Afrikaner to go to the ballot box. "This is the one thing that we must not do. By doing so we will be lending legitimacy to the election and deprive ourselves of the moral right to any future civil uprising." He says it is ridiculous to expect the Afrikaner to go and live in a volkstaat while the whole country belongs to him. Boer State Party leader Robert van Tonder said the Afrikaner could not win anything by participating in the election. "We can only lose everything. Participation will cause dissension in right-wing ranks." Boer Resistance Movement leader Andrew Ford branded the proposal a "farce" that was part of the "communist strategy."
