FBIS4-41360 "drsov122_f_94015" FBIS-SOV-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 National Affairs Meshkov Says MP's Embarked on `Road of Confrontation' Meshkov Says MP's Embarked on `Road of Confrontation' LD2406002494 Kiev UNIAR in Ukrainian 2055 GMT 23 Jun 94 LD2406002494 Kiev UNIAR Ukrainian BFN [Text] Simferopol, 23 June -- The session of the Supreme Council of Crimea continued its work. The deputies considered a series of decrees by the president of Crimea on transferring the property of the Republic of Crimea under the jurisdiction of the government. The majority of the deputies criticized these decrees saying that they go contrary to the legislation of Crimea and Ukraine. Crimean Communists' leader Leonid Hrach accused Crimea's President Yuriy Meshkov of his desire to "pay for the victory at the elections with the property of Crimea and involve people in a war among the mafia clans." On the other side, Crimea's President Yuriy Meshkov and his supporters at the Supreme Council demanded that the members of parliament "fulfill people's will," that the decrees be approved and no obstacles be put in the way of the executive authorities. The proposed variant of the resolution did not receive the sufficient number of votes during the voting and was sent to be wored up. After this the deputies considered the draft law "On the Fulfillment of the Constitution and the Laws of the Republic of Crimea." The discussion of this issue evoked a negative response on the part of Yuriy Meshkov. Since the draft law seriously restricted the plenary powers of the president of Crimea, Yuriy Meshkov declared that part of the deputies had an intention "to embark of the road of confrontation between the Supreme Council and the president." During the voting this draft law also failed to receive the sufficient number of votes and was sent to be worked up. Afterwards the deputies adopted "a resolution on measures to stabilize agriculture in Crimea in 1994 and 1995 and on the program for reforming the agro-industrial complex of Crimea." A commission was formed at the session to study the issue on the status of the city of Sevastopol. At the end of the sitting a whole number of deputies criticized president Yuriy Meshkov for his tactlessness and insults to the deputies during the session. The next sitting of the Supreme Council of Crimea will take place on 29 June.
