FBIS4-30292 "dreas123_c_94011" FBIS-EAS-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 North Korea KCNA Denounces ROK Party Chairman's Remarks KCNA Denounces ROK Party Chairman's Remarks SK2406082694 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0432 GMT 24 Jun 94 SK2406082694 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["War Clamour Against Dialogue"--KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, June 24 (KCNA) -- Kim Chong-pil, chairman of the South Korean "Democratic Liberal Party", recently showed up at an army unit on the forefront along the Military Demarcation Line and blared that if a war broke out he "would fight on the front even as a private second class." And the words "preparedness" and "resolution" came from "a meeting of main commanders" of the puppet army. Commenting on this, NODONG SINMUN today brands this as an agitation of war against dialogue. The analyst says: Now the fellow countrymen in the North and the South and the whole world are hailing the opening of the road of a peaceful solution to the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula through dialogue. At this moment, Kim Chong-pil and other war-thirsty elements of South Korea drove to the forefront along the Military Demarcation Line and incited confrontation and war. This is an intolerable challenge to the entire compatriots and the world peaceloving people. Kim Chong-pil is the man who bartered away the interests of the nation to the aggressors who had forced colonial slavery upon the Korean people by playing the leading role in the conclusion of the South Korea-Japan "agreement." If the traitor Kim Chong-pil is a Korean, how could he sell off the interests of the nation to outside forces and can seek today a fratricidal war which would lead to national destruction. Such bellicose elements as Kim Chong-pil must be removed, if the war danger is to be averted on the Korean peninsula and the reunification question be solved peacefully. Should the South Korean war-likers persistently follow the road of war, creating new obstacles to the dialogue, they will only meet their destruction.
