FBIS4-25267 "drchi110_q_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-110 Daily Report 6 Jun 1994 Southwest Region Tibet Stresses Training in Science, Technology Tibet Stresses Training in Science, Technology OW0706120594 Lhasa Tibet Television Network in Mandarin 1200 GMT 6 Jun 94 OW0706120594 Lhasa Tibet Television Network Mandarin BFN [Announcer-read report from the "Regional News Hookup" program] [Text] Since the promulgation of the PRC Law on Regional National Autonomy a decade ago, Tibet has attached importance to training nationality cadres in the scientific and technological [S&T] field. Of the entire region's 28,000 scientific and technological cadres, over 17,000, or 62 percent, are Tibetans and other minority nationalities. Currently, Tibet has built up a S&T force that consists of mainly Tibetans, the region's new force in economic and educational development. In the past decade, the Tibetan party and government at various levels, as well as organization and personnel departments, have shown earnest concern about the growth and progress of nationality cadres in the S&T field. By conducting educational activities through various means and channels, they actively created conditions to upgrade the professional quality of S&T personnel of Tibetan and other minority nationalities. First, short training classes were held. In accordance with the educational standards of S&T personnel as well as development in modern science and technology, experts and professors of S&T departments and institutes of higher learning were employed to conduct training classes or special lectures in Tibet. Second, personnel were sent out of the region for further study. In the past few years, a group of S&T personnel was selected for further study in institutes of higher learning or for inspection and study tours in other countries and regions. Third, nationality S&T personnel were given responsibilities in key S&T research projects, and exchanges and cooperation in academic studies were frequently held to upgrade their research and academic standards in application. In the past few years, the regional party committee and government at various levels, as well as organization and personnel departments, have done practical work for Tibet's nationality cadres in the S&T field despite a severe fund shortage. Funds for S&T cadres were utilized to support scientific research, thereby creating conditions for submission of reports and appraisals of S&T achievements. Constructions of offices and housing were quickened and efforts were made to improve the personnel's working and living conditions. The region certified the qualifications of 324 veteran Tibetan intellectuals that were obtained before 1959. Currently, our region's S&T force is stable and young, with 44 Tibetans and other minority nationalities aged below 40 holding high-ranking positions, mainly in medical, animal husbandry, and social science departments. They are proficient in the Chinese language and possess fairly high professional standards. In the past decade, the number of Tibet's nationality S&T personnel has grown by 20 percent annually. Tibet has trained a national S&T force that possesses specific strength and is full of dedicated spirit and patriotic enthusiasm.
