FBIS3-12210 "drnes039bb_94003" FBIS-NES-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Inter-Arab Affairs Israel's `Procrastination' `Unacceptable' NC2802103594 Cairo MENA in Arabic 0950 GMT 28 Feb 94 NC2802103594 Cairo MENA Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] Cairo, 28 Feb (MENA)--Arab League Secretary General Dr. 'Ismat 'Abd-al-Majid has described the resolutions adopted by the emergency meeting of the Arab League Council last night as all-encompassing and comprehensive, revealing a united Arab stance that is rallying to condemn last Friday's ugly massacre in the Ibrahimi Mosque in Hebron in the occupied West Bank. In statements today, Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid said the Arab League Council resolutions are a message from the Arab League to Israel and the international community, clarifying that prevarication, procrastination, and Israel's nonrespect for the dates agreed upon have become unacceptable in the Arab world. He stressed that the Arab countries are seeking to achieve a comprehensive and just peace to create stability in the Middle East. He noted that peace is not only an Arab interest, but an Israeli one too. He said the Arabs want a just peace based on withdrawal from all the occupied Arab territories in accordance with the resolutions of international legitimacy and based on recognition of the Palestinian people's legitimate rights. Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid went on to say that the Hebron massacre again highlighted the Arab stance that demands Israel's withdrawal from the occupied Arab territories, stressing that the Arab countries are not in a weak position, because justice is on their side. He noted that the Palestinian intifadah activated the recent peace process and hastened the Madrid conference and the Washington peace talks. The Arab League secretary general also stressed the importance of the Jerusalem issue. He said it has top priority in the negotiations and the Palestinian and Arab sides are determined to retrieve it. [passage omitted]
