FBIS4-54497 "dreeu084_d_94008" FBIS-EEU-94-084 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 SLOVAKIA Five Right-Wing Parties Consider Forming Bloc Five Right-Wing Parties Consider Forming Bloc AU2904200394 Bratislava SLOVENSKY DENNIK in Slovak 27 Apr 94 p 1 AU2904200394 Bratislava SLOVENSKY DENNIK Slovak BFN [Article by "var": "United by Closeness"] [Text] Bratislava--Representatives of the National Democratic Party, the Christian Democratic Movement, the Democratic Union of Slovakia, the Democratic Party, and the Party of Entrepreneurs and Tradesmen of the Slovak Republic met in the National Council of the Slovak Republic yesterday. They discussed the possibilities of forming a united right-wing bloc before the coming parliamentary elections. The parties agreed that, while being divided by their past, they are united by the closeness of their programs. The most hotly debated issues were the possible formation of a single electoral ticket, the possibilities of other parties joining in, and the formation of a bloc of civic accord [blok obcianskej dohody]. The parties are interested in the votes of their electoral base not getting lost. At the time of our going to press, the meeting of right-wing and liberal parties continued. [Bratislava SME in Slovak on 27 April on page 1, under the headline "Meeting of Representatives of Five Political Parties," carries the following "sl, dos"-signed report: "Representatives of five political parties of the center and the right met in Bratislava yesterday. The TA SR published a report, according to which the meeting resulted in the formation of a preelection coalition--the Bloc of Civic Accord. According to our information, this report caused commotion among those present because the talks were still in progress at the time of its release. The attending parties--the Christian Democratic Movement, the Democratic Union of Slovakia, the Democratic Party, the Party of Entrepreneurs and Tradesmen, and the National Democratic Party--discussed their cooperation in the election campaign."]
