FBIS4-19124 "drweu072_e_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Commons Supports More Air Strikes Against Serbs Commons Supports More Air Strikes Against Serbs PM1304140294 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 13 Apr 94 p 9 PM1304140294 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH English BFN [George Jones report: "Air Raids May Not Be Over, Says Major"] [Text] Mr Major gave warning yesterday that NATO would launch more air strikes against Bosnian Serbs if they continued attacking safe areas such as Gorazde. "Close air support will remain available to UN commanders. They will be able to call on it again if they consider it necessary," the Prime Minister told the Commons. "There will be no loss of nerve here or, I hope, anywhere else." Speaking during Question Time, he said he hoped the Serbs would learn a lesson from what had happened "so that further use of close air support is unnecessary." Mr Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, stressed that UN forces were not taking sides. "They do not intend to be drawn into open-ended intervention for or against any of the parties. But the international community will not tolerate attacks on Unprofor (UN Protection Forces), and attacks on the safe areas must cease," he said. The NATO air strikes received all-party backing, though some MPs were concerned that Russia had not been consulted in advance. Mr Hurd said in a statement that he was in touch with Mr Andrey Kozyrev, the Russian Foreign Minister "about the important Russian role in this effort." He later said: "If you're going to take air action of this kind...it has to be done quickly. This took 44 minutes between the request and the action. It is precisely because of the need for speed that both the UN and NATO agreed procedures which allowed for speed. That of course, did not mean that member states could be consulted in advance." Mr Jack Cunningham, Labour's foreign affairs spokesman, said Labour accepted the strikes were authorised by the UN Security Council but questioned why it took two weeks to act. Mr Paddy Ashdown, the Liberal Democrat leader, said the air strikes were necessary to support the authority of the UN and for the protection of UN peacekeepers. He said the West must keep its nerve, maintain its military determination and increase diplomatic pressure.
