FBIS3-21234 "jpjst011__l94031" JPRS-JST-94-011L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 27 January 1994 Aerospace Russian Aerospace Industry Bureau Director Stresses Joint Passenger Aircraft Development 94P60115A Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 27 Jan 94 p 15--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94P60115A Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] Aerospace Industry Bureau Director Neymark of the Russian Federation Committee, has been invited to Japan by the Society of Japanese Aerospace Companies, Inc. (SJAC) (Chairman, Fuji Heavy Industries President Isamu Kawai). He emphasized the importance of Japan-Russia exchange in the area of commercial aircraft development at a press interview on 26 January at a hotel in Tokyo. First he mentioned the status of the Russian aircraft industry in which non-military demand is increasing rapidly, while military demand has dropped from 70% of the total in 1989 to 25% today. ``It is possible to develop jointly with Japan on a wide scale, including everything from smaller 100-seat aircraft to larger 500-seat aircraft,'' he added. He said ``the Russians do not have enough information as of now'' to be able to judge at exactly which technological level the Japanese aircraft industry is. However, he expressed high expectations in onboard electronic equipment to which sophisticated electronic technologies have been applied. Prior to the press interview, the Director paid a courtesy visit to MITI's Aircraft and Ordnance Division of the Machinery and Information Industries Bureau and proposed wide-ranging technical exchanges including joint basic research efforts. SJAC had signed a memorandum of understanding concerning four items during their delegation's visit to Russia in May 1993. They include: 1) information exchange and evaluation on joint commercial aircraft development; 2) invitations to Russian aircraft industry officials. The visit by Director Neymark to Japan this time was arranged as part of that MOU.
