FBIS4-63599 "drsov100_a_94031" FBIS-SOV-94-100 Daily Report 23 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS ROK President Previews Upcoming 1-4 Jun Visit ROK President Previews Upcoming 1-4 Jun Visit LD2305165794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1637 GMT 23 May 94 LD2305165794 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Ivan Zakharchenko] [Text] Seoul May 23 TASS -- The upcoming Russo-South-Korean summit will primarily confirm the fact that constructive and mutually complementing relations of partnership already exist between our two countries, said South Korean President Kim Yong-sam in an interview to Russian journalists accredited in Seoul. The South Korean president spoke in the run up to his official visit to Moscow scheduled on June 1-4. He pointed out that thanks to summit talks "the sad past will remain in the past" and be replaced by a new epoch of friendship and cooperation. The two countries have become important partners in the process of mutual cooperation in various fields, including economy, culture and security. The president said that he believes that his forthcoming visit to Russia will enable to strengthen friendly relations between the two countries. Russia plays an important role in South Korea's diplomacy, politics and security since strengthening ties between the two countries is necessary for security on the Korean Peninsula, where confrontation remains since the times of the Cold war, and for the creation of a basis for Korea's peaceful unification and ensuring peace in north-east Asia, the Korean president said. He pointed out that for over 110 years since diplomatic relations were established in 1884 when a Russo-Korean trade agreement was signed, there have been many twists in bilateral relations, but for a short period of time, beginning from 1990, bilateral relations developed steadily both politically and economically. Sharing common values, the two countries are going along the way of developing new relations of partnership, friendship and mutual assistance. The president expressed the hope that after his visit the relations between the two countries will become stronger. The president went on to say that for economic cooperation, South Korea and Russia should seek to rely on the principle of mutually complementing each other as much as possible. Kim Yong-sam pointed out that an efficient use of Russia's advanced technologies and natural resources and Korea's industrial technologies and economic experience will enable the two countries to strengthen their competitiveness on the international market. The Korean president admitted that for various reasons South Korean businessmen had failed to penetrate into Russia on a large scale. However, he expressed the hope that his visit would promote the expansion of Korean investments into Russia, and in particular, in Russia's Far Eastern regions. Bilateral trade between Russia and South Korea has been steadily on the rise since 1992, and this year, the volume of bilateral trade is expected to reach 2 billion dollars, the Korean president said. He pointed out that during his meeting with Boris Yeltsin the two sides will discuss projects for further development of cooperation, including in such spheres as environmental protection and construction.
