FBIS4-60141 "drnes099_n_94006" FBIS-NES-94-099 Daily Report 21 May 1994 LEBANON Reaction to al-Dirani Seizure Reported Reaction to al-Dirani Seizure Reported Mufti Stresses Resisting Occupation NC2105153594 Beirut Radio Lebanon in Arabic 1300 GMT 21 May 94 NC2105153594 Beirut Radio Lebanon Arabic BFN [Text] On the occasion of the blessed 'Id al-Adha, spiritual leaders delivered several sermons today. They explained the significance of the 'Id and stressed the need for unity and adherence to national principles. Shaykh 'Abd-al-Amir Qabalan, deputy chairman of the Higher Shiite Islamic Council and chief Ja'farite mufti, called for national unity to confront conspiracies. He stressed the importance of resistance as long as the Israeli occupation continues. He said: The south and Western al-Biqa' continue to be the chief concern, and suffering is growing as a result of the Israeli acts of aggression, which burn the land, threaten the infrastructure, and displace the people. This is a recording of an excerpt from Mufti Qabalan's speech: [Begin recording] What kind of solutions does Israel want? It wants us to surrender. It is asking us for the Israeli corporal [navigator Ron Arad], so why do we not ask it for Shaykh 'Abd-al-Karim 'Ubayd? It is asking us for the corpses of the Israeli soldiers, so why do we not ask it for our live detainees in its prisons? It is demanding that we stop resistance, so why do we not demand that it withdraw from the south and Western al-Biqa'? Israel wants everything, and if it wants to give something it does so through a dispenser, drop by drop. Therefore, we tell the kin and brothers that we have to demonstrate solidarity and deal with each other honestly, sincerely, amicably, and respectfully. We tell them to avoid hatred and tension. Israel does not differentiate between a fighter and a non-fighter, between the inhabitants of the border strip and the inhabitants of al-Biqa', or between northerners and southerners. It views every Arab and Muslim as an enemy that must be annihilated. [end recording]
