FBIS3-34850 "drnes032_p_94003" FBIS-NES-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 SOUTH ASIA Afghanistan Hekmatyar Faction Blocks Aid Convoys to Rival Groups NC1502203894 Paris AFP in English 1954 GMT 15 Feb 94 NC1502203894 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Islamabad, Feb 15 (AFP) -- The Hezb-e Eslami [Islamic Party] faction of Afghan Prime Minister Golboddin Hekmatyar has decided to block humanitarian aid convoys to parts of Kabul controlled by its opponents, sources said Tuesday. Ustad Saeed [name as received], who represents the Hezb in Peshawar, Pakistan, said no convoy would be allowed "to travel to military bases," but three markets had been opened for civilians in those parts of the capital controlled by the faction or its allies. The decision to stop aid going to areas controlled by former defence minister Ahmed Shah Masood follows a warning by the United Nations that some 200,000 people in the capital face famine after weeks of fighting. Saeed said the move came after accusations that supplies recently brought in by an International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) convoy were distributed to Masood troops. The ICRC has denied the claim saying that the distribution of supplies to the population remained at all times under its control. An ICRC convoy carrying medical supplies was turned away from Kabul Sunday and had to return to Jalalabad in the east, according to a journalist from the French newspaper, LE FIGARO, who was travelling with the convoy. The journalist also said that Hekmatyar had told him in an interview that he was determined to set up a complete blockade of the capital. Analysts said the blockade was aimed at either causing a mass evacuation of the centre of Kabul by civilians or to push the population into a revolt against President Borhanoddin Rabbani and Masood. Several UN trucks are waiting in Jalalabad for permission to travel, a UN source said. The Hezb controls the main road between Pakistan and Kabul as well as the southern approach to the city along the Logar highway.
