FBIS3-37367 "drsov032_b_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Shakhray's Elevation Seen as Face-Saving Measure MK1502110094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 15 Feb 94 p 2 MK1502110094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Larisa Yevtushik: "Minister Joins Government Presidium. Sergey Shakhray Has Obtained Special Status"] [Excerpts] Sergey Shakhray, who has yet again performed a balancing act between a boost or a fall in his career, has won once more. He appears not only to have strengthened his position in the reformed government, but also to have secured a special status among his executive branch colleagues: Last weekend Boris Yeltsin issued an edict elevating Sergey Shakhray to the Council of Ministers Presidium. Your KOMMERSANT-DAILY correspondent was told at the Council of Ministers press service that the government presidium is made up of Viktor Chernomyrdin himself and his deputies. Their weekly meetings on Thursday are considered presidium sessions. Now the only "regular minister" -- Sergey Shakhray, chief of the ministry for nationalities and regional policy -- will attend the meetings as a full member. Not long ago Sergey Shakhray complained to journalists that the most urgent problems, such as talks with Chechnya and Tatarstan, have been resolved without him. According to Shakhray, he obtained a copy of the draft bilateral treaty with Kazan only after he publicly expressed his bewilderment in that regard for the umpteenth time. Sergey Shakhray, who has repeatedly said that he personally and his Party for Russian Unity and Accord [PRES] support Viktor Chernomyrdin, was nonetheless ready to quit unless the minister for nationalities and regional policy was given special status, because the situation in this area requires him to have the broadest possible powers to resolve the most sensitive matters. Given that Boris Yeltsin has been disapprovingly viewing "all those Shakhrays" setting sights on the presidential office, and that the new structure does not envision the post of nationalities minister/deputy Council of Ministers chairman, one could surmise that Shakhray's days in the cabinet were numbered. But this time around, as has already been the case a number of times, it turned out that the high echelons of power cannot do without this man, who has worked in the hottest spots of political activity. [passage omitted] It cannot be ruled out that Sergey Shakhray, who knows his way around legal rules and office relations perfectly well, may have himself proposed the compromise way out of the situation to the president and the prime minister (who had said, as a matter of fact, that he would not accept anyone's ultimatums when the issue was Boris Fedorov). His joining the presidium -- a body not envisioned by the constitution -- elevates the minister's status and enables him to take part in decisionmaking on matters concerning his ministry. At the same time, this step does not require the president to amend his edict on the structure of the Council of Ministers or to introduce yet another post of deputy prime minister above the quota, as was the case with Anatoliy Chubays. Understandably, such an appointment would only have intensified talk about Boris Yeltsin's inconsistency, something which does not add authority to presidents.
