FBIS3-459 "drafr045_c_94017" FBIS-AFR-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC's Mbeki Outlines Party's Foreign Policy Aims MB0403171394 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1635 GMT 4 Mar 94 MB0403171394 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by P. Bulger] [Text] Johannesburg March 4 SAPA -- An African National Congress [ANC] government would downplay South Africa's role as a regional power in southern Africa, ANC foreign affairs director Thabo Mbeki said on Friday. Mr Mbeki was presenting a discussion paper, Foreign Policy in a Democratic South Africa, to members of the media and diplomatic corps at the World Trade Centre in Kempton Park. The document outlines South Africa's likely international orientation after the April elections. Rather than projecting itself as a regional power, South Africa would emphasise co-operation as defined in agreements with fellow southern African nations. It would attempt to address the marginalisation of the African continent in the world economy and would join the Organisation of African Unity. "Closer regional co-operation and economic integration after apartheid will benefit the entire region," the document says. "A democratic South Africa should explicitly renounce all hegemonic ambitions in the region. It should resist all pressures to become the regional power at the expense of the rest of the sub-continent. Instead it should seek to become part of a movement to create a new form of economic interaction in southern Africa based on principles of mutual benefit and interdependence." South Africa would contribute to conflict resolution mechanisms and peacekeeping in Africa. South Africa would also take part in discussions about the United Nations and would support efforts to "democratise" that body by giving traditionally less powerful nations more scope and influence. The foreign policy document stresses South Africa's role in promoting human rights around the world. South Africa would actively involve itself in international forums in pursuit of this goal. An ANC government would foster links with the Islamic community of the Middle East and follow international law and practice in its relations with Asian countries. Relations with the European Community would be emphasised as well as bilateral relations with individual European countries. Diplomatic ties would also be established with Cuba. "We believe that Cuba's right to self-determination is important in the maintenance of international norms and principles," the document says. It notes its concern at the failure to finalise the Uruguay Round of talks on the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT) and says this could lead to damaging protectionism among the northern countries. On the UN, the document says: "We support endeavours to democratise the UN. This entails reviewing the brief of both the General Assembly and the Security Council." On security, the document says South Africa will sign the Geneva Convention and protocols and will be committed to resolving disputes peacefully. South Africa would actively support non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. South Africa would return to the Commonwealth. A new foreign service would be established independent of party political considerations. "We will immediately take steps to ensure that, within a reasonable period, the diplomatic corps will be fally representative of South Africa's people," the document notes.
