FBIS4-13843 "drnes079_s_94013" FBIS-NES-94-079 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 Iran NATO's `Belated Ultimatum' on Gorazde Viewed NATO's `Belated Ultimatum' on Gorazde Viewed NC2404084694 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0345 GMT 24 Apr 94 NC2404084694 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Commentary by News Research and Commentary Group] [Text] The NATO ultimatum to the aggressor Serbs has expired. Yet, even though they continue their attacks on the city of Gorazde and its oppressed residents, the UN emissary in Bosnia-Herzegovina has announced that Serbs have promised to withdraw a few kilometers away from Gorazde and there is no need for a NATO attack on Serb positions. Political analysts believe that the United Nations and Western countries are turning a blind eye to the Serbian atrocities and the announcement of a belated ultimatum by NATO--for political and propaganda purposes--highlights the fact that no justice can be expected from the current international system. It is because of the intrinsically Western bias of this system that it has an anti- Islamic stance. The implementation of the UN resolutions on Iraq to chastise that country for its occupation of Kuwait while turning a blind eye to Serbian atrocities in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Zionists in Palestine proves that with such policies the West and the United Nations--with their leniency toward noncompliance with UN resolutions in these regions--not only do not prevent the continued humanitarian catastrophes but actually facilitate their continuation and proliferation. It is for this reason that the Islamic world should seek an alternate measure from the United Nations and the West to halt this savage and brutal onslaught. Even though activity outside the current international system is very difficult, and the subservience of some rulers of Islamic countries to the powers of world arrogance detracts from cooperation among Islamic countries, the continuation of the present state of affairs is not possible, especially when the Islamic world is witnessing a human catastrophe daily. Political analysts believe that the Muslim people realize the above facts now more than ever before because of the sorrowful events in Bosnia-Herzegovina and that most Islamic countries also understand this reality. In such a climate, planning and coordination on the popular and official levels among Islamic governments is essential. The upcoming hajj season is one of the most important things that can be used to attain such lofty objectives and to impart its true meaning to the hajj.
