FBIS3-15802 "drsov047_a_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Rybkin, Deputies Meet Clinton, Gore LD1003094794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0851 GMT 10 Mar 94 LD1003094794 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Pavel Vanichkin and Vitaliy Chukseyev] [Text] Washington March 10 TASS -- The Russian parliamentary delegation led by parliament speaker Ivan Rybkin had meetings with U.S. President Bill Clinton and Vice-President Albert Gore at the White House on Wednesday [9 March]. Vladimir Lukin, chairman of the committee on international affairs of the State Duma (lower house of the Russian parliament), told ITAR-TASS about the meetings. The meeting with the U.S. President was a short one, Lukin noted. The president welcomed the delegation and promised to do his best to help develop relations between the U.S. Congress and the Duma. The meeting with the vice-president was more detailed, Lukin continued. Gore praised the first steps by the Duma and its chairman to create a climate for coordinated legislative work and for national reconciliation. The sides discussed a wide range of econonmic relations between the two countries. "Describing positively the work of the intergovernment Russian-American commission co-chaired by Gore and Viktor Chernomyrdin, we pointed, at the same time, to several pressing economic problems," the committee chairman said. Russian legislators stressed that America would make the best contribution to Russian reforms not by counselling but by opening its markets, at least for several years, for Russian goods. "The vice-president agreed, in principle, with our position, noting that the U.S. Administration is now working on this issue," Lukin added. The sides also discussed urgent politial questions. The vice-president noted that Americans sometimes painfully react to some events in Russia, regarding them as manifestations of nationalism and imperial aspirations. According to Gore, the point in question is some aspects of the Russian policy towards former Soviet republics. Lukin said that the Russian lawmakers assured Gore that such worries are groundless, since Russia is more preoccupied not with conquering anybody but with ensuring basic human rights for all people living in those republics. According to the committee chairman, legislators told the vice-president that Russia does not intend to be a superpower, challenging America everywhere in the world, since "we have many mutual interests". However, delegation members told Gore that Russia does not want to be a satellite or a second-rate power and that it has its own interests. The vice-president agreed with this point, admitting that, indeed, some people display excessive nervousness over unimportant issues and that it is necessary to work calmly, looking for common interests.
