FBIS4-15168 "drsov067_d_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-067 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 Regional Affairs Chuvash President, Tatar VP Sign Treaty Chuvash President, Tatar VP Sign Treaty 944F0539B Kazan IZVESTIYA TATARSTANA in Russian 5 Apr 94 p 1 944F0539B Kazan IZVESTIYA TATARSTANA Russian CSO [Chuvash-Tatarstan communique] [Text] A meeting between N. Fedorov, president of the Chuvash Republic, and V. Likhachev, vice president of the Republic of Tatarstan, was held on 1 April 1994 in Cheboksary. Having discussed the state of economic, cultural, and scientific and technological relations with one another, the parties reached the conclusion of the need for their reinforcement and development by way of conclusion of a bilateral friendship and cooperation treaty. During discussion of the social and political and economic situation in the Russian Federation the parties supported the reforms based on the principles of democracy, justice, and law that are being implemented. The role of the treaty between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Tatarstan of 15 February 1994 and the [line illegible] and reform of Russia was emphasized in this connection. The parties believe that all contentious matters on the territory of the Russian Federation should be resolved exclusively by peaceful methods, on the basis of negotiations. The president of the Chuvash Republic supported the proposal of the vice president of the Republic of Tatarstan concerning the creation in Kazan of a Eurasian Center for International Cooperation. In their examination of humanitarian issues the parties observed that the official policy being pursued in the Republic of Tatarstan and the Chuvash Republic was geared to unconditional respect for human rights in accordance with international standards. The president of the Chuvash Republic and the vice president of the Republic of Tatarstan presented an initiative for the elaboration in Cheboksary under the aegis of UNESCO of an international project aimed at the preservation and development of the cultures and languages of the peoples of the Volga-Urals region. V. Likhachev, vice president of Tatarstan, invited N. Fedorov, president of the Chuvash Republic, to pay an official visit to the Republic of Tatarstan. The president of the Chuvash Republic invited M. Shaymiyev, president of Tatarstan, to pay an official visit to the Chuvash Republic. The invitations were gratefully accepted. The meeting was held in an atmosphere of friendship and mutual understanding. The text of the communique was drawn up in Chuvash, Tatar, and Russian. [Signed] N. Fedorov, president of the Chuvash Republic V. Likhachev, vice president of the Republic of Tatarstan
