FBIS4-61862 "drsov091_b_94019" FBIS-SOV-94-091 Daily Report 11 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military & Space Issues Grachev Seen at Risk in Possible Reshuffle Grachev Seen at Risk in Possible Reshuffle MK1105073094 Moscow MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS in Russian 11 May 94 p 1 MK1105073094 Moscow MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS Russian BFN [Dmitriy Kholodov report: "Star Fall at the Beginning of Summer?"] [Text] The Defense Ministry caused a scandal on the eve of the holiday. Your MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS correspondent was not allowed to attend a festive press conference, in which the minister listed the Russian Armed Forces' accomplishments in the two years since their creation. This is how the Defense Ministry's Identify Friend or Foe system operates. And this despite the fact that Pavel Grachev himself has repeatedly asked in his press conferences: Where is such and such MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS correspondent, why has he not arrived?! There is no wish to say anything at all -- this is just awful, that's all. In addition, to all appearances the Defense Ministry is bracing for drastic changes just around the corner. Observers do not rule out that the reshuffle may affect even the minister. Reports about Boris Yeltsin's consultations on the subject with Andrey Kokoshin and Yevgeniy Shaposhnikov proved to be not entirely groundless. Having signed the "civil peace" agreement with his opponents, the president appears to have decided to exploit the respite to deal with the most "powerful" of all the power ministries following the special services reform. The president's plans may have been prompted not so much by his disagreements with General Grachev on the Ukrainian issue, but by his wish to see rather a diplomat than a troop commander as his defense minister. If the CIS is to be substantially strengthened, an enterprise on which the president is clearly inclined to embark presently, the clever and subtle Generalissimo Menshikov [Tsar Petr the Great's lieutenant] is preferable as a right-hand man than Marshal Zhukov.
