FBIS3-45295 "drchi011_b_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 United States & Canada Reportage on Visit by Former President Bush Sino-U.S. Ties Stressed OW1501062894 Beijing XINHUA in English 0615 GMT 15 Jan 94 OW1501062894 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 15 (XINHUA) -- Chinese President Jiang Zemin told visiting former U.S. President George Bush today that although China and the U.S. have differences, the two sides should work to improve their bilateral relations. "This is in the interests of world peace and development, and accords with the wishes of the people of China and the U.S. as well as of people throughout the world," Jiang said. He continued by saying that great changes have taken place in China since bush lasted visited Beijing, almost five years ago. A stable, developing and prosperous China is not only in line with the interests of the Chinese people, but also with those of the people of the U.S. and the world at large, he said. It is impossible for China to have stability and development without world peace and development. On the other hand, world peace and development also need stability and development in China, Jiang said. Bush, on the second day of his five-day China tour, met with Jiang for more than one hour at Zhongnanhai, the residence of China's party and state leaders, in downtown Beijing. Jiang noted that both China and the U.S. are influential countries on the world scene, sharing extensive common interests and shouldering heavy responsibilities in safeguarding world peace and stability, and in working for development and prosperity. "Although differences exist between us," Jiang said, "in the final analysis Sino-U.S. relations should get better," Jiang said. Bush told Jiang that he was pleased to see the significant changes that have taken place in Beijing. He stressed that U.S.-China relations are "very, very important," adding that to safeguard and strengthen such ties accords with the common interests of the two sides. Present at the meeting were Chinese Vice-Foreign Minister Liu Huaqiu and General Brent Scowcroft, former assistant to the U.S. President for National Security Affairs. After the meeting Jiang and Bush had a brief walk in a small garden by Zhongnanhai Lake. Bidding farewell, Jiang told Bush: "As you are now free of the cares of office, you should often come to China." The smiling Bush replied that he would be glad to do so.
