FBIS4-47043 "jpusr065___94043" FBIS-USR-94-065 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 20 June 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Commission To Regulate Securities Market Commission To Regulate Securities Market 944E0924C Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI in Russian No 21, 22-29 May 94 p C7 944E0924C Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI Russian CSO [Article by Andrey Denisov: "A. Sobchak to the Securities Market: 'Regulate Yourselves!' A Regional Securities Commission Has Been Created in St. Petersburg"] [Text] Directive No. 317-R on the creation of the Securities Commission under the St. Petersburg Government was issued by Mayor Anatoliy Sobchak. According to this document, the main purpose of the new organ will be to develop a system of measures for regulating the securities market in St. Petersburg. First Deputy Chairman of the Government Aleksandr Kudrin was appointed chairman of the commission. The commission includes professional participants in the stock market and representatives of organs of executive power: the Government of St. Petersburg, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Main Administration of the Central Bank for St. Petersburg, and the Committee on Administration of Property. The participation of a representative of the Federal Counterintelligence Service is also being discussed. But, according to unofficial information, the Federal Counterintelligence Service itself is unwilling to establish this contact. The Securities Commission will work in sections, each handling "its own" segment of the stock market. General leadership will be provided by a board that will include an equal number of representatives of state organs and stock market professionals. The commission has been assigned the status of an advisory organ, but its authority is fairly broad: It has the right to organize inspections and bring in independent auditors; send materials to law enforcement organs for investigation; and publish prescriptions that are mandatory for execution by organs of executive power. The last shows how serious the need is for a normal, civilized stock market. And not just in the northern capital. Will others follow the St. Petersburg mayor who has made such a radical decision? Or will St. Petersburg be a "separate" oasis of civilization? The commission is now in its organizational period. Its structure, personnel, rights, and responsibilities are being clarified. We suggest that readers of MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI be kept informed of the work of the new organ.
