FBIS3-18830 "drweu046_e_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Editorial on Division in Tory Party Over Europe PM0803141894 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 8 Mar 94 p 22 PM0803141894 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Europe Won't Go Away"] [Text] The Foreign Secretary's speech last night to the Belgian Institute of International Affairs was billed in advance as a hard-hitting demand for curbs on the growing powers of the European Community. That, however, was for domestic consumption. The audience must have been struck by the mildness of both Mr Hurd's tone and his proposals. With the European elections rapidly approaching, nobody should be surprised by this apparent contradiction. The Conservatives remain as deeply divided over Europe as they were last summer at the height of the Maastricht debate. For reasons largely unconnected with Europe, the party faces heavy losses in the European polls. Mr Hurd is clearly seeking to ensure that the Tory campaign between now and June is not also the occasion for renewed public feuding within his own ranks. Considering the gulf between the federalist Tory MEPs [members of European Parliament] and the Euro-sceptics, he faces a difficult task. The recent row over the avowedly federalist manifesto of the European People's Party, with which the British Conservative MEPs are allied, shows how easily the European issue could once more blow up in the Prime Minister's face. The Conservative leadership hopes to defuse it before June by sticking to the lowest common denominator on all things European, and by attacking Labour as often as possible. This may get the Tories through the summer in one piece, but as a long-term strategy it is inadequate. The questions and problems of Europe will not go away. Ministers like to boast that the rest of the Community is coming round to the British way of thinking, but the evidence for this is thin. The Government has already been obliged to seek succour from the European Court to frustrate the Commission's attempt to impose a 48-hour working week, despite our Maastricht opt-out from the Social Chapter. The 1996 conference that will review the Maastricht treaty is only two years away. The rest of the Community will probably use this to demand that we revive the Exchange Rate Mechanism, pledge ourselves to an eventual common currency, and allow more powers to be transferred to the European Parliament. Before long, therefore, the Conservatives will once again have to consider these unwelcome issues. There is no doubt that the party in general is overwhelmingly Euro-sceptic, indeed if anything, this mood has hardened since the Maastricht debate last year. By fudging now, ministers may put off the day when they have to think seriously about Europe again, but they will not be able to avoid it indefinitely.
