FBIS3-5951 "dreas049_c_94014" FBIS-EAS-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 North Korea Japanese Involvement in Nuclear Issue Denounced SK1303083194 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0824 GMT 13 Mar 94 SK1303083194 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Foolish Attempt" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 13 (KCNA) -- It is a folly of the Japanese reactionaries to try to frustrate the third-round DPRK-USA talks when the day of its opening is drawing near, says MINJU CHOSON in a commentary today. The analyst notes: When the agreed conclusions reached at the DPRK-U.S. contact in New York was published the high-placed authorities of Japan made quite a noise as if the United States had made a big mistake, trying to attain their sinister purpose by poking their noses into the "nuclear problem" of the DPRK. Blaring that the "pressure for the inspection" of the military sites of the North of Korea "would increase", Japanese Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata a few days ago urged us to take "a measure to dispel the suspicion of nuclear weapon development". A ranking official of the Japanese Foreign Ministry said with malice that "a mistake in the North Korean problem will entail an irretrievable consequence." The Japanese reactionaries are also spreading through subsidized media the warning that if Japan cannot take a joint step with the United States in the "nuclear problem", the Japan-U.S. relations which show a lift with the collapse of economic negotiation will greet a more serious phase. Judging from the words and deeds of the Japanese reactionaries, they are craftily and viciously trying to deeply interfere in the "nuclear issue" of the DPRK by putting pressure on the United States, capitalizing on the "Japan-U.S. alliance" and the complex Japan-U.S. trade relations and break up the DPRK-U.S. talks. Japan has no ground or justification to meddle in the "nuclear issue" of the North of Korea. The Japanese authorities are kicking up an untimely row over it. This reveals their dark intention to justify their own nuclear armament. The Japanese authorities should not interfere in other's affairs, forgetful of their position, but give up their own reactionary scheme of nuclear armament.
