FBIS3-28589 "dreas026__a94010" FBIS-EAS-94-026-A Document Type:Daily Report 8 February 1994 ANNEX Japan Competition for PRC's Bullet Train Discussed OW0502024494 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 3 Feb 94 Evening Edition p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0502024494 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Report by Beijing correspondent Moriyasu Okazaki] [Text] It has been learned that China wants Japan to make the construction of a bullet train system between Beijing and Shanghai a key project in the next yen-based loans that will begin in 1996. During a recent visit to China by Tsutomu Hata, deputy prime minister and foreign minister, the two countries agreed to carry out a symbolic project of Japanese-Chinese cooperative relations, and this project could be a suitable project for fulfilling that agreement. But France and Germany are reported to be pulling ahead of Japan in selling the high-speed railway project to China. If China decides to adopt France's TGV [le train de grande vitesse -- high-speed train] system but to use yen-based loans, this will pose a difficult problem for Japan. The plan for the high-speed railway system envisages constructing an elevated railway 1,330 km long. Its train should be able to run at a maximum speed of 250 km an hour, thus reducing the travel time between Beijing and Shanghai to six to seven hours from the current 17 hours. The construction project will cost 800 billion to 1 trillion yen. A source familiar with Japanese-Chinese relations said that China has only presented an unofficial list of yen-based loan projects, and that the high-speed railway construction project is on this list. A problem is that Japan is considered to be behind other competitors in this project. The Chinese newspaper CHINA DAILY has reported that competition for it is intense and that France and Germany are ahead of other competitors. Because the yen-based loans are untied and are provided without strings attached, Japan in principle cannot complain even if China decides to build a French bullet train system using funds provided by Japan. But in Japan, there are people asking why it should provide huge yen-based loans to China, which is continuing its rapid economic growth, when Japan's own economy is experiencing a serious situation. Usually, the yen-based loan plan is prepared for a five- to six-year period. This time, however, Japan will prepare the new yen-based loan plan for a two- to three-year period, no doubt out of a desire to make the amount of financial assistance look smaller this way. But, in view of the principle of economical cooperation, there is no way for Japan to openly ask China to choose the Japanese bullet train system. It is possible to use a "clever move." For example, if Japan extends China technological cooperation from the stage of carrying out an economic feasibility study, this will mean carrying out the study using the specifications of the Japanese bullet train system, which in turn may lead to China's eventually choosing the Japanese system. In any case, Japan has no choice but to keep its fingers crossed. Depending on how one looks at it, this can be a good opportunity for Japan to roll back the competition. But, it is likely to be an issue which will cause some headaches.
