FBIS3-4427 "drchi061_t_94012" FBIS-CHI-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 Northwest Region Shaanxi Governor Makes Government Work Report HK1403072094 Xian Shaanxi People's Radio Network in Mandarin 0500 GMT 4 Mar 94 HK1403072094 Xian Shaanxi People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN ["Excerpts of Governor Bai Qingcai's government work report to the Second Session of the Eighth Provincial People's Congress," from the Special Coverage of the Second Session of the Eighth Provincial People's Congress -- read by announcer] [Text] In his government work report to the second session of the eighth provincial people's congress, Bai Qingcai said: This year, we should continue to do a good job in planned parenthood and environmental protection, and should augment land administration. Planned parenthood, environmental protection, and land administration are three basic national policies of China. It is imperative to strengthen the sense of population and the per capita concept, to include population control in the overall plan for economic and social development, and to adhere to grasping two categories of production simultaneously. It is imperative to earnestly implement the Shaanxi provincial regulations on planned parenthood, with the focus on doing a good job in rural birth control. It is necessary to continuously complete and perfect the responsibility system with population target control, which must be under the charge of the chief responsible leading member, who will bear the chief responsibility. The system of veto without a ballot in birth control must be implemented resolutely so as to guarantee the fulfillment of the province's 1994 population plan. Environmental protection has a direct bearing on economic and social development, and on people's physical well-being. It is imperative to adopt powerful measures to cure the worsening of the ecology; to adhere to the principle of harmonious development of environmental protection and economic construction; and to actively promote comprehensive urban and rural environmental improvement, with the focus on improving environmental pollution in Xian, Tongchuan, Yanan and the Northern Shaanxi Energy Resources Development Zone, so as to improve the environmental quality as quickly as possible. It is necessary to continue to augment environmental monitoring and control in order to avoid the surfacing of new sources of environmental pollution. It is necessary to improve the rate of handling industrial wastes, and to do a good job in protecting the sources of drinking water. We should further magnify control over land resources and property management, and promote the rational allocation of land resources. Farmland should be protected in a down-to-earth way; the use of land for other than agricultural purposes must be strictly controlled. It is necessary to actively promote institutional reform in the use of state-owned land; the state is to monopolize the first-grade urban land market, but will lift control over and standardize the second-grade land market. The system of assessing and making public basic land prices is to be established.
