FBIS3-28906 "dreas030_j_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 Indonesia Independent Union's Strike Considered `Failure' BK1202155294 Singapore THE STRAITS TIMES in English 12 Feb 94 p 2 BK1202155294 Singapore THE STRAITS TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Jakarta correspondent Paul Jacob] [Excerpts] Jakarta -- The independent SBSI labour union claimed partial success in rallying workers and supporters behind its call for a one-hour work stoppage across the country yesterday, but observers here considered the exercise a failure. The union said preventive action by the authorities -- including alleged intimidation of organisers and the detention of its chairman -- thwarted wider participation in the strike, called to demonstrate the extent of its support nationwide and its recognition as a trade union. The Sejahtera (Prosperity) Indonesian Trade Union (SBSI) was also calling for improved labour practices and higher wages. The authorities refused to recognise the union -- a rival of the government-backed SPSI [All Indonesia Workers Union] federation -- arguing that it was set up by human rights and labour activists not by workers themselves. The SBSI, which was aiming for the support of two million people, said feedback from its branches indicated that up to 750,000 took part. But observers, including diplomats and journalists regarded the action as a failure as response from workers did not appear to be widespread at least in Jakarta and the surrounding industrial towns of Tanggerang and Bekasi. Prayers by religious leaders at central Jakarta's National Monument in support of what was to be a peaceful stoppage from 8 am also did not take place. [passage omitted] The SBSI maintained that the number of members and sympathisers who took part in many places, including Solo, Medan, Lampung, and Surabaya, demonstrated the support it enjoyed nationwide. On Wednesday and Thursday, police and security forces broke up what they said were illegal meetings by SBSI members to plan yesterday's action. SBSI chairman Mokhtar Pakpahan was among 21 activists detained after raids. Union vice chairman Rekson Silaban said yesterday that 11 had since been freed but Mr. Mokhtar remained under detention in Semarang. Mr. Rekson said the union would have met its target of two million participants if leaders and organisers in Semarang, Bekasi, Tanggerang, and other parts of west Java had not been intimidated. He said the union was undeterred and would continue with plans for a longer strike on April 1 if labour practices did not improve by then. The union would also meet the newly-established Human Rights Commission today to seek support in getting Mr. Mokhtar released. Diplomats said it remained to be seen how the government's action against the SBSI might affect Indonesia's position with Washington. The United States has given Jakarta until February 15 to improve labour conditions or risk losing trade privileges.
