FBIS4-3616 "drchi078_a_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-078 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Views Xi Yang Case Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Views Xi Yang Case HK2204053094 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO in Chinese 22 Apr 94 p a11 HK2204053094 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO Chinese BFN [By trainee WEN WEI PO reporter Fang Hsiao-i (2075 2556 1837): "Wu Jianmin Comments on Handling of Xi Yang Case, Says It Is China's Internal Affair"] [Text] Beijing, 21 Apr (WEN WEI PO)--Foreign Ministry Spokesman Wu Jianmin commented on the Xi Yang case at a Foreign Ministry news briefing here. He said that the case had absolutely nothing to do with most-favored-nation [MFN] treatment and that the handling of the case had nothing to do with Sino-British relations and with confidence in Hong Kong. A Hong Kong Commercial Radio reporter said that a few days ago the U.S. Consulate in Hong Kong had publicly supported Xi Yang. The reporter went on to ask the spokesman whether or not he was worried about the impact of this incident on China's efforts to strive for MFN treatment. Wu Jianmin said that the Xi Yang case was a criminal case, whereas MFN treatment is an issue between China and the United States. He said that these two things have nothing to do with each other, therefore, we did not have anything to worry about. A Hong Kong Asia Television reporter said that as far as Xi Yang's case was concerned, the Hong Kong Government wanted to make representations to the Chinese side through the British Embassy in China, while the British Government had summoned the Chinese ambassador to Britain, but these two diplomatic channels were to no avail. The reporter asked whether or not the case was related to Sino-British relations? Wu Jianmin replied that the reason was very simple as the handling of the Xi Yang case was an internal affair which had nothing to do with Sino-British relations. Another Hong Kong reporter asked whether or not the verdict on Xi Yang would undermine people's confidence in Hong Kong after the its return in 1997. Wu Jianmin said: China is a country ruled by law and Xi Yang's case was handled strictly in accordance with the law. It has nothing to do with confidence in Hong Kong. From 1 July 1997, the Chinese Government will firmly implement the policy of one country, two systems in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and work in accordance with the Basic Law. We are fully confident of maintaining Hong Kong's long-term prosperity and stability and worries are unfounded.
