FBIS4-35525 "drnes106dd_94003" FBIS-NES-94-106 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 Palestinian Affairs Civilian Authority Begins To Exercise `Full Power' Civilian Authority Begins To Exercise `Full Power' NC0106172394 Cairo MENA in Arabic 1530 GMT 1 Jun 94 NC0106172394 Cairo MENA Arabic BFN [Text] Rafah, 1 Jun (MENA) -- The Palestinian civilian authorities have started to exercise their full power in the autonomy areas in Gaza and Jericho as of today. Staff Major General 'Abd-al-Raziq al-Majaydah, commander of the Palestinian National Security Forces, stated that a Palestinian-Israeli higher coordination committee has been formed and that three Palestinian liaison subcommittees were formed in Jericho, Gaza, and Khan Yunus to discuss outstanding matters and to come to a solution to the remaining problems that obstruct the implementation of the agreement, primarily the issue of borders and crossing points. The autonomy areas have been divided into three zones, each entrusted to an official. They are North Gaza, from Wadi Gaza to Bayt Hanun, entrusted to Colonel Sulayman Halas; South Gaza, from Wadi Gaza to Rafah, entrusted to Brigadier General 'Abd-al-Mu'ti al-Sab'awi; and Jericho, including the city of Jericho and camps, entrusted to Brigadier General Sa'id Naji. Maj. Gen. al-Majaydah remarked that these appointments are temporary and are designed to run matters in the National Authority areas until Yasir 'Arafat completes his appointments. In another development, a group of 222 Palestinian police of varying ranks from Tunis crossed the Rafah border point today. Another 600 individuals are expected to arrive from Libya this evening and a third group will arrive from Tunis in the next two days. Meanwhile, the Hamas [Islamic Resistance Movement] and Islamic Jihad commands have decided to cooperate with the Palestinian National Authority on building the state, to abandon violence, and to form a political party to discuss matters objectively to serve the interests of the Palestinian people.
