FBIS3-44513 "drchi003_v_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 Jan 1994 TAIWAN APEC To Sponsor Energy Seminar in Taipei OW0401112994 Taipei CNA in English 0932 GMT 4 Jan 94 OW0401112994 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Sofia Wu] [Text] Taipei, Jan. 4 (CNA) -- The energy cooperation working group under the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum will sponsor an energy resources development seminar in Taipei next month, government sources reported Tuesday [4 January]. It is the first time Taiwan has been chosen to host an APEC seminar since the regional economic cooperation organization was formed in 1989, the sources said. The seminar, to be held February 1-3, will focus on new energy technologies, energy conservation, more efficient uses of energy resources, transformation of waste into energy, the environmental impact of energy resources exploration, and regional cooperation in energy development. The government-funded Industrial Technology Research Institute will organize the seminar with the assistance of Japan's New Technology Development Organization. Energy administrators and experts from all APEC member states are expected to attend the seminar. APEC groups 17 economies, including the United States, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Australia, South Korea, Taiwan, Mainland China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei, Papua New Guinea and Mexico. The Republic of China [ROC] expressed its intention to host the seminar in October 1992, but the APEC energy working group did not make a final decision on the site of the meeting until late last year for fear of offending Beijing. APEC has in the past organized short-term study tours of Taiwan, but has never sponsored a formal session here. APEC has nine working groups. Aside from the energy task force, it has panels responsible for manpower resources planning, technology transfer, telecommunications, fishery resources, transportation, tourism, trade promotion and investment cooperation.
