FBIS4-23295 "drafr107bb_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-107 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 INTER-AFRICAN AFFAIRS GCA, Frontline State Leaders Hold Meetings in Harare GCA, Frontline State Leaders Hold Meetings in Harare Conference Assesses Spread of AIDS MB0206174094 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1526 GMT 2 Jun 94 MB0206174094 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Harare June 2 SAPA -- Africa is likely to remain mired in poverty unless the AIDS scourge is arrested through the commitment of more resources, the Global Coalition for Africa (GCA) said in Zimbabwe on Thursday [2 June]. According to the GCA's African Population Advisory Committee (APAC) report presented in Harare, nine million adults in Africa were infected with the HIV virus. The report was presented by prof H Okoth-Ogendo on behalf of Kenyan Vice-President George Saitoti, the current APAC chairman, the ZIANA news agency reported. The session was also attended by Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, Botswana's President Kethumile Masire and other dignitaries. The report said many African countries, including Zimbabwe, had the highest HIV prevalance among adults worldwide. AIDS was also increasing health care costs while orphaning large numbers of children and leaving many elderly people without protection. The report said advances made in health and welfare were being eroded by AIDS and it quoted United Nations Children's Emergency Fund estimates as showing that under-five mortality rates were likely to be pushed back to the 1960s level. "In summary, the epidemic will likely increase the number of people in poverty and thwart efforts to develop sectors that rely on skilled or scarce manpower." The report noted African efforts to contain the virus had had mixed results. Zimbabwe, along with six other African countries, had been successful in changing behaviour through use of condoms. APAC recommended focusing prevention programmes on the youth, making condoms easily available and improving management programmes to control the AIDS epidemic.
