FBIS4-11386 "drlat080_n_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-080 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 Chile Czech Prime Minister Klaus Views Trade Ties Czech Prime Minister Klaus Views Trade Ties PY2504213094 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1843 GMT 22 Apr 94 PY2504213094 Madrid EFE Spanish BFN [Text] Santiago, 22 Apr (EFE) -- Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus said today that the Czech Republic, which is following the path of economic liberalism, was able to completely change the political and social system because communism and the so-called socialism with a human face "lead nowhere." A complement to the market economy is an "effective" social policy, said Klaus, who pointed out that regional blocs should not become fortresses that exclude third countries. Klaus, who arrived for an official visit on 20 April, underlined during a news conference "the enormous results shown by the Chilean economic transformation" and the efforts made toward democracy. He also expressed the Czech Republic's interest in trade and joint investments in Chile. He noted, however, that some work still remains to be done to eliminate all the obstacles to increasing bilateral trade. In this regard, he pointed out the need to expedite negotiations for signing an agreement on investment protection, and another for eliminating double taxation. He said he explained this and other proposals to Chilean President Eduardo Frei and to the economic area ministers with whom he met. He indicated that he had proposed to Chilean officials "the use of all means" to reach a liberalization of trade relations with the signing of a free trade agreement. He also proposed the creation of joint commissions, both government and business, to study other bilateral relations possibilities. Prime Minister Klaus came with a delegation of 70 businessmen, who met with Chilean economic officials in the public and private sectors. Klaus and Chilean acting Foreign Minister Jose Miguel Insulza signed today a cooperation agreement in the areas of culture, education, and science. During his stay in Chile, Klaus met with President Frei, the ministers of the economic area, businessmen, Chamber of Deputies President Jorge Schaulsohn, and Supreme Court President Marcos Aburto. Prime Minister Klaus also gave a lecture in the Diplomatic Academy, and was declared guest of honor in Santiago. He will leave for Brazil today.
