FBIS4-8583 "dreeu073__a94031" FBIS-EEU-94-073-A Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 ANNEX The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Todorov Denies Existence of Macedonian Language Todorov Denies Existence of Macedonian Language AU1404191194 Sofia BTA in English 1817 GMT 14 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1404191194 Sofia BTA English BFN [Report by Nikolay Koev: "Bulgarian Minister's Visit to Macedonia Ends With Scandal"] [Text] Skopje, April 14 (BTA) -- The two-day official visit of Bulgarian Minister of Science and Education Marko Todorov to Macedonia [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia -- FYROM] was broken off yesterday [13 April]. Having conferred with his Macedonian counterparts Selmani and Bajaldziev on April 12, at the end of his visit Todorov was to sign a protocol on cooperation between the similar ministries of the two countries. The document, coordinated in advance with Macedonian experts in Sofia, said that the protocol was to be signed in the official languages in Bulgaria and Macedonia. Yesterday the Macedonian side demanded that this established wording in bilateral practice and documentation be substituted for "the Macedonian and Bulgarian languages." The Bulgarian side refused to sign the document which marked the end of the visit which also envisaged a meeting with Macedonian Prime Minister Branko Crvenkovski. Returning to Sofia, Minister Marko Todorov made a statement for the media saying there is no Macedonian language. In his opinion, it will be a betrayal of the Bulgarian language to recognize Macedonian as a foreign language. "I maintain that the formulation which Bulgaria suggests, `the official languages of the two countries,' is flexible and acceptable enough as it places Bulgaria and Macedonia on an equal footing," he said. Mr. Todorov expects that the language problem will be settled by signing the governmental agreement on cooperation between Bulgaria and Macedonia in science, education and culture, and that this will help make an adequate political decision. In Minister Todorov's view, the differences are temporary and it is to the interest of both Bulgaria and Macedonia to maintain good relations.
