FBIS4-56154 "drlat084__a94001" FBIS-LAT-94-084-A Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 ANNEX Argentina Alfonsin, Angeloz Meeting Postponed; UCR `Crisis' Worsens Alfonsin, Angeloz Meeting Postponed; UCR `Crisis' Worsens PY2804152494 Buenos Aires LA NACION in Spanish 27 Apr 94 p 10 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY2804152494 Buenos Aires LA NACION Spanish BFN [Article by Hugo Caligaris] [Text] The meeting between [Radical Civic Union, UCR, leader] Raul Alfonsin and Cordoba Governor Eduardo Angeloz has been postponed because Angeloz changed his plans and will not be coming to the federal capital this week. No new date has been set for the meeting. Angeloz' spokespersons told LA NACION that his decision follows his desire to remain in his province on 29 April because state employees will hold a public demonstration. They added that Alfonsin flatly rejected the Cordoba Province proposal to reorganize the UCR. This proposal includes shortening Alfonsin's mandate and calling internal elections to elect a new UCR president, a post that the governor of Cordoba wants. Late last night, Alfonsin's highest-ranking spokespersons had no news about the postponement, which Angeloz decided over the weekend. This faux pas shows the seriousness of the internal crisis. On 26 April, Alfonsin had a long meeting with Pascual Cappelleri, Cesar Jaroslavsky, Marcelo Bassani, and Simon Lazara to discuss "administrative matters" of the Constituent Assembly. On 29 April, the Justicialist will be asked for a meeting. At this meeting, the UCR will demand that the first vice presidency of the Constituent Assembly be given to one of its members. Here is another sign of tension among the people from Cordoba: Up to 26 April, the Alfonsin faction stressed this post would go to Ramon Mestre, the former mayor of Cordoba City. On 26 April, after the meeting with Angeloz was postponed, the Alfonsin faction announced that nothing had been resolved yet. Mestre is a member of the negotiating commission together with Cappelleri, Jaroslavsky, and Bassani. He did not show up on 26 April at the UCR headquarters to participate in the lengthy meeting between Alfonsin and his followers.
