FBIS4-11317 "drlat080__a94027" FBIS-LAT-94-080-A Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 ANNEX Cuba Investment Opportunities Confirmed Investment Opportunities Confirmed PA2504142894 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 2017 GMT 24 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA2504142894 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [Article by Javier Rodriguez] [Text] Havana, 24 Apr (PL) -- Cuba confirmed today that Cuban emigrants will be able to make investments in Cuba, although it noted that the pertinent regulations will be decided in the future. Speaking to the plenum of "The Nation and the Emigrants Conference," Carlos Lage, vice president of the Council of State, explained that, in general, the regulations established by the current legislation regarding foreign investment will apply to these cases. Thus, investment in export-generating areas will have priority, and will not be authorized -- for the time being -- in the small-business, sugar industry, and oil-extraction areas, among others. Miguel Alfonso, a conference spokesman, told the media that Lage gave a briefing on Cuba's financial situation, which has worsened as a result of the collapse of the European socialist bloc and the tightening of the U.S. blockade. Lage stressed that, in light of the current situation, the Cuban Government adopted several strategic decisions, including the promotion of the tourist, pharmaceutical, and biotechnological industries as well as the completion of investment projects under way, those of which only generate revenues via exports. Other decisions consisted of revamping the state apparatus to make it smaller and more efficient, and guaranteeing that no one is abandoned in case the structural changes generate some sort of unemployment. Lage mentioned that the opening to foreign investment, the creation of the basic cooperative production units -- which already comprise 2.5 million hectares -- and the removal of the ban on Cuban's possession of foreign currency constitute additional strategic measures. Further decisions include increasing the authorization of self-employment and reorganizing finances to return the Cuban peso its purchasing power. A total of 24 speakers participated in the debate that followed Lage's remarks. Emigrants discussed the possible purchase of state-issued bonds to participate in local the economy as well as the necessary increase in family remittances. Emigrants expressed their interest in the possibility of assigning small capital to their relatives to open private businesses and the creation of mechanisms to channel those funds. Alfonso pointed out that all participants agreed that it is necessary to lift the U.S. economic embargo against Cuba in order to promote any type of investment on the island.
