FBIS3-60758 "jptot001__l94006" JPRS-TOT-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 7 January 1994 AFRICA SOMALIA SNA Denies Links To Mogadishu Port Blast Dynamite Used; No Casualties AB2712102293 Paris AFP in English 1010 GMT 27 Dec 93 AB2712102293 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Jonathan Ewing] [Text] Mogadishu, Dec 27 (AFP) -- A dynamite blast ripped through the area around Mogadishu port at dawn Monday, leveling shops and tea stalls and tearing down a section of wall around the port. A United Nations spokesman said no one was hurt in the explosion, caused by an estimated 18 sticks of dynamite, according to military officials. "Our concern is that we do not return to the kind of mine laying that we saw in August through October," said UN military spokesman Major Tim McDavitt. UN officials said the blast could have been in retaliation for the killing of a Somali by U.S. Army sharpshooters who opened fire on a vehicle carrying a machine gun on Sunday. Another Somali was wounded in the incident, the first involving U.S. troops for several weeks. The radio of factional leader Mohammed Farah Aideed said two Somalis were killed in Sunday's shooting, but there was no independent confirmation. Officials of Aideed's faction disclaimed responsibility for the explosion. A senior aide of General Aideed, Issa Mohamed Siad, said the warlord's Somali National Alliance faction was still bound by a cease-fire signed in March in Addis Ababa. "We are committed to honor the cease-fire signed earlier this year, but you must know that there are many people who are not controlled by us," Issa said. Issa hinted that Aideed's enemy and rival factional leader Ali Mahdi Mohamed could have been behind the blast. "I think that Ali Mahdi Mohamed and UNOSOM [UN Operation in Somalia] are trying to say to the world that there will be chaos in Mogadishu after U.S. troops depart, but there will be no chaos, at least not from us," Issa told reporters. A senior UN military official said, "The explosion may have been an act of retaliation for the Sunday shooting, as if to say quit blowing our guys away -- we still have this capability." Somali residents said they did not know who was responsible for the blast. "We don't know who did this, maybe it was the U.S. forces of UNOSOM (the U.N. Operation in Somalia)," said Ndifa Omar, a local businessman.
