FBIS4-31628 "dreeu113_k_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 CROATIA War Called `Option' in Recovering Areas War Called `Option' in Recovering Areas LD1006204294 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1940 GMT 10 Jun 94 LD1006204294 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN [Text] Zagreb, June 10 (TANJUG) -- Zagreb will not shrink from "war option as an ultimate means" to re-establish its authority in the U.N. Protected Area (UNPA) on the territory of the former Yugoslav Republic of Croatia, said Jure Radic, head of the presidential office of Franjo Tudjman, Friday. "This will be done through consistent peacemaking policy", but "we do not rule out war option either as an ultimate means," Radic, secretary-general of the ruling Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ), told a rally in Delnice. According to Croatian media, Radic warned that Croatia this time openly pointed out that this was the "last unproductive mandate of the U.N. Protection Force (UNPROFOR). If the U.N. forces were not deployed on the internationally-recognized Croatian borders, the Croatian Army would," he said. "Cypriotization of Croatia is out of question" as well as the possibility of part of Croatia "becomimg some other state," Radic stressed. The UNPA in Croatia matches the Republic of Serb Krajina (R.S.K.), which was in 1991 proclaimed by the Serbs on the territories where they are majority population, in response to Croatia's forcible secession from the former Yugoslavia and downgrading the status of the Serbs in the new state of Croatia from a constituent people to one of a natioanl minority. Croatia does not recognize the R.S.K. and has attempted four times to forcibly return it under Zagreb's authority. The Krajina Serbs do not want to give up their independence, claiming that their state is legitinate, being created by breaking-up of the former Yugoslavia and that they, since they were a constituent people in the former state, have the right to self-determination. Croatian President Tudjman has also on several occasions in recent months announced that Zagreb will re-establish authority in the entire territory of the former Yugoslav Republic of Croatia by force if not through negotiations.
