FBIS4-20880 "jptac003__l94001" JPRS-TAC-94-003-L JPRS Arms Control 17 March 1994 EAST EUROPE CZECH REPUBLIC Reports Claim Military Possesses Bacteriological Weapons Reports Claim Military Possesses Bacteriological Weapons CESKY DENIK Breaks Story 17 March AU1803114994 Prague CESKY DENIK in Czech 17 Mar 94 p 1 AU1803114994 Prague CESKY DENIK Czech BFN [Jan Benes and Lubor Kohout report: "We Are Under the Threat of Bacteriological Weapons!"] [Text] According to findings by CESKY DENIK reporters, a very dangerous species [kmen] of bacteriological and virological [virologicky] weapons are secretly stored on the Czech Republic's territory. Our country is a signatory to the Geneva Convention, which obliges us not to allow our army to develop bacteriological or virological weapons, use them, or store them without international approval. Within the framework of the former Warsaw Pact, the then Czechoslovak Socialist Republic was authorized to develop bacteriological weapons. A very secret site was designated for this purpose in the Military Research Institute near Techonin in the Orlicke Hory mountains. The Research Institute operated within the framework of the Military Medical Academy in Hradec Kralove. Scientists from other Warsaw Pact countries participated in the development and testing of these very dangerous and inhumane weapons. They were mostly from the former Soviet Union -- from a Leningrad institute -- Bulgarians, and others. CESKY DENIK reporters have found out that the species of the bacteria and viruses developed in Techonin had been stored in various places in the Czech Republic until recently. On other, unknown places, they may still be stored. This is not only a violation of the Czech Republic's international obligations, but also a criminal act -- at the very least -- of posing a public threat with unpredictable consequences. It is very likely that in the Military Research Institute in Technonin species of biological weapons are still being stored, or have been destroyed only very recently. They are for example, a culture of cholera, the plague, smallpox, tularemia, meningitis, and the rare psittacosis.
