FBIS3-9111 "dreeu054_k_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 CROATIA Conflict Detailed AU1903165594 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 19 Mar 94 AU1903165594 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Report by Dragoljub Stankic from Knin] [Text] The assembly of the republic of Serbian Krajina delayed its meeting today by more than three hours. They were allegedly waiting for Krajina Radio and Television to carry out technical preparations for a live relay of the session. However, the situation is such that earlier disagreements between the government and the assembly have now reached their peak. This is demonstrated by the proposed agenda; it has been proposed to the Krajina assembly deputies to debate the already established prime minister-designate. Let us recall: Milan Martic, president of the republic of Serbian Krajina, took advantage of his constitutional powers and informed the assembly chairman in writing that he should appoint Borislav Mikelic prime minister-designate. Mikelic was director of the Petrinja Gavrilovic Combine for years and then the deputy director of the Progres Enterprise. Assembly Chairman Branko Vojnica is only supposed to inform assembly deputies of this, the debate will be held only after the prime minister designate informs them about the new cabinet. The coalition of the Serbian Democratic Party of Krajina and the Serbian Radical Party opposed the first prime minister from the very beginning, so a heated argument on this is expected at today's session. However, the majority orientation both in Knin and throughout Krajina is that Borislav Mikelic should be prime minister-designate because of his good and correct relations with the Serbian leadership, as well as strong business links with new Serbian prime minister Mirko Marjanovic. The coalition of the Serbian Democratic Party of Krajina and Serbian Radicals want to overcome this situation by entering onto the agenda the formation of a parliamentary delegation that would leave for talks with the Serbian president. Foreign Minister Slobodan Jarcevic is also expected to present the government's proposal for the platform for talks with the Croatian delegation in the Russian Embassy in Zagreb on 22 March. On the agenda are also amendments to several laws: on the Krajina Radio and Television, the Serbian army of Krajina, as well as a package of financial laws.
