FBIS4-13315 "drnes076yy_94008" FBIS-NES-94-076 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks Paper Offers Version of Golan `Draft Agreement' Paper Offers Version of Golan `Draft Agreement' TA1904132194 Jerusalem AL-MANAR in Arabic 18 Apr 94 p 1 TA1904132194 Jerusalem AL-MANAR Arabic BFN [Text] Israel and Syria are currently studying a draft agreement over the Golan Heights. This agreement includes the security arrangements for each side. This draft agreement is expected to lead to the signing of a peace treaty between Damascus and Tel Aviv. U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who will be coming to the region within a few days, will try to bring the viewpoints of Israel and Syria closer by shuttling between the two countries. Christopher will also attend the signing ceremony of the Israeli-Palestinian agreement in Cairo. AL-MANAR has learned from high-level diplomatic sources that the draft agreement includes clauses about the issues of relations, normalization, and security arrangements. These are: -- Withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Golan Heights will take place in three stages. The first stage includes a redeployment of Israeli forces. This stage will last two years. -- U.S. forces will be stationed in strategic positions in the Golan Heights, and warning stations will be set up there. -- International observers will be deployed [location not specified]. -- Settlements in the Golan Heights will be dismantled in stages. Their inhabitants will be compensated if joint projects with the Syrians are not set up. -- Syria will not have the right to dispatch military forces to the Golan Heights but only a police force equipped with personal light weapons. -- An exchange of ambassadors between the two sides will be announced. -- There will be U.S. supervision to monitor Syria's armament. -- Economic agreements between Damascus and Tel Aviv as well as joint economic projects in the Golan Heights will be concluded. -- Washington will undertake to support the agreement and its implementation by providing financial aid to Syria and recognizing Syria's special status in Lebanon.
