FBIS3-31304 "dreeu033_b_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 BULGARIA Army Spokesman Downplays Danger of Air Strikes AU1602134794 Sofia BULGARSKA ARMIYA in Bulgarian 11 Feb 94 p 1 AU1602134794 Sofia BULGARSKA ARMIYA Language: Bulgarian Article Type:BFN [Andrey Rangelov report: "No Immediate Danger for Bulgaria Exists"] [Text] There is no immediate danger of Bulgaria becoming involved in the Yugoslav conflict, even if NATO goes through with its threat to carry out air strikes on Serbian positions. This is what Colonel Plamen Studenkov, deputy chief of the Army's General Staff Intelligence Directorate, said in an interview with BULGARSKA ARMIYA yesterday. The statement was prompted by a report in a Sofia daily under the sensational headline: "Intelligence Agent Number One Is Prophesying War in Our Country." It is actually difficult to make any predictions or express opinions on future developments related to the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Colonel Studenkov commented. According to the General Staff officer, our involvement or noninvolvement in Balkan events depends entirely on our country's future stand and policy, and on nothing else. According to the colonel, Turkey is supposed to have deployed an air force squadron in Italy, as part of the joint NATO air force contingent controlling the airspace over Bosnia. Nevertheless, I am convinced that Turkey is not likely to participate in any armed conflict with its military force, Colonel Studenkov pointed out. He bases himself on the fact that in its recent history Turkey has always shown an essentially realistic approach to military conflicts, especially on occasions when the use of armed forces outside the country's territory was involved. As far as Greece is concerned, that country not only opposes the aforementioned air strikes, but it even refuses to get involved in the Yugoslav conflict altogether. In addition, the Greeks would react sharply to possible Turkish participation in an armed intervention in Bosnia, according to the Bulgarian Army spokesman. Colonel Studenkov presumes that the outcome of the conflict will be clarified in the final days before NATO's 10-day ultimatum on the withdrawal of the Bosnian Serbs' heavy weapons from the outskirts of Sarajevo runs out.
