FBIS3-36287 "drsov024_e_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Views Peace Regulation, Lifting Sanctions WS0402111594 Kiev UT-1 Television Network in Ukrainian 1950 GMT 3 Feb 94 WS0402111594 Kiev UT-1 Television Network Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN [Interview with Foreign Minister Anatoliy Zlenko by unidentified reporter; place and date not given -- recorded] [Excerpts] [Reporter] What ways to alleviate the Yugoslav crisis does Ukraine believe to be the most promising and realistic? [Zlenko] As is known, the world community has drawn a number of variants of peaceful regulation of the armed conflict on the territory of former Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, attempts to resolve this problem on the basis of the well-known Owen-Vance plan fell short of the aim. Disregarding consent of the leaders of all the three ethnic minorities [as heard], their parliaments failed to ratify the achieved agreements and the status quo was preserved. The new French-German initiative suggested by Foreign Ministers Kinkel and Juppe is currently being discussed by the conflicting parties at the Geneva peace talks. The plan stipulates the creation of three ethnic formations on the territory of Bosnia-Herzegovina and establishing borders along ethnic lines or boundaries. In our opinion, this peaceful regulation plan is promising with regard to putting an end to armed opposition. Whether the plan will be implemented depends on the goodwill of the parties in the conflict. There are different approaches, even absolutely opposing ones on the part of the groups involved in the conflict. However, I believe that this plan corresponds more with the realities that have developed recently on the territory of Bosnia-Herzegovina. [Reporter] [passage omitted] Can the economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations help to resolve the Yugoslav conflict any quicker? [Zlenko] When did the world community suggest these sanctions? It was toward the end of 1991, when Serbian troops were waging a war against newly independent states. By now, the situation has significantly changed and I discussed this issue with the Hungarian foreign minister, who had returned from talks with the Belgrade leadership. We touched upon Belgrade's viewpoint on this issue as well as the issue of suspending sanctions. I want to say that the Hungarian foreign minister informed me in detail on the dramatic situation in which the people of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia found themselves after the sanctions were imposed. In the first place, sanctions afflicted children and the elderly, causing shortages of food and medicine. I think that the situation currently developing in Serbia and Montenegro is terrible, and that the sanctions must not be preserved. They not only inflict heavy damage on the people of that state, but also on other states which found themselves within the range of these sanctions. I want to point out that from the military point of view the situation has changed. The suspension of sanctions imposed by the United Nations is currently being discussed. I would not like anybody to get the impression from what I have just said that Ukraine is ready to abolish the sanctions or abstain from using them. Of course, we are ready to do the world community's will, but at the same time we cannot disregard Ukraine's current situation. We know very well that we have been suffering heavy economic losses. We have almost lost our Danube commercial routes; our financial losses have exceeded $4 billion, according to preliminary calculations. I think that this urges us to resolve this problem. I would like to point out that at the same time, Ukraine is raising the issue of UN compensation for these financial losses, in accordance with Article 50 of the UN Charter. It was at our initiative that a UN session adopted an appropriate resolution in 1993, envisioning compensation for those losses. Thus, I want to underline that we must look realistically at the way the sanctions are observed and proceed from the postulate that further use of such harsh sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia may bring about unforeseen or even tragic consequences. We would like to avoid this. Thus, I believe that we must think seriously about the way the sanctions afflict children and elderly people. We may be considering some gradual, stage-by-stage alleviation of the sanctions.
