FBIS3-35609 "drsov020_d_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 Regional Affairs Leningrad Region To Have Own Local Government LD3101094294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0851 GMT 31 Jan 94 LD3101094294 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent John Polishchuk] [Text] St. Petersburg January 31 TASS -- "You can now address me as governor," chief of the administration of Russia's northwestern Leningrad region Aleksandr Belyakov told journalists here today. He was presenting the regional administration structure. Belyakov recalled that the total area of the region exceeds that of Austria, and its contribution to the national product is greater than the total production of the neighbouring Republic of Estonia. "We are as important a part of the Russian Federation as the city of St. Petersburg, and we will have a government of our own," governor of the Leningrad region said. Belyakov spoke against giving a new name to the region which was called, as St. Petersburg was, after Bolshevik revolution leader Vladimir Lenin. He said that "remaking history is a thankless business and it would offend siege veterans who defended the city and region of Leningrad." Belyakov said Vladimir Porotikov will be the finance minister of the local government. There will be four vice-premiers. One will be in charge of the economy, another in charge of agriculture and environmental protection, still another will be responsible for the development of the social sphere, and the last one will be in charge of privatisation. The regional legislative assembly will consist of 25 deputies who will be elected on March 20, on the same day when deputies to the municipalities will be elected in major cities and other residential centres of the region. The present 230 rural councils will be replaced with 219 volosts. Villagers will elect "starosta" (village elder, or headman). According to Belyakov, this will bring power closer to the people, stimulate initiative and increase responsibility of local governments by enhancing their role in the economic reform. But the region has first to work out its own charter, which will be put to a referendum on the election day, March 20.
