FBIS4-17818 "drsov082_s_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 Georgia Supreme Council Adopts Cabinet Proposed by Shevardnadze Supreme Council Adopts Cabinet Proposed by Shevardnadze LD2704181294 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1722 GMT 27 Apr 94 LD2704181294 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Presidential Bulletin" feature compiled by Nikolay Zherebtsov, Andrey Petrovskiy, edited by Vladimir Shishlin] [Text] In the evening of 26 April Georgian parliament concluded confirmation of the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers. Despite the rejection of the parliamentary opposition to participate in the confirmation procedure which is lasting for a month already the list of candidates proposed by Georgia's leader Eduard Shevardnadze was adopted without any changes. Almost all of the confirmed members of the Cabinet headed by Premier Otar Patsatsiya have already worked in the government with the exception of Vice Premier on economic reform Teimuraz Basiliya and Defense Minister Lieutenant General Varden Nadibaidze. The new head of the military department and former deputy commander of the Group of the Russian forces in Transcaucases reported to INTERFAX that the proposal to become a defense minister "was slightly unexpected for him." "However, I have accepted it and, of course, at the first stage of my work on this post I shall get acquainted with the people and with the situation in the Georgian Army," he said. Speaking about the Georgian Army, Nadibaidze declared that "the Army should be disciplined, mobile, and combat efficient." "In order to create such an army we need assistance of the state, I think that we shall receive this aid," he said. When asked about his position with respect to the settlement of the Abkhazian conflict, Nadibaidze said that "the negotiations on this issue are underway but they would not determine everything." On Wednesday in Tbilisi, Shevardnadze presented Nadibaidze to the staff of the Defense Ministry. The press center of the ministry reported to Interfax that addressing the ministry's board, Shevardnadze expressed hope that this appointment would assist in a faster making of the Georgian Army and increase its combat efficiency.
