FBIS3-467 "drafr045_c_94025" FBIS-AFR-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Plans To Take Over Councils Reported MB0503160394 Johannesburg WEEKLY MAIL & GUARDIAN in English 4-10 Mar 94 p 4 MB0503160394 Johannesburg WEEKLY MAIL & GUARDIAN Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Chris Louw] [Text] Rightwing burgerrade (civil councils) are poised to take over about 283 town councils in a bid to thwart the integration of local government. With the elections due next month, the battle has shifted from national level to city and town councils in a groundswell described as "extremely dangerous" by local government officials. Transvaal Boerekommando [Boer Commando] members have started barricading municipal offices with razor-wire and sandbags. They have declared open war on the Local Government Transition Act, which allows for the replacement of all-white councils by appointed non-racial councils. The Afrikaner Volksfront (AVF) [Afrikaner National Front] is ready to play its final trump card to thwart the transition constitution -- by hijacking town and city councils in all four provinces. The four provincial administrations are readying themselves to clamp down on far-right resistance to the new constitution. A senior Transvaal Provincial Administration [TPA] official said: "The town councils issue is clearly just an excuse for whipping up emotions to mobilise their people. "The ultimate aim is to force political concessions on the national level, and get the idea of a volkstaat [homeland] accepted. The broader aim makes their actions on the ground extremely dangerous." Open confrontation seems inevitable. The AVF and other groups have been warned by the authorities that attempts to take over control of councils would be "unconstitutional and unlawful". Transvaal Local Government MEC [Member of Executive Committee] Burger Lategan has said the full force of the law will be used to counter these attempts. A TPA spokesman said yesterday that May 2 would be the cut-off date for the implementation of "local transitional councils", he said. But the AVF has also made clear its intention to use its power at local government level to thwart agreements reached at the Local Government Negotiating Forum last year, allowing for non-racial city councils during the transition. A list of 283 cities and towns declared as "volkstaat territory" was given to the MAIL & GUARDIAN by Conservative Party [CP] organising secretary Wouter Hoffman. The AVF is establishing burgerrade in these towns, poised to take over their administration when non-racial councils come into being. Hoffman claimed the towns -- stretching from Richards Bay in Natal, through the Transvaal and [Orange] Free State to the Cape Province and as far north as Namaqualand -- had indicated their intention to become part of an Afrikaner volkstaat. The CP determines majority support for a volkstaat by council decisions, opinion surveys and a clear "trend" among whites. A senior CP member in Natal said his party believed existing councils had no legitimacy after the postponement of the 1993 municipal elections and the appointment of councillors by administrators. Elected councillors enjoy greater protection in terms of the law. If appointed, they become employees and may be fired. "We expect councillors to be fired any time from now. That is why we have instituted our own burgerrade, which will function when they lose their positions." In parliament this week, President F W de Klerk slammed the idea of a volkstaat in Pretoria. The city's economy would be destroyed, said Pretoria Mayor Nico Stofberg. In Akasia, National Party councillow Hannes van Schoor resigned in protest this week after a council decision to break ties with the Rosslyn Industrialists' Association and to donate R20,000 [rand] to Radio Pretoria. The decision could lead to a loss in income of R85-million a year. A recent decision by the CP-controlled Transvaal Municipal Association not to participate in forums for a new local government dispensation sparked a government warning that local councils may be dissolved.
