FBIS4-867 "drafr075_a_94011" FBIS-AFR-94-075 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Zaire Mobutu Camp Accused of Preventing Tshisekedi's Return Mobutu Camp Accused of Preventing Tshisekedi's Return AB1604211594 Paris AFP in French 1753 GMT 16 Apr 94 AB1604211594 Paris AFP French BFN [Text] Kinshasa, 16 Apr (AFP) -- Four days before the deadline expires to designate a transitional prime minister, the Zairian opposition has accused President Mobutu's supporters of preventing Etienne Tshisekedi from returning to power. The opposition based its accusations on the fact that the presidential camp "boycotted" the summit meeting of the two political groups scheduled for yesterday at the Palais du Peuple in Kinshasa. A 24-hour deadline was given to the presidential camp by the opposition "to give its views and considerations" after Mr. Tshisekedi was chosen for the post of prime minister by the most radical wing of the opposition, the Sacred Union of the Radical Opposition [USOR]. Two political parties of the opposition, the Union of Republic and Democracy and the Rally of the Forces of Democratic Change [RFCD] did not participate in the meeting at which this appointment took place. They had denounced the "irregularities" and the "fait accompli" to which, according to them, the USOR wanted to subject them. The presidential camp believes that the consultations within the opposition should be held with all its members as demanded by the law. However, it is guarding itself from any interference in its "internal affairs." Furthermore, in a statement to the media, Joseph Nsinga, chairman of the RFCD, an ally of the USOR, called on the Union to agree to discuss "objectively" and "on an equal footing" with all the members of the opposition concerning the appointment of the prime minister. But this should be done in line with the spirit of the transition Constitutional Act. For Mr. Nsinga, if the entire opposition discusses "without dictate and spirit of exclusion," a solution will be found quickly. "With what is going on at Zaire's border, the country cannot be left without a government," Mr. Nsinga stated, stressing that the Zairian people do not need a civil war, but want to be governed.
