FBIS4-64238 "drweu084__a94034" FBIS-WEU-94-084-A Daily Report 2 May 1994 ANNEX Switzerland No Agreement Reached on European Energy Charter No Agreement Reached on European Energy Charter BR2904115594 Bern ATSA/SDAA Database in French 1529 GMT 28 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2904115594 Bern ATSA/SDAA Database French BFN [Article signed ZS: "European Energy Charter: Risk of Failure"] [Text] Brussels, 28 Apr (ATS) -- The 50 signatory states, including Switzerland, to the European Energy Charter are having a difficult time trying to put their aims into practice. Netherlands diplomat Charles Rutten, who has been chairing the organization since its inception, said on Thursday [28 April] that there was a risk of failure if no agreement were reached next month on the implementation arrangements. A compromise text already has been submitted to the signatory states. Mr. Rutten has invited them to bring the negotiations to an end at a plenary session to be held in Brussels 17-20 May and to sign the document next summer. Unanimity is not required. However, if the majority of the governments cannot agree, one will have to think about giving up, Mr. Rutten noted at a press conference. Practical Difficulties The Energy Charter is meant to contribute to the economic development and to the political stability in East Europe. This issue has priority over national interests, the Charter's chairman added. The Charter's objective is to turn the energy sector into the driving force of East's economic transition process. Favorable conditions for investments should allow the regions involved to rebuild their economies and to manage their resources better, thus improving the reliability of energy supplyies for the whole continent. But realizing this objective has proved to be difficult. Negotiations have been underway for three years to establish legally binding provisions that guarantee Western investors access to the resources, the free transit of energy, the protection of investments, and the repatriation of profits. Among the signatory states are all the European countries, the republics of the former USSR, Japan, Canada, the United States, and Australia.
