FBIS3-43059 "jpust005___94055" JPRS-UST-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 10 February 1994 LIFE SCIENCES BIOTECHNOLOGY The Effect of the Vaccine Strain of Plague Microbe on the Fusion of Lysosomes With Phagosomes in Peritoneal and Alveolar Macrophages 947C0102C St. Petersburg TSITOLOGIYA in Russian Vol 35 No 6-7, Jun-Jul 93 (manuscript received 12 Nov 90) pp 105-108 947C0102C St. Petersburg TSITOLOGIYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by G.I. Vasilyeva, A.K. Kiseleva, and Ye.P. Doroshenko, Antiplague Scientific Research Institute, Russian Federation State Committee for Sanitary-Epidemiological Oversight, Rostov-na-Donu] [Abstract] The microbicidal effect of macrophages is primarily due to the functioning of lysosomes, and many researchers consider an elevated lysosome content and intensified secretion of lysosomal enzymes signs of macrophage activation. The participation of lysosomal enzymes in the intracellular killing process depends not only on their synthesis, however, but also on processes ensuring their contact with absorbed microorganisms, which is to say on the fusion of lysosomes with phagosomes. Evidence exists that fusion of lysosomes with phagosomes does not always guarantee intracellular killing. In particular, the reports regarding the relationship of the plague microbe Yersinia pestis with lysosomes have been contradictory. Consequently, a study was conducted to examine the effect of a vaccine strain of Yersinia pestis on the fusion of lysosomes with phagosomes in peritoneal and alveolar macrophages. Nonpedigree guinea pigs weighing 250 to 300 g each were immunized either subcutaneously or aerogenically with a vaccine strain of Yersinia pestis (10 guinea pigs were immunized in each case). Peritoneal and alveolar macrophages of the immunized animals were studied on days 1, 7, 14, and 21 after immunization to determine their lysosome content and the fusion of the lysosomes with phagosomes. The experiments established that the frequency of fusion of lysosomes with phagosomes in the alveolar macrophages was only half that in the peritoneal macrophages. Subcutaneous immunization stimulated the fusion of lysosomes and phagosomes in the peritoneal macrophages but not in the alveolar macrophages, whereas aerogenic vaccination stimulated the fusion of lysosomes with phagosomes in both types of macrophages. A correlation between the macrophages' ability to kill Yersinia pestis and the frequency of fusion of lysosomes with phagosomes was established. It was hypothesized that during endocytosis of plague microbe in unvaccinated guinea pigs, there occurs a suppression of the fusion of lysosomes with phagosomes that is much more pronounced in the case of alveolar macrophages than in the case of peritoneal macrophages. Figures 2; references 12: 5 Russian, 7 Western.
