FBIS4-11670 "drnes062dd_94007" FBIS-NES-94-062 Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 Palestinian Affairs Hebron Emergency Committee Warns 'Arafat Hebron Emergency Committee Warns 'Arafat JN3003122594 Amman SAWT AL-SHA'B in Arabic 30 Mar 94 pp 24, 21 JN3003122594 Amman SAWT AL-SHA'B Arabic BFN [By Riyad Mansur] [Text] The Hebron emergency committee has addressed a strongly worded statement to Palestinian President Yasir 'Arafat, warning him against the consequences of signing any agreement that deals with their city. In a statement sent to President 'Arafat, a copy of which was obtained by SAWT AL-SHA'B, the Hebron emergency committee, which represents all the city's sectors and factions, said its approval should be obtained before the signing of any agreement that deals with their city. It called for the removal of all settlements through the total elimination of the occupation of all the territories, including Jerusalem, and securing international protection for the Palestinian people to replace the occupation forces according to international laws. Hebron's warning came after prominent figures in the city rejected a decision by the Palestinian president to appoint a council for the Hebron Governorate. A number of those appointed by 'Arafat as members of the council rejected the decision, including Dr. Nabil al-Ja'bari, former member of the Palestinian negotiating delegation. Al-Ja'bari sent a cable to the Palestinian president telling him that he reviewed the name list of the so-called Hebron Governorate council and that he rejects being appointed as member of this council. In his cable, al-Ja'bari said the difficult circumstances facing the Governorate of Hebron and the pure blood watering its soil prompts them to close ranks and unite their words to confront the common enemy. He said the men of the Governorate of Hebron are capable of finding a legislative body with a popular base to protect their interests and rights. Al-Ja'bari affirmed to the Palestinian people that he does not accept an appointment to this council. He said he was not consulted before his name was thrown in, noting this name list will not be representative of the Hebron Governorate, no matter how many names are included, because there are well-known bases for appointment.
