FBIS4-57697 "drlat100_b_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-100 Daily Report 23 May 1994 Dominican Republic Haiti Army on Alert; Communique Highlights Sanctions Army on Alert; Communique Highlights Sanctions FL2305171294 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio in French 1030 GMT 23 May 94 FL2305171294 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio French BFN [Text] On 22 May, we learned from reliable sources in Port-au-Prince that the Haitian Army was put on a maximum state of alert on 20 May, while the government of provisional President Emile Jonassaint, which is not recognized by the international community, has issued a severe warning to any persons having ties with the enemies of the fatherland or one of their agents. There were numerous members of the Armed Forces, including many in civilian clothing, bearing arms, circulating in the streets of Port-au-Prince on 22 May. A communique issued by the Ministry of Information, Culture, and Coordination and signed by Jacques Saint-Louis reminds all that any person found to have had ties with the enemy with a view to making it easier for the enemy to enter the national territory, or to turning over military buildings, fortifications, fortresses, arsenals, ammunition depots, fortified towns, and harbors to the enemy will be sanctioned by hard labor for life. Anyone giving away their [not further identified] plans will be liable to the same sanction, the communique says, which does not specify the nature of the enemy. The law will also punish anyone who attempts to shake the loyalty of officers, soldiers, and sailors toward the government. Any insulting words or threats uttered against an officer in command of a force charged with public order will be punished by one to six months' imprisonment. The communique adds that if the speaker is a member of the legislature, the sentence will be one to three years. In case of crimes or offenses of inciting to rebellion through speeches or public documents, the agitator will be punished by an imprisonment of a minimum of six days and a maximum of one year, provided the rebellion did not take place. Any fired civilian or military employee who continues to carry out his duties after he has been replaced will be punished by six months' to two years'imprisonment, adds the text. The government of resigning Prime Minister Robert Malval is nevertheless the only one recognized by the international community. The reminder of these sanctions comes in order to avoid any confusion detrimental to social peace, concludes the text. This communique was issued 24 hours after the near-total embargo against Haiti went into effect in an attempt to force the military to resign.
