FBIS3-38605 "drweu024_j_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Andreatta Holds Talks on Bosnia With Croatia's Granic LD0302153094 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 3 Feb 94 LD0302153094 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Report by correspondent Andjelko Perincic from Rome for Croatian radio] [Excerpt] Mate Granic, Croatian deputy prime minister and minister of foreign affairs, who arrived in the Italian capital this morning, has met Italian Foreign Affairs Minister Beniamino Andreatta, his Italian host. Even though the two ministers had talks behind closed doors for more than two hours, we have learned from reliable official sources that their talks primarily focused on ways of finding a political solution to the crisis in Bosnia- Herzegovina. It is clear that the international community is interested in this. Europe is more interested than the United States, on the one hand, and a group of Islamic countries on the other, because the latter group supports the lifting of the embargo on Bosnia-Herzegovina. The Croatian side said, therefore, that we support the peace negotiations, but not to the detriment of the Croats in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The Croatian side also asked a question -- not only of the hosts but also of the international community -- on where Muslims had obtained the weapons for fighting Croats. Did not someone give weapons to them, thus violating the embargo, or maybe even use humanitarian convoys, Minister Granic asked at a news conference following the talks. He added that the figures on the alleged involvement of the Croatian Army in the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina were fabricated, and that they were blown out of proportion with regard to the HVO [Croatian Defense Council]. Italian Minister Andreatta said at the news conference that, in line with EU [European Union] policy, his country was insisting on a negotiated solution. He added that all three sides should display more goodwill and that it was necessary to achieve a territorial demarcation as soon as possible. In this, Italy supports the proposals on access to the sea for the Muslims and the setting up of an arbitration commission for territorial demarcation. Andreatta did not fail to stress that those who are most to blame and whose share of responsibility is the greatest are the Serbian aggressors, the initiators of the crisis. [passage omitted]
