FBIS4-58221 "drnes085_j_94003" FBIS-NES-94-085 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Kuwait Central Bank Governor: No Plans To Devalue Dinar Central Bank Governor: No Plans To Devalue Dinar LD3004121294 Kuwait KUNA in Arabic 1030 GMT 30 Apr 94 LD3004121294 Kuwait KUNA Arabic BFN [Text] Kuwait, 30 Apr -- Kuwait's Central Bank Governor Shaykh Salim 'Abd-al-'Aziz al-Sabah ruled out in remarks published here today that the decrease in world oil prices would have a negative effect on the Kuwaiti dinar's exchange rate. Shaykh Salim al-Sabah told Al-Siyassah newspaper in an interview that the exchange rate of the Kuwaiti dinar was linked to a basket of currencies of Kuwait's principal companies dealing in trade and financial operations. He clarified that the Kuwaiti dinar was unlikely to be affected by the decrease in oil prices. He said that it would not be devalued, especially if it was taken into consideration that its exchange rate mechanism suited the Kuwaiti economy, had proven to be effective in gradually lowering imported inflation, and maintained relatively stable exchange rates against major currencies. Shaykh Salim al-Sabah said the strong performance of local companies during 1992 and 1993, and the remunerative profits which were distributed, helped maintain the stability of local shares and fought off pressures to push them down. The Kuwaiti Central Bank governor said the decrease in the discount rate - which reflected increasing confidence in the stability of the overall monetary system - would bring local interest rates close to international levels. He clarified that differences on interest rates on foreign currencies was in the interest of the Kuwaiti dinar. In the interview, he indicated that a reduction in the interest rate of the dinar would help stimulate local economic activities. Shaykh Salim mentioned that the Kuwaiti Central Bank would not obstruct local loans to banks but said that bank management had begun to review their lending policies to test their effectiveness. That was in harmony with the latest economic and financial developments where a policy of awareness and caution were being pursued.
