FBIS4-19468 "drweu075_p_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-075 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 GREECE Papandreou Departs on U.S. Visit; Spokesman Comments Papandreou Departs on U.S. Visit; Spokesman Comments NC1804131594 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network in Greek 1130 GMT 18 Apr 94 NC1804131594 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network Greek BFN [Text] The entire spectrum of Balkan problems, particularly the Skopje [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia--FYROM] and Cyprus issues and Greek-Albanian relations, are the topics that Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou will discuss with U.S. President Bill Clinton at their meeting in the White House on 22 April. The prime minister, who left at 1330 today for the United States via Ireland, revealed the point of his official visit to Washington in his statement yesterday that it is a big battle in a friendly climate for all our national issues. At his meeting with the Greek prime minister, the U.S. President might also raise Greek-Turkish relations and the Kurdish issue. After their meeting, the two leaders will give a joint news conference. On Wednesday 26 April [as heard], the prime minister will meet Archbishop Iakovos of North and South America. The prime minister, who is visiting the United States at the invitation of President Clinton, will be accompanied by a government entourage, economic advisers, and 25 representatives from economic organizations. Referring to the prime minister's visit to the United States, government spokesman Evangelos Venizelos said that Papandreou, within the friendly atmosphere of Greek-U.S relations, will wage the battle to promote our national issues. Venizelos said: The ultimate goal is to improve Greek-U.S. relations. Improvement comes through the help that we naturally expect for promoting our national issues and stability in the region. Papandreou will be visiting Washington as Greek prime minister. But if issues pertaining to EU [European Union]-U.S. relations are raised they will be discussed in his capacity as president of the European Council. The government spokesman pointed out that the visit will focus on Greek-U.S. relations and added that the ministers who are accompanying the prime minister on his visit will have a separate schedule of contacts.
