FBIS4-9041 "dreeu076__a94059" FBIS-EEU-94-076-A Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 ANNEX Romania Minister Views NATO Integration Efforts Minister Views NATO Integration Efforts AU2004084494 Bucharest ROMPRES in English 0657 GMT 20 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2004084494 Bucharest ROMPRES English BFN [Text] Bucharest ROMPRES, 20/4/1994 -- "Romania's integration in the European political, economic, and military structures is one of the main directions of the Romanian foreign policy. Its essence lies in a process of modernization devised to include the army too, so that this could become a modern army," National Defense Minister Gheorghe Tinca told a ROMPRES correspondent. This line of policy finds its reflection in the principles of military diplomacy, which mirror the efforts to develop bilateral relations with the armies of other states. Very soon, the Romanian minister said, he will be on a visit to Great Britain, and arrangements are being made for similar tours to the U.S.A., probably in July, and to Portugal. There are also invitations to Spain, Albania, Egypt, Qatar, and other countries. He mentioned also the neighboring countries with which "Romania has lately concluded a well defined chapter," the Romanian minister said. Another dimension of the Romanian military diplomacy is the Partnership for Peace, meant to consolidate stability in our region, and wider yet, in the European region. "Whenever we speak of integration, we must also specify what we want to integrate into, and that is in the partnership with NATO, an alliance which, after the cessation of the cold war, proved viable and apt to ensure a climate of security." In the opinion of the Romanian defense minister, "the North- Atlantic alliance should undergo certain changes, now that the other pole of rivalry has ceased to exist, and find itself a new logic, the logic of collective gain. Confrontation will have to be replaced with something else, perhaps with cooperation." While pleading for a partnership formula open to all states and stressing the idea of equal security for all European states and of sovereignty and independence of their decisions for all the countries included in the partnership program, the Romanian minister said that such a formula could contribute to defining a system of general security, which, based on what already forms the skeleton of NATO, could "form the necessary security umbrella apt to encourage a course to prosperity in this part of Europe, too," Defense Minister Gheorghe Tinca said.
