FBIS3-15489 "drsov044_a_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Armed Forces Commander Views Bosnia Mission LD0403225594 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1403 GMT 4 Mar 94 LD0403225594 Moscow Russian Television Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Military Courier" program] [Text] Russia is starting to play a more active role in settling the Balkans crisis, reinforcing its diplomatic efforts with a specific peacemaking contribution. [Unidentified correspondent] The arrival of Russian paratroopers in the Sarajevo area was a key moment in the implementation of plans for a political settlement of the crisis in Bosnia. As stated by Colonel General Mikhail Kolesnikov, chief of the general staff of the Russian Armed Forces, the proposed air bombardment of Serbian positions could bring about a fresh escalation of the Balkans war. [Begin Kolesnikov recording] I would like particularly to emphasize that by threatening to make bomb strikes against targets around Sarajevo, the NATO Command put itself, I would say, in a fairly ambiguous position. It was publicly stated that the use of force was to be the instrument which, it was claimed, would make it possible to normalize the situation around Sarajevo. In actual fact Western diplomats have admitted that bomb strikes would have been been regarded in the North Atlantic alliance as a failure. For this reason the NATO bloc was relieved to learn the news that, thanks to the efforts of Russian diplomacy, success was achieved in convincing the Bosnian Serbs that they needed to withdraw their heavy weapons from the blockade of Sarajevo. [end recording] [Correspondent] Colonel General Yevgeniy Podkolzin, commander of airborne troops, was directly involved in implementing the plan put forward by Russia for settling the Bosnian crisis. [Begin Podkolzin recording] I had two meetings with General Rose, commander of UNPROFOR [UN Protection Forces] forces in Bosnia-Herzegovina, who assured me and gave me a guarantee that our troops would be safe. Of course no one at present is guaranteeing the lives of our people against the chance sniper's bullet, but as for large-scale combat actions, both sides and also the Bosnia-Herzegovina command have given an assurance that there will not be any such operations. I would like to add that we brought in this battalion or independent formation of 400 men on condition that NATO would not make any bomb strikes and that NATO would verify the fulfilment of the commitments made to NATO by both the Serbian and Muslim sides. Among other things, I was there in the locality, and on the whole these commitments were almost 100 percent carried out. [end recording] [Correspondent] At the present time our blue helmets are carrying out their peacemaking mission in the so-called buffer zone in the Bosnian capital. Along a 16-km front they are separating Serbs and Muslims. In addition, Russian paratroopers, together with French blue helmets, are now guarding Sarajevo Airport. By mid-March there will be 1,500 men in the contingent of Russian troops in former Yugoslavia.
