FBIS3-60977 "jptot002__l94075" JPRS-TOT-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 12 January 1994 WEST EUROPE REGIONAL AFFAIRS Hitchhikers Find Body of Emigre Bosnian `General' Prazina Murder Said To Involve al-Sa'iqah, Izetbegovic AU0501142194 Paris AFP in English 1353 GMT 5 Jan 94 AU0501142194 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Zagreb, Jan 5 (AFP) -- A special Bosnian Army unit headed by Bakir Izetbegovic, the Bosnian president's son, murdered a Bosnian general found shot to death in Belgium last week, a Croatian newspaper reported Wednesday [5 January] citing well-informed sources. The VJESNIK newspaper, controlled by the government, said the assassination of Yusuf Prazina was carried out by five members of a commando unit called "Delta" and headed by Ismet Bajramovic also known as Celo. The paper said that three members of the Syrian-backed Palestinian movement Saika [al-Sa'iqah] had Prazina under surveillance for three weeks before one of them, acting as an arms dealer, lured him into a trap in a car park along the main highway between Liege in eastern Belgium and the German border town of Aachen. Prazina, 30, nicknamed Yuka, was missing early last month. He was found Saturday with two bullet holes in the head. "The necessary logistical means to carry out the operation were provided by Bakir Izetbegovic, son of Alija Izetbegovic, who left Sarajevo more than six months ago," VJESNIK said. It added that Bakir Izetbegovic "often travels between Brussels, Paris, Frankfurt, Baghdad, Tehran and Ankara, by using Iraqi and Pakistani passports" and was in Belgium at the time of the assassination. Hasan Cengic, head of logistics for the army in Bosnia-Herzegovina, was "personally involved in the assassination of Yuka Prazina," the paper said. "The day after the murder, those responsible fled via Brussels and Paris to Cairo and then Khartoum. Bakir Izetbegovic went to Baghdad and Hasan Cengic, according to reliable information, went to Islamabad by using a fake Pakistani passport," VJESNIK said. Prazina, who had fought in Sarajevo and later in Mostar, settled in Liege last August. He once headed Moslem troops on Mount Igman overlooking Sarajevo and was praised for his defence of the city in 1992. But he later fell out with the Bosnian high command, was termed a traitor and fled in the spring of 1993 to Herzegovina where he joined rival HVO Bosnian Croat forces.
