FBIS3-59039 "drweu017__a94033" FBIS-WEU-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 January 1994 ANNEX Switzerland Qiao Shi To Visit European Nuclear Research Organization BR2501104594 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1728 GMT 23 Jan 94 BR2501104594 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed Bn: "Official Visit by the President of the Chinese Parliament in Switzerland: Meeting with Stich and Cotti"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Bern 23 Jan -- Qiao Shi, PRC NPC [National People's Congress] president, began a four-day official visit in Switzerland on Sunday [23 January]. On Monday he will meet Otto Stich, president of the Confederation, and Flavio Cotti, chief of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs. At the heart of the talks will be bilateral economic relations and the question of Tibet. Two associations have protested against the visit of the former head of secret police. Qiao Shi was received at Kloten Airport by Ricardo Jagmetti, president of the State Council. Besides economic relations between the two countries, the question of Tibet will probably be tackled, as John Clerc, secretary general of the Federal Assembly, indicated. CERN and Chillon Castle The president of the Chinese NPC will be welcomed on Monday by Federal Counselors Otto Stich and Flavio Cotti as well as by Gret Haller, president of the National Council. On Tuesday, Mr. Qiao will visit CERN [European Organization for Nuclear Research] in Geneva and Chillon Castle, both in the French part of Switzerland. He concludes his visit on Wednesday with a stop at the federal polytechnic school. Mr. Qiao, 69, is considered the third most powerful man in the Beijing regime. A member of the Politbureau permanent committee, he is also a former head of the secret police. The visit by the president of the Chinese NPC has already resulted in protests. The Swiss German central PEN-Club, which protested on Saturday, stated that Qiao Shi is one of the principal authorities responsible for the bloody human rights repressions in China during the last decade. The central PEN-Club points to thousands of people, including many writers, who have been imprisoned in China without judicial procedure. They add that economic interests do not justify inviting Qiao Shi to Switzerland. Colonialist and Soldiers On Friday, the association "Tibetan Youth in Europe" had asked the Federal Council to discuss the violations of human rights in Tibet with Qiao Shi. Due to the colonization politics and to the reinforcement of the Chinese military presence, 6 million Tibetans are now confronted with 7 million Chinese colonialists and soldiers, the association stated. The last visit to Switzerland by a high level Chinese visitor was in January 1992, when State Council Premier Li Peng had a talk with Confederation President Rene Felber and with Public Economic Chief Jean-Pascal Delamuraz. During that meeting, some 200 Tibetans and members of human rights organizations held a demonstration.
