FBIS4-11740 "drnes063_d_94003" FBIS-NES-94-063 Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 Libya `Clarification' Issued on Oppositions' London Meeting `Clarification' Issued on Oppositions' London Meeting PM2803105694 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 26 Mar 94 p 4 PM2803105694 London AL-HAYAH Arabic BFN [Unattributed report: "Clarification on Libyan Opposition's London Meeting"] [Text] London, AL-HAYAH -- Clarifying a report published by AL-HAYAH last Wednesday on Libyan oppositionists' London meeting, Prince Muhammad al-Hasan al-Rida al-Sanusi has said: 1. We renew our respect for all Libyan opposition figures and groups and wish them success in ridding the country of its predicament. We also renew our willingness and desire to meeting with any figure or group to exchange views on the Libyan problem. We stress that we do not consider ourselves an opposition faction or organization. We belong to everyone, in accordance with the traditions of our al-Sanusi family, which has never sided with one group against another. 2. With regard to the meeting held in the London house of a figure known for his generosity and good reputation, we clarify that it was not a political meeting. It was an invitation to a lunch which witnessed general and unspecific discussions about Libyan issues, just like any other discussions one would expect at such meetings. No memorandum was written, nor were signatures on any initiative collected. 3. We have been surprised by what was published and circulated by Libyan brothers. We had organized the issues raised at the meeting. We would like to stress that we are not against any opportunity to discuss current political affairs, but we prefer that there be clear prior organization for the sake of the unity of all the nation's sons. 4. We do not wish to be a means for any plan or a tool for any quarter seeking to achieve personal or factional interests. And we assure everyone that we will respect the will of every person and quarter and will not interfere in the Libyan opposition's affairs.
