FBIS3-61487 "jpust004___94067" JPRS-UST-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 26 January 1994 EARTH SCIENCES The Manifestations of Solitons Characteristics in Internal Waves on the Shelf 937NO094D Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK FIZIKA ATMOSFERY I OKEANA in Russian Vol 29, No 2, Apr 93 pp 244-252 937NO094D Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK FIZIKA ATMOSFERY I OKEANA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by A. N. Serebryanin, Acoustics Institute Imeni Academician N. N. Andreyev] [Abstract] Measurements of intense internal waves were conducted over several years by temperature sensors with spaced antennae distributed over the shelf zones of the Caspian Sea and the Sea of Japan. The author's examination of the measurements showed that the discrepancy between the dispersive relationship of linear internal waves of the first mode and the parameters of measured waves is connected with the non-linearity of the latter. The waves which were observed showed features which were evidence of their soliton nature, such as, for example, their greater speed as compared to linear waves, and the dependence of their speed on amplitude. Some typical manifestations of soliton manifestations in internal waves in the shelf zones were multi-stage tidal bores and precursor waves. The author concludes that the most reliable means of identifying solitons in on-the-scene oceanological investigations is by means of qualitative concurrence. As regards a quantitative comparison with the equation of Cortevega de Brisa, there does not appear to be full concurrence in all parameters, although in some cases the agreement seems to be very close. This can be explained by the numerous factors which are not considered in the equation, such as the current, the proximity of the bottom, etc. Nonetheless the properties of solitons in shelf zones are sufficiently pronounced so that they cannot be obscured by external environmental factors and the variability of these factors.
