FBIS4-64006 "drsov103_a_94028" FBIS-SOV-94-103 Daily Report 26 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev Meets With Balladur, Juppe in Paris Kozyrev Meets With Balladur, Juppe in Paris LD2605145694 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1235 GMT 26 May 94 LD2605145694 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS special correspondent Dmitriy Gorokhov, Andrey Krasnoshchekov, and Andrey Shtorkh] [Text] Paris, 26 May (ITAR-TASS) -- During the interval between plenary sessions of the Conference on Stability in Europe a meeting was held at the initiative of France between French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe, and Andrey Kozyrev. Galina Sidorova, political adviser to the Russian foreign minister, told ITAR-TASS that the French leaders thanked the Russian minister for his agreement to take part in the conference and for Russia's active support for the idea of holding it. The main subject of the conversation was ways of deepening relations between Russia and the principal European institutions. The Russian side believes that this process has not yet gathered sufficient momentum. The French leaders, for their part, called for the earliest possible conclusion of an agreement on partnership between Russia and the European Union [EU]. They stressed that Paris no longer sees any obstacles to completion of the negotiating process. All outstanding issues were settled during the recent official visit to Russia by A. Juppe. As we know, the main differences concerned conditions for trade in materials of the nuclear fuel cycle. France considers that the conclusion of an agreement on partnership with the EU must be followed by further integration of Russia with other European organizations. The entire atmosphere of the talks and the fact that the Russian minister was the only participant in the conference received by the French leaders so early in the conference testify to the present level of Russian-French cooperation, including cooperation in the preparation of this important forum.
