FBIS4-17571 "drsov080_b_94013" FBIS-SOV-94-080 Daily Report 26 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Filippov Resignation Expected After Investigation Filippov Resignation Expected After Investigation MK2604091094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 26 Apr 94 p 2 MK2604091094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Andrey Lekant report in the "Counterattack" column: "Petr Filippov Is Awaiting Resignation"] [Text] Petr Filippov, former chairman of the Supreme Soviet's Privatization Subcommittee, is to face an official investigation initiated by presidential administration chief Sergey Filatov. Administration officials reported that Mr. Filippov is likely soon to resign from the post of chief of the presidential administration's Information Support Directorate. As SEGODNYA has learned, the reason for the inquiry was the analytical materials worked out under Filippov's supervision, containing recommendations for reorganizing large agricultural enterprises and supporting collective peasant farms. The authors of the memorandum propose the voluntary breakup into smaller units and sale of the land and property of corporatized kolkhozes at internal auctions, and using them to create small -- approximately 30 people -- peasant farms. The preparation of corresponding normative documents took two and a half months and was of a planned character. The authors thought that if a decision about a presidential edict or government decree was adopted on this subject, they could be released this fall. As is apparent from the content of these documents, they are of a purely recommendatory character and could be addressed only to two persons: presidential administration chief Sergey Filatov and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin. The latter, however, deemed it necessary to transfer them to Agriculture Minister Khlystun, who in his turn forwarded them to Mikhail Lapshin, leader of the Duma's agrarian faction. From that point on the documents finally lost their confidential character, were duplicated and circulated to "all rural councils." The agriculture generals assessed the recommendatory service memoranda as guidance for action. According to some Directorate officers, they demanded explanations from the president and the prime minister, and from Sergey Filatov, an official investigation and punishment of the guilty. The outcome of the battle between the agrarian lobby and Petr Filippov arouses practically no doubt in Staraya Ploshchad.
