FBIS3-15777 "drsov047_m_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 Tajikistan General Pyankov Comments on Border Situation LD1003100194 Moscow Mayak Radio Network in Russian 1930 GMT 9 Mar 94 LD1003100194 Moscow Mayak Radio Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Slavyanka" program of the Russian Defense Ministry] [Text] The situation on the Tajik-Afghan border remains complex. Over the holiday a number of provocations were carried out against the Russian border guards and the subunits of the CIS collective peacekeeping forces. Here is a characterization of the situation on the border with Afghanistan and in Tajikistan as a whole by Colonel General Boris Pyankov, commander of the collective peacekeeping forces. [Begin Pyankov recording] Unfortunately there has been a sharp intensification of the confrontation between the regions, and there is an attempt to employ strong-arm methods. More and more often there are very brutal terrorist acts. People are being killed for different reasons. Regions are in conflict, and various forces are in conflict within the regions themselves. At the same time we sense that there has been a sharp increase in the pressure on the Tajik-Afghan border and on the border guards above all from the Afghan side. For the time being, of course, the weather conditions have been a restraining factor. It is mountainous terrain, and everything is still covered with snow. The passes are closed, and paths are difficult to traverse. In these conditions, however, violations or attempts to violate the border are occurring almost daily. The situation is particularly grave in the Pyandzh border detachment's strip, where border violations and attempts to break through are occurring almost daily. The situation is complex too in the Sarygor area, where the well-known 12th and 13th border posts are located. Unfortunately new symptoms have appeared. Whereas previously we had been noting cases of attempts to cross the border by relatively small groups, bands, and detachments armed with small firearms, we now have cases of border posts, the positions of peacekeeping force subunits, and Tajik populated localities being bombarded by mortars and artillery from Afghan territory. [end recording] The command of the peacekeeping forces in Tajikistan thinks that the situation on the Tajik-Afghan border may have further deteriorated by mid-March. According to the military, a considerable number of specially trained Tajik opposition fighters have already amassed in the Afghan border areas. Many of these detachments are equipped with Stinger portable anti-aircraft missiles, artillery, and mortars.
