FBIS3-45717 "drchi015_h_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 West Europe XINHUA Views Qiao Shi's Germany Visit Trip `Successful' OW2301062094 Beijing XINHUA in English 0556 GMT 23 Jan 94 OW2301062094 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [`Roundup' by Xia Zhimian] [Text] Bonn, January 23 (XINHUA) -- China's top lawmaker Qiao Shi ended a successful eight-day official visit to Germany today, which is expected to give impetus to the development of friendly relations between the two countries. Qiao's was the first visit to Germany by chairman of China's National People's Congress (NPC) Standing Committee, marking a major event in the history of Sino-German relations. During his visit, Qiao held separate talks with German President Richard Von Weizsacker, Chancellor Helmut Kohl, and Federal Assembly (parliament) President Rita Suessmuth. He told German leaders that both China and Germany are major, influential nations which have no conflict of interests between them and share common or similar views on international issues. The economies of the two countries can be mutually complementary, and there are broad vistas for the development of friendly relations, he said. Over the past three years relations between the two countries have developed smoothly, with an exchange of visits by foreign ministers and other senior officials. Bilateral relations have entered a new phase of overall development since Chancellor Kohl visited China last November and signed a series of agreements on promotion of bilateral relations and cooperation. During Kohl's stay in China, Chinese President Jiang Zemin stressed that the two countries should handle bilateral relations from a long-term point of view, not only looking to this century, but the next as well. In Bonn, Qiao echoed Jiang's call by saying that the two sides should view and handle bilateral relations from strategic point of views. Such positive remarks indicate that the development of Sino- German relations will gain new momentum. Bonn was Qiao's first leg on a three-nation European tour, which will also take him to Switzerland and Austria.
