FBIS3-31261 "dreeu032_c_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC President Havel Comments on Visit to Kuwait LD1502144094 Prague Radiozurnal Radio Network in Czech 0600 GMT 15 Feb 94 LD1502144094 Prague Radiozurnal Radio Network Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] [Announcer] President of the Republic Vaclav Havel returned during the night from his eight-day official visit to India and Thailand. Czech radio correspondent David Stahlavsky, who accompanied the president during his trip, is in the studio now with more details. [Stahlavsky] President Havel considers the visit to be a success. He reiterated this tonight shortly before landing at Old Ruzyne airport. He praised, in particular, the participation of Ivan Kocarnik, deputy prime minister and finance minister; Josef Zieleniec, minister of foreign affairs; and Radomir Sabela, deputy of the minister of industry and trade. They all agree with the president's assessment of the visit. [passage omitted] Vaclav Havel made a brief unofficial stopover in Kuwait. He had private talks with the amir in power, Shaykh Jabir al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah. This is what the Czech president said about these talks: [Begin recording] [Havel] The amir and I discussed political cooperation between our countries. We agreed that our views were very close and that no political shadows exist between us. We also discussed economic cooperation. I said that this cooperation is not as good as it could be, that unutilized potential exists in this respect. I explained the reasons we did not use this potential as best we could during the period that our entire economy was undergoing the process of transformation. The amir emphasized that Kuwait is very interested in economic cooperation with the Czech Republic and that our firms are well known in that country. An agreement between Kuwait and the Czech Republic on the protection of investments is due to be finalized and signed in the spring. [passage indistinct] [end recording] [Announcer] It should be added that our trade with Kuwait amounted to approximately $5 million last year. Czech exports to Kuwait account for the best part of it, while Kuwaiti imports to the Czech Republic are very small.
