FBIS3-31990 "drlat020bb_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 January 1994 INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS Guatemala's De Leon on Central American Choice for OAS Post PA3001024594 Paris AFP in Spanish 2130 GMT 28 Jan 94 PA3001024594 Paris AFP Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Tegucigalpa, 28 Jan (AFP) -- Guatemalan President Ramiro De Leon Carpio said today that the Central American countries will support Costa Rican Foreign Affairs Minister Bernd Niehaus on his bid to be OAS secretary general. De Leon, who is in Honduras on an official visit, told the media that Colombian President Cesar Gaviria requested support for his possible candidacy to the OAS post, but "we have a commitment that we must keep unless a reason unrelated to said agreement prevents us from doing so." The Guatemalan president participated in the inauguration of liberal lawyer Carlos Reina, the new Honduran president, on 27 January. Before he returned to Guatemala today, De Leon also participated in the closing of the Central American Parliament plenary sessions. Salvadoran President Alfredo Cristiani and President Reina also expressed their support for Niehaus, although the new Honduran president reiterated his position of supporting Gaviria should the Costa Rican foreign minister fail to win in the first round of the elections. Reina told the media that "we like very much other rulers who want the post." Confronted by the media, Nicaraguan President Violeta Chamorro refused to address this topic and only said that "the vote is secret." Some inferred that she tacitly supported Gaviria in violation of the Central American commitment. Gaviria, who also attended the protocol acts in Tegucigalpa, met briefly with several regional leaders who attended the inauguration on 27 January. He denied that he was lobbying for his candidacy and pointed out that they discussed only issues of common interest such as trade and technical cooperation. Gaviria said that he is studying the launching of his candidacy, proposed by other countries, before making a decision. The selection of the new OAS secretary general is scheduled for March 1994, and the United States has publicly backed President Gaviria. Besides Niehaus, who claims to have 23 votes so far (18 are needed to win the election), former Foreign Ministers Carlos Iturralde (Bolivia) and Miguel Angel Burelli (Venezuela), who has also lobbied in Honduras lately, were also nominated to the post.
