FBIS3-27433 "drchi037_b_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 United States & Canada XINHUA Notes U.S. To Pursue Spy Case `Aggressively' OW2302214194 Beijing XINHUA in English 2111 GMT 23 Feb 94 OW2302214194 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, February 23 (XINHUA) -- U.S. President Bill Clinton said today the United States will pursue aggressively the case of CIA officer working for the former Soviet Union and Russia since 1985. While waiting fro a formal response from the Russians, Clinton stressed the seriousness of the case but said Washington would continue to pursue its supportive policy toward President Boris Yeltsin. Clinton said he had already had a preliminary assessment of the damage caused by Aldrich Ames's selling of vital CIA operations and personnel information to the Russians. On the capitol, secretary of state Warren Christopher said, "the extent of the effect of this incident on our relationship with Russia will depend upon Russian actions in the days ahead." "Events in Russia over the past few weeks have revived our fears about the future," Christopher said. "Let me emphasize the United States will take every measure to protect the United States and prevent such activities from being carried out in the future," Christopher told a Senate hearing on U.S. foreign policy. Ames, 52, had been worked for the CIA for 31 years before arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigations on Monday [21 February]. He is allegedly to have provided Moscow with vital information in return for more than 1.5 million dollars. Ames' wife, a 41-year-old Colombian native who worked for the CIA as a Colombian Embassy employee in Mexico City, Mexico, also was arrested, she is now a naturalized U.S. citizen. She is said to be cooperating with the authorities, even before Monday's arrest, partly because of concerns over her young son, reports said. As Washington gauges the extent of the damage done to its national security, reports are emerging that at least two Soviet citizens spying for CIA were killed shortly after Ames disclosed their identities to Russian intelligence agencies. Ames and his wife face a maximum penalty of life imprisonment and a fine of 250,000 million dollars for each.
