FBIS4-26188 "drchi118_v_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 TAIWAN Foreign Minister Reiterates Hope To Join UN Foreign Minister Reiterates Hope To Join UN OW1706135794 Taipei CNA in English 1322 GMT 17 Jun 94 OW1706135794 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Willie Chu and Y.C. Tsai] [Text] San Francisco, June 16 (CNA) -- The Republic of China [ROC] hopes to join the United Nations in order to make more contributions to the prosperity and stability of the Asia-Pacific region, ROC Foreign Affairs Minister Frederick Chien said Thursday [16 June]. Chien made the statement in a panel discussion of the 1994 world forum in Beaver Creek, Colorado. The forum opened Thursday and will continue through Saturday. The forum, sponsored by the American Enterprise Institute, annually brings together more than 100 ranking government officials, senior business executives, and renowned academics from around the world to exchange views on the world's major concerns ranging from politics and regional security to economic issues. Dignitaries attending the 1994 forum include former U.S. President Gerald Ford, Former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing and former British Prime Minister James Callaghan. During the panel discussion entitled "Asia at Center Stage -- Trade, Security, and Human Rights," Chien noted that Asia is expected to contribute 50 percent to global economic growth in the next decade. Asia, which currently outperforms other world areas in employment and inflation, is a major source of the U.S. trade deficit, he pointed out, adding that how to narrow the trade imbalance has become a major concern. Moreover, he said, the ROC has played an important role in the stability of the Asia-Pacific region. He also stressed that the investments made by Taiwan manufacturers in Mainland China have had a strong impact on the development of the mainland economy. The panel discussion was chaired by James Lilly, former director of the Taipei office of the American Institute in Taiwan and former U.S. ambassador to Beijing. Chien, accompanied by his wife, arrived in Beaver Creek Wednesday. This is the fourth consecutive year Chien has attended the forum.
