FBIS3-54227 "drnes016_l_94001" FBIS-NES-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 ISRAEL Rabin on Negotiations With Jordan, Syria TA2401165194 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew 1500 GMT 24 Jan 94 TA2401165194 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Text] Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin believes that there will not be a breakthrough in the deliberations on a peace agreement with Jordan in the coming months, but there will be progress on other issues. The Jordanians, Mr. Rabin said, have raised three issues: water, border demarcation, and refugee return. Israel has made it clear that there is nothing to discuss on the refugee issue since that belongs to the negotiations with the Palestinians, and even then only in discussions on the permanent settlement. Mr. Rabin also said there are signs that the gaps are closing in the deliberations with the Palestinians, but that we have to be careful and not make overly optimistic statements. He also said that even if an agreement is reached in Foreign Minister Peres meeting with 'Arafat in Davos, there will still be a need to discuss economic issues in Taba and Paris. Our correspondent Yo'el Nir reports that the prime minister made the remarks when he left the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee. [Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew at 1600 GMT on 24 January quotes Mr. Rabin as saying that "the peace process with Syria will be decided this year. In a recorded passage, Mr. Rabin says: `I have no doubt that 1994 will decide which direction developments take in the longer run -- especially with Syria and perhaps with other elements in the Arab world: whether there will be peace or deadlock and tension, with all the subsequent ramifications, but not necessarily war in late 1994.'" The report quotes Mr. Rabin as also saying "he does not want to forecast what the direction will be, but the present circumstances give peace a chance. Our correspondent Yo'el Nir reports that on leaving the Knesset House Committee, Mr. Rabin was also asked about Major General 'Uzi Dayan's remarks that a rupture in the process with Syria could lead to war. Rabin said the use of the word war was unfortunate, and he would have been more careful in his remarks."]
