FBIS3-53748 "drnes012_n_94014" FBIS-NES-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 LEBANON 'Awn Views Impact of Clinton-al-Asad Summit PM1901111894 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 18 Jan 94 p 2 PM1901111894 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "'Awn: Peace Means No One Should Play Someone Else's Role"] [Text] London, AL-HAYAH -- Commenting on the results of the Geneva summit held between Presidents Bill Clinton and Hafiz al-Asad, former [Lebanese] Prime Minister General Michel 'Awn said: "The coming days will show whether the summit talks succeeded or failed. However, it is clear that the United States will bless the agreement among the parties concerned, but it will not be a third party in the dialogue. What it is directly interested in is ending terrorist actions in Lebanon, and from within." He added: "The Lebanese -- people and officials inside and outside -- know that terrorist actions are Syria's responsibility, but by different names. From what was said about the discussion of the issue of the Kurdish Workers' Party [PKK], Hizballah, and the [Ahmad] Jibril group [Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine--General Command] it can be concluded that Syria was requested not to tackle the unstable situation in Lebanon, but to stop it, on the grounds that Syria is acting like a fireman who starts a fire so as to extinguish it." He went on: "Establishing peace in the region will have a positive effect on Lebanon, because this peace means that no one should play someone else's role. Every state should play its role within its own borders, not outside them. We will continue to achieve our aims as regards full sovereignty and good relations with our neighbors. Our rights in our homeland are fixed and are not wishes or demands." In conclusion, he said: "As for the agents, they have been impudent, to the extent that they accuse anyone who talks about sovereignty and independence of extremism. They are not ashamed of their baseness in dealing with the occupiers."
