FBIS4-39849 "drsov113_l_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 11 Jun 1994 Kyrgyzstan NATO Chief of Staff Gives News Conference in Bishkek NATO Chief of Staff Gives News Conference in Bishkek LD1106153394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1440 GMT 11 Jun 94 LD1106153394 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Boris Mainayev] [Text] Bishkek 11 June TASS -- Political stability is our goal, Peter Carstens, supreme headquarters allied powers [as received], Europe told a news conference in the capital of Kirghizia [Kyrgyzstan] on Saturday [11 June]. The official delegation of the North Atlantic Organization headed by him has been in Kirghizia for three days. It is the first visit of NATO officers to the country after the recent signing by President Askar Akayev of the Partnership for Peace programme in Brussels. We are only beginning to establish cooperation with Kirghizia, General Carstens said at meetings with President Askar Akayev, Defence Minister General Myrzakan Subanov. We were looking for points of contact and ways of understanding. The first stage of our work is political consultations, assistance in training officers. But the principle thing is the expanding of security zone, cooperation and the drawing of a larger possible number of countries into peace-keeping activity. Although for keeping peace and stability NATO troops are ready for combat actions. But, the general stressed, it will be done under the aegis of the United Nations organization and with the international community's mandate. The Tajikistan problem was touched at the news conference. General Carstens maintains this problems is the CIS internal affair and states NATO is not planning peace-keeping operations in central Asia, nor the setting up of a NATO military base in Kirghizia. As to strategic competition with Russia, the NATO chief of staff said relations between the North Atlantic Organization and the Russian Federation are developing on a positive plane. Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev's statement made in Istanbul is a manifestation of his country's intention to join the NATO Partnership for Peace programme. The NATO delegation saw a military unit and a testing range near the capital of Kirghizia and on Monday [13 June] intends to leave Bishkek.
