FBIS3-16711 "drsov053_e_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Military Cooperation Accord Signed With Romania LD1803120194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1708 GMT 17 Mar 94 LD1803120194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Nikolay Morozov] [Text] Bucharest, 17 Mar -- An agreement on cooperation between the defense ministries of Romania and Ukraine was signed today in Bucharest by Gheorghe Tinca and Vitaliy Radetskyy, the heads of the military departments of the two countries. [passage omitted] During the talks, issues of regional safety were discussed in depth, Ukrainian Defense Minister Army General Vitaliy Radetskyy said in an interview to an ITAR-TASS correspondent. We believe that the proposal in the sphere of ensuring regional safety, which President Leonid Kravchuk made in Budapest last year, and the "Partnership for Peace" program are interconnected. The adoption of the Ukrainian proposal may become the first step in tackling the problems of the "Partnership for Peace". We regard talk about isolating Russia from these processes as unrealistic, the head of the Ukrainian military department stressed. Russia is a great neighboring state, and a common historical past unites Ukraine and Russia. We treat Russia with great respect and are ready for bilateral cooperation with it. As to the prospects of joining NATO, in accordance with the decision of the parliament, as is known, Ukraine is not a member of any bloc. Military-political and military-technical issues connected with it are being worked on at the moment, and the Defense Ministry proposals will be submitted to the new parliament that has the prerogative to make a corresponding decision. The territorial issues of North Bukovina, the south of Bessarabia, and Zmeinyy Ostrov were not raised at the talks in Bucharest, V.Radetskiy noted. We recognize Romania's territorial integrity, and Romania fully recognizes the territorial integrity of Ukraine. The Romanian side stressed that some would have liked to raise this issue for the purpose of causing the two neighboring countries to quarrel or of creating tension between them. However, we must proceed from the official stand of the heads of state. That is why Ukraine and Romania do not lay any claims on each other.
