FBIS3-54569 "drnes019_g_94001" FBIS-NES-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Jan 1994 Sudan SPLA Official: Dry Season Offensive Under Way AB2801122094 Paris AFP in French 1618 GMT 27 Jan 94 AB2801122094 Paris AFP Language: French Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Cairo, 27 Jan (AFP) -- The Sudanese Government forces' dry season offensive against the guerrilla has been going on in the south of the country "for three weeks" now despite warnings from the United States, the Sudanese People's Liberation Army [SPLA] said in Cairo today. The objective of the government troops is "to take control of the southern borders" with Uganda and Kenya in an attempt "to cut off" the SPLA's "supply lines," Major Daniel Kody, said during a stopover in Egypt. "A large number of" soldiers, including regular People's Defense Forces--government militia--have been deployed on various operational fronts, Mr. Kody, a Nuba who commands the SPLA in Kaya, western Equatoria, further said. In the Nuba mountains, at about 600 km southwest of Khartoum, fighting is raging on three fronts. Other clashes are taking place in Bahr-al-Ghazal, in the southwest, around the road running parallel to the Aweil-Wau railroad and by which the Army conveys its logistics and troop reinforcements further south. Finally, the Armed Forces and the SPLA are also clashing between Juba and Kit, in line with the government forces' objective to advance toward Pageri and Nimule in eastern Equatoria. [passage omitted] Mr. Kody said contrary to last year, the government has decided to launch a dry season offensive this year, despite increasing international pressure because "the government is in a serious state of weakness." "The only means at its disposal to obtain breathing space on the internal level is by achieving military success in the field and to boast about it to the nation," Mr. Kody explained. He said the peace initiative launched by Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Uganda within the framework of the Intergovernmental Authority on Drought and Development "stands no chance because the government is not serious about its willingness to negotiate." [passage omitted]
