FBIS4-58259 "drnes085_m_94006" FBIS-NES-94-085 Daily Report 3 May 1994 JORDAN Editorials Condemn Saudi's `Naive Political Game' Editorials Condemn Saudi's `Naive Political Game' `Sudden' Concern for Jerusalem Assailed JN2204120594 Amman AKHIR KHABAR in Arabic 21-22 Apr 94 p 1 JN2204120594 Amman AKHIR KHABAR Arabic BFN [Article by the political editor: "The Road to Jerusalem is Known"] [Text] Saudi Arabia has said that it will go ahead with its commitment to renovate and restore al-Aqsa Mosque and the Dome of the Rock through its existing contacts, continuous consultations, and strong cooperation with the UNESCO. This was announced by an official Saudi source yesterday. These Saudi words, which are covered in the guise of Islam, smacks of an exposed and naive political game. One would ask: Why is there this sudden concern for Jerusalem and al-Aqsa after forgetting them for such a long time? Are the ones who allowed the invaders to encroach on Karbala' and al-Najaf from their land really concerned about al-Aqsa? The file of al-Aqsa was overlooked by the Saudi brothers for many years, Jerusalem fell between their barrels of oil, forgotten at the bottom of a list of Saudi Arabia's priorities. What has changed? The Saudi statement on the expansion work makes us wonder about the legitimacy of such a measure. The value of al-Aqsa lies in preserving it as it is through renovation and restoration, not through changing its features under the pretext of restoration and renovation. Al-Aqsa must not be exploited for political oneupmanship, not through cooperation with UNESCO or coordination with OPEC. Out of our concern for the Saudi brothers, we call on them to review their ability in running the affairs of al-Ka'bah and the two holy mosques. Jerusalem has its God and men; and the Hashemites are the ones who sacrifice their souls and money for al-Aqsa and its restoration. The address of the bodies in charge of restoring the holy places is well known -- they are the Jordanian Awqaf Ministry and the Committee in charge of restoring al-Aqsa Mosque and the Dome of the Rock.
