FBIS3-11789 "drlat059_c_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 MEXICO Marcos Comments on Colosio Murder PA2603003994 Monterrey EL NORTE (Foreign Edition) in Spanish 25 Mar 94 p 24A PA2603003994 Monterrey EL NORTE (Foreign Edition) Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Juan Manuel Alvarado] [Text] Lacandona Jungle, (APRO) [expansion unknown] -- Subcommander Marcos, spokesperson for the Zapatist National Liberation Army [EZLN], said that the only ones to gain from the murder of Luis Donaldo Colosio [Mexican Institutional Revolutionay Party, PRI, presidential candidate] are those pressure groups that are opposed to peace. Monsignor Samuel Ruiz, the bishop of San Cristobal de las Casas, warned of the danger of destabilization. In an interview on the night of 23 March on the outskirts of a town in the Lacandona Jungle, Marcos said that "at the beginning Colosio was a sure thing to be elected for Carlos Salinas de Gortari's position. However, he began to change his discourse and his line of action. The ruling pressure groups who have always opposed the peace talks in Chiapas are the ones who gain from this action. The EZLN loses, mediator Samuel Ruiz loses, and peace Commissioner Manuel Camacho Solis loses." He explained that the country now faces a crisis, not only within the PRI campaign but also within all the other parties, which will now have to redefine their strategies. Marcos said the upcoming political changes were the result of the 1 January armed uprising. He said the Colosio he saw on the campaign trail was always wise in addressing the EZLN. "He never spoke of us as criminals. As I see it, he had begun to steer away from the Salinas strategies. He was trying to draft his own ideas and to recognize that there are in fact very deep social problems. The Zapatists had seen the face of Salinas de Gortari in the PRI presidential candidate -- the same economic plan with the same political ties and similar social cost," Marcos said. "But he had tried to change that. We do not know what will happen now that he has died."
