FBIS4-39496 "drsov110_f_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 National Affairs Kravchuk Urges Improvement of Army Command Units Kravchuk Urges Improvement of Army Command Units WS0806104594 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network in Ukrainian 1400 GMT 7 Jun 94 WS0806104594 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network Ukrainian BFN [Text] A two-day operational meeting of Ukrainian military officials as well as leaders of other ministries and institutions, Cabinet of Ministers, and the military industrial complex is underway. Our correspondent Marat Pogorelov reports. [Begin recording] [Pogorelov] This event is characteristic for any civilized state. [It is designed] to review the current situation in defense, exchange ideas, and work out a long-term strategy. Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk, supreme commander in chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, read a report at the meeting. He said: [Kravchuk] Let me stress that this meeting is very important for each participant, allowing him to determine his place and role in executing decisions regarding heightening combat readiness [words indistinct] strengthening the defense capability of our state. I think there is no need to prove how urgent and important (?this task is). We also need to acquaint ourselves [words indistinct] new weapons and military equipment, share experiences, and jointly devise relevant methods for managing the military. So, as you see, the goal of this meeting covers a broad range of issues that have one thing in common: to achieve fundamental improvement in and training of command units and [words indistinct]. Those who are attending this meeting in the first place are those upon whom the training and development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces depends. During this meeting, we expect active participation and creative approach from all participants, because -- and let me repeat this -- in many things, we begin [word indistinct] and make our first steps. [Pogorelov] Army General Kostyantyn Radetskyy, Ukrainian defense minister, gave a report outlining the concept of building up and developing the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The operational meeting will end on 8 June at the "Desna" training facility in Chernigov Oblast.
