FBIS4-37395 "drnes119_j_94016" FBIS-NES-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Aden Official Gives Sanaa 2 Days To Set Cease-Fire Aden Official Gives Sanaa 2 Days To Set Cease-Fire PM2106103694 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 20 Jun 94 p 3 PM2106103694 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Arabic BFN [Unattributed report: "Salim Salih Tells AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT: Sanaa Has Two Days To Stop Fighting; Otherwise, We Will Demand Announcement of Recognition of South"] [Text] Cairo, AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT -- In a statement to AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Salim Salih, member of the Yemeni Presidential Council, has given Sanaa two days to announce and comply with a cease-fire, otherwise Aden will be entitled to demand that the Security Council impose sanctions on Sanaa and announce world states' recognition of the Democratic Republic of Yemen. He said: For our part, we are ready for anything when a cease-fire is announced first, then we can discuss the mechanism of halting the fighting. He said: The task of the joint southern-northern committee meeting in Cairo is just to discuss the formation of the military committee or team to be assigned to monitor the cease-fire. And there is no major disagreement between us and Sanaa with regard to accepting [the participation of] Arab and Islamic states and Security Council member states, but the committee will be under UN supervision. Salim pointed to Sanaa's defiance of the international community and the Arab community by escalating the political and military situations and by constantly shelling Aden -- which proves it has no desire to halt the fighting. He said: I want [UN secretary general's envoy] Brahimi's mission to succeed and the Security Council resolutions to be complied with. We are exerting every effort to halt the fighting. He reemphasized Aden's steadfastness despite the cutting off of water and electricity. All that Sanaa is saying about its occupation of Aden is an attempt to play for time and give public opinion the impression that the rebels have surrendered and the war is over. He said: The issue of abolishing the state of the Democratic Republic of Yemen is now in the hands of the Yemeni people, and it is they who have to decide on it. And the people are currently fighting the occupation and the bombardment of villages and cities.
