FBIS4-27907 "dreas109__a94009" FBIS-EAS-94-109-A Daily Report 31 May 1994 ANNEX Japan Omron To Establish Subsidiary in China Omron To Establish Subsidiary in China 942A0281A Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 31 May 94 p 9--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 942A0281A Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN Japanese CSO [Text] Omron announced on 30 May that it has established a fully financed local corporation, "Omron (China) Ltd." (abbreviation OCE) in Beijing, China. The new company will be the regional headquarters that will control the other local corporations that Omron has established in China, make the optimum allocation of personnel and capital among the local corporations, and centrally manage sales promotion and technical service in China. The aim is to make local decisionmaking swift and expand the China business. Itohchu has already established a similar controlling company in China, but this will be the first case for a major manufacturer. The capital for OCE is $10.7 million, Omron senior director Hideki Masuda will be the part-time supervisor (chairman), and for the time being there will be 30 employees, which will increase to 60 in three years. OCE is a company which generally is called "an umbrella corporation" in China, and it will supervise the four production companies for control equipment, etc., that Omron previously established in China. Besides management of earnings, cultivation of personnel, and taking charge of legal and financial advice for the various subsidiary companies, it will receive business commissions from the various subsidiary companies and handle customer service activities such as sales promotion. It will also have a production control function to adjust the operations of the various subsidiary companies to conform to local market trends. If Omron should establish a joint-venture company in China in the future, the policy would be to have it funded by OCE. When the OCE funding ratio tops 25 percent, that joint-venture company will be able to obtain preferential measures in the tax system as a foreign-invested firm.
