FBIS3-16138 "drsov049_s_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Georgia Shevardnadze, Clinton Agree on `Major' Issues LD1403130194 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1103 GMT 14 Mar 94 TEXT: LD1403130194 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze told INTERFAX that he had reached an understanding with U.S. President Bill Clinton "on all major issues, notably the sending of international peace keeping forces to Abkhazia." "A decision to this effect, which will not be easy to materialize, has to be made by the UN Security Council and have proper financing backing," Shevardnadze said. In his words, the financing issue was solved to all practical purposes during his visit. "I have assurances from both the President and Congress," he emphasized. Shevardnadze said that "the proposal that international peace keeping units be sent was supported by nearly every member of the UN Security Council." According to Shevardnadze, the Security Council session at which he "outlined what had happened in Abkhazia, the causes and consequences of those events and the situation there now" showed understanding and denounced separatist extremism, fascism and genocide of the Georgian population. "The Russian, U.S., British, Chinese, French and other ambassadors to the UN Security Council gave their full support to the policy pursued by Georgia for the resolution of the conflict and for territorial unity and sovereignty of Georgia," Shevardnadze emphasized. Shevardnadze said the Security Council resolution on the sending of peace keeping troops, expected to be passed on March 21, would become "an important, if not decisive, contribution to the resolution of the Abkhazian crisis and so to neutralization of a source of larger danger. ...It is essential that this action be taken under UN auspices." Shevardnadze thought that his visit to the U.S. and UN "was a major step" towards resolving the Abkhazian conflict. Shevardnadze's interview is published in full in INTERFAX's Monday edition of the Presidential Bulletin.
