FBIS3-15632 "drsov046_v_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 Lithuania Deputies Protest Planned Radioactive Waste Storage WS0803155294 Vilnius RESPUBLIKA in Lithuanian 26 Feb 94 No. 39 p 5 WS0803155294 Vilnius RESPUBLIKA Language: Lithuanian Article Type:BFN [Report by Ruta Skatikaite: "Local Rather Than Seimas Deputies Are Concerned With the Ignalina Plant"] [Text] Having demanded information about the planned construction of a monstrous storage site for radioactive waste, local deputies expressed their doubt in the need for such a facility two and a half years ago. This affected energy specialists who later abandoned this outdated project. Ignalina deputies are now concerned with choosing a site for containers of radioactive fuel. Participants in a 23 February meeting of local deputies with Energy Deputy Minister S. Kutas and V. Shevaldin, director of the Ignalina nuclear power plant, discussed the expediency of enlarging the area of the radioactive waste storage yard in Lithuania. Are imports of radioactive waste -- which bring only modest income to energy workers and leave the most dangerous source of radiation in Lithuania for centuries -- permissible? Why has the foundation for managing the nuclear plant after its closure not yet been established, even though the plant has 10-15 years of operation remaining? Why are research studies about the concentration of radioactive materials in the air, water, and soil not publicized? Why are the health of people living near the Ignalina plant and the possible changes in their bodies not examined? Since the energy minister has not submitted any definite proposals concerning the future of the nuclear station, local deputies protest against the increase in radioactive waste on their territory. Moreover, they are interested in benefits for people living within a 30-km radius of the plant. They also demand that bonuses for discomfort be paid not only to employees of budget organizations, but also to all inhabitants. Deputies will also adopt a final decision at their session in mid-March.
