FBIS3-5819 "dreas048_c_94014" FBIS-EAS-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 North Korea KCNA Interviews Russian Scholar on Chuche Idea SK1103103394 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1007 GMT 11 Mar 94 SK1103103394 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Chuche Idea Is Greatest Revolutionary Idea at Present Time" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 11 (KCNA) -- Prof. Aleksandr Kabalov, doctor of philosophy at Moscow University, in a press interview with a KCNA correspondent in Russia on March 4 stressed that the chuche idea is the greatest revolutionary idea at the present time. Saying that the chuche idea clarifies a man-centred viewpoint and stand toward the world, he added: The chuche idea defines people's struggle for independence as the driving power of social development. We fully support the formulation that the popular masses are the creator of history. The principle of the chuche idea that the popular masses are the masters of their destiny and the world and play a decisive role in shaping their destiny and transforming the world makes an outstanding contribution to the development of the revolutionary idea of the working class. The chuche idea raises the question of leadership of party and leader, in the revolutionary movement and the communist movement, which is the most correct idea. The chuche idea is the greatest revolutionary idea which gives scientific answers to the new questions raised by the present time, he pointed out, and said: It is a very important feat of the chuche idea that it gives a new scientific world outlook to mankind. The chuche idea is the supreme idea that is of universal significance on a world-wide scale. The chuche idea founded by Comrade Kim Il-song is now developed and enriched by Comrade Kim Chong-il. Comrade Kim Chong-il is developing the chuche idea in depth with his outstanding ideological and theoretical activities and brilliantly applying it in the realities of Korea. He said that during his Korean visit he saw the shining achievements made by the Korean people in revolution and construction by applying the chuche idea.
