FBIS3-60444 "jptep001___94051" JPRS-TEP-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 4 January 1994 LATIN AMERICA BARBADOS Mosquito Eradication Stepped Up To Combat Dengue Fever FL2611234493 Bridgetown CANA in English 1746 GMT 26 Nov 93 FL2611234493 Bridgetown CANA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Pamela Gill] [Text] Bridgetown, Barbados, Nov 26, CANA -- Barbados, trying to control an outbreak of the mosquito-borne disease dengue fever, has 13 confirmed cases, senior medical officer Dr. Ronald Knight reported Friday. Dr Knight told CANA at least 100 people have been tested for the disease. He added that over the past week, one or two persons have been coming forward daily to be tested. "We have already had 100 cases for confirmation and out of that 100, we have had 13 confirmed cases. The people that are coming forward are those who feel they are displaying symptoms of the disease and are requesting confirmation of the disease," Dr Knight said. The senion medical officer said that while there have been general reports of the disease around the island, the outbreak is increasingly being reported in larger heavily populated areas. "Generally, the majority of cases are being reported in the areas of St. Michael, St. James, and to a lesser extent Christ Church, and these areas will obviously be the focus of the eradication programme," he said. Against this backdrop, Dr Knight said the Ministry of Health was stepping up its eradication and control programme to stem the spread of the disease. He said: "We are targetting households in those affected area with the objective of cleanin up those areas where the mosquitoes are likely to breed. We are also stepping up our public education drive to sensitise the general public about the disease." The senior medical officer expressed optimism about controlling the outbreak. "I am very optimistic, that we will be able to control this outbreak and that it will not last for very long," he said. He added that Barbados had had previous outbreaks of the disease which did not last very long. Dr. Knight attributed the outbreak to some extent on the "rainy season," noting that an outbreak of dengue fever and other communicable diseases often coincide with the rainy season in the Caribbean.
