FBIS4-31640 "dreeu114_b_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-114 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 BULGARIA Call for Elections `Empty Phrases' Call for Elections `Empty Phrases' AU1306174394 Sofia DEMOKRATSIYA in Bulgarian 8 Jun 94 p 3 AU1306174394 Sofia DEMOKRATSIYA Bulgarian BFN [Commentary by Ivaylo Kutov: "Congress of Camouflage"] [Text] The latest congress of the BSP [Bulgarian Socialist Party] confirmed that the Socialists are still afraid of the political responsibilities of the time. The declaration of their intention to go for elections in the fall is nothing more than a scrap of paper, at the very least, because it does not envisage any procedure or compelling force to make them overthrow the Berov government in the autumn so as to provoke the elections. The BSP top leadership also pretends it is disturbed by the status quo and that it has set course for elections. These are mere empty phrases, nothing more. At present, it is very convenient for the Communists to rule without bearing any direct responsibility. Someone may say that, following the events in Poland and Hungary, they may have hopes of winning independently. Even if something of the kind occurs, which I do not believe for one moment, they will not know what to do with the power when they get it. The new geopolitical situation forces them to operate in the conditions of a pluralist democracy. Even in Brezhnev's time, the Polish and Hungarian Communists were more accustomed to working in an environment containing elements of dialogue, with the organic necessity of stating the reasons for their decisions and actions to their own people and the civilized democracies. For this reason, the successors of the Polish and Hungarian Communists have some experience of working in conditions of dialogue and competition. Our BCP [Bulgarian Communist Party] was a foreign branch of the CPSU [Communist Party of the Soviet Union]. It never made an independent decision, either mechanically carrying out Moscow's directives or imitating, in an inimitable way, the decisions of the CPSU. This is why the present BSP top leadership is well aware that as the party in power, the only thing that will happen is that it will finally expose itself for what it is. In any case, they will lose the next elections. Even if they should by chance win something, they will not know what to do with it.
