FBIS3-18656 "drweu044_o_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 CYPRUS Views `May Be Converging' NC0603173694 Nicosia O FILELEVTHEROS in Greek 3 Mar 94 pp 1, 9 NC0603173694 Nicosia O FILELEVTHEROS Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Report by Stavros Angelidhis] [Excerpts] The UN envoys gave indications to President Glavkos Kliridhis that views may be converging on at least two of the serious issues on the agenda of the proximity talks: safe access to Famagusta's fenced-off area and Turkish Cypriot access to Nicosia Airport. Relevant O FILELEVTHEROS information is that at their latest meeting with Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktas, Gustave Feissel, the UN secretary general's alternate special representative in Cyprus, and UN Political Adviser John Paul Kavanagh got the impression that there will be progress on some issues. The UN envoys conveyed their beliefs to the Cypriot president. The Greek Cypriot side hopes that Feissel's "ideas," which will be submitted next Monday [7 March], will raise the prospects for progress toward implementing the measures without deviating from the UN secretary general's principles. According to the Greek Cypriot side, the most important principle is to open the way for a swift settlement of the Cyprus problem. O FILELEVTHEROS' information mentions that the United Nations shares the Greek Cypriot view that Varosha should not be enclaved by the Turkish troops and that there should be free access by land and sea. The United Nations will control Varosha's offshore waters up to the buffer zone. With the help of three of the four UN advisers that are already in Nicosia, Feissel and Kavanagh are feverishly preparing their proposals. They are also negotiating with the diplomatic representatives of the UN Security Council permanent members. [passage omitted] The Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation correspondent at the United Nations reports that Britain is moving to get the Security Council to approve a resolution, while the United States prefers for the Security Council president to make a statement. [passage omitted]
