FBIS4-44728 "jpest010___94059" JPRS-EST-94-010 JPRS Science & Technology Europe/International 8 March 1994 WEST EUROPE ENERGY, ENVIRONMENT Italy: Vegetable Diesel Oil Used For Vehicles, Heating Italy: Vegetable Diesel Oil Used For Vehicles, Heating Systems MI1404102194 Milan ITALIA OGGI in Italian 8 Mar 94 p 24 MI1404102194 Milan ITALIA OGGI Italian BFN [Article by Edoardo Cagnazzi: "Vegetable Diesel Oil, Biopalma, Is Here"] [Text] Naples--Clean, sulfur-free fuel that is extracted entirely from plants and is made of soya, rape, and sunflower oil. For the time being this is almost a pioneer initiative but it opens up a new frontier in the production of a vegetable diesel oil, which is an alternative to diesel oil, and also with a more acceptable performance in terms of heating and urban pollution. The sophisticated technology for the production of Biopalma, which is the name under which the diesel oil produced from vegetable oils will be marketed, is a project of the Palma distillery. A company that is part of the Neopolitan agroindustrial and biochemical Palma company with annual revenues of 550 billion Italian lire. Its holding company, Palfin, controls four sectors of activity. Distillation, with plants in Campania (Palma company), Puglia (Trani), and Sicily (Vinum Marsala and Trapas Trapani). The plants of Bari Palolio and Palvino operate in the oil sector; Chirico and Campano in the food sector. Finally the sole biotechnology plant is located in Calitri. The fuel, say its producers, will revolutionize the fuel market within the coming years because it does not contain sulfur, the major cause of acid rain. This fuel was inserted in the Ruffolo- Conte decree two years ago to prevent pollution in urban areas and is currently being tested by several transport companies (AIM and Vicenza, AMT Trieste, ACAP Padua, ATM Milan, SEPSA Naples, and others). Since Biopalma is obtained from renewable sources it does not impoverish natural resources and drastically reductes polluting emissions from both heating systems and vehicles.
