FBIS3-46737 "dreas003_a_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 January 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Diet Panel Resumes Debate on Reform Bills OW0501040494 Tokyo KYODO in English 0257 GMT 5 Jan 94 OW0501040494 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Jan. 5 KYODO -- The House of Councillors' special committee on political reform resumed debates Wednesday [5 January] morning on four government-proposed political reform bills with the opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) boycotting the session. In a meeting of committee managers earlier in the day the LDP demanded that the resumption of debates be postponed until Thursday, parliamentary sources said. The ruling seven-party coalition rejected the LDP's request and started debates at 11:40 A.M. The special committee entered a year-end and New Year recess on December 28. The ruling coalition decided Tuesday to complete debate on political reform at the special committee by January 14 even if the LDP boycotts the session. The government reform package was passed by the House of Representatives on November 18 but deliberations in the upper house stalled for over a month through late December due partly to the resistance of the LDP. Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa has staked his political future on enactment of the reform package in the current Diet session, which ends January 29. Meanwhile, Ichiro Ozawa, a chief coalition strategist, told a meeting of the executives of Shinseito [Japan Renewal Party], of which he is co-leader, that the coalition should seek to push the package through the upper house "by January 20, even if its passage were delayed." "If parliamentary proceedings went without hindrance, we would be able to secure its passage through the House of Councillors plenary session on January 17," he said. "The most serious point would come on the 20th if its passage were delayed," said Ozawa, who is widely regarded as the most powerful behind-the-scenes figure in Hosokawa's coalition government. Ozawa also said the coalition would have no alternative but to table yet another pump-priming supplementary budget bill to a regular Diet session that will convene on January 31. "We should place priority on pushing the political reform bills through the Diet," he said. "If we were left with one week's time after the prospective passage, it might be physically sufficient to hold parliamentary deliberations for passing the supplementary budget bill," he said. Ozawa hinted, however, it might take more than a week to hammer out necessary political compromises with the LDP over the budgetary bill, saying it would be difficult to pass it in a week, from a commonsense point of view.
