FBIS3-34270 "drnes025_v_94003" FBIS-NES-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 Pakistan Bhutto Reaffirms Support for `Usurped Rights' BK0602150694 Islamabad PTV Television Network in English 1400 GMT 6 Feb 94 BK0602150694 Islamabad PTV Television Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] The prime minister, Ms. Benazir Bhutto, has declared that Pakistan would not be cowed down by any threat and no power can restrain us from supporting the cause of righteousness, justice, and equality. Addressing the Balochistan local bodies convention in Sibi today, she said we have been raising our voice against injustices and atrocities wherever they have been committed -- be it Bosnia, Kashmir, or Palestine. We would continue our support for the usurped rights of the people and no threat can intimidate us. The prime minister said we supported the brotherly people of Afghanistan against Soviet aggression and are making every effort for peace to prevail in that country so that it rebuilds itself with the cooperation of brotherly countries. Ms. Benazir Bhutto said we love Pakistan, we love the land which we achieved after great sacrifices and would build this country into a strong and prosperous state. Millions of people of the subcontinent rendered tremendous sacrifices and laid down their lives to achieve a separate homeland for Muslims of South Asia where they could lead a life of respect, honor and independence. She said democracy has been restored in Pakistan through fair and impartial elections and an Awami [popular] government has taken over the reigns of the country. This government with the active support of the people would make every endeavor to accelerate the pace of development and bring about all-round progress and prosperity. Ms. Benazir Bhutto said it is our collective responsibility to work for the solidarity, integrity, and prosperity of the country and we must translate the dreams of the Quaed-i-Azam [great leader Jinnah] into reality. The people are the real heirs and owners of the country, and therefore, the government is paying due attention toward their betterment, she said. [passage omitted]
