FBIS4-20225 "drweu082__a94022" FBIS-WEU-94-082-A Daily Report 28 April 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Berlusconi Assures U.S. Supporters of Centrist Position Berlusconi Assures U.S. Supporters of Centrist Position BR2604115194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 0942 GMT 26 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2604115194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "Berlusconi Message of U.S. Forza Italia Clubs"] [Text] (ANSA) New York, April 26 -- A guarantee that a new Italian coalition government led by Forza Italia would be in the centre was given late last night by phone from its leader Silvio Berlusconi in his message to American Forza Italia convention in New York. Speaking from Milan, the Italian media magnate told the American National Association of Forza Italia Clubs (ANFIA), "I have read many articles from the United States that depict us as being a rightist coalition sustained by neo-fascists.... I want to assure you that Forza Italia is the pivot of the coalition. We are leading it and our presence guarantees that it is in the centre." Berlusconi, tipped to be the next premier, went on to tell his supporters, gathered here to inaugurate the official founding of ANFIA at the Mayfair Baglioni Hotel, how the contribution of the American people will play a role in the foreign policy of his eventual government. Representing Berlusconi at the convention was newly elected MP Mauro Bortoloso, who spoke of Forza Italia's commitment to extending the vote to Italian expatriates. In order to make such a vote more valid, he added, it was necessary to correct the way events in Italy have been presented abroad. There are an estimated eighty full members of the three Forza Italia Clubs presently established in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. The role of the association, as explained by general secretary Roberto Comelli, is to make a direct appeal to Italians in America "to build an efficient community, an authoritative partner to give efficient support to a winning Italy." It is hoped that eventually 100 clubs will soon be set up in New York state alone. While in New York, Bortoloso led a Forza Italia delegation which made stops at City Hall and the World Trade Center, for discussion with various American political figures of Italian descent.
