FBIS4-10020 "drlat067__a94013" FBIS-LAT-93-067-A Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 ANNEX Cuba Meets Uruguayan President, Bank Director Meets Uruguayan President, Bank Director PA0604122694 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 0156 GMT 5 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA0604122694 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [Text] Montevideo, 4 Apr (PL) -- Uruguayan President Luis Alberto Lacalle met today with Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina, who is on an official visit to this South American nation as part of a regional tour. Robaina met with the Uruguayan president at his private residence, where the two men exchanged ideas on the upcoming Ibero-American Summit to be held in Cartagena, Colombia, as well as Cuba's economic changes. During the meeting, the Cuban foreign minister explained to Lacalle about preparations for the conference "The Nation and Emigration," to be held in Havana from 22 to 24 April with the participation of 200 representatives of the nucleus of people who have emigrated from the island and settled in approximately 20 nations. The foreign minister also met with Enrique Braga, director of the Central Bank of Uruguay, to discuss the possible payment of the Cuban foreign debt, estimated at over $30 million. Robaina indicated it was possible to find a favorable solution for both nations after he explained that Havana could supply Montevideo with specific items (medicines and medical equipment). He announced the upcoming visit of high-level Cuban banking officials to initiate negotiations. Robaina also met with General Liber Seregni, president of the Coalition of the Broad Left Front, and legislators, who are members of the Uruguayan parliament's foreign relations commission. According to the agenda, talks between the Cuban foreign minister and his colleague Sergio Abreu will begin tomorrow. On Thursday, Robaina will continue his tour to Ecuador, Peru, and Argentina. He will conclude his trip with an unofficial visit to Paraguay, a nation with which Cuba does not have diplomatic relations.
