FBIS3-43001 "jpust002__l94035" JPRS-UST-94-005-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 02 February 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Zeolite Sorbent for Removing Cesium-137 From Milk 947C0076A Moscow NAUKA I ZHIZN in Russian No 4, Apr 93 p 68--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 947C0076A Moscow NAUKA I ZHIZN Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article: "How to Clean a Purifier"] [Text]The sorry state of ecology makes even natural foodstuffs less and less suitable for consumption. And industry has to carry out increasingly thorough purification of such food. In particular, milk is usually treated with ion-exchange resins. These sorbents have the remarkable capacity to absorb numerous impurities: radionuclides, pesticides, heavy metals, and even excessive acidity, thus transforming ``poor'' milk into milk that is quite suitable for boiling. Until recently, only small batches of milk intended for small children were submitted to such treatment, but after Chernobyl its' use increased dramatically in a number of oblasts. Then there appeared the problem of disposing of radioactive waste, which is quite sizable with use of this technology. Ion-exchange resins must be cleaned periodically in salt solutions, which then become the radioactive waste, which is quite significant (about 10 percent of the volume of treated milk) and hazardous (because of the high cesium-137 content). The Institute of Physical Chemistry, Russian Academy of Sciences, together with the All-Union Research Institute of the Dairy Industry were able to "take care of" radioactive salt solutions by including their treatment in the technological process. For this purpose, a new sorbent was developed, a modified zeolite that selectively binds expressly cesium-137. True, it becomes radioactive waste after use, but its volume is one-fiftieth of the level in salt solutions. The modified zeolite can also be used for direct removal of cesium-137 from milk. This is particularly valuable for farmers who do not handle large batches of milk, but have enough time to inactivate it for a somewhat longer decontamination. Especially since, in this case, no special equipment is required. The sorbent does not get clogged with either protein or fat. The treatment method has been tested at the Moscow Medical Academy imeni I. M. Sechenov and its use is recommended. It is technologically simple and inexpensive to manufacture the modified zeolite. The base material, naturally occurring zeolite, is available in sufficient amounts in the nation. But, unfortunately, there is no manufacturer as yet.
