FBIS3-22252 "jpten006___94116" JPRS-TEN-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 8 MARCH 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Brazil To Return Three Hundred Tons of Toxic Fertilizer 94WN0149A London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 27 Dec 93 p 6 94WN0149A London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Charles Clover, environment editor and William Vanvolsem in Rio de Janeiro: ``Brazil To Send Back 300 Tons of Toxic `Waste'''] [Text] Brazil is returning to Britain 300 tons of toxic materials exported by a British firm as fertilizer. The consignment of copper and zinc, described on import documents as ``micronutrients for use as a fertiliser,'' was impounded by the Sao Paulo State Environment Protection Agency and found also to contain the poisonous metals arsenic, lead, mercury and cadmium. Copper and zinc could be used in minute amounts to enrich tropical soils deficient in trace metals. Produquimica, the Sao Paulo fertilizer company which received the shipment, said it was supplied by the Islington firm, London Metals. The Warwickshire Waste Regulation Authority said the cocktail of metals involved were capable of poisoning people, plants or animals. The environmental group Greenpeace said the materials, regardless of how they were described, were waste, because they were the residue of an industrial process. They are seeking to hold up the incident as an example of the legal loophole under which toxic waste, properly described, may be exported to Third World countries for ``recycling,'' though exports of waste for dumping and incineration are banned. The company which supplied the material to London Metals, Metallic Extractors of Water Orton, Birmingham, describes the material as a ``standard product'' controlled under regulations governing the recycling of metals. Metallic Extractors confirmed the material included lead, cadmium, arsenic and mercury in small quantities and that it had supplied a complete analysis of the product with it. The company said it did not know the material was going to Brazil. London Metals refused to comment. Jose Roberto Falconi, regional director of the Agency, said: ``The material was being shipped back yesterday on our orders after tests showed it did not fulfil import requirements.'' At the least, say industry sources, the incident proves that the legal definition of what constitutes waste is far from clear. If the material is legally found to be technically waste, it could yet be proved that London Metals should have had different export documents. The Department of the Environment is investigating the incident.
