FBIS3-11498 "drlat055_m_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 Brazil Science Agreement With U.S. Expected To Be Reactivated PY2103225394 Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 20 Mar 94 Section 1 p 6 PY2103225394 Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Carlos Eduardo Lins da Silva] [Text] Washington -- U.S. Vice President Al Gore, Jr. today begins a lightning visit to South America. In less than 48 hours he will visit Bolivia, Argentina, and Brazil. In Brasilia, where he will stay for six hours tomorrow evening, he will meet with President Itamar Franco, attend a meeting with Brazilian society representatives, and have dinner with Minister Celso Amorim. That is very little time to make any decision of great impact. In any case, in order to avoid making his presence in the country a mere matter of protocol, Brazilian diplomats are earnestly working to give it some meaning, and it is almost certain that one of the results of his visit will be the reactivation of a science and technology agreement between the two countries that has been paralyzed for years. The agreement never went beyond a piece of paper because of several bilateral litigations in the past few years in this field (informatics and intellectual property rights). Given that the patents rights issue was solved last month and the U.S.-Brazilian agenda cleared in that subject, it is very probable that after the meeting between Gore and Franco the decision to activate the agreement will be announced. Another sure subject of conversation between Gore and Franco is the Americas Summit scheduled for December in Miami. This is a very bad date for Brazil, which will be represented by a president (Itamar Franco) who has hardly a few weeks of government ahead of him. It will be the first meeting of continental chiefs of state since the Punta del Este meeting in 1967, and the first summit in history with the presence of presidents only elected in free elections (the only two American countries that do not fit this definition -- Cuba and Haiti --were not invited).
