FBIS4-19681 "drweu077_p_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-077 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 GREECE Greek-Albanian Delegations Meet in Ioannina 20 Apr Greek-Albanian Delegations Meet in Ioannina 20 Apr Athens To Reduce Albanian Embassy Staff NC2104141294 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network in Greek 1130 GMT 21 Apr 94 NC2104141294 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network Greek BFN [Text] Answering reporters' questions on what the Government intends to do about the arrests of Greeks in Albania, Government Spokesman Evangelos today said that Greece has made all necessary diplomatic demarches on the Albanian authorities' wave of arrests against the Greek minority. It is also waiting for Foreign Minister Karolos Papoulias' meeting with Albanian Foreign Minister Alfred Serreqi on 3 May in Zurich. Venizelos stressed: Greece cannot take a casual or timid stance considering it is a guarantor in the region. Therefore, it is acting in a low-key manner to avoid any misunderstandings. The spokesman noted: Anyone who misunderstands our muted approach will be making a political mistake. I am referring to Albania. The spokesman stressed that trumped up charges are unacceptable. He said: The improvement of Greek-Albanian relations depends on respect for the Greek minority's human rights, international law, and the standard of human rights traditional to European civilization. Venizelos added: This [Orthodox] Easter [1 May], the Albanian authorities must prove that they respect freedom of religion. The Greek Government will proceed to reduce the staff of the Albanian Embassy in Athens, because Albanian President Sali Berisha's government has not reconsidered their decision to reduce the staff of the Greek Embassy in Tirana. We remind you that the staff of the Greek Embassy in the Albanian capital has been reduced by 30 percent. A short time ago, REUTER NEWS AGENCY reported from Athens that an Albanian diplomat had been informed that he must leave the country by tomorrow. REUTER added that this is the second incident in the past 10 days resulting from the tension between the Greek and Albanian Governments.
