FBIS4-66499 "jpnea020___94006" JPRS-NEA-94-020 JPRS Near East & South Asia 9 March 1994 NEAR EAST ALGERIA Open Letter to Zeroual on Increased Bloodshed Open Letter to Zeroual on Increased Bloodshed 94AF0152C Algiers ALGER REPUBLICAIN in French 9 Mar 94 p 1 94AF0152C Algiers ALGER REPUBLICAIN French CSO [Unattributed letter to President Zeroual: "Avoiding Drift"] [Excerpt] Mr. President: On this date, 8 March, on the eve of aid, we are greatly distressed to see our country sinking into chaos. Our distress increases with every passing day before the resurgence of hideous terrorist acts, the assassination of Algeria's most promising children. These ignoble acts have become even more prevalent since the enacting of conciliatory measures and the calls for dialogue with those who are digging the grave of a modern and republican Algeria: those who want to seize power, all power, to impose on us their vision of a fundamentalist society and engulf the country in fire and blood. Far from helping to extricate our country from the crisis, these measures and these appeals have succeeded only in confusing the women and men who are struggling to create a resolutely modern society and whose hopes must not be disappointed. These measures have succeeded only in encouraging the enemies of Algeria to deepen the climate of terror and insecurity. Mr. President, the "cult of bloodshed" continues to drain Algeria's lifeblood and mutilate its families. In their organized and murderous insanity, the forces of terrorism are attacking the children, the womenfolk, who have always been singled out as special targets by totalitarian fundamentalism. Mr. President, in every way from the infamous Family Code to physical liquidation--and including intimidation, threats, rape, and abduction--flesh-and-blood women are being subjected to the horrors of a diabolic cycle of barbarism. Mr. President, women refuse to be sacrificed yet again on the altar of a suicidal policy or a pact with the devil. The real interlocutors in a dialogue about the future of modern Algeria should be the women and men who believe in it, who are fighting with their bare hands to keep this country from falling under the sway of an Islamist dictatorship. [passage omitted]
