FBIS4-65229 "drweu093_p_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-093 Daily Report 11 May 1994 GREECE Minority Party in Albania Changes Profile Minority Party in Albania Changes Profile NC1205155194 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA in Greek 11 May 94 p 12 NC1205155194 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA Greek BFN [Report by correspondent Takis Dhiamandis from Gjirokaster] [Text] The Greek minority organization in Albania, Omonoia, is trying to straighten out its internal issues and change its profile following tension caused by the bloody incident at an Albanian military camp in Episkopi on 10 April. A few days after the incident, Albanian authorities began arresting Omonoia members, including people who had previously been involved only in provocative or inflammatory statements in Greek media. In most houses the Albanian police claim they discovered propaganda material from various North Ipirote organizations active in Greece in support of North Ipiros' independence or autonomy. And it is not just this. The Albanian Government, indirectly so far, has described Omonoia as a terrorist organization, a description that has already been used in several progovernment or nationalistic press reports. Ten Decisions These facts forced Omonoia's leadership to make some decisions. In its first meeting last week, the new general council made 10 decisions, three of which concerned Omonoia's image in the outside world, the other decisions concerned procedural issues. Specifically it decided: 1. The organization will separate from every association or organization by North Ipirotes outside Albania. These associations will be asked not to get involved in internal Omonoia issues. 2. Omonoia members must have the discipline to release statements to the mass media that are in line with the positions adopted by the organization. To represent Omonoia or express the organization's views, they must be authorized by the general presidium. 3. The organization will dispatch messages to the Greek mass media -- particularly television channels such as Mega and Antenna -- to avoid misleading reports on what is happening to the Greek minority. This message will also be sent to Government spokesman Evangelos Venizelos, the Foreign Ministry, etc. Omonoia President Sotirios Kiriazatis intends to give a news conference in Tirana soon to brief the Albanian mass media, and through them the political parties and the Albanian people, about Omonoia's views on the Greek minority's position and role within Albanian society, in order to avoid being misunderstood or becoming an object of exploitation by anyone.
