FBIS3-59626 "jpest003___94030" JPRS-EST-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 26 January 1994 WEST EUROPE ENERGY, ENVIRONMENT Germany: Horizontal Drilling 5,000 Meters Deep Shows Promise 94WS0134B Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT in German 26 Nov 93 p 8 94WS0134B Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT Language: German Article Type:CSO [Article by Wg: "Horizontal Drilling and `Frac' at Nearly 5,000 Meters' Depth"] [Text] Celle--For the first time in Germany, the technology of horizontal drilling, combined with multiple hydraulic fracturing of deposit rock at a depth of almost 5,000 meters is being used for a natural gas drilling project. As reported by Mobil Erdgas-Erdoel GmbH, the operator for a consortium, work is beginning in the next few days on the Soehlingen Z-10 project in northern Lower Saxony, in the vicinity of Rotenburg (Wuemme). The goal of this technically innovative, expensive method is profitably to exploit a natural gas deposit with extremely thick rock and correspondingly low penetrability. In the event the project should be successful, this combination of two techniques would open up new prospects for natural gas exploitation in Germany. At the Soehlingen gas field a 1,000-meter-long horizontal stretch is being drilled and equipped with pipe at a depth of 4,800 meters in the approximately 100-meter-thick main sand of the new red conglomerate geological formation. Along this stretch, at intervals of 200 meters, vertical, about 15-millimeter wide cracks will be produced. They are made by squeezing in a special fluid under extremely high pressure ("multiple hydraulic fracturing"). The cracks stretch in elliptical form about 200 meters horizontally and 100 meters vertically into the rock at the deposit. In order for the cracks not to close up again after this so-called "frac" treatment, high-tensile ceramic sand is pressed in along with the fluid, which remains as support in the cracks and keeps them permanently open. The combination of horizontal drilling process and multiple fracturing of the rock is to produce clearly better "drainage" and thus enable satisfactory production rates. Horizontal drilling and "frac" methods are basically known techniques, but what is new is their combined application based on a difficult initial situation, which is marked by great depth, high pressures, and temperatures as well as the extremely low penetrability of the rock. Heavy drilling equipment from Itag Tiefbohr GmbH is being used, with a special drive unit. The bore hole will be a total of 6,100 meters deep. The drilling time is expected to be about six months. The subsequent work operations will take another one and a half months. With the new combination of techniques, the companies involved--BEB Erdgas and Erdoel GmbH (30 percent), RWE-DEA AG (30 percent), Wintershall AG (10 percent) and Mobil Erdgas-Erdoel GmbH as drilling and mining operators (30 percent)--expect profitably to develop a large proportion of the already proven natural gas content in the deposit.
