FBIS3-9084 "dreeu054_i_94011" FBIS-EEU-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Reacts to Muslim-Croat Accord LD1803205694 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service in Serbo-Croatian 1948 GMT 18 Mar 94 LD1803205694 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Text] Sarajevo, 18 Mar (TANJUG) -- "The Croats and the Muslims today exercised their sovereign right to decide on how they wish to live and, as long as this is not aimed against the Serbs, we are ready to accept this agreement as their choice," president of the Srpska republic Radovan Karadzic said while commenting on the signing of the Croat-Muslim agreement. "We are closely examining every individual implication of that agreement, hoping that it will lead to peace," he added. Commenting on U.S. President Clinton's statement on the need to include the Serb side, with the aim of achieving total peace, the Srpska republic president said that the Serbs are ready to join every peace process. "We are already involved in the peace process under the patronage of the European Union, and we are ready to sign a peace agreement at any time, but we expect guarantees that all three sides would be treated equally, which includes the issue of the lifting of the sanctions," Karadzic said. Asked by correspondents how he interpreted Izetbegovic's statement in Washington today, when Izetbegovic emphasized the problem of preserving the old borders of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Karadzic said that today's events have created a completely new international legal and political situation. "In this respect you cannot have your cake and eat it too. This is a new state created on the basis of their sovereign rights. We can either be sorry or happy for being excluded from this state of theirs, but the borders of Bosnia-Herzegovina as desired by Mr. Izetbegovic simply no longer exist. In fact, they have never really existed because we never accepted the idea of a Bosnia outside Yugoslavia," President Karadzic said.
