FBIS4-5617 "dreas071__a94010" FBIS-EAS-94-071-A Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 ANNEX Japan Debate Continues on U.S. Bases in Okinawa Debate Continues on U.S. Bases in Okinawa Assemblies Adopt Resolutions OW1304073794 Naha RYUKYU SHIMPO in Japanese 12 Apr 94 Evening Edition p 9--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1304073794 Naha RYUKYU SHIMPO Japanese BFN [Text] Naha City Assembly The Naha City Assembly (chaired by Kansaki Asato) convened an extraordinary session on the morning of 12 April to sternly protest with "strong anger" a series of crashes involving U.S. Military aircraft and to unanimously adopt a resolution and a statement demanding a thorough investigation into the cause of the crashes and prevention of a recurrence of those crashes. The resolution will be sent to the American ambassador in Japan and two other U.S. officials, whereas the statement will be sent to the prime minister, the foreign minister, speaker of the House of Representatives, president of the House of Councilors, and three other Japanese officials. The resolution and statement strongly demand the immediate removal of dangerous defective helicopters from Okinawa that threaten the property and lives of Okinawans and the immediate return of Futenma Air Station. Urasoe City Assembly The Urasoe City Assembly (chaired by Ichiro Akamine) held an extraordinary session on 10 April to unanimously adopt a statement calling for the prevention of a recurrence of the crash involving U.S. military helicopters and a resolution protesting the crash. The statement said: "Urasoe's airspace is used by U.S. military aircraft as their route and we feel a cold chill when we think of a crash in our city." The statement also demanded the prevention of a recurrence of such a crash and the early return of Futenma Air Station. Nago City Assembly The Nago City Assembly (chaired by Susumu Asato) held an extraordinary session on the morning of 12 April to unanimously adopt a resolution protesting the crash of an F-15 Eagle fighter that occurred at Kadena Air Base and the crash of a large helicopter at Futenma Air Station, and a statement. The resolution protesting the series of crashes involving U.S. Military aircraft expressed a sense of crisis, saying: "The latest crashes show us that we cannot view them with indifference and the crashes are heightening apprehensions among citizens." The resolution also demanded: 1) a speedy investigation into the cause of the crashes and the disclosure of their cause to the Okinawans, and 2) a halt to training flights by U.S. military planes until the cause of the crashes is determined.
