FBIS4-50950 "drchi100_k_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-100 Daily Report 24 May 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Li Peng Inspects Shanghai's Pudong Development Li Peng Inspects Shanghai's Pudong Development HK2405101994 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO in Chinese 24 May 94 p A2 HK2405101994 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO Chinese BFN ["Dispatch" by correspondent Chang Ping (1728 5493): "Li Peng Stresses During Visit to Shanghai That Pudong Policy Remains Unchanged"] [Text] Shanghai, 23 May -- Chinese Premier Li Peng as he toured Shanghai today reiterated that the central policy toward Pudong remains unchanged. Informed sources revealed that Premier Li Peng and his wife arrived in Shanghai yesterday afternoon. Accompanying them to Shanghai are Chen Jinhua, State Planning Commission minister, and He Chunlin, State Council General Office deputy secretary general. Premier Li Peng and his entourage toured and inspected the "Jinqiao Export Processing Zone" and "Waigaoqiao Bonded Area," two of the four small key development zones in the New Pudong District, in company with Shanghai party secretary Wu Bangguo and Mayor Huang Ju. After listening to reports by leaders of the New Pudong District, Premier Li Peng and his entourage visited the bonded capital goods market showing keen interest. The Shanghai Hitachi Electrical Appliance Company Limited, a Sino-Japanese joint venture which was visited by General Secretary Jiang Zemin earlier this month, welcomed Premier Li Peng and his entourage. It was extremely rare for both the highest party and government leaders to visit on two different occasions in the same month the same foreign-capital company. The Chinese and Japanese management staff of "Shanghai Hitachi" felt greatly honored. This afternoon, Premier Li Peng listened to work reports by Shanghai party and government leaders and persons-in-charge of departments at the municipal party committee office building in Kangping Road. It has been learned that Li Peng will assist Shanghai in solving certain practical difficulties during his visit.
