FBIS3-5742 "dreas047_a_94013" FBIS-EAS-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan `Harshly' Criticizes U.S. Policy OW1003093294 Tokyo KYODO in English 0909 GMT 10 Mar 94 OW1003093294 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 10 KYODO -- French Trade and Industry Minister Gerard Longuet on Thursday [10 March] harshly criticized Washington's reinstatement of the Super 301 trade law as an "unjustified attack" on Japan. In an address to the Japanese-French Club, an official bilateral discussion forum, Longuet also called for more Japanese investment in France. "The U.S. has used Japan's structural trade surplus as a pretext for launching unjustified attacks against Japan and making unilateral decisions," Longuet said, citing the reinstatement of Super 301, which paves the way for trade sanctions. France condemns such actions, he said. The trade law gives the United States broad powers to impose sanctions against countries it judges to have unfair trade practices. Its reinstatement is widely seen as a move to pressure Japan to reduce its more than 60 billion dollar trade surplus with the U.S. Referring to the U.S. Government's role in clinching a 6 billion dollar private-sector contract from Saudi Arabian Airlines, Longuet said Washington's trade tactics run counter to the philosophy of free trade. A European consortium, Airbus Industrie, also submitted a bid for the aircraft deal, which is expected to save the near-bankrupt U.S. aircraft industry. Washington is exploiting its "almost exclusive political, military and monetary trump cards" to safeguard commercial interests, Longuet said. This is "not a very good solution." Instead Japan's overall trade surplus should be addressed on a multilateral basis, Longuet said. Citing improved foreign access to public works bidding, Longuet said Japan is "going in the right direction" with its efforts to deregulate the economy. Paris is satisfied with Tokyo's recent 15 billion yen stimulus package, he said. He said he hoped that the liberalization of Japan's economy will lead to closer bilateral economic ties, and urged more bilateral investment and joint ventures. While France represents some 20 percent of the European economy, only 7 percent of Japanese investment in Europe goes to France, he said. Longuet urged French companies to overcome their "lack of courage" and set up business in Japan. Japanese investments in France are 10 times higher than French investments in Japan. He arrived in Tokyo on Wednesday for talks with Japanese Government and business leaders and to attend an international conference on assistance to Cambodia.
