FBIS3-35438 "drnes037_s_94015" FBIS-NES-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 Iran KEYHAN's New Director Expresses Views 94LA0080B Tehran KEYHAN-E HAVA'I in Persian 26 Jan 94 p 3 94LA0080B Tehran KEYHAN-E HAVA'I Language: Persian Article Type:CSO [Text] Tehran, 26 Dey [16 Jan] (KEYHAN-E HAVA'I News Service) -- In a speech to a group of members of the Editorial Board of KEYHAN newspaper, the supervisor of the KEYHAN Institute emphasized: The newspapers must deal with the problems afflicting society and the people and they must carry the message of Islam and the nation. In his first appearance before a gathering of KEYHAN's reporters, Hoseyn Shari'atmadari, the vice-regent's representative and supervisor of the KEYHAN Institute, discussed the heavy mission of the press in presenting culture and ideas. He added: Today writers are seen as the standard-bearers in the clash between media and cultures. In this arena, nothing is accomplished by media with no message. The vice-regent's representative in the KEYHAN Institute gave his view concerning criticism in the press as follows: As the leader of the revolution said, the Islamic government is like a battle front, where no one aims his rifle at himself. This is true, but this does not mean that if someone sees someone else sleeping in this trenches he will not startle him awake, or that you do not remind a trench builder when he neglects to make earthworks. Criticism must be constructive, and the language of friends differs from the language of enemies. Elsewhere in his talk, Shari'atmadari said: The late Imam (peace be upon him) said concerning the press that both what is written and what is not written must be evaluated. The press must bear the message of Islam and the nation and it must be used for their growth and advancement. During this meeting Mehdi Nasiri, manager of the newspaper KEYHAN, discussed the criticism that is made of this newspaper. He said: In the last few years some of the Western media as well as publications printed outside the country affiliated with the counterrevolutionary minigroups have been hostile towards KEYHAN, but this opposition has no result other than to strengthen our belief that we are right. Nasiri added: Some domestic forces are also counted among KEYHAN's critics. We never consider ourselves free of mistakes and without need of criticism or reminders, and we even act on the basis of much of the criticism, but if people sometimes want KEYHAN to change its line and to retreat from its basic positions, I say that we have chosen this path consciously and with much consultation and consideration of interests, and we will continue it.
