FBIS3-16836 "drsov054_f_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 National Affairs `Rather Serious Incident' at Khmelnitskiy AES MK1903123094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 19 Mar 94 p 7 MK1903123094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Kirill Dybskiy under the "Incident" rubric: "Reactor Shut Down at Khmelnitskiy Atomic Electric Power Station"] [Text] A rather serious incident happened on 16 March at Khmelnitskiy Atomic Electric Power Station [AES] on the territory of now independent Ukraine. Your SEGODNYA correspondent was told in Russia's State Committee for the Supervision of Nuclear and Radiation Safety [Gosatomnadzor] with reference to information from the Swiss headquarters of the NucNet European Nuclear Society (based on the information from Ukraine's State Committee for the Supervision of Nuclear and Radiation Safety) that the events at the AES unfolded as follows: At 2100 local time, a power cable of 0.4 kilovolts ignited in the engine room of the first reactor. The firemen put out the fire at 2110. Despite that the chiefs decided to discontinue the generator's operation and it was shut down. Ukraine's State Committee for the Supervision of Nuclear and Radiation Safety rated this incident grade 1 on the seven-point INES scale. Commenting on this occurrence, Yuriy Rogozhin, press service head of the Russian State Committee for the Supervision of Nuclear and Radiation Safety, stated in an interview with your SEGODNYA correspondent that a rather dubious situation prevails in CIS nuclear power engineering. For example, the Russian State Committee for the Supervision of Nuclear and Radiation Safety had received information about the accident at Khmelnitskiy AES through the channels of foreign news agencies. This despite an agreement on exchanging information about this sort of occurrences signed between the two committees in 1992. The agreement was sealed at the intergovernment level a year later. Incidentally, as this issue went to print the Russian counterparts had not been alerted to the Khmelnitskiy incident by Ukraine's State Committee for the Supervision of Nuclear and Radiation Safety.
