FBIS3-15119 "drsov042_b_94016" FBIS-SOV-94-042 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Yeltsin Urges Adoption of Program To Fight Crime LD0303142094 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1200 GMT 3 Mar 94 LD0303142094 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Novosti" newscast] [Text] Today's sitting of the Russian Security Council was devoted to the fight against crime, a subject Boris Yeltsin broached in his address to parliament. [Correspondent Vladimir Perfilyev] Head of state Boris Yeltsin led the meeting. Two issues were examined: The federal anti-crime program for this year and 1995, and the German general consulate in Kaliningrad. President Yeltsin said that the crime situation was posing a serious problem in Russia at the moment. There is organized crime not just in separate areas, but in the near abroad [former Soviet republics] and abroad. The low level of efficiency of the law-enforcing and judicial bodies is one of the main reasons for the increase in crime. It is now the norm that criminals get off practically scot-free as the crime fighting bodies remain ill-equipped for the job. On the subject of amnesty, President Yeltsin said: [Begin Yeltsin recording] I hope that the federal program to step up the fight against crime will mark a change and become a significant social document in the difficult work of the law-enforcing and judicial bodies. I would like to stress that those amnestied by the State Duma will be rearrested in accordance with our laws as soon as they start any political or other activity detrimental to the security of the Russian state. The main result of our sitting today should not just be that we looked into adopting the federal program, but that it will now be implemented quickly. We need to display action as soon as possible to convince Russian citizens that the state is capable of dealing with the social evil that crime is. [end recording]
