FBIS4-58590 "drnes087dd_94002" FBIS-NES-94-087 Daily Report 4 May 1994 Palestinian Affairs Al-Husayni Sees Accord as 1st Step Toward Statehood Al-Husayni Sees Accord as 1st Step Toward Statehood TA0405113894 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT in Hebrew 4 May 94 p 7 TA0405113894 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT Hebrew BFN [Report on an interview with Faysal al-Husayni by Roni Shaqed in Jerusalem on 3 May] [Text] "We are giving birth to a baby today, but it is weak. I love him because he is my child, but I am not pleased," Faysal al-Husayni, who laid the foundations for the peace accord yet was left behind in Jerusalem today, said. Like other Palestinian leaders in the territories, he will watch the signing ceremony on television. "This is the first step toward a Palestinian state. I would have liked the first step to have been bigger, but it is a start," al-Husayni told YEDI'OT AHARONOT. "I thought we would be able to rule in Gaza and Jericho and tell the Israeli people: Yes, we can be free, build our country, and provide security for our people and yours. It now appears that we are not really being allowed to rule. Details introduced into the agreement take this opportunity away from the Palestinian people. If I must provide security, I require full control. "The future of Jerusalem also troubles me. The closure harms religious life, and family ties are disrupted. We do not want a new agreement, but we are demanding a return to the previous situation in Jerusalem. I spoke with 'Arafat on the matter and asked him to raise the closure issue in his meeting with Rabin." I asked him: We spoke in 1988, and you said that one day a Palestinian state would be set up. Did you think this would be the path taken? "I thought that the process would take much longer. I spoke of 20 years; I thought demography would change the face of things." How will we promote relations ties now? "We have to change the Israeli mentality, and our side must see you differently as well. We have to believe in peace."
