FBIS3-7547 "dreas060__a94005" FBIS-EAS-94-060-A Document Type:Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 ANNEX Japan U.S. Cessna Makes Emergency Landing in Okinawa Incident Reported OW2803013894 Naha OKINAWA TIMES in Japanese 27 Mar 94 Morning Edition p 27--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2803013894 Naha OKINAWA TIMES Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Due to engine trouble, a Cessna airplane belonging to the aeroclub at the U.S. military's Kadena Air Base [KAB] on Okinawa made an emergency landing in the car park at Blue Beach, Kin village at about 1010 on 26 March. The male pilot was not injured. According to U.S. Forces and Ishikawa Police Station sources, no cars or people were in the car park when the plane made its emergency landing, despite the fact it was Saturday. The airplane was not damaged. And, despite the fact any slight miscalculation in the maneuver could have caused disaster, the public relations office of the 18th Flight Wing at KAB did not file a report on the incident to the prefectural government until 1700 on 27 March and then provided no details. [passage omitted on details] The flight wing public relations office report said "it was the only possible measure that could have been taken," and "the pilot followed safety procedures." [passage providing further details omitted] The U.S. military contacted Ishikawa Police Station by phone at about 1120. The pilot was alone at the site when police officers arrived. Soon, however, other members of the aeroclub and the U.S. military police arrived at the beach in a truck, dismantled the wings of the plane, loaded everything onto the truck, and took the plane back to KAB. Villagers at the beach for recreation watched the dismantling in wonder. According to the 18th Flight Wing, its security office is currently carrying out an investigation into the cause of the accident. When the OKINAWA TIMES made a telephone inquiry into the accident, the person at the aeroclub, to which the plane belongs, refused to answer, saying they "do not have any obligation to provide information." He repeatedly said: "You should direct any inquiries to the public relations office (at KAB)." The aeroclub was discussed at last year's prefectural assembly session for its alleged involvement in providing fee-charging sightseeing flights to Japanese. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a strong protest to the U.S. Forces saying such a practice was a violation of the Japan-U.S. Status of Forces Agreement, and that "such incidents would certainly lead to misunderstanding." [passage profiling aeroclub omitted]
