FBIS3-53433 "drnes010_v_94004" FBIS-NES-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 Pakistan Official: Balochistan Border Open BK1401110994 Islamabad THE MUSLIM in English 14 Jan 94 p 1 BK1401110994 Islamabad THE MUSLIM Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Quetta, Jan 13: A senior government official said on Thursday that he has no orders from Interior Ministry about sealing of Pak-Afghan borders to block the influx of refugees, fleeing from Afghanistan due to fresh fighting erupted among rival Afghan groups in Kabul. "Certainly there isn't any extraordinary movement for refugees across the Durand line (which divides both countries)," Nayyar Agha, Commissioner Quetta Division told THE MUSLIM. He said the Home Department did not issue orders to seal borders or turn back refugees across the country's southern flanks with Afghanistan. Meanwhile sources in Afghan Commissionerate when contacted said that till date, not a single refugee crossed into Chaman from Southern Qandahar Province. Sources said civilian fleeing fighting in Kabul were mainly moving or have settled in Jalalabad city and did not turn to southern parts of Afghanistan for shelter. Balochistan remained home to nearly a million Afghans, though the figures were widely believed to be exaggerated. Many refugees returned home when Afghan fighters took over Kabul after President Najibullah stopped down, but their shuttling across the borders continued due to sporadic factional clashes among Afghans for gaining power and arms depots. APP adds: The planned voluntary repatriation of about 85000 Afghan refugees to Afghanistan via Quetta may not start in April next if fighting continues in Kabul, UNHCR officials told APP here Thursday. The repatriation had earlier postponed due to some misunderstandings between the Iranian government and the UNHCR regarding the modalities of delivering repatriation assistance to refugees. Only recently the Iranian government agreed to allow the exodus with the repatriation assistance to refugees be given in Pakistan before their entry to Afghanistan the immediate repatriation could not be started in view of the onset of winters and freezing temperatures in Afghanistan. If fighting in Kabul and northern Afghanistan stops the exodus may start some time in the month of April. The Balochistan route for exodus of these refugees was chosen for being safer than those between Iran and Afghanistan.
