FBIS4-18517 "drweu066_n_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-066 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland Foreign Officials on Zhirinovskiy Role Foreign Officials on Zhirinovskiy Role LD0504131094 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network in Finnish 0900 GMT 5 Apr 94 LD0504131094 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network Finnish BFN [Text] Finnish and Russian parliamentarians have begun their joint working seminar on the Council of Europe in the Eduskunta building in Helsinki. The seminar is attended by parliamentarians from Sweden and Britain too. They regard the participation of the Russian Liberal Democrat chairman Vladimir Zhirinovskiy as important for dialogue. Sinikka Siekkinen reports: As most of the Russian delegation arrived at the Eduskunta building by coach, Zhirinovskiy came on foot from his quarters, thereby again attracting the greatest attention. Zhirinovskiy voiced the view that Russia does not want to become a member of the Council of Europe, but intends to set up its own council for East Europe. [Begin Zhirinovskiy recording, in English] We organize now a council for East Europe -- Russia, Poland, Czechia, Slovakia, Serbia, Bulgaria. It's good, it's better. [end recording] Zhirinovskiy also welcomed Finland as a member of the council for Eastern Europe. Zhirinovskiy also reiterated yesterday's statements on the Baltic countries and gave to understand that not even UN membership benefits Russia, if it is up to him. David Atkinson, the British MP, was pleased that Zhirinovskiy attended the seminar and heard what he had to say. [Begin Atkinson recording] I'm delighted he is present and that he will hear from my mouth my message to the seminar this morning. [end recording] Atkinson said that he would warn Zhirinovskiy of the consequences of his policies, particularly if he intends to seek to become president of Russia. The Swedish parliamentarian Doris Haavik also thought it was self-evident that Zhirinovskiy was allowed to take part in the Helsinki conference. According to Haavik, isolating him would instead be dangerous, but appearing in democracies was very important. Haavik said Zhirinovskiy should not be silenced; he reveals himself best when allowed to speak.
