FBIS4-18208 "drweu063__a94015" FBIS-WEU-94-063-A Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 ANNEX France Juppe on DPRK Nuclear Issue, Ties With Japan Juppe on DPRK Nuclear Issue, Ties With Japan OW3103085994 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN (Morning Edition) in Japanese 30 Mar 94 p 4--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW3103085994 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN (Morning Edition) Japanese BFN ["Summary" of an interview with Alain Juppe, French minister of foreign affairs, by YOMIURI SHIMBUN's Shin Sato in Paris on 28 March] [Text] Paris, 28 Mar -- The following is a summary of remarks made by French Foreign Minister Juppe during an interview with YOMIURI SHIMBUN: UN Security Council Reform Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa is scheduled to visit France in early May. We are also looking forward to a visit by His Majesty, the Emperor. I would like to touch on the reform of the UN Security Council in particular, since this is also related to the political dialogue between Japan and France. As the 20th century draws to an end, the expansion of the UN Security Council has become imperative. We would also welcome a greater number of permanent members. I think granting both Germany and Japan permanent memberships would be the natural thing to do. We are not in favor of creating new permanent memberships under a new framework. It would be fine to have permanent members which possess all the rights and duties, and those which do not. North Korea's Suspected Development of Nuclear Arms France is seriously concerned about the DPRK (North Korean) attitude of not respecting the International Atomic Energy Agency's (IAEA) official duties. This is a threat to regional stability and international security. IAEA should be able to inspect all nuclear facilities freely, regardless of whether they have been formally declared [by the DPRK]. We have stated this point many times. North Korea's attitude is unacceptable. If Pyongyang continues to refuse inspections, the UN Security Council has to place the issue of sanctions on its agenda. Trade Issues The creation of the World Trade Organization must bring about a more impartial order in international trade. Japan has a significant role to play in the achievement of this goal. The important thing is to eliminate all basis for such customary practices as using weapons such as the "Super 301 Provision" to threaten a trading partner and draw unilateral concessions, or for the principle of might is right. At the same time, it would be desirable for Japan to clearly indicate its intention to open its market to various nations through resolute promotion of deregulation and market liberalization measures. The European Union (EU) and Japan The monitoring quota for Japanese car exports to the EU is completely within the framework of GATT. EU also hopes for more procurement of auto parts from Japan. For this reason, we are watching with great interest negotiations between Japan and the United States in this sector. If Japan succumbs to threats and grants unilateral preferential treatment to U.S. companies, this will close Japan's door to European companies which are similarly highly competitive. That will be unacceptable for France. Cooperation Between Japan and France Many issues need to be discussed in Tokyo. There are regional issues for which our two countries need to coordinate our actions, such as Indochina, Africa, and Algeria. There will be an international conference on AIDS in Yokohama this summer, and in Paris this fall. It might be good to consider joint action by France and Japan.
