FBIS3-238 "drafr043_a_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 March 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Cameroon French Ministry Views Delgation's Efforts LD0303173894 Paris Radio France International in French 1230 GMT 3 Mar 94 LD0303173894 Paris Radio France International Language: French Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] The border dispute between Cameroon and Nigeria on the Bakassi Peninsula has taken on a new dimension. Nigerian Foreign Minister Babagana Kingibe says the situation could become explosive if something is not done quickly to get back to dialogue, but above all, he directly attacked France. In the view of the Nigerian foreign minister, Paris is a party to the border conflict. [passage omitted] The French delegation, which was in Nigeria, returned to France today after further talks with the Cameroonian authorities. Catherine Colonna, deputy spokesperson of the French Foreign Ministry, summed up the results of these visits, in answer to questions put to her by Adala Benraad: [Begin recording] [Colonna] The mission returned early this morning. Its members are going to give an account of their talks to the French authorities. It was a mission of fact-finding and discussion; it was not a question of mediation or anything else. We spoke to both sides in the same terms; that is, the situation is still worrying and the tension between the two countries over their disagreement is a matter of concern to us. Also, we believe the international community should help the two sides to achieve a solution to their disagreement by peaceful means. [Benraad] Is the matter going to be referred to the Security Council or the International Court of The Hague? [Colonna] Cameroon asked that the matter be referred to the Security Council several days ago. France, which has been chairman of the Security Council since 1 March, has held consultations on the matter, and, in accordance with its duty as chairman, will make a decision regarding this meeting. [end recording] [passage omitted]
