FBIS3-10914 "drlat050_t_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 Venezuela Presidency Ministry Reorganizes, Cuts Spending PA1403225594 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network in Spanish 1550 GMT 10 Mar 94 PA1403225594 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From "The News" newscast] [Text] As part of the austerity program that the Executive Branch announced, a 15 percent spending cut has been approved for the Ministry of the Secretariat of the Presidency; this cut represents some 205 million bolivares. Presidency Minister Andres Caldera Pietri said that the austerity program began on inaugural day because the 50 million [currency not specified] earmarked for the inauguration were not spent. The objectives of this reorganization are to modernize and revamp the secretariat as an organization that will help the head of state do his work, to increase the efficiency of government expenditures, to fully utilize management control systems, and to restructure most functional areas. After an arduous analysis, it was concluded that the best thing to do was to eliminate the Ministry of the Secretariat of the Presidency altogether and change it once more to the Secretariat General of the Presidency, as it used to be before the Public Administration Basic Law was reformed in 1976. [Begin Caldera recording] We decided to decrease the fleet of vehicles serving the Presidency Secretariat by 50 percent, thus reducing insurance costs as well as expenses on spare parts, repairs, and so on. During the first month of the current administration the Presidency Secretariat decreased its fuel costs by 43.3 percent, per diem and travel expenses by 43.7 percent, office equipment expenses by 46.3 percent, kitchen and butler service expenses by 26.8 percent, and newspaper and magazine expenses by 77 percent. In addition, the number of telephone lines with access to international and national long distance calls was decreased by 62 and 30 percent, respectively. These cuts will undoubtedly cause reductions in telephone bills. The second part, which is essential to this reorganization, will consist of reassignments at 14 institutions that are under the Presidency Secretariat. They make the administration more burdensome, and their work is unrelated to that of the secretariat's. Some of these institutions will be reassigned to organizations whose activities are more related to the works of said institutions. This will be achieved by amending the law, as is the case with autonomous institutions, and by issuing presidential decrees in meetings with the Council of Ministers, as is the case with foundations. [end recording] Minister Caldera announced that from now on, the Miraflores Bicentennial Square will be open to the public on Sundays. There will be entertainment for children in the mornings and concerts for adults in the afternoons.
