FBIS4-43273 "drweu115_p_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-115 Daily Report 14 Jun 1994 GREECE Athens Defends Embargo Against FYROM at European Court Athens Defends Embargo Against FYROM at European Court NC1406181094 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network in Greek 1500 GMT 14 Jun 94 NC1406181094 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network Greek BFN [Text] The hearing at the European Court regarding the EU [European Union] Commission's appeal against Greece on the economic embargo against Skopje [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia--FYROM] concluded this afternoon. In its appeal, the EU Commission was asking for temporary measures against Greece in retaliation for its decision. Our correspondent in Brussels Kostas Kekis sent the following dispatch: [Begin Kekis recording] The hearing was in front of the full session of the European Court. It met behind closed doors and examined the EU Commission's appeal for temporary measures against Greece for the embargo on Skopje. The meeting lasted for over three hours. The representatives of the two sides made their arguments and answered questions posed by the European justices. In the coming days, the prosecuting officer is expected to submit his recommendations. According to the court's practice, three to four weeks are necessary before the decision can be issued. It should be noted that since the official language of the hearing process was Greek, the defense of the EU Commission's arguments was assumed by a Greek-speaking French official, because the Greek legal officials of the EU's executive body would not participate in the hearing, claiming conscientious reasons. Finally, it should be noted that the president of the European Court rejected a demand by Greek European Parliament Deputies Lambrias, Stamoulis and Nianias who asked to take part in the hearing in favor of Greece. The European Court's president recalled Article 137 of the Court's procedural rule, according to his decision, people do not have the right to intervene in a trial between the EU Commission and member states. Only the member states and EU bodies can participate. At the trial, Greece was represented by Ioannis Kranidhiotis, Foreign Ministry director general in charge of European issues, and professors Skouris, Ioannou and Perakis. [end recording]
