FBIS3-20802 "jpeer009__s94007" JPRS-EER-94-009-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe Hungary: Defense Law, Election Law, Amendments 24 December 1993 HUNGARY Constitutional Amendment on Military Forces 94P20211A Budapest MAGYAR KOZLONY in Hungarian No 186, 24 Dec 93 pp 11129-11130 94P20211A Budapest MAGYAR KOZLONY Language: Hungarian Article Type:CSO [Amendment to the Constitution of the Hungarian Republic: "Law CVII of the year 1993 concerning amendment of the Constitution"; passed by the National Assembly on 7 Dec 1993] [Text] The National Assembly lays down the following law amending Law XX of the year 1949, which pertains to the Constitution of the Hungarian Republic: Article 1. The following Article 19/E is added to the Constitution: ``Article 19/E. (1) In order to repulse the attack in the event that external armed groups unexpectedly intrude into Hungary's territory, or to defend the country's territory with the Hungarian Army's air defense and flight-ready forces, the Government is required to act immediately to protect the citizens' life and property, public order, and public safety in accordance with the defense plan signed by the president of the Republic--using forces that are commensurate with the attack and prepared for this purpose--until a decision has been made about declaring a state of emergency or extraordinary situation. ``(2) In the interest of taking further measures, the Government will inform the National Assembly and the president of the Republic without delay of the measures it took on the basis of paragraph (1). "(3) The vote of two-thirds of the National Assembly representatives present is necessary to pass the law that outlines the regulations pertaining to the Government's immediate measures." Article 2. The following provision replaces Article 40/A of the Constitution: ``Article 40/A. (1) The basic duty of the armed forces (the Hungarian Army and the Border Guard) is the military defense of the homeland. The Border Guard's policing area of responsibility is guarding the state's borders, supervising border traffic, and maintaining order along the borders. The vote of two-thirds of the National Assembly representatives present is necessary to pass the law concerning the tasks of the armed forces and the detailed regulations that pertain to them. ``(2) The basic task of the police force is protecting public safety and domestic order. The vote of two-thirds of the National Assembly representatives present is necessary to pass the law concerning the detailed regulations dealing with the police and with national security activities.'' Article 3. In Article 40/B of the Constitution, paragraph (4) is replaced by the following provision, and the following new paragraph (5) is added: ``(4) Members of the armed forces, the police, and the civil national security services who have a professional status may not be members of a party and may not engage in political activities. ``(5) A law passed with the vote of two-thirds of the National Assembly representatives present can establish limitations on the party activities of members of the armed forces who do not have professional military status.'' Article 4. This law goes into force on the eighth day after its publication. [Signed] Arpad Goncz, president of the Republic; Gyorgy Szabad, president of the National Assembly
