FBIS4-41417 "drsov122_b_94030" FBIS-SOV-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military, Nuclear & Space Issues Government Fails To Implement Defense Tariff Pact Government Fails To Implement Defense Tariff Pact MK2306122594 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 23 Jun 94 p 4 MK2306122594 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Report by R.S. under the "In Brief" rubric: "5 Percent of Required Amount Earmarked for Conversion So Far"] [Text] On 21 June at the State Committee for the Defense Industry [Gosoboronprom] a meeting took place of participants in the trilateral commission that early this year produced and signed the first tariff agreement regulating relations between the employers, in the shape of Gosoboronprom, trade unions in defense industry sectors, and the government, as represented by the Ministry of Labor. It had to be held because of the disastrous situation with regard to implementing the main points of the agreement. In particular, the state has not paid its debt of 441 billion rubles [R] for military equipment produced as part of the 1993 defense order. The situation is made considerably worse by the fact that now, when the 1995 state defense order is nearly a fifth of last year's, there have also been considerable cuts in the funds earmarked for military conversion. Out of the R4.7 trillion required this year to carry through conversion programs, as little as R0.25 trillion was appropriated in the first quarter -- slightly more than 5 percent of the intended sum. The funding of research and development on weapons and military hardware was not indexed in the first six months, although this is enshrined in the tariff agreement and is on the whole being done in Russia's national economy. The main reason for the failure to act on the tariff agreement provisions noted by virtually all participants in the meeting lies in the current structure of the draft Russian budget being discussed in the State Duma. The main culprit in the prevailing situation, trade unions in defense sectors think, is the Russian Government, which is not living up to its pledges. This will soon provoke heightened social tension in the regions where the main defense enterprises are located, the Gosoboronprom press service says.
