FBIS4-58786 "drnes089dd_94008" FBIS-NES-94-089 Daily Report 6 May 1994 Palestinian Affairs 'Arafat Denies Asking For Delay in Power Transfer 'Arafat Denies Asking For Delay in Power Transfer JN0605182594 Paris Radio Monte Carlo in Arabic 1715 GMT 6 May 94 JN0605182594 Paris Radio Monte Carlo Arabic BFN [Muhammad Kurayshan report from Tunis] [Text] The PLO Executive Committee is expected to resume meetings in Tunis tomorrow. The Executive committee began its meetings today under Yasir 'Arafat and in the presence of nine of its members. Yasir 'Abd-Rabbuh and Bishop Iliya Khuri will join them tomorrow. Immediately after his return from Amman, 'Arafat submitted a report on the atmosphere that prevailed over the signing of the Cairo agreement on 4 May, particularly on the points of differences that are still pending with the Israelis. 'Arafat said these differences will be discussed within the next three months. According to informed sources here, 'Arafat denied at the meeting that he had asked Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin to postpone the transfer of power in Gaza and Jericho until the Palestinian side finds itself ready to do so. The PLO Executive Committee discussed the configuration of the Palestinian authority that will take charge of the autonomy rule, which is expected to be equally divided between the Palestinians inside and outside the [territories] under Yasir 'Arafat. The formation of this authority is expected to be announced here in Tunis in the next two days, at the end of the current meetings. It seems that there is no dispute about the figures from the territories, while viewpoints continue to be exchanged concerning the figures from the diaspora [word indistinct] from the PLO Executive Committee and Fatah Central Committee. Ahmad Quray', Abu-'Ala', head of the PLO Economic Department, will leave for Amman soon to inform the Jordanian Government about the details of the economic agreement with Israel and the scope of Jordanian-Palestinian coordination in this field.
