FBIS4-43440 "drweu117_n_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-117 Daily Report 4 May 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Denmark * Parties Weigh Campaign Allies, Coalition * Parties Weigh Campaign Allies, Coalition * Local SDP Leaders on SF Tie 94EN0355C Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 4 May 94 p 1 94EN0355C Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Danish CSO [Article by Erik Bjorn Moller and Bent Winther: "Prime Minister's Local Forces Favor SF"] [Text] If an opportunity for close cooperation among the Social Democratic Party (SDP), the Socialist People's Party (SF), and the Radical Liberals arises it should be exploited, according to a number of prominent local Social Democrats. Several local Social Democrats are tired of their government partners, the Center Democrats (CD) and the Christian People's Party (KrF,) and think the SDP should focus on cooperating with the SF. This was shown by conversations BERLINGSKE TIDENDE has had with eight Social Democratic county chairmen. The statements were made after Radical Liberal Party leader Marianne Jelved said that she is having "increasingly close" talks with the Socialist People's Party. Poul Oland, the SDP chairman for the capital district, said the Social Democrats now need to be "free agents" with a sharper profile. "Personally I have absolutely nothing against the influence the SF could exert. I would not vote against a constellation with the SF and the Radicals," he says. Elisa Pedersen, Funen County chairman and a member of the executive committee, said it would be "lovely" if the SF was included in a government. "The Socialist People's Party is closer to us than the KrF and the CD. If we fight for something it should not be for the CD. There is mounting dissatisfaction here and there about showing the small government parties so much consideration," she said. North Jutland County chairman Bjarne Harder Larsen said the same thing: "Many people think that the small center parties are very difficult to drag around with us and that we are being pulled around by the nose. And I can well understand that. It would be better to do something with the Radicals and the SF." At its Whitsun congress the SDP Youth League, DSU, will formulate a strong recommendation for cooperation with the SF. "We should drop the CD at the first opportunity we get. Let us introduce a cooperation with the SF," said DSU chairman Henrik Larsen. "The CD and the Christians have constantly been extremely disloyal. It is painful to watch." Ringkobing County chairman Bent Kruuse said the SF has many votes that "could be put to better use." And Copenhagen County chairman Grethe Blomberg "would have absolutely nothing against a government with the SF and the Radicals." The Storstrom, Bornholm, and Roskilde County chairmen want to wait and see, while the chairmen in West and North Zealand recommended broader cooperation with the middle parties.
