FBIS3-38423 "drweu022_o_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 CYPRUS U.S. Coordinator Lamb Urged To Dispel `Confusion' NC0102133994 Nicosia ALITHIA in Greek 1 Feb 94 p 1 NC0102133994 Nicosia ALITHIA Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Editorial signed "Evvoulos": "What We Expect From Mr. Lamb"] [Excerpts] The arrival of the State Department's special Cyprus coordinator is expected to dispel the clouds of confusion caused by the two letters of Rauf Denktas. This is because Mr. Robert Lamb, who earlier served as U.S. ambassador in Nicosia, is very well aware of the Cyprus issue and because he himself had declared unequivocally that the confidence-building measures [CBM's] "must be accepted as they are because they are fair." The same declaration was also made by President Clinton, thus emphasizing the U.S. stand in the most official manner. President Glavkos Kliridhis demanded the rejection of Denktas' first letter, which contained obviously and even presumptively unacceptable terms. He also demanded that Denktas' second letter not be accepted; it bears the letterhead of the pseudostate and Denktas' signature in his illegal capacity as its "president." Kliridhis' demands are in full harmony with the U.S. stand, as well as with the UN secretary general's recommendations that neither side benefits at the other's expense from the implementation of the measures. Security Council Resolution 541 does not recognize the pseudostate and calls upon all states not to recognize it. Thus, the attempt through Denktas' letters to receive a direct or indirect recognition proves that the measures are not accepted by the occupation leader as they are, except on the condition that the illegal invasion is legalized first. In other words, the key phrase "as they are" is provocatively and contemptuously trampled underfoot by Denktas. This is why we attach great importance to the role and mission of Mr. Lamb because, as the representative of the sole superpower, it is expected that for reasons of prestige, consistency, and political order he will honor his declaration. Besides, our side is expected to pay most of the economic cost for the implementation of the CBM's. However, for the "building" of the measures to be safe they cannot be founded on the shifting sands that are created by Denktas' retrogressions and demands for the consolidation and legalization of the occupation regime. [passage omitted] In the meantime, we expect the U.S. envoy's prestige and influence will prove to be the determining catalysts and put an end to the unreasonable Turkish demands and distortions of the basis for a substantive dialogue. Mr. Lamb can and should make the truth shine and dispel the clouds of confusion.
