FBIS4-61371 "drsov088__a94023" FBIS-SOV-94-088-A Daily Report 6 May 1994 ANNEX Armenia Declaration Debated on Anniversary of Armenian `Genocide' Declaration Debated on Anniversary of Armenian `Genocide' NC2304121394 Yerevan ARAGIL ELECTRONIC NEWS BULLETIN in English 0846 GMT 23 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY NC2304121394 Yerevan ARAGIL ELECTRONIC NEWS BULLETIN English BFN [Text] Yerevan ("Yerkir", "Lragir" dailies), 04/23/94 -- Russian State Duma discussed the problem of condemning the Genocide of Armenians during its session on April 22. Different fractions of Duma had prepared corresponding declarations. Nevertheless, in spite of strong pressure on Duma by the Turkish Ambassador in Russia and the Turkish Defense Minister, who is currently in Moscow, no polemics were made. Duma's Liberal-democratic fraction presented a project of declaration, condemning the genocide of Armenians, which was previously prepared by the "Fund of Russian-Armenian collaboration" organization. Duma accepted this declaration, and its deputies have raised in memory of the victims of Genocide with one minute of silence. Nevertheless, Duma, as a legal body, continues the discussion of the presented bill. The following declaration was accepted by the Russian State Duma on April 2: "20th century has been marked by great winnings of human spirit and good will. Nevertheless, it will also remain in history as a period of world war disasters, dictatorships and disgusting crimes against humanity. The first evidences of the Genocide were massacres and deportations of Armenians in the Osman Empire in 1915-16. More than one million people were killed, causing a terrific loss to the world family of nations. We feel deep and eternal sorrow for the victims, for all poets and craftsmen, peasants and painters, regardless of their nationality or faith, who were not born [because of the Genocide]. On the eve of 79th anniversary of this tragedy, Russian State Duma condemns the genocide of Armenians and declares deep condolences to Armenian people, grieving with all descendants of the Genocide, living in Russia and all around the world. The memory of victims and our conscience will permanently bother us, as an evidence of the epoch which didn't pass in vain". Similar declarations were made by two major fractions of Duma - the Liberal-Democratic party and the "Russian Choice" union.
