FBIS3-50479 "drlat001_c_94019" FBIS-LAT-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 MEXICO Security Heightened in Mexico City PA0301140694 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 3 Jan 94 PA0301140694 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "Panorama Newscast"] [Excerpts] The civilian population in San Cristobal de las Casas, Ocosingo, Abasolo, Chanal del Carmen, and Las Margaritas face an uncertain situation, fearing new surprise attacks by the so-called Zapata National Liberation Army, which has declared a war on the Mexican Army. There are scenes of destruction and death today. Members of the armed group are warning they will not remain entrenched. They intend to advance to the central part of the state and the country to demand the formation of what they call a free and democratic government. The most recent offensive launched by the armed group resulted in the kidnapping of former Chiapas Governor General Absalon Castellanos. Approximately 40 heavily armed men arrived at his ranch in Margaritas municipality. There is still no clue as to the whereabouts of Absalon Castellanos. Today, the Mexican Army controls the city of San Cristobal de las Casas, which was suddenly abandoned by the rebels who tried to storm the 31st Military Zone's general headquarters. However, the action was successfully repelled by the Mexican Army. Clashes between the two sides in two days have left 57 dead. The Red Cross has decided not to go into areas of conflict given the lack of security for its humanitarian work. This follows attacks on two Red Cross ambulances in San Cristobal de las Casas, where a rescue team member was killed. The Red Cross is warning it lacks medicine and the necessary material to handle the emergency. [passage omitted] The Judicial Police and the General Secretariat of Protection and Highways in Mexico City have launched a special security operation which includes heightened security at government facilities, media installations, and embassies. This is being done as a precautionary measure to prevent any surprise takeover.
