FBIS3-35399 "drnes037_m_94004" FBIS-NES-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 JORDAN Egyptian Minister Arrives for Trade Talks Signs Economic Protocol JN2302134994 Amman Radio Jordan Network in Arabic 1200 GMT 23 Feb 94 JN2302134994 Amman Radio Jordan Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Egypt and Jordan signed an economic protocol at the Ministry of Industry and Commerce today. Minister of Industry and Commerce Dr. Rima Khalaf signed for Jordan, while the Egyptian minister of economy and foreign trade signed for Egypt. Marwan 'Awad, secretary general of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, spoke to the radio on the provisions contained in this protocol, saying: [Begin 'Awad recording] Today, the first protocol to emerge from the Egyptian-Jordanian trade exchange agreement was signed. This is the first protocol to be signed in the aftermath of the trade agreement signed in 1992, which replaced the old agreement signed in 1965. According to the protocol signed today, the Jordanian and Egyptian sides agreed on two lists of commodities, one concerning Egyptian commodities and another concerning Jordanian commodities. The products included in these two lists will be exempted from customs fees and additional direct fees and taxes, with the exception of domestic taxes and fees and sales tax. Moreover, the products included in these two lists will be exempted from non-customs restrictions. The protocol stipulated that except for the products included in the two lists, the trade exchange between the two countries will be subject to all customs fees and taxes and subsequent fees, regardless of the type of the trade transactions entailed. This will be in accordance with the legislations in force in both countries. The protocol also stipulated that the Jordanian Trade Center in Egypt and the Egyptian Trade Center in Jordan will each have a share of trade exchange confined to $7 million to be used for importing commodities from the other country. Each center will be permitted to import its quota of products in accordance with the legislations and rules in force in both countries. Payments for such transactions will be made in convertible currency. [end recording]
