FBIS4-18105 "drweu062_e_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-062 Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Sinn Fein's Adams Comments on IRA Cease-fire Sinn Fein's Adams Comments on IRA Cease-fire LD3003212194 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 2105 GMT 30 Mar 94 LD3003212194 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [Statement by Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams] [Text] "Sinn Fein welcomes tonight's development. It represents an important initiative and has created an opportunity to break the stalemate in the peace process. ``This stalemate was created and is sustained by the British Government's repeated refusal to provide clarification to Sinn Fein about the Downing Street Declaration and the processes envisaged in it. Such clarification has been provided to all the other parties. It should now be provided to Sinn Fein as a matter of urgency. Direct dialogue is the obvious and most effective method of doing this. I call upon John Major to authorise direct and immediate talks between our party and his Government representatives so that the peace process can be moved forward. ``Just as importantly, direct dialogue would also indicate a genuine interest on the part of the British Government in developing a real peace process through the esential recognition of Sinn Fein's rights as a political party, the validity of our mandate and the democratic integrity of our electorate. ``Sinn Fein has no great concern to be engaged in bi-lateral discussions on constitutional matters with the London government. I have publicly outlined my position is this regard on a number of occasions. This is, properly, the business of future talks involving the two governments and representatives of all the Irish people, including Sinn Fein. ``This, however, is not the point of our reasonable calls for clarification. Clarification clearly is not negotiation. Clarification is required so that Sinn Fein, and everyone else, can properly and fully explore how the peace process can be moved forward at this time and, specifically, how the Downing Street Declaration fits into this. ``I understand that Mr Major faces many difficulties. Tonight's announcement clearly eases some of these. It should be built upon. The search for peace requires imagination and determination.''
