FBIS4-67254 "jptdd022__l94009" JPRS-TDD-94-022-L JPRS Narcotics 17 May 1994 LATIN AMERICA COLOMBIA Constitutional Court Upholds Drug Consumption Ruling Constitutional Court Upholds Drug Consumption Ruling PA1805042694 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Network in Spanish 1730 GMT 17 May 94 PA1805042694 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Network Spanish BFN [From the "Midday Television Newscast"] [Text] The Constitutional Court today upheld the ruling on personal drug consumption. The ruling will not affect the sentences of those who store, produce, manufacture, distribute, or are linked in any other way to drug trafficking activities. Fernando Ramos has the story: [begin recording] Ramos: As for the ruling that authorized possession of drugs for personal use, the Constitutional Court emphasized we cannot think of repression as the only mechanism to solve this problem. In several of the ruling's paragraphs, the Constitutional Court insisted it ruled according to what the Constitution and the laws stipulate. Constitutional Court President Jorge Arango: This is nothing unusal; it complies with the duties of the Constitutional Court. As for the consumption of potentially toxic substances such as alcohol, tobacco, and drugs, we count on education, which is part of the ruling. Ramos: The ruling also stipulates that the National Congress will be able to legislate to find measures to control drug consumption. Constitutional Court Magistrate Vladimiro Naranjo: Within the Legislative Branch, the National Congress is free to take the initiative in this field. There are no reasons why the Constitutional Court has to set some standards; this is a legislative initiative. Ramos: The four dissenting votes were also submitted to the Constitutional Court Secretariat General. The reasons why some magistrates voted against the legalization of drugs for personal use are explained in those documents. Constitutional Court Magistrate Hernando Herrera: I believe the right to free personality development cannot overstep the rights of society, family, youth, children, and women, because our Constitution stipulates the prevalence of general interest over individual rights. [end recording]
