FBIS3-41940 "jptnd001__l94017" JPRS-TND-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 31 January 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA List of Activities Subject to Nuclear Safety Regulation 945D0019B Moscow POLOZHENIYE O FEDERALNOM NADZORE ROSSII PO YADERNOY I RADIATSIONNOY BEZOPASNOSTI in Russian 16 Sep 93 pp 1-2 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 945D0019B Moscow POLOZHENIYE O FEDERALNOM NADZORE ROSSII PO YADERNOY I RADIATSIONNOY BEZOPASNOSTI Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Supplement to Statute on Federal Inspectorate of Russia for Nuclear and Radiation Safety: "List of Types of Activity That Subjects of Entrepreneurial Activity and Enterprises, Regardless of Forms of Ownership, May Pursue Only on the Basis of a Special Permit (License) Obtained From Bodies of the Federal Inspectorate of Russia for Nuclear and Radiation Safety"] [Text] 1. The construction, commissioning, operation, reconstruction (including modernization and maintenance throughout service life), and discontinuance of operation of nuclear and radiation-danger facilities and processes (installations, techniques, systems, equipment, instruments, apparatus) using for peaceful and defense purposes atomic energy, nuclear materials, and radioactive substances and also products based thereon. 2. The acquisition, production, shipment, processing, storage, burial, and use of nuclear materials and radioactive substances and products based thereon and also the application of hardware and techniques in the prospecting for and recovery of radioactive substances. 3. The storage, processing, shipment, recycling, and burial of radioactive waste. 4. Operations involving the application of equipment, instruments, and apparatus employing nuclear materials and radioactive substances and products based thereon and also for monitoring the radiation situation. 5. The development, manufacture, testing, shipment, storage, and elimination of nuclear weapons (in respect to assurance of nuclear and radiation safety). 6. R&D involving the application of atomic energy and/or the use of nuclear material and radioactive substances and products based thereon. 7. Control of nuclear and radiation-danger production engineering processes (the personnel exercising leadership of safe operation, managing the production engineering process, and ensuring departmental safety supervision must have licenses for the corresponding types of activity), except for the activity of army units of the Ministry of Defense of Russia. 8. The planning and designing of nuclear and radiation-danger facilities and processes (techniques). 9. The designing and manufacture of installations, systems, equipment, instruments, and apparatus for use in nuclear and radiation-danger facilities and processes (techniques). 10. Expert evaluation of planning and other materials and documents to determine the level of safety of nuclear and radiation-danger facilities and processes (techniques). 11. Export-import transactions involving nuclear materials, technology, equipment, installations, and special nonnuclear materials and services, and also radioactive waste and spent nuclear materials.
