FBIS3-7542 "dreas060_d_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 South Korea UN Security Council 28 Mar Meeting Reported SK2903023994 Seoul YONHAP in English 0220 GMT 29 Mar 94 SK2903023994 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] New York, March 28 (YONHAP) -- The United Nations Security Council held a closed-door meeting Monday but failed to make any decisions on resolving the North Korean nuclear problem. China strongly opposed the adoption of a resolution tabled by the United States and demanded a statement in the name of the council president instead. In addition, China requested that the statement be far milder in content than the draft resolution. In view of this position, the United States, Britain, France, Russia and China held consultations after the plenary session to adjust their differences on the form and content of the council's future action. The United States, Britain and France upheld their support for adoption of the resolution in principle, but might consent to the council president's statement as China demanded if it is similar to the draft resolution in content, a diplomatic source here said. According to the source, China demanded that the fifth provision of the U.S.-drafted resolution -- "the UN Security Council will consider additional measures if necessary" -- be removed in the statement. Chen Jian, deputy chief of the Chinese Mission to the United Nations, told reporters after the meeting that China favors the council president's statement which does not include any threatening terms. A source here said the United States may concede to China in adopting the statement to ensure Beijing's participation in further UN steps on the North Korean issue. Washington will likely compromise by referring to additional council measures in a roundabout way in the statement. The Security Council plans to hold a permanent members' meeting and a closed-door plenary session on Tuesday to continue discussions on the form and content of measures. Meanwhile, South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu may express his support for a statement by the council president rather than the U.S.-drafted resolution. Han is scheduled to arrive at UN headquarters in New York on Thursday.
