FBIS4-11634 "drnes062_c_94005" FBIS-NES-94-062 Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 Egypt Paper Questions Clinton's Remarks on Jerusalem Paper Questions Clinton's Remarks on Jerusalem NC3003182694 Cairo AL-AHRAM in Arabic 24 Mar 94 p 4 NC3003182694 Cairo AL-AHRAM Arabic BFN [From the "Foreign Policy" column by Muhammad 'Abdallah: "Who Is Saving Who"] [Text] U.S. President Clinton met with Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin at the White House 10 days ago to discuss the Middle East peace process. At the time, Clinton was up to his ears in the "Whitewater" scandal, while Rabin was up to his ears in the scandalous massacre at the al-Ibrahimi mosque. Both Clinton and Rabin were looking for ways to rescue them from their scandal or crisis. Rabin was seeking to get from Clinton something to consolidate the Israeli position -- to disregard the massacre and resume the peace talks. Perhaps the Israeli prime minister was looking for some kind of a position on the part of the United States that could calm down the Israeli right after the "punitive" measures that his government had taken against the extremist rightists, including the outlawing of the Kakh and Kahana Hay movements, the expulsion of leading Jewish extremists from Hebron, and the disarming of some others. Likewise, it seems that Clinton was seeking to get moral support from Rabin in the face of the tremendous media campaign against him and his wife, in which the Jewish-owned media organs are naturally taking part. The U.S. President saw in this an opportunity to appease these parties by adopting a strong position in favor of Rabin and Israel. On the eve of his talks with Rabin, the U.S. President stood up to say that he supported Jerusalem as the unified capital of Israel -- meaning that East Jerusalem will not be the capital of the coming State of Palestine, which is still on the far horizon. This is the way politics sometimes is when someone is in a weak position; and both men were in such a position. That is why the United States, in various ways, backed off from Clinton's remarks; and Rabin had to wait for some time before the Palestinians agreed to receive his men in Tunis.
