FBIS4-10744 "drlat074_q_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-074 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 Paraguay Cuba's Robaina Arrives, Wants To Learn About Mercosur Cuba's Robaina Arrives, Wants To Learn About Mercosur PY1504205494 Asuncion ULTIMA HORA in Spanish 15 Apr 94 p 9 PY1504205494 Asuncion ULTIMA HORA Spanish BFN [Text] Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina arrived this morning at our main airport. During a news conference, he said he has not brought any concrete proposals or deals for the Paraguayan Government or Foreign Ministry. Basically he wants to learn details of the Mercosur [Common Market of the South], and to talk about his country's economic reality. Robaina arrived in the company of four ambassadors and several journalists. He was met by Lincoln Alfieri, the Foreign Ministry vice director of protocol; Senator Carlos Alberto Gonzalez, president of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; Senator Victor Sanchez Villagra, president of the Revolutionary Febrerista Party (PRF); and Ananias Maidana, secretary general of the Paraguayan Communist Party. Robaina indicated that he has not brought a list of deals, that he is visiting "to allow the Paraguayan Foreign Ministry to explain to me the interest that has made me tour the Mercosur countries." [sentence as published] He then commented on what he believes our Foreign Ministry might find of interest -- in other words, to what extent Cuba is implementing a foreign policy in which Latin America is a priority, as attested by the fact that very shortly the countries of the continent will hold an Iberoamerican summit where opinions will be heard and where Cuba will be discussed. The Cuban foreign minister stated that Cuba has a new image and that its government wants this image to be made known to the countries of the region within the framework of the diplomatic offensive that is embodied in this visit to several countries, including Argentina, Uruguay, and Peru. He indicated that today Cuba is a ready and attractive market for foreign investment, and is an open market. He indicated that Cuba can offer highly technical development, pharmaceutical and medical industries, and proposals for sports, scientific, educational, and cultural sectors. Robaina maintains that he wants to polish Cuba's image and project its new economic reality. The foreign minister said that although there are no diplomatic links with Paraguay, there have always been contacts and dialogue in various American forums. The Cuban minister will carry out a series of activities that include meetings with the top political leaders of the traditional parties and with businessmen.
