FBIS4-25874 "drchi115_w_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-115 Daily Report 14 Jun 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Jiang Zemin Meets With Hong Kong Businessmen Jiang Zemin Meets With Hong Kong Businessmen OW1406160194 Beijing XINHUA in English 1538 GMT 14 Jun 94 OW1406160194 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, June 14 (XINHUA) -- Chinese President Jiang Zemin met and had a discussion here this evening with a Hong Kong delegation on how to maintain the territory's stability and prosperity. Jiang, also general secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, told Herbert Liang, president of the Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong and head of the delegation, "A common task that we are confronted with is how to maintain Hong Kong's stability and prosperity during its transitional period and after 1997". Jiang urged Hong Kong people from all walks of life to unite and do everything beneficial to its stability and prosperity. He said that the way forward will by no means be very smooth. But, he added: "Our determination in resuming the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong will be unshakable." "I am full of confidence in Hong Kong's stability and prosperity", Jiang said. During the meeting, Jiang congratulated the Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong on the 60th anniversary of its founding. He expressed the hope that the association will continue to strengthen its economic cooperation and ties with the Chinese mainland and make fresh contributions to the Motherland's reform and opening to the outside world and to Hong Kong's smooth transition, prosperity and development as well. Liang told Jiang that his association has set up an office in Beijing aimed at enhancing its links with the capital and the mainland as a whole. Besides, he said, the Hong Kong Association and the all-China Federation of Industry and Commerce have jointly sponsored a seminar on economic cooperation and trade between Hong Kong, China's inner land and the northern parts of the country to explore chances and potentials for developing such cooperation and trade.
