FBIS3-58623 "drweu012aa_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Islamic Group Supports UN Air Strikes on Bosnian Serbs AU1701163494 Paris AFP in English 1541 GMT 17 Jan 94 AU1701163494 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Geneva, Jan 17 (AFP) -- The Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC) called Monday [17 January] for UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali to authorise air strikes "without delay" against Bosnian Serb forces. Foreign ministers from leading nations of the OIC met here with Butrus-Ghali to urge the UN to follow through on a pledge at the NATO summit to use air strikes if necessary to ensure the passage of aid and the safety of UN troops. "We hope that this NATO declaration will not be construed as an empty threat and that it will not be the subject of procedural wrangling," said OIC Secretary General Hamid Algabid. "We request that the UN secretary general authorise such strikes without delay," Algabid said after a meeting with the Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic. Butrus-Ghali said through a spokeswoman that his meeting with the foreign ministers was "very positive" and that the ministers had "expressed their profound concern about the human tragedy" in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Algabid also urged the lifting of the arms embargo on the Moslem side to allow them a greater chance to defend themselves agains the better-armed Serbs and Croats. The meeting of the OIC Bosnia group -- the foreign ministers of Pakistan, Egypt, Iran, Malaysia, Senegal, Tunisia, Turkey and the deputy minister from Saudi Arabia -- comes a day before peace talks are due to resume here between the three sides involved in the Bosnia conflict. But Algabid expressed the OIC's dismay about a plan on the table to divide Bosnia into three mini-states ruled by Serbs, Croats and Muslims. "It is unacceptable to accommodate the expansionist territorial ambitions of Serb nationalism," he said. "The present approach in the negotiations would in fact amount to the virtual partitioning of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina." The OIC was also to meet with EC and UN negotiators Lord Owen and Thorvald Stoltenberg to urge them to reconsider plans for a gradual lifting of sanctions against the rump-Yugoslavia. Algabid also called on the UN to accept offers from the OIC to send troops to serve in the UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR).
