FBIS3-2417 "drchi046_w_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Jardines Denies Requesting Exemption From Takeover Code HK0903113994 Hong Kong AFP in English 0721 GMT 9 Mar 94 HK0903113994 Hong Kong AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Hong Kong, March 9 (AFP)--Hong Kong's oldest trading firm, Jardine Matheson Ltd., said Wednesday it had not approached Hong Kong's stock exchange over a planned request for exemption under the territory's takeover code. Jardines said in a statement that "no approach has been made to the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong", regarding an exemption from the British colony's takeover code. But it said that following the adoption of a new takeover code in Bermuda last December, it had informed shareholders it would continue its discussions with the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) over the relationship between Hong Kong's and Bermuda's takeover code. Earlier, Jardines company secretary Neil McNamara said talks with SFC for an exemption from the British colony's takeover code were still under way, but would neither confirm nor deny whether a delisting of any or all of the six Jardines-controlled companies on the Hong Kong stock exchange might result if the exemption fails to come through. The takeover-code issue stems from Jardines' announcement in 1984 that it would register in Bermuda, another British colony, before Hong Kong is returned to China in 1997. It now wants to be subject exclusively to Bermuda's takeover code, which comes into effect in July this year, thus avoiding the legal uncertainties of a post-1997 Hong Kong. In particular, the Bermuda code would allow Jardines to resist a hostile takeover attempt in the Bermuda courts and, in the case of a final appeal, through the Privy Council in London. However, legislator Chim Pui-chung, financial services representative in the Legislative Council, said Jardines should not be exempted from Hong Kong's takeover code. He said that "under Hong Kong common law and takeover code, all companies, no matter how big or small, must obey the rules of the Securities and Futures Commission and Stock Exchange of Hong Kong." Founded in 1832, Jardines is Hong Kong's most pervasive conglomerate, involved in almost every sector from real estate and stockbroking to supermarkets and parking lots.
