FBIS3-58485 "drweu010_q_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 TURKEY Karayalcin Warns Against Linking Water, Terrorism TA1301134394 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1100 GMT 13 Jan 94 TA1301134394 Ankara TRT Television Network Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Inci Tanriover video report from New York] [Text] In New York, Murat Karayalcin, state minister and deputy prime minister, issued the message that the struggle against terrorism will continue. Karayalcin explained that terrorism cannot be surmounted solely through measures to be adopted within Turkey and that certain measures must also be introduced outside the country. In a news conference at the end of his contacts in New York, Karayalcin replied to questions, explaining that there is no water problem between Turkey and Syria. This issue is being exaggerated by foreign sources, he said. [Begin Karayalcin recording] It is not appropriate to weigh the water and terrorism issues together. This is not compatible with goodneighborly relations. Turkey has never considered depriving its neighboring countries of water. If, however, someone tries to link water with terrorism, then we will give them the necessary response. [end recording] Karayalcin noted that it cannot be said that Turkey has brought its relations with all its neighbors to the necessary level on the subject of fighting terrorism. He expressed the hope, nevertheless, that the decisions adopted by certain countries against the terrorist PKK [Workers Party of Kurdistan] organization will yield fruit. In reply to a question, Karayalcin expressed the view that the local elections to be held on 27 March are historically important. The developments concerning the candidates clearly demonstrate this, Karayalcin declared, adding that deputies are submitted as mayoral candidates for the first time in Turkey's political history. Karayalcin also attended the dinner hosted by the Federation of Turkish-U.S. Associations, where he delivered a speech. In his speech, the deputy prime minister recounted that Turkey and the United States fought shoulder to shoulder during the Korean War, the Cold War, and the Gulf war and established a strong relationship. Karayalcin said that today, too, the two countries are determined to pursue a close partnership in the defense and security, economic and commercial, as well as cultural and social fields. Karayalcin will proceed to Washington today. He will hold a meeting with U.S. Vice President Al Gore later in the evening.
