FBIS4-18614 "drweu067_q_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-067 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 TURKEY Albania's Berish Departs; Joint Statement Issued Albania's Berish Departs; Joint Statement Issued TA0604193494 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1700 GMT 5 Apr 94 TA0604193494 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Text] Turkey has stated that it will continue to give Albania all support and assistance to enable it to successfully accomplish its democratization process and economic reforms. Albanian President Sali Berisha left Turkey after holding various contacts in Ankara and Istanbul. The joint Turkish-Albanian statement regarding Berisha's visit has been issued. According to the information received by the Press Center of the President's Office, the two presidents had a comprehensive exchange of views on the regional and international issues concerning their respective countries. According to the statement, both presidents expressed their pleasure at the agreement envisaging the establishment of a federation between the Bosnians and the Serbs in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The statement further notes that discussions were held on the dangerous situation in the Balkans spreading to Kosovo, Sandzak, Vojvodina, and to the south. The Turkish-Albanian statement notes that both presidents were of a common accord that the potential to further bilateral cooperation exists and agreed on focusing on the following issues: To fully support and facilitate Turkish investments in Albania; to better benefit from the joint economic commission and activities of the business council; to cooperate closely on the infrastructure project regarding telecommunication, maritime, air, and railroad transportation especially where it concerns the East-West Corridor Project which will connect Albania's Durres port to Bulgaria's Varna and then by means of TEM [Transit European Motorway] over Sofia to Istanbul; to further joint tourism and cooperation regarding tourism industry development; to open a branch of the Turkish Ziraat Bank in Tirana; to further cooperation between Turkish and Albanian state radio and television networks so that TRT television programs can be viewed in Tirana. Meanwhile, the guest minister went on a boat trip in the Bosforus. The Albanian president also held a meeting with Turkish businessmen. Berisha said that although relations between Turkey and Albania accelerated considerably, Turkish investments in Albania are still far from reaching the desired level. Berisha called on Turkish businessmen to invest in his country. In a statement prior to his departure, Berisha thanked the Turkish people and President Suleyman Demirel for their warm welcome. State Minister Nurhan Tekinel, Governor Hayri Kozakcioglu, Lieutenant General Selcuk Saka, and Foreign Ministry officials saw off the Albanian President at Istanbul's Ataturk Airport.
