FBIS4-12531 "drnes069_r_94006" FBIS-NES-94-069 Daily Report 9 Apr 1994 India Kashmiri Leaders, Rao Discuss Future Political Process Kashmiri Leaders, Rao Discuss Future Political Process BK0904095494 Delhi All India Radio Network in English 0245 GMT 9 Apr 94 BK0904095494 Delhi All India Radio Network English BFN [Text] Top Kashmiri leaders met the prime minister in New Delhi last night in a bid to remove bottlenecks impeding the political process in the state. The minister of state for home, Mr. Rajesh Pilot; the former state chief minister, Dr. Farooq Abdullah; the pradesh [state] Congress-I chief, Mr. Ghulam Rasool Kar, met Mr. Narasimha Rao soon after their arrival in the capital from Srinagar yesterday evening. The Jammu and Kashmir governor, General Krishna Rao, who also arrived in New Delhi yesterday, is likely to meet the prime minister and other central leaders today to apprise them of the situation in the state. [Hong Kong AFP in English 1832 GMT on 8 Apr in a New Delhi-datelined report adds: `An umbrella group of Kashmiri Moslems Friday said it was ready for talks to end the separatist violence in the Indian state, where 11 people were killed the past few days. `The All Party Hurriyat (Freedom) Conference said it had come to New Delhi on "an important mission" and was prepared for negotiations "without reservation and without prejudice." `Four leaders of the Conference, which includes nearly 30 groups sympathetic to the Moslem separatist campaign in Kashmir, arrived here on their way to Vienna for a meeting between Kashmiri leaders of India and Pakistan. `The Conference officials said the release of Kashmiris from Indian prisons would "create the right atmosphere for holding a free and frank dialogue." `It was not clear whether the leaders would meet with government officials here. `The Hurriyat Conference has previously refused to accept anything short of independence for Kashmir, a picturesque state whose ownership is bitterly contested by arch foes India and Pakistan. `On Friday, the Hurriyat Conference leaders held a closed-door meeting here with Karan Singh, son of the former Hindu king of Kashmir state who agreed to the Indian union in 1948. `"We exchanged ideas and shared perceptions" with Karan Singh, Conference spokesman Maulvi Abbas Ansari said. "Karan Singh does owe a duty to the people of Kashmir ... as a genuine and forthright seer in politics." `Karan Singh told reporters that the visit of the Moslem leaders to the Indian capital was a positive sign. "It shows they have realised the importance of negotiations and this implies violence cannot solve problems."']
