FBIS4-59140 "drnes091_c_94007" FBIS-NES-94-091 Daily Report 10 May 1994 Egypt Opposition MP: State Ordered Dissident Killed Opposition MP: State Ordered Dissident Killed NC1005210494 Paris AFP in English 1818 GMT 10 May 94 NC1005210494 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Cairo, May 10 (AFP)--A senior Egyptian opposition MP on Tuesday accused unnamed government officials of ordering the killing of a Muslim fundamentalist lawyer because he tried to negotiate an end to clashes between Islamic militants and the security forces. Kamal Khalid, a lawyer and independent member of parliament, said 'Abd-al-Harith Madani died after having tried to give him proposals for ending the conflict between the outlawed al-Jama'ah al-Islamiyah and security forces which has cost nearly 400 lives in the past two years. "Certain circles in the security forces are trying to stir up" the violence, Khalid told a lawyers' union meeting in the centre of Cairo, called to protest over the alleged killing of Madani by security forces. The Order of Cairo Lawyers said Monday that Madani, who defended the al-Jama'ah's spiritual leader, was tortured to death a week after he was arrested. Madani was a leading member of the defence committee set up for al-Jama'ah al-Islamiyah (Islamic Group) spiritual guide Shaykh 'Umar 'Abd-al-Rahman, who was sentenced to seven years in jail by the state security court last week. The al-Jama'ah has been waging a bloody two-year campaign to topple the secular government of President Husni Mubarak. In a message to Mubarak, Order of Cairo Lawyers President 'Abd-al-'Aziz Muhammad said there were "circles in the heart of your government who do not want stability in Egypt." The Cairo lawyers' statement said Madani was arrested on April 26 and taken to a secret destination. "Not even his family knew where he was. They only heard about his death on Friday." The lawyers said they were "horrified" by Madani's death, describing it as "an act of aggression against all lawyers." Security forces arrested Madani during a four-hour search of his office, in the presence of four colleagues. The 40-year-old lawyer from Qina in northern [as received] Egypt was married with two daughters.
