FBIS4-24297 "drafr125_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-125 Daily Report 28 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Government, UNITA Examine Mediator's Document Government, UNITA Examine Mediator's Document MB2806203294 Luanda TPA Television Network in Portuguese 1900 GMT 28 Jun 94 MB2806203294 Luanda TPA Television Network Portuguese BFN [Report by correspondent Manuel da Conceicao in Lusaka] [Text] The mediator's document on the implementation of modalities for national reconciliation has already been presented to the negotiating teams of the government and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA]. Today, the teams examined the document that provides for UNITA's participation in the government of national unity. There was no session today, which was nevertheless characterized by intense diplomatic activity. Alioune Blondin Beye, special representative of the UN secretary general in Angola and mediator in the peace talks, was today received by Zambian head of state Frederick Chiluba, whom he briefed on the present situation of the peace talks and requested political and moral assistance with a view to finding a quick solution for the peace talks. The extra-parliamentary group led by Miguel Mwendo was today received by the government negotiating team and Alioune Blondin Beye. The group, led by the leader of the National Union for the Beacon of Democracy and Development of Angola, includes the president and deputy president of the Angolan Socialist Party. It has already been received by Ambassador (Rocha Pares), representing the troika of observers in the Angolan peace process, and they gave him a proposal for the establishment of peace in Angola. Not until tomorrow will we know whether the negotiating teams of the government and UNITA will discuss Jonas Savimbi's special status, within the framework of national reconciliation. The government and UNITA were expected to discuss this issue tomorrow. According to some political observers, it is extremely risky to accept UNITA's request, but it is only though talking that men can understand each other. The government and UNITA know what they are doing to reestablish peace in Angola.
