FBIS3-26199 "drchi024_w_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong XINHUA Official Views New Airport Financing Package HK0402024494 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO in Chinese 3 Feb 94 p 12 HK0402024494 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Report: "Zhang Junsheng Says the Fourth New Airport Financial Arrangements Are Not a Lunar New Year Gift From the British Hong Kong Government"] [Text] Zhang Junsheng, deputy director of the XINHUA News Agency Hong Kong Branch, pointed out yesterday that the latest airport financial arrangements are not a Lunar New Year gift from British Hong Kong to Hong Kong people and China because Britain ought to build the airport according to the Memorandum of Understanding [MOU] on the airport. As the agency has not received the package in question, Zhang Junsheng stated that he would decide on public comment only after he has learned the details of the package. When asked by a reporter about his view on the airport financial arrangement package after attending the closing ceremony of A China Cultural Journey, Zhang said: The airport MOU was signed by the leaders of the two governments in September 1991. It has been two years since the document was signed. The British Hong Kong authorities ought to have conducted affairs conscientiously according to the provisions of the MOU and should not have stalled. Therefore, he believes that Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten's analogy of a Lunar New Year gift to Hong Kong people and China is wrong. Zhang criticized Britain for coming up with so many packages, but they either did not comply with the MOU or threaten to leave the special administrative region [SAR] government with a huge burden. Naturally, China could not agree. Thus it is not a gift from British Hong Kong to the public; it is something that everybody is entitled to. Zhang continued: The airport is in Hong Kong and the money spent is all Hong Kong taxpayers' money. It should benefit Hong Kong people and should not increase their burdens, and in particular, it should not leave a burden on the future SAR government. There are only three years and five months left before Hong Kong reverts to China. Therefore, it should not leave a burden on Hong Kong; the SAR is going to be in Hong Kong for a long, long time.
