FBIS4-20930 "jptac004__l94005" JPRS-TAC-94-004-L JPRS Arms Control 30 March 1994 EAST EUROPE CZECH REPUBLIC More on BW Development Charges More on BW Development Charges Virus Research Possibly Used for Military Aims AU3103200994 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES in Czech 30 Mar 94 p 1 AU3103200994 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES Czech BFN [Jaroslav Kmenta report: "Viruses Kept by the Army Could Have Killed on a Large-Scale; Research Requested by Military Secret Services of the USSR"] [Text] Prague -- In the 70's and 80's Czechoslovak scientists in military establishments studied several dozen particularly dangerous exotic viruses and bacteria that could be used as lethal bacteriological weapons. Their collection was only liquidated by the Army, along with all common viruses such as influenza or mumps, in February 1994. The dangerous viruses and bacteria studied by Czechoslovak experts belonged to the group that mainly cause severe cases of meningitis. The military officials of the former Eastern Bloc states were allegedly convinced that these organisms could be used by the enemy in the event of a bacteriological war. The military secret services of the former USSR therefore designated several dozen particularly dangerous microorganisms and recommended their research with the aim of creating serums for diagnostic and protective purposes. Following the liquidation of the bank of virus strains, the Ministry of Defense was accused of having developed bacteriological weapons in its military establishments. The Army command, along with the Ministry of Health, denied this, however. The Ministry of Defense stated that the research involving those viruses was of a purely defensive nature. Some experts argue, however, that it is virtually impossible to distinguish between defensive and offensive research. According to expert circles, it cannot be ruled out that the results of Czechoslovak studies could have been used by the Soviet Union for military purposes. This suspicion is confirmed by the recent admission of Anatoliy Kuntsevich, chief of the Russian presidential committee for chemical and biological weapons, who confirmed last September that, even though Moscow had signed the treaty on banning these weapons, the former USSR and, subsequently, Russia, continued to develop for 20 years bacteriological weapons and aircraft and missile systems for their transport.
