FBIS4-16030 "drsov071_a_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-071 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Diplomat Expects `Tough Talk' on Bosnia at UN Diplomat Expects `Tough Talk' on Bosnia at UN LD1204213094 Moscow INTERFAX in English 2044 GMT 12 Apr 94 LD1204213094 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: Reports by Diplomatic Correspondents Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy and others] [Text] As INTERFAX has learned from Russia's foreign ministry, on Tuesday the UN Security Council will examine the situation in former Yugoslavia following NATO's air strikes on the Serb positions at Gorazde (Eastern Bosnia). In an interview with INTERFAX, a top Russian diplomat forecast a tough talk in New York. In his words, the Russian representative will apparently ask why Moscow was informed of the decision to use force in Bosnia-Herzegovina post hoc. In terms of politics, such an attitude toward Russia as a partner is inadmissible. However, in practical terms, not everything is unequivocal, the diplomat said. How smart we would be, if information on strikes would reach us a few minutes before their delivery, as happened to Britons, if media are to be believed. In this case, Russia's "no" might be ignored for purely technical reasons: The mechanism of a war machine is already in motion. The diplomat stated that Russia is now the only country that the Bosnian Serbs agree to deal with. After what happened they have abandoned contacts with UN, charging this organization with a pro- Moslem slant. Mediation has been conducted by the Russian President's Special Envoy, Deputy Foreign Minister Vitaliy Churkin. Apparently, his current efforts would be unnecessary, if Russia had been told about the decision to strike on Bosnian Serbs in advance, he suggested. He regards as extremely unlikely the possibility of NATO's further air attacks against Bosnian Serbs without consultations with UNPROFOR [UN Protection Force]. Hypothetically, this could be the case only if Serbs downed a NATO plane, he said. In his opinion, all three sides -- the Serbs, the Moslems, and UNPROFOR need restraint more than anything else. If the parties stir further hostilities, the situation may get out of control, he said.
