FBIS4-24555 "drchi104_w_94014" FBIS-CHI-94-104 Daily Report 28 May 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Hong Kong Businessmen Praise MFN Renewal Hong Kong Businessmen Praise MFN Renewal OW2805113794 Beijing XINHUA in English 1111 GMT 28 May 94 OW2805113794 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Hong Kong, May 28 (XINHUA) -- U.S. President Bill Clinton's decision to extend China's most favored nation [MFN] trading status for another year and to delink human rights from trade issues has been warmly received by HK [Hong Kong] residents, especially businessmen here. Local business leaders today hailed the decision as not only conducive to the trade development among China, the United States and Hong Kong, but also conducive to China's reentry into the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Raymond Ch'ien Kuo-fung, chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, said that the decision will have positive impact on the economic development in the three areas, especially in Hong Kong. Before the decision was made, some investors had taken a wait- and-see attitude towards investment in China, now that most of the uncertainties have been cleared away, investors' confidence in China will surely be enhanced, which, in turn, will benefit Hong Kong, Ch'ien said. Ian A. Christie, chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, believed that the renewal of China's MFN trading status has increased the chance for China to reenter the GATT. He hoped China could get its permanent MFN trading status from the United States next year, which he said would benefit all of the three sides. Henry Tang Ying-yen, vice-president of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, expressed his welcome to President Clinton's announcement to delink human rights from trade issues while deciding to renew China's MFN trading status. He said that the bilateral trade between two countries should be conducted on an equal basis, and it is never correct for one country to threaten the other with unfair trade conditions. Meanwhile, many local public figures have also expressed their concerns over the U.S. decision to ban the import of Chinese weapons.
