FBIS4-41118 "drsov120_g_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-120 Daily Report 22 Jun 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Government Defends Record, Policy in Pre-Election Statement Government Defends Record, Policy in Pre-Election Statement WS2206103194 Minsk Radio Minsk Network in Belarusian 0700 GMT 22 Jun 94 WS2206103194 Minsk Radio Minsk Network Belarusian BFN [Text] In accordance with the Constitution, the elections of the first Belarusian president will take place tomorrow. In this connection, the Cabinet of Ministers has issued a statement. The popularly elected president should become a guarantor of the sovereignty, national security, and territorial integrity of our state, as well as ensure political and economic stability, peace, and accord within society, and implement urgent tasks related to foreign policy and foreign trade. In the process of preparations for the elections, especially during its final stages, some candidates for the highest state position have made the government the prime target of their criticism, mounting the most incredible charges against it. It is being drilled into the people that the government has no course of action to resolve many complex economic problems. Subject to attacks, the statement reads, are even attempts by the Cabinet of Ministers to support state-run industrial and agricultural enterprises, as well as measures intended to reduce price increases, unemployment, and social deregulation of the market. The government, the statement stresses, considers it a task of national importance to restore the Republic's economic potential and ensure its integration into the international system of economic and political relations. Its integration policies have been accepted by the international community. Their most important element is economic union with Russia. The concluded agreements have already produced concrete results. As never before, the Republic needs mutual support, understanding, and a uniting of the efforts of all people to overcome the difficult situation.
