FBIS4-9680 "drlat062_n_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-062 Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 Chile Eight Detained in Santiago Demonstrations Eight Detained in Santiago Demonstrations PY3003154594 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network in Spanish 1100 GMT 30 Mar 94 PY3003154594 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network Spanish BFN [Text] While celebrating the anniversary of the killing of the brothers Rafael and Eduardo Vergara Toledo in Villa Francia District in 1985, groups of youngsters were involved yesterday in serious incidents at the intersection of Grecia and Jose Pedro Alessandri Avenues and in Villa Francia District. At least eight demonstrators were detained by Carabineros who went to restore public order. After participating in a tribute to the killed MIR [Movement of the Revolutionary Left] members yesterday afternoon, a group of masked people set up barricades on Grecia Avenue and threw Molotov cocktails and stones. Carabineros cordoned off the area and caused huge traffic jams. Vehicles were diverted to nearby streets while Carabineros used water cannons and tear gas. The new Israeli-made water cannons, exhibited at the FIDAE [International Aerospace Fair] and purchased by Carabineros to serve at the 29th Special Forces Precinct, were used for the first time. Carabineros yesterday evening prevented another tribute to the killed MIR members in Villa Francia District, dispersing those who were planning to participate in it. Manuel Vergara, the father of the killed MIR members, explained that it was a peaceful tribute and that Carabineros ordered the dismantling of the stage. He said: [Begin Vergara recording] It was supposed to have been a very beautiful tribute. We could have had a video with a script, with artists. It was scheduled for 2000. The problem is that Carabineros arrived at 1830, surrounded the area, and even prevented the stage from being assembled. Mounted Carabineros pushed the people. They charged at the people and the stage had to be dismantled. [end recording] While the mother of the Vergara brothers was expressing her protest to journalists, a water cannon soaked the journalists who were recording her comments. The Vergara family's house was completely flooded during this action. The water cannon soaked a Megavision team and a Chilevision cameraman was hit on the leg by a tear gas canister.
