FBIS3-61472 "jpust004___94052" JPRS-UST-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 26 January 1994 ENGINEERING AND EQUIPMENT AVIATION AND SPACE TECHNOLOGY On Hypersonic Flow Structure in Large-Scale Multidiaphragmic Shock Tube 947F0036D Moscow IZVESTIYA ROSSIYSKOY AKADEMII NAUK: MEKHANIKA ZHIDKOSTI I GAZA in Russian No 5, Sep-Oct 93 pp 158-165 947F0036D Moscow IZVESTIYA ROSSIYSKOY AKADEMII NAUK: MEKHANIKA ZHIDKOSTI I GAZA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by N.A. Anfimov, I.V. Yershov, Ye.I. Ruzavin, S.S. Semenov, S.K. Shimarev, Moscow; UDC 533.6.071.8] [Abstract] The urgency of studying shock tubes for simulating hypersonic flows and examining aerophysical processes which accompany the movement of flying vehicles and meteorite bodies in the earth's and other planets' atmosphere, particularly large-scale shock tubes capable of obtaining extended quasistatic high-temperature gas flows whose duration is sufficient for taking various measurements on models of winged vehicles, prompted an investigation into hypersonic flows in such tubes with multiple diaphragms. In particular, the flow structure in such tubes at various operating conditions and regimes is examined; in so doing, the shape and structure of the shock wave front are determined, the quality and duration of working flows are evaluated, and the shock wave parameters are measured in order to use large-scale shock tubes in hypersonic aerodynamic and aerophysical research. In addition, the shock wave interaction with various models, e.g., spacecraft and aircraft, their components and modular configurations, terrestrial structure elements, etc., is also studied using the installation. The study made it possible to obtain data on the fundamental physical and chemical properties of air at high temperatures and pressures. The installation developed by the Central Scientific Research Institute of Mechanical Engineering has a channel with a 0.5 m diameter, a close to 200 m length, and a gas holder with a 3 m diameter and 23 m length. The findings have been implemented in the development of such delivery vehicles as Vostok and Proton, Soyuz reentry modules, Luna, Venera, and Mars descent modules, and Energiya-Buran complex. Figures 4; tables 1; references 14: 11 Russian, 3 Western.
