FBIS3-32956 "drlat032_o_94016" FBIS-LAT-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 Colombia National Salvation Movement Backs Pastrana Campaign PA1602034394 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0000 GMT 16 Feb 94 PA1602034394 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Raul Gutierrez and Azucena Lievano; from the "24 Hours" newscast; passages within quotation marks recorded] [Text] Alvaro Gomez [leader of the National Salvation Movement, MSN] replied to Andres Pastrana today and in so doing made the political news of the year: The MSN backs fully the New Democratic Force [NFD] leader. [Gomez] "We know if we free politics from its current commitments, Colombians will be able to change those hopes into national goals. We have seen in your presidential campaign, in your independence, in the clear style you have given it, and in your sensible proposals an opportunity to again effect these tasks in which we have believed all along." The day before, Pastrana had sent Gomez a letter in which Pastrana pledged to carry out a deep political renewal, beginning with a moral recovery as a proposal for the consolidation of democracy. [Gomez] "You have the intelligence and knowledge to carry out all of this and what is even more valuable, the aptitude to instill credibility." Gomez then replied to all types of questions. He said on no account will he run for president, that the choice of vice president will be entirely up to Pastrana. [Gutierrez] "Is it an adherence, a support, an alignment from the political point of view?" [Gomez] "It is support; naturally, it is an attempt to fulfill a dream, because the MSN has always wanted to have a proposal for Colombians. Our desire to always have a proposal was made possible via Dr. Pastrana." The decision to back Pastrana is not an act against the Conservative Party, the Liberal Party, or the government; it is for a change, Gomez concluded. Alvaro Gomez Hurtado's support for the Pastrana campaign is of immense political and personal value, according to Andres Pastrana Arango. He said this support strengthens the party's union for the presidential elections. [Pastrana] "It is especially meaningful, because we agree on the program. Just as Alvaro Gomez himself said in his message and as I have said, this is a flight plan; there are important points of agreements regarding the program we have presented for Colombians to examine." According to Pastrana, this is the consolidation of a political process, but more than a victory, Pastrana says politics have changed: [Pastrana] "We have clearly demonstrated one can leave behind old feelings of resentment and situations that arose between the Pastrana and Gomez families." The presidential candidate said he is pleased with the entry of the MSN party, and the doors are open for other groups. He said contacts with leader Alvaro Gomez started the day his candidacy was launched, and campaign coordinator Luis Alberto Moreno handled the contacts.
