FBIS3-11484 "drlat055_o_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 Colombia Government, CRS To Sign Final Peace Accord 9 Apr PA2103154994 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1541 GMT 20 Mar 94 PA2103154994 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Santa Fe de Bogota, 20 Mar (EFE) -- The government and the Socialist Renewal Movement (CRS) guerrilla group, which represents approximately 600 men, 300 of whom are still armed, will sign a final peace accord on 9 April. On Saturday, 19 March, government and CRS representatives were able to iron out the final differences that had stopped the negotiations and reach a specific agreement on all the topics discussed. "As a result of this and in order to adjust the details of the ceremony whereby the CRS will lay down its weapons and rejoin civilian society, the signing of the final Political Accord will take place on 9 April in Monte Flor, Ovejas Municipality, Sucre Department," the communique signed by the two sides said. In the eight-point agreement, the government pledges to give the CRS two seats in the House of Representatives and, possibly, another in the Senate. The eight points agreed on refer to human rights, citizen participation, economic consensus, regional development, legal benefits, political advantages [favorabiliades], reincorporation, and the surrender of weapons. CRS spokesmen voiced their satisfaction with the agreement reached and called on active rebel groups to hold talks with the government and seek alternatives of peace. The CRS disbanding process began a year ago when a dissident ELN [Army of National Liberation] group publicly expressed its desire to talk and surrender its weapons. At that time, the CRS had rejected the orthodox leadership of Manuel Perez, a Spanish former priest, kidnappings, and indiscriminate violence as a guerrilla warfare strategy. The process experienced its biggest setback last September when leaders Enrique Buendia and Ricardo Gonzalez were murdered. These men, who were unarmed and had special authorization from civilian authorities, were getting ready to make contact with other comrades in arms when the Army detained and killed them.
