FBIS3-17936 "drsov061_e_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Rumyantsev Suggests Dual Citizenship for Crimeans LD2903135794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1321 GMT 29 Mar 94 LD2903135794 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Lyudmila Aleksandrova] [Text] Moscow 29 Mar, TASS -- "Citizens of the Crimean Republic have clearly confirmed their striving for integration with Russia for the second time within the past three months and supported the policy of Crimean President Yuriy Meshkov," ex-secretary of the Russian Supreme Soviet's Constitutional Commission and head of the Russian Fund for Constitutional Reforms Oleg Rumyantsev told ITAR-TASS here today. Rumyantsev commented on results of the recent Crimean plebiscite. He said he has "close comradely relations" with Meshkov" and is trying to "render the Crimean Republic regular support in the sphere of state-legal development." Rumyantsev is sure that Meshkov's policy aims not to separate the Crimea from Ukraine, but to settle relations with both Ukraine and Russia on the basis of agreements, create a single legal and ruble space, and "become a real integration locomotive." In the opinion of the jurist, "if this policy is not ruined in Kiev or Moscow" the Crimea may become a bridge of cooperation in finances and double citizenship experiment. The Commonwealth does not have a single area to test double citizenship, he added. The Russian Fund for Constitutional Reforms has been asked to develop a notion of a law on Crimean citizenship. "It will be very interesting to test the double citizenship idea (supported by Crimean residents) as this mechanism can play a key role in integration of the complex federal formation that appears on territory of the former Soviet Union," said Rumyantsev. This would mean the sides mutually recognize juridical documents -- passports, graduate certificates and the like and the law enforcement bodies provide for human rights and freedoms on both territories. "Without any changes in borders or international-legal basic features, the double citizenship institute can help formation of a new single legal space," said Rumyantsev.
