FBIS3-10406 "drlat044_o_94012" FBIS-LAT-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Colombia Mines Minister Denies Oil Agreement With Cuba PA0603132294 Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 1912 GMT 5 Mar 94 PA0603132294 Mexico City NOTIMEX Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Santa Fe de Bogota, 5 Mar (NOTIMEX) -- Colombian Mines Minister Guido Nule denied today any agreement had been signed with Cuba on oil matters, but he said the terms to formalize "a possible commercial agreement for the sale of crude" are being studied. The government of President Cesar Gaviria announced last week it would supply Cuba with approximately 20,000 barrels of oil daily under normal trade conditions and at international market prices. The Colombian decision has caused uneasiness among the Miami-based Cuban community, which has agreed to stage protest marches in Florida and block products from that South American country that are sold in U.S. stores. In a preliminary reaction, approximately 30 anti-Castro exiles demonstrated in front of the Colombian Consulate in Miami yesterday to voice their disconformity with the aid Gaviria's administration is giving to Fidel Castro's government. Colombia cannot subject or condition its international trade policy to public demonstrations, Nule stated at a news conference this afternoon, referring to the protests initiated yesterday by Cuban exiles in Miami. "I do not think Colombia can subject or condition its policy to public demonstrations," the minister said, insisting Cuban exiles have "a high sensitivity, and one must understand it." Nule said any operation carried out with Havana "will be carried out within the strict practices of international trade." "There is no agreement at this time, and we are only studying the terms of a possible agreement, such as payment guarantees, volume, and quality," he explained. Cuba is an important market, and Colombia cannot see any reason why it cannot sell fuel to the Caribbean island, according to the minister.
