FBIS3-17652 "drsov060_o_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 Uzbekistan More on Abdullayev's Comments LD2803190794 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1454 GMT 28 Mar 94 LD2803190794 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature by diplomatic correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboynikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy, and others] [Text] Uzbekistan does in no way interfere into the internal affairs of neighboring Afghanistan. "The Afghan allegations on this score cause sincere indignation in Tashkent," Uzbek ambassador to Russia Yusuf Abdullayev said at a news conference in Moscow Monday. He recalled that Hikmat Abdurrahman, special envoy of the Afghan president, had recently paid a visit to Moscow where he visited, in particular, the Uzbek embassy. "The Afghan official expressed concern over some `interference' into Afghan affairs by Tashkent and the secret talks that had allegedly taken place between Uzbek leaders and Uzbek General Rashid Dostam. Uzbekistan did receive Dostam last August but not as `a rebel Afghan general' but as a special envoy of the Afghan president. The meetings were held officially and openly. There were no below the board dealings. All insinuations by the Afghan authorities are outrageous." The Uzbek ambassador denied Abdurrahman's allegations that Tajik opposition fighters underwent training in Uzbekistan. Only a Martian cannot see that this is untrue. These inventions of the Afghan authorities cause surprise," Abdullayev said. Abdullayev said that his country "faithfully observed the principle of respect for sovereignty of other countries and non-interference into their own affairs. Uzbekistan is an island of stability, calm and civic peace in the volatile Central Asian region. Resolving the Afghan situation is one of our primary concerns," Abdullayev declared. He said that "the Soviet leaders ignored the lessons of the three Anglo-Afghan wars. As a result, the Soviet action there had an ignominious end. We have too many common roots with Afghanistan to forget such things. Nobody has succeeded in dismembering and subjugating Afghanistan. It would be strange if we tried this," the ambassador said. He said that Uzbekistan had traditional good relations with Afghanistan's northern provinces inhabited chiefly by ethnic Uzbeks. "This is normal cooperation with neighbors which does not imply attempts at capturing the area," Abdullayev said. In his words, "Uzbekistan's interference into Afghan affairs amounted to supplying $13.8 Mn [million] worth of electricity to Afghanistan while 300 Afghan students graduated Uzbek universities free." Asked by INTERFAX about the outlook for a settlement in Tajikistan, Abdullayev emphasized, "The sooner Dushanbe and opposition sit together, the better. We in Tashkent think that all parties in the conflict should be legitimately participants in the talks. Simultaneously Tajikistan should develop closer ties with its neighbors, otherwise no outside aid would be helpful." He expressed the hope that Afghanistan would tangibly contribute to resolution of the Tajik crisis. "At least we would like to believe what Kabul officials say about this," he said.
