FBIS3-9299 "dreeu056_c_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Confusion Over Number of UN Reinforcements AU2203155594 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES in Czech 18 Mar 94 p 1 AU2203155594 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Article by "(ptp)": "Confusion About the Reinforcements for Bosnia"] [Text] New York/Prague--According to a senior UN official, the Czech Republic has promised to provide a United Nations Protection Forces [UNPROFOR] contingent of 500 men for Bosnia. However, in accordance with the government's decision, the Czech reinforcements should comprise only 120 troops. Domestic sources are denying the promise of greater reinforcements for Bosnia. UN Deputy Secretary General Kofi Annan said, according to CTK, that 500 Czech troops should form part of the firmly promised reinforcements for Bosnia, which will number some 4,500 men. He said this following a meeting with representatives from the states that have troops in UNPROFOR forces. "This information is inaccurate," said Miroslav Tuma, a member of the Czech Republic's permanent mission to the United Nations in New York, who took part in the talks with Annan. "We talked about supplementing our battalion in the sector south of Croatian Krajina and not in Bosnia," he said. Karel Kovanda, ambassador to the United Nations, said that the Czech Republic is indeed dispatching only 120 troops--that is, a company--to Bosnia. Pavel Kracmar, the head of the liaison officers attached to the UNPROFOR headquarters in Zagreb, confirmed, nevertheless, that a report about 500 Czech reinforcements had been broadcast last week on CNN. However, Kracmar also thinks this is a mistake. "The Czech Republic has neither the potential nor the resources to do such a thing," he said. According to reports from the Defense Ministry in Prague, no such reinforcement of the Czech UNPROFOR units is Bosnia is being taken into consideration. Such a high number could only be anticipated in a future objective by the UN command. The government and parliament would have to make a decision on the possible deployment of another 500 troops in the former Yugoslavia.
