FBIS3-19026 "drweu048_e_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Further Commentary on 9 Mar Heathrow Attack Governments Must `Regain Initiative' PM1103135494 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 11 Mar 94 p 22 PM1103135494 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Step Up the Pressure"] [Text] Wednesday night's [9 March] IRA mortar attack on Heathrow should cause little surprise. It had already become apparent that no consensus to support the peace process existed within Sinn Fein. It matters little whether the Heathrow operation was centrally directed by the IRA Army Council or launched by one of the independent cells in which the terrorists now operate, for security reasons. The consequence was to send a message to the world that, for the Provisionals, it is business as usual, and a minute or two either way with this particular business could have cost a planeload of passengers their lives. We have urged the British and Irish governments not to allow Sinn Fein to make political capital out of its prevarications towards the Downing Street Declaration. Now, the two governments have no excuse for waiting any longer, and should act speedily to regain the initiative. They should increase military activity against the IRA by intensifying co-operation between their security forces -- if Dublin possesses the political will to do its part. Equally important, they should step up the political pressure on Sinn Fein. The government in Dublin and John Hume's SDLP [Social Democratic Labour Party] have expended much effort on wooing Republican opinion, but they have failed to show matching sensitivity towards Unionist concerns, or towards fostering local political progress within Ulster. The Declaration will plainly remain on the table as the basis on which Sinn Fein can enter the political scene if it ever becomes willing to renounce violence. But, if Dublin and the SDLP intend to pursue the objectives of the Declaration with anything more useful than rhetoric, they should make common cause against Sinn Fein with the British Government and the Unionists.
