FBIS4-7538 "dreeu063_p_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 POLAND Walesa Criticizes West on Aid Efforts Walesa Criticizes West on Aid Efforts LD3103233394 Warsaw Third Program Radio Network in Polish 2000 GMT 31 Mar 94 LD3103233394 Warsaw Third Program Radio Network Polish BFN [Text] Neither Poland nor Russia can be moved to America. We are forced to depend on each other. This is the title the MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI has given to an interview with President Lech Walesa. [Correspondent Andrzej Siezeniewski] Speaking of the tasks of politicians in shaping bilateral relations, the Polish president stressed that, in the first instance, they ought to remove barriers and open opportunities for contacts for industrialists and businessmen and constantly repeat to them: Gentlemen, it will always be shorter from Moscow to Warsaw than to Washington. That is why Poland is a better partner than the United States. Asked whether his hopes of help from the West had been fulfilled, Lech Walesa gave an unequivocally negative answer. History proves, he stressed, that one cannot seriously count on support from that direction. Apart from promises, we have received nothing. The West does not understand what is happening in our part of the world, said the Polish president. It does not treat us as partners. It acts only when it sees some profit in it for itself. President Walesa spoke against dividing the world into blocs. The times when that was how things were are disappearing into the past. For that reason, Poland or Ukraine will not be playing the part of sanitary corridors separating the giants of Europe: Russia and Germany. Lech Walesa is also against the concentration of troops in, for example, the Kaliningrad oblast. If we all say that we do not see each other as enemies, why make such gestures, underlined the Polish president. It is his conviction that we should aim at building a system of pan-European security, which would give all nations of the continent equal guarantees of a peaceful life.
