FBIS3-8808 "dreeu051_p_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 POLAND Mazowiecki, Kuron on Future of Merged UD-KLD PM1603093894 Poznan GAZETA POZNANSKA in Polish 7 Mar 94 pp 1-2 PM1603093894 Poznan GAZETA POZNANSKA Language: Polish Article Type:BFN [PAP report by "Ziel": "Fiasco Averted: Mazowiecki Says He Changed His Mind"] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] Mazowiecki expressed the hope that the new party [created by merging the Democratic Union (UD) and the Liberal Democratic Congress (KLD)] would be "marked by organizational efficiency" and "free from the crisis and paralysis that has been crippling the UD for months.". The new group is conceived as an alternative to the political configuration currently in force. Kuron's Dilemmas Jacek Kuron revealed that he would join the new party, designed to emerge from the UD and KLD fusion, only if it declared itself firmly in favor of economic effectiveness. However, that goal should be realized on the basis of general public support. Kuron insisted that the conflict between public expectations and the requirements of rational economics was the main reason for the collapse of political authorities. There Are Some With Whom We Cannot Share the Same Path The principles of the new party's statute do not provide for the existence of separate factions within the group. The Congress received this clause with many reservations. Ecological Faction chairman Radoslaw Gawlik even went so far as to call it "antidemocratic, politically stupid, and potentially explosive for the Union." Social-Liberal Faction chairman Zofia Kuratowska was more circumspect in her opinions. Yet even she warned against the danger that the party might now lose many members who had originally joined the UD because they identified themselves with a particular UD faction. Kuratowska was even more concerned about possible membership losses that may be incurred by the fusion with the KLD. "In some regions," she stressed, "there are particular KLD members with whom we would not sit at the same table." Factional divisions and their associated difficulties manifested themselves early enough, making it impossible for Congress delegates assembled in the hall to sing "Happy Birthday" to Bronislaw Geremek: Each table sang in a different key and to a different tempo.
