FBIS3-34977 "drnes033_s_94002" FBIS-NES-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 Iran Saudi Decision To Purchase U.S. Planes Assessed NC1702084094 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0445 GMT 17 Feb 94 NC1702084094 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Language: Persian Article Type:BFN [Commentary by the News Research and Commentaries Group] [Text] As was reported and was foreseeable, a Saudi bid for the purchase of dozens of passenger planes was handed to the U.S. company, Boeing. Saudi Arabia announced some months ago that it intended to purchase 60 planes to complete its passenger-plane fleet. Thus, it began talks with the U.S. companies Boeing and McDonnell Douglas, as well as with the European Airbus Consortium. Political analysts believe that handing this bid over to the United States is more for political rather than commercial reasons, and that various elements were involved in this decision. The agreement of U.S. arms manufacturers one month ago to accept installment repayments of the military loans of Saudi Arabia, which was unable to repay its debts because of the drop in oil prices, is one of the most important elements. Also, the U.S. aircraft-manufacturing companies offered more benefits than their European competitors in an effort to maintain their world markets, especially under current conditions when White House officials are trying to help the U.S. economy emerge from its recession by expanding foreign markets. Bill Clinton's contacts with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia may have been the most important reason why the bid for the purchase of dozens of passenger planes went to an American company. This contact--especially during the newly commenced economic war between the United States and Japan--is of great significance. Even though economic sanctions on Tokyo, which Clinton has threatened, would deprive Japan from the large U.S. market, it would also limit U.S. access to the Japanese market; this has set a new priority for U.S. economic policy of expanding its international markets as much as possible.
