FBIS3-33344 "drlat036_j_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 Panama Parades Confirms Meeting PA2302002894 Panama City LA ESTRELLA DE PANAMA in Spanish 22 Feb 94 p 1 PA2302002894 Panama City LA ESTRELLA DE PANAMA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by James Aparicio] [Text] Retired General Ruben Dario Paredes has confirmed to LA ESTRELLA DE PANAMA that he has met with presidential candidate Ruben Carles, at the request of Dr. Arrigo Guardia [National Integration Movement national coordinator], to discuss issues related to security, the future of the police corps, the penitentiary system, and intelligence organizations. He has also expressed regret over the "electoral mediocrity" of the former comptroller general and his main advisers. In a letter sent to LA ESTRELLA DE PANAMA, Paredes has admitted he met with Carles and Guardia on 15 January for what he called "a working meeting." In a telephone conversation, Paredes has denied he is involved in a plot against the opposition Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD), "because nobody catches me making a slander campaign against anybody." Paredes added: "I would not lose my time doing this." In a letter sent to the Justice and Peace Commission last week, Mitchel Doens, PRD first assistant secretary, charged Carles' team was preparing a slander campaign by reporting the opposition PRD candidate Ernesto Perez Balladares had a pact with former military personnel to reinstate the Defense Forces. Perez Balladares announced there will be no Army in Panama, and Carles denied the alleged slander campaign against the PRD. Paredes has expressed regret, however, that Carles had denied the alleged "working meeting" as if "one stinks." He added: "When the news broke out and caused its effects, Professor Carles and two of his closest advisers were struck with political panic and instead of rising up to the situation and admitting we did discuss public security issues, which are a real problem, they descended down to the levels of electoral mediocrity." Why were Carles and his advisers so afraid of our meeting being made known, and what compelled them to take such an irregular attitude? Paredes asked himself. He has expressed regret that "a candidate with Professor Carles' potential of success has made such a mistake, which will surely be punished at the ballot tables." According to Paredes, "this mistake (Carles') will contribute in defining the candidates' positions and will benefit the country and voters, because it reduces the possibility of making a wrong choice."
