FBIS4-66108 "drweu103__a94026" FBIS-WEU-94-103-A Daily Report 26 May 1994 ANNEX Germany `Secret Plan' Envisages Eurofighter Privatization `Secret Plan' Envisages Eurofighter Privatization AU2605095594 Hamburg STERN in German 26 May 94 p 165--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2605095594 Hamburg STERN German BFN [Dieter Huenerkoch report: "Secret Plan for Eurofighter 2000"] [Text] The controversy over the high cost involved in the production of Eurofighter 2000 could soon take a surprising turn. When Bonn decides next spring whether the European fighter aircraft will be procured at all for the Bundeswehr, the price for the military aircraft may have dropped drastically. Experts currently estimate it at 125 million German marks [DM] per aircraft (production costs and costs of logistics for Bundeswehr). It is true that the Daimler subsidiary, Deutsche Aerospace (DASA), and the other European producers intend to stick to their price of DM57 million ex factory for the fighter. They believe, however, they can save two-digit million amounts per aircraft in connection with the so-called system costs of the Bundeswehr, including replacement parts, maintenance, and repair. Industry is currently negotiating with the military on the privatization of replacement parts, maintenance, and repair. The Eurofighter 2000 producers are confident they will be able to fulfill such tasks at costs that would be 25-30 percent lower than if carried out by the Bundeswehr. If agreement is reached, Dasa will transform its plant in Manching near Munich into a logistics center for the Luftwaffe. The most difficult problem of such an option is that the military does not want to depend on the private sector and its employees in a crisis or even war. Thus a contractual agreement is envisaged so that in such cases the logistics center in Manching and the employees concerned would be placed under the command of the Bundeswehr. The parties involved believe that such an agreement would have advantages for both sides. Industry would secure for itself permanent, additional employment, and the Bundeswehr would save personnel cost and above all fixed costs. As a result, means for investment and procurement could be set free -- despite the decreasing military budget. So industry would be the winner in a dual sense. An arms manager: "The invested part of the Bundeswehr's expenditures has meanwhile dropped to less than 20 percent. It must be the goal to increase this rate to 30 percent again."
