FBIS3-38606 "drweu024_j_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Granic Comments on Meeting LD0302175894 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 1600 GMT 3 Feb 94 LD0302175894 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Report by correspondent Andjelko Perincic from Rome for Croatian radio] [Excerpts] Mate Granic, the Croatian deputy prime minister and foreign minister held talks with his Italian counterpart, Beniamino Andreatta, in Rome this afternoon. They discussed the development of bilateral relations and problems in our region. [passage omitted] [Begin Granic recording] Concerning the problems in the region, we spent most of the time discussing Bosnia-Herzegovina. Italy was interested in the accusations of the Croatian Army's presence in Bosnia-Herzegovina, which I energetically refuted and said that, according to our data, there are about 2,000 volunteers [from Croatia in Bosnia-Herzegovina] -- some of whom were members of the Croatian Army -- but there are no military units. Croatia is ready to allow the supervision of borders between Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia. Of course, the UN Security Council has recommended the supervision of all Bosnia-Herzegovina's borders. Likewise, Croatia is not planning any military action in Bosnia-Herzegovina. We also discussed future negotiations with the Muslim side. In the spirit of the EU's proposal and possible new proposals, which are being discussed in the great circles of power, Croatia is ready to immediately resume talks with the Muslim side. We believe that the talks will soon take place. It is in Croatia's great interest that all conflicts between Croats and Muslims should end as soon as possible. Croatia believes that a permanent solution to Croatian-Muslim relations is the basis for one of the strategic guidelines of Croatia's foreign policy. Concerning the joint declaration signed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Croatia, it is directed exclusively toward the normalization of state relations and overall relations between Croats and Serbs, including Croatia's priority, which is the reintegration of the UN protected areas into Croatia's state and legal system. [end recording] [passage omitted]
