FBIS3-40796 "jpnea008___94006" JPRS-NEA-94-008 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 15 February 1994 NEAR EAST ALGERIA Legitimacy of National Conference Questioned 94AF0075A Algiers EL WATAN in French 23 Jan 94 pp 1, 3 94AF0075A Algiers EL WATAN Language: French Article Type:CSO [Commentary by Reda Bekkat: "What Legitimacy?"] [Text] Is the national conference heading for failure now that three of the largest parties deny it their support? In fact, less than three days before the start of the conference, the FLN [National Liberation Front] declined the commission's invitation, thus following the example of the FFS [Socialist Forces Front] and the RCD [Rally for Culture and Democracy]. It is not unlikely that other major parties or social organizations may follow the boycott movement. We are thinking of employers' organizations, in particular the UGTA [General Union of Algerian Workers] which, recently again, denounced the methods and men of a regime that it demands should resign. Already, however, with such conspicuous absences, we cannot fail to wonder whether the national conference will retain any legitimacy, any credibility, especially as far as the objectives assigned to it are concerned. Apart from a certain consensus on the draft platform and the participants' commitments during the transition period, which would be binding for political and social players, the conference should also approve whoever will be in charge during the transition period. In other words, it should settle the matter of the HCE [Higher State Council] succession with the parties to the conference and representatives of the present government. There is absolutely no doubt that the commission's legitimacy is considerably reduced by the absence of major political parties, including the one that used to be the single party but whose participation in the conference the members of the national dialogue commission nevertheless deemed necessary. Under these conditions, how can the national conference legitimately take place, and how could any solutions adopted concerning who is to be in charge during the transition period be considered as emanating from a national consensus between political and social organizations? Undoubtedly, this is the dilemma that the initiators of the national dialogue must face. A deadlock, therefore, is possible. In this case, we cannot help recalling the defense minister's statements, which some interpreted as a warning to the political class in general and to the parties in particular, against any attempt at obstruction.
