FBIS4-52074 "dreas088_j_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-088 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 Indonesia APEC Exploitation for Unilateral Use Viewed APEC Exploitation for Unilateral Use Viewed BK0605085994 Jakarta THE JAKARTA POST in English 29 Apr 94 p 9 BK0605085994 Jakarta THE JAKARTA POST English BFN [Text] Jakarta (JP) -- Indonesia does not want the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) to become a forum through which certain countries can fulfill their ambitions of obtaining unilateral benefits after failing to achieve this at the recently concluded Uruguay Round of trade negotiations. Minister of Trade Sastro B. Judono told reporters after meeting with President Suharto here yesterday said that APEC on the contrary, should be a forum where countries with advanced economies and those with developing economies can cooperate to improve their overall economic well being. Judono was commenting on the new problems which he said had emerged following the signing of the Final Act of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Marrakech, Morocco. He said the problem -- which he referred to as "new forms of protectionist measures" -- were mainly caused by the intention of several industrialized countries to include non-trade issues in the global trade rules. "Cooperation will encourage developing economies to grow faster and will narrow the widening gap between the rich and poor countries. This will promote keener competitiveness," he said. Judono, who was accompanied by Coordinating Minister for Industry and Trade Hartarto and Minister/State Secretary Murdiono, pointed out that before such a state of equilibrium could be achieved, there would be no use talking about free trade in the region, since that would only encourage unbalanced trade. "APEC should not immediately be turned into a free-trade zone because a certain period for cooperation is required to gradually develop the member countries before they finally reach a high level of competitiveness, allowing free trade to proceed," he said. Commenting on the Marrakech meeting, which he attended, Judono explained that Indonesia has five years -- or until 1997 -- to adjust its regulations that require foreign investors to utilize local products. "Indonesia and several other countries have yet to remove their regulations which are not in line with the new GATT rules," he said. In the implementation of international intellectual property rights -- concerning copyrights, patents, trademarks, design rights and the right of trade secrecy -- Judono said it was agreed that all signatories would adjust their respective regulations to the international norms.
