FBIS3-5066 "dreas042_d_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-042 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Mar 1994 South Korea N-S Talks Resume After Four-Month Break Radio Says No Progress Made SK0303044694 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network in Korean 0400 GMT 3 Mar 94 SK0303044694 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [Text] According to a report from Panmunjom by reporters Kim Chong-chin and Kim Chong-ki, North and South Korea started a working-level contact at 1000 today at the House of Peace, on our side of Panmunjom, to discuss procedures for the exchange of special envoys. However, no progress has been made at the contact because North Korea again insisted on preconditions for the working-level contact. As a result, North and South Korea agreed to hold a fourth working-level contact on 9 March at Tongilgak, on the North Korean side of Panmunjom. In today's contact, both sides delivered key addresses only. They could not enter into discussions on procedural matters. However, the sides reportedly agreed in principle to exchange special envoys of top leaders at the earliest possible date. In his keynote speech, Song Yong-tae, our side's senior delegate, presented a revised letter of agreement on the exchange of special envoys. The revised agreement stipulates the handling of the nuclear issue by special envoys, the implementation of the North-South basic agreement, North-South summit talks, and reunification. Our side presented this revised agreement after accepting North Korea's proposal that the missions of special envoys be specified. Our side had previously insisted that no special mission be stipulated. Regarding the method of envoy exchange, our side demanded that our side's special envoy be allowed to first visit Pyongyang, and said that if the North is willing, our side is willing to be flexible. However, contrary to our expectations, the North side again put forward in its keynote speech the preconditions for working-level contacts which it had previously asserted, including the suspension of the international cooperative system and so forth. Thus, there was no practical discussion on the issue of special envoy exchange.
