FBIS4-1605 "drchi063_g_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-063 Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 Sub-Saharan Africa Qiao Shi Meets Benin Parliament Leader Qiao Shi Meets Benin Parliament Leader OW2603142194 Beijing XINHUA in English 1353 GMT 26 Mar 94 OW2603142194 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, March 26 (XINHUA) -- Qiao Shi, chairman of China's National People's Congress (NPC) Standing Committee, met with Adrien Houngbedji, president of the National Assembly of Benin, here this afternoon. Houngbedji and his party arrived here this morning on an official goodwill visit to China as guests of the NPC Standing Committee. During the meeting, Qiao Shi, on behalf of the NPC Standing Committee, extended his welcome to Houngbedji, who is leading the first delegation from the Beninian National Assembly. Qiao said that Sino-Beninian relations have been developing smoothly and bilateral cooperation in various areas has been strengthened. Qiao expressed his hope that the exchanges between the two countries and their parliaments will be enhanced so as to further improve the friendly cooperative relations between them. Qiao also briefed the guests on the just-concluded second session of the Eighth NPC and the situation of China's economic development. The NPC chairman noted that due to the implementation of reforms and the opening up policy, China's economy has been developing quickly. China is establishing the socialist market economy system, said Qiao, presenting the NPC with a heavy legislative workload, but the Eighth NPC will, in its term, make efforts to form the framework of a legislative system for the socialist market economy. Houngbedji said that he and his party are here to learn and draw from China's experience. Both Benin and China are peace-loving countries, he added; therefore, the friendly cooperative relations between them will be further strengthened. Houngbedji expressed his belief that China will play a still greater role in safeguarding peace in Asia and in the world as well. Vice-Chairman of the NPC Standing Committee Cheng Siyuan and Zhu Liang, chairman of the NPC Foreign Affairs Committee, took part in the meeting. Following the meeting, Qiao hosted a dinner for Houngbedji and his party. This afternoon, Zhu Liang and Houngbedji held working talks.
