FBIS4-56532 "drlat087_j_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-087 Daily Report 3 May 1994 Panama Gunman at Perez Balladares Event Remains in Custody Gunman at Perez Balladares Event Remains in Custody PA0405215894 Panama City Telemetro Television Network in Spanish 1730 GMT 3 May 94 PA0405215894 Panama City Telemetro Television Network Spanish BFN [From the "Telemetro Reports" newscast] [Text] A discharge will be requested for the National Maritime Service [SMN] policeman who was arrested for carrying a weapon and pulling it out of its holster during the United People [UP] alliance's musical event. Corporal Juan Bautista Zapata of the SMN is being held at the Homicide Division of the Judicial Technical Police [PTJ] and will be handed over to the Electoral Court. The authorities are trying to determine Zapata's criminal accountability. He was arrested by police after he pulled out a gun during a UP musical event as UP presidential candidate Ernesto Perez Balladares was stepping down from a dais. Zapata said he drew his gun because he thought he was going to be attacked. To the police, this is a violation of the law. [Begin PTJ Director Oswaldo Fernandez recording] The mere fact that he was attending a political event not in uniform constitutes a serious charge under our disciplinary regulations, but it will be up to his superiors to make any final decision. [end recording] According to Major Santiago Fundora, director general of the National Air Service, Zapata not only faces a criminal investigation, but disciplinary sanctions as well. [Begin Fundora recording] We are prohibited from attending political meetings and caravans. Therefore, regardless of whether his situation is clarified, he will be sanctioned with dismissal. He will be sanctioned with dismissal, because we cannot permit uniformed members to take part in one or another manner in political activities. [end recording] UP presidential candidate Ernesto Perez Balladares canceled a series of electoral campaign activities scheduled for today as a security precaution in light of the incident that occurred yesterday on Balboa Avenue during the PRD [Democratic Revolutionary Party] youth festival, when the SMN member was arrested with a gun. The PRD, whose presidential candidate is Perez Balladares, will close its electoral campaign tomorrow with an event at the 5 May Plaza.
