FBIS3-436 "drafr045_a_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 March 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Chad Talks With Libya on Aozou Strip Postponed AB0703145594 Libreville Africa No. 1 in French 1215 GMT 7 Mar 94 AB0703145594 Libreville Africa No. 1 Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] Chad and Libya are still seeking to reach an agreement on Libya's withdrawal from the Aozou Strip. Delegates of the two countries have been meeting in Ndjamena since 4 March without reaching an agreement. The Libyan delegation is even asking for the postponement of the meeting. Lucien Mpoungui reports: [Begin Mpoungui recording] During the discussions, the Chadian delegation proposed the examination and drawing up of an agreement on a timetable for the withdrawal of the Libyan Administration and Army from the Aozou Strip following the recent verdict of the International Court of Justice of The Hague, which asserts that the more than 14,000 square km of territory belongs to Chad. In fact, the Libyans are calling for the postponement of the deliberations because they consider that before examining the withdrawal issue, the implementation of the framework agreement signed in Algiers in 1991 must be completed. In the said agreement, the two parties essentially undertook to respect the verdict of the international court of justice. Libya is reportedly demanding, in exchange for the return of the Aozou Strip to Chad, the repatriation of 500 Libyan prisoners in the United States. The Chadian delegation has said that the decision of the UN court is binding on the two parties and that its implementation cannot be subject to any precondition. Thus, despite long discussions the delegations stuck to their positions, whereas in the wake of the announcement of the Hague court, Colonel al- Qadhdhafi said the Chad-Libya dispute had come to an end. According to last minute reports, the Ndjamena talks on the Aozou Strip have been postponed and no date has been announced for their possible resumption. [end recording]
