FBIS3-24570 "jpust007___94020" JPRS-UST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 22 March 1994 ELECTRONICS Polarization Characteristics of Radiothermal Emission of Earth's Covers at Millimeter Wavelengths 947K0048B Moscow RADIOTEKHNIKA I ELEKTRONIKA in Russian Vol. 38 No. 11, Nov 93 pp 2032-2038 947K0048B Moscow RADIOTEKHNIKA I ELEKTRONIKA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by L.F. Chernaya, A.Yu. Zrazhevskiy; UDC 621.371.029.65] [Abstract] The importance of understanding the radiothermal radiation characteristics of the earth's covers in the millimeter wavelength band (EHF) in a number of applied tasks of natural resource management and remote sensing by radiophysical methods prompted a study of the quantitative effect of the surface irregularities, dielectric constant, and atmospheric conditions on the polarization characteristics of radiothermal radiation of the earth's covers without vegetation. To this end, an analytical procedure is developed, and the effective temperatures of exposed soils are calculated for horizontal and vertical polarization as a function of the wavelength, relative bulk moisture content, and averaged geometrical parameters of these underlying surface irregularities for the pure atmosphere and planostratus clouds. The effect of bulk scattering in the EHF band is ignored, and uniform, generally flat, horizontal surface segments covered by chaotic irregularities whose dielectric constant does not depend on the coordinates are considered assuming that the size of the segment forming the emitted field greatly exceeds the correlation radius of the irregularity height while the radiating atmosphere is a uniform horizontal formation. The dependence of the effective soil temperature on the zenith angle and relative bulk moisture content and the dependence of the sandy soil's polarization invariant on the zenith angle are plotted. The findings make it possible to determine the relative effect of various factors on each cover's effective temperature for orthogonal polarization and measure the soils' range of radiance temperatures at various external conditions at 1.4-1.8 mm wavelengths. It is noted that in determining the thermodynamic surface temperature from the measured effective temperature by the above method for orthogonal polarization, the surface roughness parameters and atmospheric conditions must be taken into account; otherwise, an error on the order of 10% may be expected within a 2.2-8.6 mm band which corresponds to a 30K error. Figures 5; tables 1; references 7: 6 Russian, 1 Western.
