FBIS3-11888 "drlat059__a94009" FBIS-LAT-93-059-A Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 ANNEX Brazil Franco Refuses To Pay `Illegal' Wage Increase PY2103150494 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 20 Mar 94 p 3--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY2103150494 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Marcia Carmo] [Text] Brasilia -- Determined to ensure that the rules of the economic stabilization plan are respected, President Itamar Franco yesterday warned that he will not authorize the release of funds to "pay illegal salary increases" for the judicial and legislative branches. In an exclusive interview with JORNAL DO BRASIL, Itamar recognized that the salary dispute among the three branches marks the "most worrisome crisis" of his administration, clearly establishing that there is confrontation among the executive, legislative, and judicial branches -- the latter two having approved wage increases that contradict that established by Provisional Measure 434 which created the URV [Real Value Unit]. "The Chamber of Deputies decision to reject the veto was extremely stupid and greatly insensitive," President Itamar said. "The judicial branch decision was illegal because it goes against the Provisional Measure [PM]." The president said this the day after presiding over a tense cabinet meeting, which lasted three and a half hours at Planalto Palace. It was attended by 14 ministers, including the military ministers. "The balance among the three branches has been harmed," the president said, recalling the harsh official note he released after the meeting. "The current concern is not over the military, but over the country," the president said, in an almost hoarse tone which is a reminder of his recent flu. President Itamar says the people cannot once again lose the chance of defeating inflation due to isolated decisions like that of the judicial branch, which would affect the government budget and the executive branch's determination to implement the salary equity law among the three government branches. This is why the president confessed to some friends that this is a serious institutional crisis. The president will fight to the bitter end with the judicial and legislative branches -- which still requires the Senate to approve or reject the presidential veto on the wage increase for deputies and senators. That is why yesterday morning he announced that he will not release funds for such increases. A Government House adviser recalled that Itamar has received letters suggesting authoritarian measures and the bringing forward of elections. The Federal Supreme Court [STF] decided to convert the judicial branch salaries into URV's based on the values valid on the 20th of the previous three months instead of on the last day. The Federal Administration Secretariat has announced that this calculation increases the value of their salaries by 10.9 percent. The executive branch considers this conversion illegal since PM No. 434 clearly establishes that the conversion of public employees' salaries must be made based on the URV of the 30th of each month. For this reason, President Itamar considers the STF administrative decision illegal. The STF says Article No. 186 of the Constitution establishes that budget allocations for the executive and legislative branches must be made on the 20th of each month. The issue, according to the president, is that salaries are not paid on the 20th.
