FBIS3-12763 "drnes043_p_94003" FBIS-NES-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 SOUTH ASIA Afghanistan Roundtable on Peace Proposals Held in Kabul LD0303211394 Kabul Radio Afghanistan Network in Pashto 1530 GMT 3 Mar 94 LD0303211394 Kabul Radio Afghanistan Network Language: Pashto Article Type:BFN [Text] At the initiative of the special peace commission of the cabinet of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, a roundtable was convened this afternoon. According to a radio and television correspondent's report, the roundtable for discussion and exchange of views on different peace proposals began with the recitation of some Koranic verses by Mawlawi Seyyed Ahmad Hashemi, president of the Peace and Islamic Fraternity Council. An opening speech was then delivered by esteemed Seyyed Mohammed 'Ali Javid, minister of planning and president of the cabinet's peace commission. In addition to the personalities and representatives of various jihadi organizations, the roundtable participants included Lieutenant General Mir Anjamoddin, commander of air and air defense forces; and esteemed Abdol Fatah Nazir, president of the Servants of Peace Association. During the roundtable, different participants discussed various peace proposals and assessed suggested proposals. The following declaration was presented: 1. Islamic activities that are conducted by various peace groups are necessary and should be intensified. 2. It is necessary for suggested proposals to be realized in order to establish a unity of views and actions among peace groups. 3. It is necessary for a delegation to be elected from the society of the Islamic groups and for them to start work after a quorum is formed in order to implement and coordinate the suggested proposals. 4. It is necessary for the effectiveness of peace proposals that a joint association be established from representative delegations of various Islamic teams and for their work programs to be revived. 5. All social and jihadi forces of Afghanistan are asked to support good and sensible proposals.
