FBIS3-53597 "drnes011_m_94010" FBIS-NES-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 JORDAN U.S. Commerce Secretary, Delegation Pay Visit Secretary Brown's Tour Viewed JN1801140794 Amman AL-DUSTUR in Arabic 18 Jan 94 pp 1, 22 JN1801140794 Amman AL-DUSTUR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Trade, Peace, and al-'Aqabah Siege"] [Text] During his meeting with the visiting U.S. commerce secretary, His Highness Prince Hasan the regent stressed that trade, whether on the bilateral level or on the level of the region as a whole, must be based on the human needs. This requires that the world trade system have fair and humanitarian criteria to guarantee the right of both states and individuals. The tour by the U.S. commerce secretary to a number of states in the region provides evidence of the joint desire to achieve the expected results concerning the forms of regional trade, especially since this tour coincided with important meetings in Geneva and came on the eve of another very important meeting, expected to be held in Washington in the next few days between His Majesty King Husayn and U.S. President Bill Clinton. The visit by the U.S. commerce secretary has raised many concerns, not only about the future of the regional trade links in the age of the desired peace, but also about the current situation in Jordan's only seaport. The partial siege imposed by the U.S. Navy on al-'Aqabah still stands, making our country suffer losses which it cannot put up with forever. The U.S. secretary did well when he showed an understanding of the Jordanian viewpoint about the losses resulting from the continued sea siege of al-'Aqabah. It is, however, regrettable to say that the U.S. commerce secretary is not the first U.S. official to show such an understanding and to promise, like the visiting secretary has done, to discuss this issue with the competent U.S. authorities to ease these unjustified measures, which have remained unchanged. In the light of all this, we hope the new promise made by the U.S. secretary will mark the end of a series of promises which do not have any real weight now that the siege on al-'Aqabah has been going on for more than three years. During this time the Jordanian national economy has suffered additional losses which have exacerbated the economic difficulties Jordan has been facing since the second Gulf war.
