FBIS4-54666 "dreeu086_k_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-086 Daily Report 3 May 1994 CROATIA Valentic Meets With Bukvic Valentic Meets With Bukvic LD0305194994 Zagreb HTV Television in Serbo-Croatian 1730 GMT 3 May 94 LD0305194994 Zagreb HTV Television Serbo-Croatian BFN [Text] Nikica Valentic, the prime minister of the Croatian Government, had talks with Edib Bukvic, deputy prime minister of the Bosnia-Herzegovina Government. Following their talks behind closed doors they talked to our reporter Maja Sever. [Begin recording] [Sever] Mr Bukvic, I ask for a brief statement for Croatian TV. What is the reason behind your visit and the issues raised at your meeting? [Bukvic] Well, the reason is clearly the implementation of the agreement on the federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina and the resolving of the problems accumulated in the period of blockade between the two republics -- the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. Mr Valentic and I discussed how to solve some economic problems regarding ownership rights, communications, traffic, deposits, visas etc. I believe we are on the right path to solve these problems and there is a high degree of desire to solve the problems to mutual satisfaction. [Sever] Mr Valentic, has any agreement been reached? [Valentic] Mr Bukvic said we are dealing with the implementation of the economic aspect of the Washington agreement. Normalization has already started. It is of particular importance to have roads opened and to restart the flow of goods and people. I believe, in this respect, we have already taken the first steps. It is a very important fact that we have agreed that we are going to speed up the work of the mixed economic commission, comprising representatives of Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Iran -- something that was agreed in Teheran. Hence, firms from Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina will be able to jointly approach third countries, particularly Islamic countries where large-scale investment projects are about to take place. Here we see a great chance for our firms, something that will, on the one hand, consolidate our relations and, on the other, consolidate the standing of both Croatian and Bosnia- Herzegovina firms. [end recording]
