FBIS3-48792 "dreas019__a94008" FBIS-EAS-94-019-A Document Type:Daily Report 28 January 1994 ANNEX Japan New Emergency Rice Storage System Planned OW2201141194 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN in Japanese 21 Jan 94 Morning Edition p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2201141194 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] Following the decision to accept partial liberalization of the Japanese rice market from 1995, the Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Ministry [AFFM] firmed up its plan on 20 January to create a new emergency storage system, designed to adjust supply and demand of rice over several years. Unlike the current method, which includes rice in stock at the end of the rice crop year in the supply plan of the following year, the new system aims to flexibly adjust supply and demand, and to deal with future rice shortages. Adjustment will be made by combining foreign rice, which will be imported through partial liberalization, and domestic rice. It seems that about 1.5 million tons of rice will be stored for sudden needs. Decisions regarding the volume of rice in stock for emergency needs, the method of operation, and other matters will be made around this fall after discussions at an agricultural and administrative council meeting, which will start as early as the end of this month. Currently, the AFFM is adjusting supply and demand of rice through measures for reducing acreage of rice paddies. This is a "method for maintaining the balance between demand and supply for a single fiscal year." The ministry has been trying to maintain about one million tons of rice in stock in preparation for bad harvests. However, the limited effect of this system was revealed when Japan had its record-breaking bad crop last year. On the other hand, some people are worried that Japan will have an excessive amount of rice because a certain volume of rice will be imported for six years following the decision made at last year's new multilateral trade negotiations (Uruguay Round) to accept minimum access. Outlines of the AFFM's plan are: 1) to store a certain amount of rice for emergency needs by combining imported rice and domestic rice; 2) to store rice over several years regardless of changes in volume of rice in storage for emergency needs; and 3) to use rice for foreign aid and for processing should the volume of rice in storage exceed a certain level.
