FBIS4-35307 "drnes104_j_94036" FBIS-NES-94-104 Daily Report 30 May 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Meeting To Support War Effort Nets 63 Million Riyals Meeting To Support War Effort Nets 63 Million Riyals JN3005184894 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1700 GMT 30 May 94 JN3005184894 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Excerpts] Shaykh 'Abd-al-Majid al-Zandani, Presidential Council member and chairman of the Higher Committee for Receiving Donations, has attended a meeting at the Chamber of Industry and Commerce in Sanaa. The meeting was attended by members of the committee and a host of major businessmen and heads of public, mixed and private commercial and industrial institutions. The meeting was aimed at discussing the issue of supporting the war effort and organizing the process of receiving donations and public support for the effort to defend unity and constitutional legitimacy and to ease the damages resulting from the battles being waged by the forces defending constitutional legitimacy, unity, and democracy. Speaking at the meeting, Shaykh 'Abd-al-Majid al-Zandani explained that the battle being waged by the Armed Forces--the forces defending legitimacy and unity against the forces that are misled by the gang of apostasy and secession under war criminal 'Ali Salim al-Bid--is a battle that emphasizes adherence to Yemeni unity and rejection of partition. [passage omitted] Addressing attendees, Shaykh 'Abd-al-Majid al-Zandani said: This meeting is the first step toward public participation and beginning of supporting the war effort. He added: Today, you will set a good example for the people, who know how able you are. If they see that you have made substantial donations, they will undoubtedly follow your example and offer whatever they can. Shaykh 'Abd-al-Majid al-Zandani stressed that the committee is determined to reach every Yemeni in every governorate, district, subdistrict, and village to tell them: The door for donations is open. Donate whatever you can for the unity of your country. Al-Zandani indicated that the committee will control methods for disbursing collected donations. It will also work to spend donations appropriately. Civilian and military war casualties will be supported. Families of martyrs will be helped. Those who suffered losses will be compensated so as to stress the principle of joint liability. He indicated that there will be women's committees to collect donations from women. [passage omitted] The Yemeni News Agency, SABA', has learned that the donations declared at the meeting amounted to 63.325 million riyals. [passage omitted]
