FBIS3-37354 "drsov032_h_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 Moldova Speaker Says Parliament Must Solve Separatism Problem LD1602155394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1224 GMT 16 Feb 94 LD1602155394 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Fyodor Angeliy] [Text] Chisinau February 16 TASS -- The future Moldovan parliament, which will be elected on February 27, should begin its work by solving the Dniester and Gagauz problems, should seek ways to surmount the country's deep crisis by political methods alone, taking into account the interests of all the sides involved and making concessions to each other for the sake of Moldova's integrity and independence," speaker of the Moldovan parliament Petr Luchinsky told TASS. Luchinsky is taking part in the election race as candidate from the Agrarian-Democratic Party of Moldova. "The people of Moldova," he noted, "had to pay a high price for the adventurism and incompetence of politicians of the national- patriotic hue, who landed in the republic's governing structures by sheer chance. Blood was spilled. It will take not only the present generation, but many generations to come to disentangle this tangle. This is why the problem of the Dniester area and the southern part of the country should be regarded as the two most important issues," the speaker believes. In his opinion, there are ways to solve the Dniester problem. One of them presupposes a gradual elimination of crisis phenomena within the bounds of an integral Moldovan state. "The Chisinau authorities should offer the Tiraspol leaders to restore a single budget and thereby lay the foundation for an early stabilisation of industrial production. A law should be drawn up at the same time guaranteeing a special legal status to the left-bank areas of Moldova, Luchinsky stated. He favours the eventual transfer of many governing functions to the regional authorities, which will placate the people. The speaker of the Moldovan parliament noted that initially the Tiraspol leaders seemed to accept this idea. "But somewhat later their unwillingness to bring this seemingly found solution of the Dniester conflict to a logical end became apparent again. Ambitiousness, typical for them, and unwillingness to cooperate in the spirit of consensus, has obviously taken the upper hand and they are going out of their way to secure the republic's final dismemberment," he stated.
