FBIS4-65791 "drweu100_n_94010" FBIS-WEU-94-100 Daily Report 21 May 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Sweden Court on Oresund Link Environmental Impact Court on Oresund Link Environmental Impact PM2305113094 Stockholm SVENSKA DAGBLADET in Swedish 21 May 94 p 9 PM2305113094 Stockholm SVENSKA DAGBLADET Swedish BFN [Hans Strandberg report: "Bridge Consortium Meets With a Rebuff"] [Excerpt] The Water Rights Court does not consider that the bridge consortium has demonstrated that the link across the Oresund does meet the criteria for a so-called zero solution with regard to the flow of water into the Baltic Sea, but asserts nevertheless that such a zero solution is achievable. The court's pronouncement yesterday -- its second on the Oresund link -- will delay construction, perhaps until after the election, and is open to differing interpretations -- as was rapidly demonstrated. First provincial governor Ann-Cathrine Haglund: "The important thing is that the Water Rights Court has said that a zero solution is technically possible." Then Berith Cavallin of the Skane Nature Protection League: "I think that this is a clear message to the government that it is time to say `no' to the Oresund bridge." The court has remained firm on its demand for an absolute, mathematical zero solution -- that is, that the bridge should in no way reduce the inflow of oxygen and salt into the Baltic Sea, in order not to disturb the ecology of the Baltic Sea. Thinking hitherto has been that building the bridge itself will slow down water through flow by 0.5 percent, and that the channel should then be dredged to reduce this figure to zero. The Water Rights Court is now saying that the bridge consortium has not produced figures that demonstrate that the present configuration of the link achieves this figure of 0.5 percent. This means that there is a risk, the court claims, that the bridge consortium will not achieve the zero solution or the demand for a maximum of 7 million cubic meters of dredged material. But even if this is the case, the court is nevertheless saying "yes" in principle and is proposing, for example, that the water inflow on the Danish side be increased by shortening one of the artificial islands south of Saltholm by 900 meters. Nature does not always behave as in theory and this is why it is impossible to check whether a zero solution really has been achieved until the bridge is built. The Water Rights Court is therefore repeating its demand that two independent research institutes should undertake detailed simulations of water and salt flow. [passage omitted]
