FBIS4-227 "drafr066bb_94002" FBIS-AFR-94-066 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 INTER-AFRICAN AFFAIRS Seventh Pan-African Congress Opens in Kampala Seventh Pan-African Congress Opens in Kampala Sudanese Delegation Disrupts Session AB0504223294 Paris AFP in English 2022 GMT 5 Apr 94 AB0504223294 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Kampala, April 5 (AFP) -- Tempers flared here on Tuesday [5 April] between northern and southern Sudanese delegations during a debate on the situation in Sudan at the six-day seventh Pan-African Congress. Tempers soared after Sudanese delegate Abu Zaidi, who introduced himself as representative of the Sudanese non-governmental Friendship Council for Sudan, accused the rebel Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) of betraying the cause of pan-Africanism by accepting sponsorship from "imperialists". Some 30 SPLA delegates shot to their feet and complained to the congress chairman Colonel Kahinda Otafire that Zaidi, whom they accused of being "a planted agent of the Sudanese government", was insulting their organisation. But Otafire, director of Uganda's External Security Organisation, instead called in the police to remove the protesting SPLA men from the congress floor, a decision that enraged them and their supporters from other countries, particularly the Caribbean. The SPLA group immediately embarked on a protest within the hall, pulling out placards, one of which read: "We demand an independent state of Southern Sudan". The protest, which lasted 30 minutes, brought the congress to a standstill, until some delegates persuaded the SPLA group to sit down to allow business to resume. In his address to the congress the previous night, SPLA leader John Garang blamed the Sudanese problem on the domination of the mainly Christian and animist south by the Islamic, Arabised north. Garang stressed that the proposal by the Sudanese government that southerners would be exempted from the Sharia law "was unacceptable, as it reduced non-Moslems to second class citizens". "We propose a confederal Sudan as a temporary measure to end the war, but the talk that they will crush the SPLA cannot work. I assure you fellow pan-Africanists that we will not be crushed, we are there to stay", Garang declared.
