FBIS4-42082 "drweu104_h_94022" FBIS-WEU-94-104 Daily Report 30 May 1994 GERMANY Kinkel Warns of Wasting Technological Opportunity Kinkel Warns of Wasting Technological Opportunity AU3005171594 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU in German 30 May 94 p 4 AU3005171594 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU German BFN [Jutta Roitsch report: "FDP Warns of `Descent to Third Class'"] [Text] Frankfurt, 29 May -- "Germany is in danger of sleeping through its future," said FDP [Free Democratic Party] Chairman Klaus Kinkel on Saturday [28 May] at the opening of his party's Research and Technological Congress in Frankfurt. "We are faced with a descent to third class in the industrial fields of communications, biological science, and environmental science, with which we are going to have to earn our keep in the future," he said. Backed by Education Minister Karl-Hans Laermann and Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt, Kinkel promised that the FDP would gear itself to the "elites," for which he earned a round of applause from the 200 or so representatives of science and industry attending the opening. Kinkel said that the term "elites" still possesses a negative meaning in Germany. "He who offers excellent services in his work, and thus lays the basis for future prosperity, has no political lobby. Once again we need a standard of education that produces elites, and a society that respects these elites," he said. At this congress, not a single FDP politician referred to the "civic right to education" that liberal politicians like Ralf Dahrendorf and Hildegard Hamm-Bruecher had once referred to. According to Kinkel, the task of a liberal party is to "courageously and firmly alter the philosophy of ownership." "We need a modernization of the way of thinking, particularly among our elites," said Kinkel. This view was seconded by Tyll Necker, chairman of the Association of German Industry; Andre Leysen, chairman of the executive board of the Belgian Agfa; and Hans-Joachim Langmann, chairman of Merck. All three called for a "spiritual flexibility" (Leysen) and an "ability to adapt" (Langmann) in order to combat lethargy. One cannot attain first place without a readiness to take risks and introduce changes, it was said. Hartmut Michel of the Max Planck Institute of Biophysics in Frankfurt said that the mistrust of new technology must be combated at kindergarten stage by means of interesting picture books on the subject of science. The political conclusions stemming from this were: "Even more competition and a deregulation of the telecommunications sphere" and tax concessions for scientific research (Kinkel and Necker), a "technological council," to increase the receptiveness of new technologies (Necker), and a curb on parental desires and a greater influence of teachers on children's upbringing (Lermann), in order to make access to high schools and colleges more tough.
