FBIS3-49545 "dreeu008_c_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Baudys `Concerned' About Russian Military Plans AU1101194994 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES in Czech 7 Jan 94 pp 1-2 AU1101194994 Prague MLADA FRONTA DNES Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Article by (km): "Minister Baudys Is Concerned About the Russian Military Doctrine"] [Excerpt] Prague--Defense Minister Antonin Baudys yesterday expressed concern about the possible consequences of the Russian Federation's military doctrine, which, in the event of a threat to the country's security interests, allows for the possibility--maybe--of deploying Russian troops outside the territory of the Commonwealth of Independent States. "Some of the passages in this military doctrine, which refer to strategic territories and to the possibility of deploying Russian troops outside the Russian Federation and perhaps even the CIS states, cause me considerable concern, because these are not pronouncements made by Mr. Zhirinovskiy, who changes his views very rapidly, but are contained in the state military doctrine," declared Baudys. In reply to a question on whether Russia is continuing to take the Czech Republic's territory into consideration in the interests of its security, Minister Baudys said: "I do not know, but the formulation of this issue in the doctrine disturbs me." Minister Baudys considers the stance adopted by Russian President Boris Yeltsin on the possible expansion of NATO to include certain East European states to be schizophrenic. "On the one hand, President Yeltsin is saying that he does not want Russia to be outmaneuvered and not taken into consideration in the expansion processes, while, on the other hand, he is afraid of NATO's expansion. This is a schizophrenic situation, and I simply do not understand it," said Baudys. The statement made by the Russian president on Wednesday [5 January], in which he again emphatically rejected the attempts to expand the North Atlantic Alliance, has, according to Baudys, two aspects. "Boris Yeltsin says that the countries of Central and East Europe must make their own decisions regarding their possible incorporation into NATO. The other face of President Yeltsin says, however, that it is necessary to respect certain of Russia's strategic interests. This other face rather disturbs me," he said. [passage omitted]
