FBIS4-65356 "drweu095_i_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-095 Daily Report 15 May 1994 FRANCE `Official' Source: No `Secret Deals' With Iraq `Official' Source: No `Secret Deals' With Iraq PM1605144694 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 15 May 94 p 3 PM1605144694 London AL-HAYAH Arabic BFN [Report by Randah Taqiyy-al-Din: "French Source Tells AL-HAYAH: No Secret Deals With Iraq; Rather, Disagreement With Washington Over Lifting of Embargo"] [Text] Paris -- An official French source confirmed to AL-HAYAH yesterday the existence of differing positions between Paris and Washington vis-a-vis the international embargo imposed on Iraq. The source said that Paris is not concluding secret deals with that country. The source pointed out that the United States refuses to lift the embargo as long as the Iraqi regime under President Saddam Husayn is in power, while France believes that lifting the embargo is linked to Iraq's implementation of the Security Council resolutions. The source added that Foreign Minister Alain Juppe clarified his country's position to his U.S. counterpart Warren Christopher during his visit to Washington. The source pointed out that the United States suspected France's political intentions, and thought that Paris was trying to make contacts with Iraqi officials. The source added that the French Government is not concluding any secret deals with Iraq. But it insists that lifting the international embargo is linked to Iraq's implementation of the Security Council resolutions. And it believes that Iraq has not yet implemented all these resolutions, including recognizing Kuwait's sovereignty. The source went on to say that there is clear progress with regard to implementing the other resolutions adopted by the council. And if Iraq implements all the resolutions required, France will ask the Council members to reconsider the embargo and to begin to engage Iraq in a six-month trial period after which the embargo would be lifted. The French source pointed out that the United States continues to reject a trial period.
