FBIS4-49236 "drchi086_w_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-086 Daily Report 4 May 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Reportage on Working Committee Leader's Visit Reportage on Working Committee Leader's Visit To Meet New Territories Representatives HK0405064394 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS in English 4 May 94 p 2 HK0405064394 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS English BFN [By Wing Kay Po] [Text] Lu Ping, China's top official for Hong Kong, will meet Heung Yee Kuk representatives tomorrow to discuss the New Territories inheritance row. Lu, the director of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, will discuss how to introduce Basic Law provisions which stipulate protection of the rights and customs of indigenous residents in the New Territories, according to sources. His meeting will be seen as a gesture of support for the indigenous residents locked in a bitter row with the Government over a proposal by a legislator, Christine Loh, to give New Territories women inheritance rights. It is understood that Lu will discuss internal matters of the Kuk, the Government's rural advisory body on New Territories' affairs. Lu, who last year told members of the Federation of Women he supported equal inheritance rights for indigenous women, has recently publicly condemned government plans to support Loh's amendment. Lu has threatened the New Territories (Land) (Exemption) Bill would be scrapped in 1997. Yesterday, the vice-chairman of the Kuk, Daniel Lam, said he had not yet received confirmation of the meeting. Lam said it would be good for the Kuk to have the opportunity to meet Lu to put the views of indigenous people. He said if they were to meet Lu, he would want to talk about the land exemption bill and the impact of the adoption of the United Nations' anti sex-discrimination convention, Cedaw, on the indigenous community. The Government is now finalising recommendations to the Executive Council on the extension of Cedaw to Hong Kong, which are set to affect discriminatory practices against New Territories women. A formal announcement is expected to be made this month. Women's rights campaigners will stage an anti- feudalism rally outside the Kuk offices today to protest against objections to grant rural women equal rights of inheritance. The protest outside the Kuk headquarters in Kowloon Tong will be linked to the May 4 movement in China where tens of thousands of students marched in Beijing on May 4, 1919 to oppose oppressive feudal traditions. Lam said he welcomed the opportunity to exchange views with the women's groups and said the Kuk supported sexual equality, but said it should not be rolled into the inheritance debate.
