FBIS4-30767 "dreeu104_k_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-104 Daily Report 27 May 1994 CROATIA Opposition Threatens Early Elections Opposition Threatens Early Elections LD2705144694 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 1300 GMT 27 May 94 LD2705144694 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Excerpt] At a news conference today, the parliamentary opposition presented its plans for the negotiations to be resumed with the ruling HDZ [Croatian Democratic Union] on 31 May. Jasenka Dudic has the report. [Dudic] We insist on the legality, democracy, and respect of the agreement, and the opposition will not back down on this because it believes that the legislative authorities must be an example in honoring those principles. However, the opposition is ready to make concessions, but it also has its own conditions. Drazen Budisa [chairman of the main opposition party, Croatian Social Liberal Party] had the following to say: [Begin Budisa recording] We are ready to repeat the procedure in the Chamber of Counties from the point at which it was suspended. We are prepared to be flexible concerning appointments, but the repetition of the procedure in the Chamber of Counties would, of course, demand that everything revert to the initial situation in the Chamber of Deputies. The positive fact, which in a way indicates the HDZ's flexibility, is that they are also ready to pass a confidence vote in Mr. Mihanovic [new president of the Chamber of Deputies] in the Chamber of Deputies. [end recording] [Dudic] The opposition believes that the HDZ will show flexibility in the future too, and that a solution will be found. Failing this, the opposition will resign from all its parliamentary posts. If the crisis continues, the opposition believes that early elections are becoming increasingly possible. The opposition stresses that, although it is ready, early elections are not its aim. It wants to solve the parliamentary crisis in line with the Constitution, the code of practice, and the agreement. [passage omitted]
