FBIS4-50669 "drchi098_h_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-098 Daily Report 20 May 1994 West Europe Li Ruihuan Continues Visit to European Countries Li Ruihuan Continues Visit to European Countries Meets With Belgian Premier Dehaene OW2005040894 Beijing XINHUA in English 0302 GMT 20 May 94 OW2005040894 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Brussels, May 19 (XINHUA) -- China hopes to develop long-term and stable cooperative relations with other countries and learn from their strong points, a senior Chinese official said here today. Li Ruihuan, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, said this while meeting with Belgian Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene here. The two leaders praised the successful cooperation between China and Belgium in economy and trade and hoped for a long-term and stable development of their friendly ties. Li said that his Europe tour sought to learn from other states their experiences which will benefit China. China's cooperation with the outside world would promote both its own modernization and global peace and development as well, he added. He said China was far behind the Western countries in economy and science as it had to spend time and energy over the past century winning national liberation from the imperialist aggression. Starting to open itself to the world and the international market in the 1980s, he said, China had been drawing on the experiences of other countries, accelerating its development and contributing to the international community. The Belgian prime minister, meanwhile, hailed the friendship between the two countries, noting that the exchange of high-level visits had increased in recent years and Belgium had made more and more investment in China. He predicted that China's rapid economic growth would have a significant influence upon Asia. Dehaene added that his country pays great attention to and appreciates China's constructive role in the United Nations Security Council. He also expressed confidence that Li's visit would promote Sino- Belgian ties in the political and economic fields. The Chinese official arrived here Tuesday [17 May] for a five- day visit to Belgium, the last leg of his five-European-nation tour.
