FBIS4-33425 "drlat109__a94017" FBIS-LAT-94-109-A Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 ANNEX Cuba Torricelli Visit to Managua Decried Torricelli Visit to Managua Decried PA0306233394 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 1837 GMT 3 June 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA0306233394 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [PRENSA LATINA headline: "Congressman Torricelli Continues Meddling Tour"] [Text] Managua, 3 Jun (PL) -- U.S. Congressman Robert Torricelli today reiterated to the Nicaraguan Government a threat about retaining aid promised by Washington if the decision to return confiscated property to U.S. citizens is delayed. Torricelli arrived in Managua yesterday in the company of Republican Party Representative Cass Ballenger "to review compliance with U.S. laws on the return of confiscated property to North Americans anywhere in the world." After inspiring repudiation during his recent stay in Mexico, where he was criticized because of his alleged desire to meddle in local politics, Torricelli now wants to "pressure the Violeta [Chamorro] Barrios government," according to a Nicaraguan media expression. According to this Democratic congressman, who promotes the amendment that has hardened the economic blockade the United States has maintained against Cuba for more than three decades, the report to be prepared on his meetings will be evaluated by the U.S. Congress in Washington to decide whether or not financial assistance to Nicaragua should be frozen in 1995. The Chamorro government is in favor of either returning confiscated property or indemnifying those people who were U.S. citizens at the moment of the confiscation and in dealing with the cases of people who acquired U.S. citizenship after the confiscations, the way cases involving Nicaraguan citizens are treated. Washington's ambassador to Managua, John Maisto, has reported that the Helms-Gonzalez Amendment does not envisage exclusions among U.S. citizens based on nationalization dates. This point would considerably expand the number of people seeking compensation, because, while the Nicaraguan Government acknowledges that there are more than 20 unresolved confiscation cases involving U.S. citizens, the new confiscation lists involve hundreds.
