FBIS3-49419 "dreeu007_b_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 BULGARIA Reaction to Brussels Summit Reported Relegation to `Third Echelon' Alleged AU1101120094 Sofia KONTINENT in Bulgarian 8-9 Jan 94 p 6 AU1101120094 Sofia KONTINENT Language: Bulgarian Article Type:BFN [Commentary by Georgi Apostolov: "Bulgaria Relegated to Third Echelon"] [Text] The meeting of the Visegrad Four in Warsaw produced an unexpected but not surprising result -- the Four became a "Three Plus One." The Czech Republic decided to act alone on its admission to NATO after it realized that Moscow would hardly lift its veto over the admission of its close neighbors, such as Poland, to the North Atlantic Organization. It is very possible that Hungary would follow the Czech example. On the other hand, Slovakia, just like Poland, is not one of the favorites, because of its weaker economic development. Against the background of those developments the Czech Republic and Hungary form the first echelon of the candidates, Slovakia and Poland the second, while the other East European countries, outside the Visegrad four, will naturally remain in the third position. The irony of this development is that the new U.S. diplomatic vocabulary appeared to be completely opposite to the reality. Justifying its retreat from the previously expressed readiness to expand NATO toward the East, Washington adopted the "avoiding a new division in Europe" expression. Under this euphemism one understands an unwillingness to admit to NATO the East European states that are close to Russia in order to not isolate Moscow. However, in practice this attitude led toward two new divisions. In addition to the old division into East and Central Europe, now there is a "first central group" -- the Czech Republic and Hungary, and a "second central group" -- Slovakia and Poland. For the time being Bulgaria is in the third echelon. However, while the Bulgarian politicians continue to place their bets on the group principle, which has already failed, possible new divisions are possible, which will push Bulgaria even more toward the back of the line.
