FBIS4-3959 "drchi080_v_94015" FBIS-CHI-94-080 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 TAIWAN Taipei To Ease Car Import Restrictions To Meet GATT Rules Taipei To Ease Car Import Restrictions To Meet GATT Rules OW2304085194 Taipei CNA in English 0741 GMT 23 Apr 94 OW2304085194 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Benjamin Yeh] [Text] Taipei, April 23 (CNA) -- A ranking industrial official said Saturday [26 April] that Taiwan's restrictions on car imports will be significantly eased to meet General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) regulations. "Imports will be allowed from all but a handful of countries," said Yin Chi-ming, director of the Industrial Development Bureau (IDB). Yin's statement marks an about-face in Taiwan's car import policy. Taiwan currently allows the import of automobiles from the United States, Canada and Western European nations, but proposed regulations will open Taiwan's auto market to almost all countries. Yin said that only a few countries, likely Japan, South Korea and other countries which have high import tariffs on automobiles, will be subject to import restrictions in the future. A certain number of imports from those countries may be allowed, Yin said, with the numbers decided upon during bilateral negotiations. Taiwan has already held initial consultations with Australia, Hungary, New Zealand, and South Africa on import tariffs, regional restrictions and local content requirements. During the negotiations, Taiwan requested a five-year grace period for elimination of its local content requirements, which support Taiwan's auto parts industry but violate GATT regulations. GATT contracting parties ranked as developing countries are usually given five years for the adjustment of their car industry. However, Taiwan applied as a developed economy and may be allowed only two years. Ho Mei-yueh, deputy IDB [expansion unknown] director, is leaving for Southeast Asia for similar consultations Saturday. He will meet with officials in Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines. In addition, laws governing industrial development will be reviewed and outdated provisions revised to create a healthy development climate for local industries and help ease the negative impact of GATT entry, yin added. Taiwan applied for membership of the world trade regulatory body in January 1990 and was admitted as an observer in September 1992.
