FBIS4-43980 "drweu121_o_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-121 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 CYPRUS Column Urges Resistance to `Unorthodox' Solutions Column Urges Resistance to `Unorthodox' Solutions NC2306110594 Nicosia O FILELEVTHEROS in Greek 23 Jun 94 p 3 NC2306110594 Nicosia O FILELEVTHEROS Greek BFN [From the "Liberals" column: "Obliged to Say `No'"] [Text] We will doubtless find ourselves in front of painful dilemmas, especially under the weight of great pressure. Events have played a direct role as they have occurred, outlining irreversible and ill-omened developments. These developments are linked with the package of confidence-building measures as far as we know it and are also associated with critical changes. The result is: The already one-sided content of the confidence-building measures package is becoming even worse for our side; it is a starting point for Turkish goals. As a result, it acts against us in a dangerous and catalytic way. Something like this, and especially with our own consent, will accelerate the crisis. Everything that has happened and all the backstage and visible efforts have come together. Things cannot be otherwise, because instead of condemning the Turkish side after blaming it for its intransigence (leading to measures to implement the UN decisions), we finally see "clarifications" adopted to balance the UN document! This was the document they asked us to accept. Indecently, we accepted it. In light of positions that tend toward a new framework that overturns every condition laid down by the Security Council's big powers, our side must search for the most preventive strategy and tactic so that it will not find itself trapped in irreversible processes and frameworks that will lead to recognition [of the north of the island]. No matter how difficult our position and no matter if we are the weak part in an oppressive and bad situation, we are obliged to resist unorthodox solutions, even if they are adopted by the United Nations. We are obliged to do that, even if these attempts are promoted by the centers of power and decision, simply because we have few options. But this does not mean we are abandoning realistic approaches and awareness of the need to compromise. On the contrary, we realize that, which is why our side always stresses that it accepts the 21 March document.
