FBIS3-11687 "drlat057_m_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 Brazil Political, Military Figures Comment on Wage Increase State of Defense Declaration Ruled Out PY2403030794 Madrid EFE in Spanish 2135 GMT 23 Mar 94 PY2403030794 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Brasilia, 23 Mar (EFE) -- Brazilian Congress President Humberto Lucena, a centrist, today ruled out a possible declaration of a state of national defense, restricting constitutional guarantees, over a confrontation pitting the Executive Branch and the Armed Forces against the Legislative Branch and the Federal Supreme Court [STF]. Lucena indicated that the rumors that circulated today in the federal legislative chambers have been prompted "by the creative imagination of pessimists." In his opinion, the institutional crisis must be overcome without altering the independence and harmony among the three branches of government. Official sources reported that at Planalto Palace, the government's seat, Brazilian President Itamar Franco discussed the political situation today with conservative Deputy Inocencio de Oliveira, the Chamber of Deputies president, and the official spokesmen in Congress. Judicial Branch sources said Attorney General Aristides Junqueira has become a mediator between the government and the STF and has studied a formula with Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso to overcome the crisis. Junqueira expressed his disagreement with the fact that a controversy on salaries and salary equity among the three branches of government had jeopardized institutional stability. The STF decided on a 10.9-percent salary increase for court justices and employees with the goal of compensating for possible losses in the conversion of real cruzeiros into the Real Value Unit (URV) system, using dollars and the future Brazilian currency as a reference. Franco and his finance minister denied the increase's payment to the STF because they believe it violates the presidential decree implementing the URV system. In light of the unilateral approval of the increases for the STF and Congress, which today preferred to abolish a similar increase, military leaders have taken the dust off a constitutional provision authorizing the president to declare a state of national defense. According to various newspapers, after implementing this measure, the government and the Armed Forces would move up the congressional elections, scheduled for 3 October, even though Franco would complete his term that ends on 1 January 1995. Franco's strong position toward the STF is supported by the Armed Forces, which often complain about their low salaries, and the public. With the declaration of a state of national defense, the right to assembly, secrecy of the postal service and communications, occupation of public property, and services are restricted and people may be arrested without a court order, even though their arrest must be immediately reported to a judge. Although it goes into effect with the president's signature, a state of defense must be confirmed within a 10-day period by Congress and, if rejected, it expires immediately. If a state of defense is confirmed by Congress, it will be effective for one month and may be extended for another month.
