FBIS4-14850 "drsov065_h_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-065 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 Moldova Delegation Heads Preview Talks on Russian Army Withdrawal Delegation Heads Preview Talks on Russian Army Withdrawal LD0504053794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0522 GMT 5 Apr 94 LD0504053794 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Valeriy Demidetskiy] [Text] Chisinau 5 April, TASS -- A round of talks begins in Chisinau today between Russia and Moldova on the status and withdrawal of the Russian 14th Army from Moldovan Territory. According to observers, this round is unlikely to produce a breakthrough because the sides differ too much on this issue. Chisinau insists on the prompt withdrawal of the Russian troops, while Russia and Transdniestria believe that the withdrawal must be conditioned on granting a special legal status to the left-bank regions of Moldova. The final say should belong to the parties concerned. "The Russian delegation intends to discuss an agreement on the legal status, procedure and the time table of the presence of our troops on Moldovan territory. We have brought along a number of interesting proposals and hope that the Moldovan delegation will heed them," the Russian delegation head, ambassador at large, Vladimir Kitayev told ITAR-TASS. "Chisinau's position with regard to the 14th Army remains the same -- it must leave the Republic," said Moldovan delegation leader, the ambassador of Moldova to Russia, Anatoliy Tsaran. This question will be central in our negotiations. The original deadline named by the Moldovan side for the withdrawal of the Russian Army -- 1 July 1994 -- will certainly need revising since no agreement on it was reached during the preceding rounds. "We also hope to agree on the problems of jurisdiction and property of the Russian Army and Moldova's contribution to the necessary arrangements for its accommodation in the new area", the Moldovan ambassador said. Anatoliy Tsaran expressed the hope that the Transdniestrian position with regard to the withdrawal of the 14th Army will not be as tough as before after the recent parliamentary elections in Moldova. Transdniestria's Vice-President Aleksandr Karaman told ITAR-TASS that Tiraspol objects to the withdrawal of the Russian 14th Army before the Dniester problem is settled. "Chisinau and Tiraspol are now studying the Russian proposals about granting a special legal status to the left-bank regions. We find these proposals highly constructive," Karaman said. "We have long since proposed to Chisinau to make the republic a demilitarised zone and disband military formations on the both banks of the Dnepr. This move would ease the tension in the region and permit the withdrawal of the 14th Army from Moldovan territory without apprehension," he said.
