FBIS4-55008 "dreeu089_i_94019" FBIS-EEU-94-089 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Abdic Views Bosnian Muslim-Croat Federation Abdic Views Bosnian Muslim-Croat Federation 94P20707B Belgrade BORBA in Serbo-Croatian 6 Apr 94 p 14 94P20707B Belgrade BORBA Serbo-Croatian CSO [Editorial Report] Under the title "We Would Join New Federation Only With the Republic of Srpska" the Belgrade daily BORBA publishes in its 6 April issue an interview with Fikret Abdic, leader of the self-proclaimed autonomous region of western Bosnia, conducted by reporter Nena Ivankovic. Asked to give his opinion of the "`new marriage' of the Croats and Muslims in former Bosnia and Herzegovina" and whether the the autonomous region of western Bosnia would join that federation, Abdic states that "every effort leading to the ultimate objective, a lasting peace in Bosnia-Herzegovina, deserves praise. Thus, I praise the recent Washington agreement between the Muslims and the Croats, provided that it is not another Croat-Muslim coalition aimed against the Serbian people." When asked whether the autonomous region of western Bosnia would join the Muslim-Croat federation, Abdic responded: "We'll wait and see the Serbian reaction. If the republic of Srpska joins this federation, which I personally doubt, the autonomous region of western Bosnia would become part of that federation. However, I personally think that the European Union peace plan will be reactivated. Perhaps it will be modified a little, and adapted to the U.S.-Russian plan." In response to Ivankovic's observation that it appears that the "great powers" are recommending the "restoration of some new Yugoslavia," Abdic states "we all must realize one thing: Economic reintegration of the former Yugoslavia must happen. It must, because it is in the interest of all the peoples, not just one. It appears to me that the sides are moving in that direction. To be sure, too much blood has been spilled. It will be hard to restore mutual trust, but I think it will be restored. The Serbian-Croatian agreement on the normalization of relations is the first link in the chain of a return to mutual trust. The restoration of a new Yugoslavia is, therefore, possible, but only in an economic form; politically, it certainly is not."
