FBIS3-31140 "dreeu030__a94001" FBIS-EEU-94-030-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 February 1994 ANNEX Albania Maltese President Arrives on Official Visit Discusses Ties, Bosnia With Berisha AU0802174594 Tirana ATA in English 0919 GMT 7 Feb 94 AU0802174594 Tirana ATA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tirana, February 7 (ATA) -- President of Albania Sali Berisha and President of Malta Censu Tabone held official talks on February 6 in which they expressed the common will to strengthen the friendly relations and to extent the cooperation in the economic field. "The good political relations which exist between our two countries should proceed the cooperation in the other areas," President Berisha said, emphasizing that "Malta is one of the first countries which supported the democratic Albania, and we are thankful of you. But we already have ascended the period of short-term assistance and we would like Maltese business to have its commitment to Albania. We welcome this sort the Maltese investments operating now in Albania, in the Ksamil tourists zone and the oil extracting." President Berisha asked also for Malta assistance in diplomacy, justice and medicine fields. Concerning the situation in the region, Mr. Berisha repeated the Albania approach that "the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina is a consequence of Milosevic intentions to create by force the Greater Serbia. We urge," Berisha said, "that the lifting of embargo from Serbia should be connected with the solution of Kosova question." President Tabone appreciated the actual Albanian leadership work in renewing the old Albanian nation and assured President Berisha that Malta Government is committed to promoting the cooperation between two countries. Mr. Tabone spoke of the interest of the Malta businessmen for Albania. "Albania has the international support and it will receive the same support when Malta will become a full member of the European Union." President Tabone invited President Berisha to pay a visit in return to Malta. President Berisha accepted the invitation with pleasure.
