FBIS4-42094 "drweu104_i_94011" FBIS-WEU-94-104 Daily Report 26 May 1994 FRANCE PRC Delegation Seeks French High-Tech Investment PRC Delegation Seeks French High-Tech Investment BR2705130794 Paris LES ECHOS in French 26 May 94 p 3 BR2705130794 Paris LES ECHOS French BFN [Report signed "M.G.": "In Search of High Technology -- China: Hebei Authorities Courting French Firms"] [Text] A large delegation from Hebei province (the region surrounding Beijing) is currently in France to entice French firms with investment proposals. As an automatic result of improved relations between Beijing and Paris, numerous Chinese delegations are once again finding their way to France. Only a few days after the visit by Beijing's mayor, during which several French groups announced they had achieved their goal, a large delegation from Hebei province has come to court French firms. With its 60 million citizens, the province is to Beijing what the Ile-de-France region is to Paris. Glad to "meet with his old friends again," Hebei Deputy Governor Chen Liyou presented a number of projects during a meeting jointly sponsored by the Paris Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the France-China Committee. The deputy governor explained that the projects pertain to transportation (motorways) and electricity generation (power plants), and also tometallurgical industry, automobile, pharmacy, and mechanical engineering. "We have a few large projects, but also a number of initiatives that may be of interest to small- and medium-sized businesses," the vice governor explained. Like all other Chinese provinces, Hebei has been looking for foreign technology to modernize its industrial fabric. In the last few years, provincial authorities spent $1.2 billion on foreign technology. However, out of this figure, "France's share was a mere $.06 billion," the governor pointed out. "Many French firms come and see us, but we think there are not enough of them," said Chen Liyou, who urged those firms present at the meeting to attend the international investment forum scheduled to take place in Shijiazhuang, the capital, in early September.
