FBIS4-68682 "jpusr053___94030" FBIS-USR-94-053 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 19 April 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS New Head of Karelia Government Profiled New Head of Karelia Government Profiled 94P50135A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 19 Apr 94 p C2 94P50135A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Finnish CSO [Article by Kaija Virta: "Karelia Leader Stepanov Continues With New Title"] [Text] With his new title, Karelia's president, the communist Viktor Stepanov, from now on will be deriving his power from direct election by the voters in acting as leader of the Republic. According to preliminary results in Monday's election, the 47-year old Stepanov garnered 68 percent of votes cast in the race for chairman of the Karelian government. He was thge only candidate whose powers correspond to those of other republics' leaders. Until now, Stepanov's title has been speaker of the Karelian Supreme Soviet, or parliament. Reformers Not Able To Put Up Candidate Karelia's venerable Prime Minister Sergei Blinnikov likewise politically a man of the old guard, was originally a candidate running against Stepanov, but pulled out of the campaign a month before the election. Pro-reform forces tried in vain to push a young generation democrat, Petroskoi University Professor Sergei Belozertseveya, to become a third candidate. Stepanov's behind-the-scene forces, the Karelian Communist League and the Veterans Association, in his election campaign charged the breakup of the Soviet Union as a mistake, and demanded those responsible for it--thus also President Boris Yeltsin--be brought to justice. Stepanov himself, however, apparently would prefer a face-to-face meeting with Yeltsin, and to appear as the man whose good relations with the central government will produce tangible advantages for Karelia. The Moscow paper NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in its latest monthly rating of political figures ["political stock exchange"] placed Stepanov 88th on the list of Russia's one-hundred most influential politicians. New Name for the Parliament Karelian voters on Sunday [17 April] elected a group of local government bodies, as well as a new 61-member, bicameral parliament. Its name will no longer be the Supreme Soviet, but the Lawmaking Assembly. The election outcome will be more clear later. Definite power relationships of the type seen in West Europe are out of the question, since many representatives have not revealed their affiliations, and because identification with a party is in practice far less binding than is in the case in the Finnish parliament. For Finns this was hardly a real election, since less than 35 percent of eligible voters cast their ballot in the city of Kostamus and in the Petroskoi election district. For the entire Republic the figure was 42 percent. In elections held last December and in voting on the constitution 54 percdnt of Karelians still bothered to vote.
