FBIS3-40537 "jpjst007__l94031" JPRS-JST-94-007L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 17 February 1994 Factory Automation, Robotics AIST's Mechanical Engineering Lab Develops New Electric Discharge Technology Using Laser 94FE0204D Tokyo NIHON KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 10 Nov 93 p 7 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0204D Tokyo NIHON KOGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO The Agency of Industrial Science and Technology's Mechanical Engineering Laboratory (Ken'ichi Matsuno, Director) has set a goal of developing new electric discharge processing technology which would make it possible to process freely even the interior of metal receptacles with small entrances which are difficult to process. It is possible to process even previously unprocessible spots when an ``electric blade'' using electric discharge is guided by laser beams. The new technology is called the laser-induced electric discharge processing method. Electricity is passed through the metal which is the material to be processed. Electric current is applied at low voltage between the material to be processed (negative pole) and copper wire (positive pole). This leads to electric discharge at the end of the copper wire. When a laser beam is simultaneously shone on the negative pole, metal plasma is created at the point where the beam is radiated and the electric discharge from the copper wire flies at the plasma. Voltage is low so insulation within the atmosphere will be low and electric discharge will easily occur. An experiment was conducted in which a YAG laser (output: 0.45 joules) one millimeter in diameter was shined on the surface of a one millimeter thick copper sheet (negative pole) and electric discharge was induced from the copper wire (positive pole) on the back through a hole opened in the copper sheet to the point where the laser was shined. The distance between the negative and positive poles was 50 to 100 millimeters and voltage was 100 volts to one kilowatt. Atmospheric pressure was ten to 400 pascals. The experiment showed that the electric discharge can be guided to make a u-turn from the point where the laser beam radiates opposite the hole through the copper sheet. When voltage is high the electric discharge is diffused around the point of laser radiation, but when voltage is low, electric discharge can be made to occur within a diameter of one millimeter around the point of laser radiation. When laser beams are reflected off a mirror, then it should be possible to process inside metal receptacles.
