FBIS4-41283 "drsov122_c_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-122 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 Federal Assembly Federation Council Fails To Adopt Anticrime Edict Federation Council Fails To Adopt Anticrime Edict LD2406093494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0911 GMT 24 Jun 94 LD2406093494 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS parliamentary correspondent Lyudmila Yermakova] [Text] Moscow June 24 TASS--The discussion, started on Thursday, of the presidential decree "On Urgent Measures To Protect the Population From Banditry and Other Manifestations of Organised Crime", did not end with the adoption of any decision on Friday. None of four draft resolutions polled the necessary number of votes. Neither did the deputies support a proposal to form an editorial commission to work out a new document. The Federation Council, according to the Constitution, may not turn down or endorse a presidential decree, Issa Kostoyev, chairman of the Federation Council Committee on Constitutional Legislation and Judicial Matters, told ITAR-TASS. But since Boris Yeltsin referred the document to the Federation Council, expressing hope that the upper house of parliament "will ensure the exercise of necessary measures to enact the decree in the regions and constitutent republics of the Federation", the deputies began to examine it, Kostoyev said. The legislation committee, upon studying the decree, came forward with a draft resolution emphasising that "any measures to combat crime should be based on strict observance of Russia's Constitution and federal laws." The draft resolution shares the president's concern and supports on the whole the resolute measures being taken by him to step up anti-crime fight. At the same time the deputies "have to state that the decree contains a number of provisions that run counter to the Constitution and legislation," Kostoyev said. He believes that the contraditions are quite resolvable. "Therefore, in the draft resolution we suggested that the acting prosecutor-general "ensure strict observance of the rights and freedoms of citizens, the norms of the constitution and criminal procecude legislation". In view of the fact that the deputies did not accept either this draft resolution or three other ones, Kostoyev recalled that, according to the Constitution, the presidential decree signed on June 14 is already in effect throughout the territory of the Russian Federation.
