FBIS4-30818 "dreeu104_y_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-104 Daily Report 29 May 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Serbia Opposition Leaders: Unification `Out of Question' Opposition Leaders: Unification `Out of Question' AU2905154794 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in Serbo-Croatian 1300 GMT 29 May 94 AU2905154794 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Report by Zoran Glisovic from Kragujevac] [Text] In reply to the question they were asked by the host of today's "Hallmark of Time" program on Kragujevac Radio, leaders of several parliamentary opposition parties categorically said that the unification of opposition parties is out of the question. Vojislav Seselj said that such a thing is impossible as the Serbian Renewal Movement [SPO] and the Serbian Radical Party [SRS] have a different approach to the solutions to the national issue. According to Seselj, [SPO leader] Vuk Draskovic and he have only met in order to agree on a joint approach against [FRY Assembly Citizens Chamber Chairman] Radoman Bozovic. In this connection, Seselj expressed the hope that Slobodan Milosevic will make a step forward and replace Bozovic and threatened that if he does not do so, Milosevic himself may be [words indistinct]. Immediately afterwards, Seselj said that the Radicals do not like violence, but that they also do not like to be harassed by others. Considering what he claimed to be a parliamentary impasse, Seselj said that there is a possibility of holding elections at the federal level by the end of the year. The SPO's Milan Komnenic was most direct in his reply to the question on unification, saying that the SPO and the SRS are not so much as getting closer to one another and having any joint approaches, let alone anything else. He added that what was involved was the SPO proffering protection to a parliamentary party, in this case the SRS, which was denied a democratic expression. The fact that the leaders of these parties, until yesterday fierce opponents, have met, does not have to mean love. The Democratic Party, as Zoran Djindjic said, does not support any unification among opposition parties as they all have different programs. We, for instance, are critical of the U.S. policy toward Yugoslavia, he pointed out, and some others flirt with it. As regards the walking out of or boycotting assembly sessions, the Democratic Party does not accept that because, Djindjic pointed out, we have not been elected not to attend assembly debates, but, on the contrary, to fight for our stands and for changing things to the better.
