FBIS4-1435 "drafr082_cs94028" FBIS-AFR-94-082-S Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Discusses Challenges Ahead Discusses Challenges Ahead MB2504135894 Johannesburg THE STAR in English 25 Apr 94 p 11 MB2504135894 Johannesburg THE STAR English BFN [Interview with ANC President Nelson Mandela by Shaun Johnson, Kaizer Nyatsumba, Esther Waugh, and Chris Whitfield at Mandela's Houghton home on 23 April] [Text] On prospects for a peaceful election [Mandela] I have assurances from both the SAP [South African Police] and SADF [South African Defense Force] that they are going to be ruthless against anybody who tries to interfere with the elections. They have briefed me on detailed plans which they are adopting. That does not mean that there will not be areas where it will be difficult to (have a free and fair vote), because the country is very big. The SADF and SAP may not be strong enough to deploy men throughout the country, to cover every area. There many be isolated cases where it will not be possible for people to vote at all, but generally speaking I am convinced from the plans I have seen that we have taken all the precautions that are necessary. On F.W. de Klerk [Mandela] In spite of all the quarrels we've had with Mr. de Klerk, he remains quite an interesting chap. He is big. Some of our most unpleasant quarrels have been on a one-on-one basis -- we've said very cruel things to each other. One of the things that (angered) me was the fact that he did not use his capacity to stop the violence, when he could do so. This was the major cause of conflict between us, but he has the capacity of quarreling with you, and the next moment shaking hands and sitting down to coffee. I don't think we're going to have trouble from Mr. de Klerk. I think we're going to work with him very smoothly. On the mood of the country [Mandela] The people have high expectations and though we have warned them repeatedly that to address their basic needs is going to take years, nevertheless there are those expectations. It is something we must warn against. But the dominating thing is that we are entering a very exciting period and we are approaching that with real enthusiasm -- spirits are high. There's been a shift in the country's mood from fear to excitement. My impression is of a feeling of hope. On fears of post-election anarchy [Mandela] There have been prophets of doom suggesting that after April 29, our people are going to run riot attacking property and individuals and that there is going to be chaos. I don't think so. I've been warning against that. People must not concentrate very much on what happened in Bophuthatswana. I condemned that in the strongest terms. I said if we find any member of the ANC to be involved in such activities, we will expel him because we don't want criminals in our organisation. So now we are taking precautions to ensure that our people are properly informed as to how to behave if we manage to be victorious in this election. Our people have written to all the regional executive committees indicating programmes in which our people should be involved, so they should not think in terms of looting and other forms of lawlessness. On the future of whites [Mandela] We attach a great deal of importance to whites. In spite of all the criticism we have made about apartheid, the reality is that whites have had opportunities we have not had. They have had education, they have got knowledge, skills and expertise. We want that knowledge and expertise now that we are building our country. That is why I have appealed to them repeatedly not to leave the country at this particular moment, and even to ask those who have left to come back. Because we are going to need them, we are gong to rely on them. On the Government of National Unity [GNU] [Mandela] We bring different approaches. De Klerk is brining the approach of an Afrikaner whose community has been dominant, specially since 1948. I bring into the GNU the tradition of a freedom fighter who has struggled against apartheid. I think we will be able to resolve the gap between the two of us. Especially because we will not be alone. We have a very good team from the ANC and from the NP [National Party]. There are men in the NP who are prepared to serve South Africa, very sincerely. So we must not concentrate on two people. Organisations are not run by individuals, they are run by a team of men and women. We've got highly talented people like Thabo Mbeki and Cyril Ramaphosa. And strangely enough, in spite of the perceptions, a chap like Kobie Coetsee, people like Roelf Meyer -- what their record has been in the past. I don't think there are going to be such sharp differences as to paralyse government. On the toughest challenges ahead [Mandela] We are faced with two problems. We are committed to form a Government of National Unity which brings in those people who for 46 years applied apartheid. We are bringing their conservatism into the GNU. That is one problem. We have another coming from the liberation movement -- our people who have been brought up against the legacy of resistance and who, at a time when they should now be upfront in addressing the problems of the country (and be) preparing to govern, still think in terms of resistance, and oppose everything that comes from the other side. They are not yet attuned to addressing problems. On national reconciliation [Mandela] The leadership should not now be engaged in fighting talk. We have made the breakthrough (with the IFP) and it is hoped that leaders...will have a better chance of uniting the country. What is encouraging is the emergence of men and women from all racial groups who are bound in their common loyalty and common love for their common fatherland. That is what we should be emphasising. Healing the wounds of the past, not opening wounds at this critical moment. I have been saying (to my followers) throughout this election: do not disrupt the meetings of other political organisations. Remember that these men, although we are fighting an election, we are going to work with them in the GNU. On his acceptance speech [Mandela] It is of course difficult to know what form the (acceptance) speech would take, but the question of lawlessness is one that should be uppermost in our minds. Because what has concerned me throughout are the concerns of the minorities. Whenever there is a transformation in any country, the minorities are worried about their positions, what is going to happen to them and their families. It is worse in this country, and it is the duty of the leadership to address those fears and to make sure that the minorities feel they are involved in the transformation, that they are needed and that they will play their role in ensuring that we build the new South Africa. There's not going to be any discrimination against any groups. It's our task to make sure of that. On criticism of ANC/SACP [South African Communist Party] links [Mandela] It is of course difficult to convince people of the reality of our alliance with the Communist Party. The alliance between the ANC and SACP is based on mutual respect and some of the most important contributions have actually been made by members of the SACP, people like Joe Slovo and the late Chris Hani. They have been so productive in addressing problems that the whole question of an alliance between the ANC and SACP is a non-issue to us. On amnesty for security force members [Mandela] This is a very sensitive question. A form of indemnity is unavoidable. At the moment here is a great deal of insecurity in the SADF, SAP and the civil service. Now we cannot even have free and fair elections if we do not get the support of the SAP and SADF. It is absolutely necessary for us to remove this state of insecurity. I am discussing with (SAP commissioner General Johan van der Merwe) this question of indemnity and the question of making sure that we have the support of the police, because the people who have committed crimes before October 8, 1990, are really worried that a new government is going to put them on trial. We have gone further to say Parliament will have a discretion to grant an indemnity to people who have committed crimes between October 8, 1990 and December 6, 1993. We are saying let's forget the past, let's think in terms of the present and the future. (But) what we cannot do is give indemnity to people who after December 1993, have been killing people...We are working out details. In Chile for example, people were able to come forward and say we did so and so, without publishing their names. We (could) then look at what they have done and decide whether we should give indemnity. On amnesty for Chris Hani's killers [Mandela] We have made a statement that we will abolish the death sentence, but this is a matter that has to be considered very, very carefully. I, as an individual, am against death sentence, but the feelings among the people are very strong. This is a highly sensitive matter. Our people are very angry, especially because of the arrogant statements that were made by the wife of (Clive) Derby- Lewis and his attitude in court -- that of gloating. On Chief Buthelezi [Mandela] We have been able to get him to take decisions which he never thought he would take. He has (now) made a statement in which he said he will respect the result of an election. It is a very good statement. On the ANC's election prospects [Mandela] I have said to our people that our greatest enemy is not the NP, it is the ANC itself. Because for us to proceed as if we are going to have a landslide victory is more dangerous than the opposition from the NP. And we have many problems. A surprising number of our people do not have IDs. On his possible successor [Mandela] We have a lot talent in the ANC. People like Thabo Mbeki, Cyril Ramaphosa, Valli Moosa, Joe Slovo and Mac Maharaj. These are very capable people who stand head and shoulders above everybody else. Leaders will come and go but the policy of the organisation will continue. It is set in the Freedom Charter. It is not individuals that are crucial, it is the organisation. I have not the slightest doubt that if the president resigns either because of old age, or something happens to him, the policies of the organisation will continue. On the ANC deputy presidency [Mandela] This is a question I have to decide. I have to set up the Cabinet and from the angle, I am not going to consult anybody. If I am elected, if my party emerges with a majority, I will decide who should fill what position. We have a wide choice. I can't go into the matter now, but I have an idea of who should be the first deputy president, if the ANC wins. It is not an easy thing to decide because we have people who have so many talents, who deserve that position. My problem is the talent that we have. I like all our people. On possible volkstaat [Afrikaner homeland] [Mandela] We have said we will not accept a volkstaat. But we have made a concession that, after the election, there can be referendum on the question because we would like to hear the views of the community on behalf of whom these people say they are speaking. We are convinced that they are in a minority but we would like that to be demonstrated by democratic means. On General Viljoen for Cabinet [Mandela] Oh yes. General Viljoen is a very honest man, and I would welcome him in a Government of National Unity. It would strengthen the government. He may not be so astute politically -- he is a soldier -- but he is man of integrity and in all the meetings I have had with him I have come out feeling that this is a man with whom we can work and solve problems. And the fact that he has broken away from the Afrikaner Volksfront [National Front] indicates what a strong personality he is. I have a lot of confidence in him. On his finger-pointing habit [Mandela] Well, I've got this habit of finger-pointing. I was warned very strictly that I should avoid that in the debate. But a habit that you've had for 75 years is not easy to get rid of! And I hope people will accept it in the way in which I mean it. I use it not to make a threat, but to emphasise a point. When I use the finger, I use it innocently. I regret that I reminded people of P.W. Botha.
