FBIS3-53874 "drnes014dd_94006" FBIS-NES-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 Palestinian Affairs Fatah Aide on U.S-Syria Summit, PLO Posture PM2001145594 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 19 Jan 94 p 3 PM2001145594 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Muhammad 'Ali al-Qulaybi report from Tunis, accompanied by other unattributed reports] [Excerpts] Tunis, Cairo, Tehran (AL-SHARQ-AL-AWSAT and agencies) -- Fatah Central Committee Member Muhammad Ghunaym (Abu-Mahir) has denied that the Palestinians viewed with concern and anxiety the results of the summit meeting held between Syrian President Hafiz al-Asad and U.S. President Bill Clinton in Geneva last Sunday [16 January]. He stressed that the PLO welcomed the results of that summit. Egyptian Foreign Minister 'Amr Musa called the summit "successful." [passage omitted] In a telephone statement to AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT, Abu-Mahir said that all the rumors about Palestinian fear of that summit were personal views which did not reflect the PLO position. Contrary to what is being said, Abu-Mahir added, the PLO welcomes the al-Asad-Clinton summit results because they point to progress in the negotiations in general. President al-Asad's statement insisting on a comprehensive solution and on the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242, 338, and 425 indicates that Syria wants a comprehensive and just solution in the region, he said. Abu-Mahir emphasized that progress on the Syrian track would serve all other tracks including the Palestinian track. [passage omitted] Since the signing of the [Palestinian-Israeli Declaration of Principles] agreement, Syrian-Palestinian relations have been very cool, reaching a freezing point because Damascus did not approve of the agreement. Despite statements by some Palestinian officials that the Palestinians welcome the summit results, the truth is quite different. The Palestinian leadership, combining PLO Executive Committee members and Fatah Central Committee members, has been in continuous session since last Saturday, that is, one day before the al-Asad-Clinton summit, but so far no official statement or explanation has been issued. [passage omitted] According to highly placed Palestinian sources, the reason for the delay in announcing the Palestinian position on that summit is the ambiguity surrounding it, insofar as it was not perfectly clear if al-Asad sought to reactivate the negotiations to serve only Syria's interests or to serve all the tracks, particularly the Palestinian track, in harmony with Syria's pan-Arab line. The sources added that the PLO fears that, after the summit, Syria might revive its attempts to contain the Palestinian element and the independent Palestinian decisionmaking which the PLO has over many years paid a high price to maintain. [passage omitted]
