FBIS4-51805 "dreas085_d_94048" FBIS-EAS-94-085 Daily Report 2 May 1994 South Korea Government Promotes Economic Internationalization Government Promotes Economic Internationalization SK0205135894 Seoul YONHAP in English 1156 GMT 2 May 94 SK0205135894 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] Seoul, May 2 (YONHAP) -- The government has decided to promote 12 selected projects on a priority basis to better facilitate the internationalization of the nation's economy under the new world economic order. To this end, an "Economic Internationalization Planning Corps" will set sail at the Economic Planning Board shortly. It will be headed by the vice economic planning minister. The 12 projects disclosed by Deputy Prime Minister Chong Chae-sok in a press conference Monday included a 21st century economic strategy, preparation for joining the OECD, improvement of banking system and rural development programs. They also included the refixing of industrial policy direction, change in a small industry support policy, expedition of key technology development, and overseas advancement strategy. The selected projects in the industrial support sector were elevated competitiveness of logistics industry, efficient manpower demand and supply program, effective handling of tightened international environmental control, and expanded participation in international organizations. In addition, the government has resolved to give exceptional promotion to those public officials working hard, and organize inter-ministry mid-echelon officials meetings to remove what is called "ministry selfishness." Public officials will also be accorded more opportunities for overseas observation or training tours in a policy to help them have a better understanding of the abroad and to enhance their morale. In another step, the deputy prime minister and 10 other economy-related ministers will tour major local industrial areas in the coming two months to grasp a more correct picture of the field industrial situation. Deputy Premier Chong, for instance, is set to visit the industrial estates in Kwangyang and Changwon and nearby rural areas this month.
