FBIS4-7800 "dreeu066_k_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-066 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 CROATIA UN Says Both Sides Respecting Cease-Fire UN Says Both Sides Respecting Cease-Fire AU0504131294 Paris AFP in English 1245 GMT 5 Apr 94 AU0504131294 Paris AFP English BFN [Article by Michel Viatteau] [Text] Knin, Croatia, April 5 (AFP) -- Both separatist Serb forces and Croatian troops were respecting Tuesday [5 April] a day-old ceasefire in the breakaway republic of Krajina, UN Protection Force [UNPROFOR] officials said here. UNPROFOR's Colonel Geroge Oehring, who visited the area Monday, when the truce began, said the withdrawal of heavy weapons had almost been completed ahead of the Tuesday morning deadline set for this pullout. "The withdrawal of weapons occurred and is still occurring. Most importantly, we had guns silent this night, first time since last September," said the Canadian officer, the UN military commander for the area. According to the agreement which took effect Monday morning, Croatian army forces and secessionist Serbs had until 0700 GMT Tuesday to withdraw all their heavy weapons from an agreed area. The ceasefire accord between the two sides was reached last month after negotiations at the Russian embassy in Zagreb, ending some two years of war in the region. Oehring said Serb weapons still in the area near Licka were not completely withdrawn because of technical problems -- the Serb separatist forces underestimated the amount of time it would take to move the weapons. "The ceasefire is working, it is a cause for celebration," said Oehring. "Both sides are seriously following the agreement," he added. By Friday, April 8, the two sides should have established a demilitarized zone two kilometers (1.2 miles) wide. UN forces will patrol this zone, Oehring said. He confirmed that the Croat airport at Zadar-Zemunik, closed because of Serbian artillery fire, had been reopened to civilian flights. Regular flights from Zagreb to Split were to resume soon, he said. Separately, UNPROFOR civilian affairs coordinator Enrique Aguilar and EU military observers' chief Jean-Pierre Thebault, said they hoped the two sides would meet in the next few weeks to discuss economic cooperation.
