FBIS3-41203 "jptdd006__l94070" JPRS-TDD-94-006-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 7 February 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Cocaine Price Has `Dropped Steeply,' Cannabis Remains `Most Popular' Drug 94WD0183A London THE GUARDIAN in English 24 Dec 93 p 9 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94WD0183A London THE GUARDIAN Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Duncan Campbell, crime correspondent: "Street Price of Cocaine Drops"] [Text] The street price of cocaine has dropped steeply over the past year, indicating that it is more widely available, according to a survey published this morning. The report also highlights a big increase in home-grown cannabis. The survey, produced by Release, the drugs and legal advice service, suggests there has been a steady resurgence in the popularity of LSD, thought to be partly due to a switch from Ecstasy because of uncertainty about its quality. The price of cocaine, once as high as £100 a gramme, now averages £40 to £60 a gramme, although there are regional variations and the price can go as low as £30. The drug is being used most widely in London and the South-east. Cannabis remains the most popular drug throughout Britain, with prices at £25 to £30 a quarter ounce for herbal cannabis and resin. The price has been stable for about 10 years. However, the market for homegrown "grass" appears to be developing, a trend led by the Dutch, the survey said. Indoor growers operate under sophisticated botanical conditions involving high wattage halogen lightbulbs and complex water feeding systems. Dutch "skunk weed" can cost as much as £60 a quarter ounce, while some British home grown strains sell for as little as £15. The anaesthetic drug, ketamin--associated with the dance scene--has become more available, selling at around £15 a tablet. Crack cocaine is most widely available in London and inner-city areas of the Midlands and North-west, but is rarely found in Scotland or rural areas. It is sold by the "rock" at between £15 and £25. Mike Goodman, director of Release, said "millions" would be taking drugs for recreational purposes over the festive season. While abstinence was safest, people should be aware that it could be dangerous to mix some drugs and alcohol. He urged those taking drugs not to drive.
