FBIS3-38528 "drweu024__a94004" FBIS-WEU-94-024-A Document Type:Daily Report 4 February 1994 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs Belgium's Claes Pleads for Common EU Defense BR0302130894 Brussels BELGA in French 1511 GMT 2 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0302130894 Brussels BELGA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed RAY/RHR: "Claes Pleads for Defense Within European Union"; as released by Brussels BELGA Database] [Text] London, 2 Feb (BELGA) -- Belgian Foreign Minister Willy Claes said Wednesday [2 February] in London that all the conditions had been met for the European Union to talk about defense and for the Western European Union (WEU) to establish a peace force. In reference to the creation of a common foreign and security policy, Mr. Claes, who was invited to the Chatham House conferences organized by the Royal Institute of International Affairs, said that a defense element should be included in such a policy: "Primarily by creating a common peacekeeping policy," said Mr. Claes during his speech entitled "Europe: An Unfinished Symphony." "All the conditions have been met, especially with the relevant agreement at the last NATO summit. The Union can now talk about defense, the WEU can put together a peacekeeping force, and the costs can be allocated via the Union budget," explained the Belgian foreign minister. In another reference to the common foreign and security policy, Mr. Claes said that this policy would require an apparatus making it possible to correctly prepare and apply decisions, for example a central planning unit with the European Commission and the secretariat of the EC Council of Ministers. Speaking to the British, whose government is hesitant about setting up the common foreign and security policy, since, according to it, such a move would result in the loss of national sovereignty, Mr. Claes said that the common foreign and security policy should be transformed in coming years into a genuine political instrument, "thanks, in part, to the British contribution."
