FBIS4-57895 "drlat102_t_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-102 Daily Report 25 May 1994 Venezuela Caldera Reportedly Preparing To Remove Ministers Caldera Reportedly Preparing To Remove Ministers PA2605013394 Caracas ECONOMIA HOY in Spanish 25 May 94 p 5 PA2605013394 Caracas ECONOMIA HOY Spanish BFN [By Gregorio Salazar] [Text] Judging from unofficial yet reliable information circulating yesterday among journalists at Miraflores Palace, Cesar Quintini Rosales, transportation and communications minister, will not be the only one to leave President Rafael Caldera's executive team. Quintini will reportedly be joined by Development Minister Luis Carlos Palacios; Ciro Anez Fonseca, agriculture and livestock minister; and Roberto Perez Lecuna, environment and natural renewable resources minister Development Minister Palacios has apparently followed the government's general guidelines in the commerce and industries sector, and certain people say the tendency will be to fall back and return to subsidies. Labor unions have criticized the minister, and it is believed that he is trying to absorb organizations like the Institute for Consumer Education and Protection (IDEC) and the Institute for Business Competition. No one knows if the minister's problems stem from actions taken by his brother. Rumor has it that the minister's brother went to the Institute for Business Competition and demanded that the organization change its decision to prevent the merger of Heinz and Yukery "because he is the minister's brother." Environment Minister Perez Lecuna has been forced to face the critical problem created by the water shortage. The extended drought has spread a desperation among the people that has not been seen in many years. Nevertheless, there is no information on any errors or omissions on the minister's part that could serve as the basis for his removal. As for the agriculture and livestock minister, organizations like Fedeagro [National Federation of Agricultural-Livestock Producers], Fedenaga [Venezuelan Cattlemen's Federation], and Fedenaca [Peasant Union] have demanded Ciro Anez Fonseca's removal, bitterly complaining about the minister's inability to act as a mediator to renegotiate the 143 billion bolivar debt in the agriculture sector and obtain a higher preferential rate to finance this year's harvest. Cesar Quintini Rosales' problems in the Transportation and Communications Ministry are well known. They began with the resignation of deputy minister Rafael Iribarren, who reported the existence of corrupt groups supported by high-ranking officials. Quintini is not alone. Rumor has it that he is supported by Hugo Perez La Salvia, a member of the commission conducting the investigation of Iribarren's charges, the results of which remain unknown. Journalists report that he was fired, but yesterday Quintini denied dismissing him.
