FBIS4-61631 "drsov089_b_94020" FBIS-SOV-94-089 Daily Report 9 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Media Control Structure Scheme Said Lain to Rest Media Control Structure Scheme Said Lain to Rest MK0605105094 Moscow OBSHCHAYA GAZETA in Russian No. 18/43 6-12 May 94 (Signed to press 5 May) p 4 MK0605105094 Moscow OBSHCHAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Unattributed report: "May We Avoid Above All Else.... Fund Dies Before Having Been Born"] [Text] Yet another planned noose around the neck of this country's media is unlikely to work. The idea for the creation of a new structure in "support of the mass media" -- in addition to all that already exist -- has very long been floating around in the capital's political circles. Some time ago this idea even added up to a specific draft law "On a National Fund in Support of the Mass Media" whose elaboration was included in an official plan for the State Duma committee for information policy and liaison. The press went aflutter: the plan was for the Fund to take over control of all the money that comes from the budget (state subsidies) and the sprinkling of money that does not come from the budget, and make its own decisions on who gets it and who does not. It goes without saying that the position of head of such a fund would be the most coveted morsel for mass media officials, because whoever took over this position would become Russia's key monopolist -- he would be in a position to pull the strings that control the "fourth estate" any old time and to issue instructions on what and how should be published, on whether there should be a lobby today for metallurgy workers or for Gazprom. The draft law was supposed to go before the Duma Council at the end of April for the inclusion of this matter on the agenda. The Lord, however, has taken pity, and the draft law was quietly laid to rest by the sensible part of the deputies to the gushing joy of the scriveners. This is a veritable gift to the Russian press for its professional holiday -- Press Day-94.
