FBIS3-15459 "drsov044_b_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Paper Denies Promoting Chernomyrdin for President MK0603090094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 6 Mar 94 p 1 MK0603090094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report in the "Resonance" column: "Viktor Chernomyrdin Denounces His High Rating. One Should Be Happy About This"] [Text] Any politician in a civilized country is happy if his political weight (as reflected in particular in public opinion polls and expert surveys) grows. And it is only in the perverted Soviet (currently Russian) politics, more back-stage than open and fair, that this is feared. Moreover, attempts are even being made to cast a shadow on those who conduct and publish such polls. In his speech the day before yesterday Viktor Chernomyrdin said among other things the following: "I cannot but touch upon a problem that is extremely important both for myself in person and for the government I head. The fact is that recently a noisy campaign has been launched in certain news media aimed to `catch' the government chairman in allegedly concentrating power, taking too much on himself, and generally doing little short of hatching conspiracies to get to the presidential chair. They have even begun to build some rating charts on this score." We know that there were words inserted into the report following the publication of the February NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA-VP "100 Politicians" rating. We venture to assure the prime minister that our survey, conduced for the last 14 months now, was not launched to set him against the president by February 1994. Especially given that the two above mentioned statesmen have plenty of cause for such a quarrel without our NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA. This cause in particular is successfully being furthered by some pro-government and pro-presidential publications. Fortunately, NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA does not belong to either. It is independent. This is printed in large-size letters on top of its first page.
