FBIS4-27437 "dreas106__a94024" FBIS-EAS-94-106-A Daily Report 26 May 1993 ANNEX Japan Party Leaders Discuss Political Situation Party Leaders Discuss Political Situation OW2805082794 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN in Japanese 26 May 93 Morning Edition p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2805082794 Tokyo YOMIURI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Report of roundtable discussion among Yoshiro Mori, general secretary of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP); Wataru Kubo, general secretary of the Social Democratic Party of Japan (SDPJ); Kozo Watanabe, acting general secretary of Shinseito (Japan Renewal Party); Takenori Kanzaki, floor leader of Komeito; Masuo Matsuoka, general secretary of the Japan New Party; Takashi Yonezawa, general secretary of the Democratic Socialist Party (DSP); and Hiroyuki Sonoda, general secretary of Sakigake (Harbinger); place and date not given] The SDPJ's Kubo said the Hata cabinet should resign en masse before a no-confidence motion was submitted. This would pave the way for the establishment of a third coalition government. Of the ruling party leaders, Komeito's Kanzaki agreed with Kubo, while Shinseito's Watanabe said it was "one of several choices," indicating he was sympathetic to the idea. Asked about a possible tie-up with the LDP, Kubo said discussion should be promoted on policy matters and tactics for dealing with the political situation. The LDP's Mori indicated he looked forward to holding joint party consultations. Kubo said: "The coalition should dissolve the current cabinet and consider how to form a new coalition government. The current cabinet will have no choice once a no-confidence motion against them has been adopted." He added: "When a new coalition is formed, the leaders of all parties joining the coalition are qualified to become new prime minister. Mr. Hata is also qualified." He stressed: "The SDPJ, on the assumption that it would be very difficult for the party to rejoin the current coalition, demands that a third coalition government be formed." Shinseito's Watanabe said: "Prime Minister Hata also considers Mr. Kubo's idea is one of several choices. In this sense, I cannot say that it is beyond the bounds of possibility." Komeito's Kanzaki backed Kubo's call for the Hata cabinet to resignat and the formation of a third coalition government. Sakigake's Sonoda said: "Since Sakigake chose Mr. Hata as the new prime minister, and the Hata government has just been inaugurated, our party will not be able to support the no-confidence motion," indicating his party would nevertheless keep a close watch on developments. The LDP's Mori said that dissolution of the lower house and general elections under the current electoral system were inevitable. He added, though that the formation of a caretaker government tasked with holding general elections under the new electoral system was also one of the choices. On the possibility of a tie-up between the LDP and the SDPJ, Kubo said: "We want to positively promote discussions between opposition parties in terms of maintaining parliamentary democracy." He added: "On such important matters as the presentation of a no-confidence motion, I think we will be able to reach agreement through the process of thorough discussion between the two parties." Mori said: "Even though the starting point is different, there is possibility of consulting with each other in the end."
