FBIS4-7659 "dreeu064__a94014" FBIS-EEU-94-064-A Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 ANNEX Bulgaria Council of Europe Delegation Visits Council of Europe Delegation Visits AU0104185294 Sofia BTA in English 1747 GMT 1 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0104185294 Sofia BTA English BFN [Text] Sofia, April 1 (BTA) -- Mr. Friedrich Koenig, rapporteur of the Political Committee of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, and Mr. Dominique Columberg, rapporteur of the Legal Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, have been on a visit to this country since March 30. Mr. Koenig and Mr. Columberg are here in connection with the Parliamentary Assembly's decision to check on the compliance of newly-admitted member countries with membership requirements and to draft a resolution on the current political situation in this country. In parliament they met with Bulgaria's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly, as well as with representatives of the five parliamentary groups. Each of them set forth its views on the current political situation, the government's economic and financial policy, the human rights of minorities, parliament's law-making and the difficulties faced by this country during the transition period. Today Mr. Koenig and Mr. Columberg met with National Assembly Chairman Aleksandur Yordanov. He stressed that the political forces are in agreement on the principles and priorities of Bulgaria's foreign policy. He pointed out that the reforms have slowed down, stressing that they must continue. Acting Prime Minister Evgeni Matinchev and Justice Minister Petur Kornazhev today met with Mr. Koenig and Mr. Columberg. The government press office said the guests had been familiarized in detail with the government's activity, as well as with the formidable difficulties it has to deal with. Asked about the so- called re-communization, Mr. Matinchev and Mr. Kornazhev spoke at length, presenting solid arguments. The guests showed a special interest in executive-judiciary relations.
