FBIS3-4041 "drchi058_k_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Official Warns Reporter for Contacting Wei Jingsheng HK2503035094 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO in Chinese 25 Mar 94 p 10 HK2503035094 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By staff reporter: "Beijing Warns German DER SPEIGEL Reporter That He Must Bear the Consequences for Illegally Contacting Wei Jingsheng"] [Text] Yesterday, an official from the mainland Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave a serious warning to Chou Chin-heng, a German reporter who frequently contacted Wei Jingsheng, noting that the reporter's contact with Wei Jingsheng constituted involvement in mainland's politics and also a violation of its laws. If he continues to disregard exhortations, he will bear all consequences rising therefrom. At an appointment he made with German DER SPEIGEL reporter Chou Chin-heng yesterday morning, Han Zuomin, deputy director of the Information Department of the mainland Foreign Ministry of Foreign Affairs, stated: Wei Jingsheng is a criminal released on parole. According to law, foreign journalists are not allowed to contact criminals released on parole. Han Zuomin went on to say: He made the above remark on behalf of Wu Jianmin [spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs]. It has been learned that the reporter of German nationality was stationed in Beijing in 1990. After Wei Jinhsheng was released from jail, the reporter got acquainted with him. In early March this year, on the eve of U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher's visit to Beijing, together with his wife of Taiwanese origin and child, the reporter was interrogated by the public security organ for an hour and a half. The next day, an official from the Information Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs appeared personally to warn the reporter that, according to law, contacting criminals released on parole is a violation of law, and Wei Jingsheng is precisely such a criminal. He hoped the reporter would understand the point. Early yesterday morning, the mainland Ministry of Foreign Affairs again summoned the reporter and warned him not to carry out activities in violation of law by making use of his wife of Taiwanese origin and son. Immediately after that, the reporter issued the above report to various news agencies.
