FBIS3-50474 "drlat001_c_94014" FBIS-LAT-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 MEXICO Government Bulletin on Crisis PA0301061494 Mexico City XEW Television Network in Spanish 0501 GMT 3 Jan 94 PA0301061494 Mexico City XEW Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Bulletin issued by the Government Secretariat in Mexico City on 2 January; from an XEW "Special Report" -- read by announcer] [Text] Today the armed group that had occupied various municipalities in the region of Ocosingo in Chiapas abandoned the city of San Cristobal de las Casas. The situation is returning to normal in that city under the protection of the Army. Meanwhile, during its withdrawal, the attacking group has clashed with soldiers and harassed other towns, causing loss of human life and diverse damage. As of this afternoon, the attitude of the federal government and a balance of the events that have taken place in the first two days of the year in the Ocosingo region, Chiapas, can be summarized as follows: On 1 January the federal government decided to place priority on the protection of human lives. That is why the Army did not act when the attacking armed group occupied the city of San Cristobal de las Casas. Not only did the security forces refrain from acting, but the government made numerous calls for dialogue and a search for peaceful solutions to the situation created by the armed group. Both the federal government and Chiapas regional and municipal authorities have reiterated their willingness to hold a political dialogue with all organizations and representations of civilian society to normalize the situation in the region. During the second day of disturbances today, after the attackers left San Cristobal de las Casas, the federal government ordered, on the one hand, that the National Defense Secretariat take measures to defend its installations, and on the other hand, at the request of social groups of the different municipalities of the region and municipal and state authorities, that the National Defense Secretariat itself reinforce protection and security of towns in the area to prevent possible new attacks by the armed group. In the takeover of the cities of Ocosingo, Altamirano, Abasolo, Chanal del Carmen, Las Margaritas, and San Cristobal de las Casas, the attackers killed 27 people, 24 of whom were local policemen, and three civilians. Meanwhile, during clashes between the armed group and the Army, six soldiers and 24 attackers were killed.
