FBIS3-27523 "drchi038_a_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Bosnian Serbs Accuse West of Playing Power Politics OW2502023694 Beijing XINHUA in English 0218 GMT 25 Feb 94 OW2502023694 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Belgrade, February 24 (XINHUA) -- Bosnian Serb military leader Ratko Mladic today accused the west of playing power politics against the Serbs by demanding the opening of Tuzla airport. The commander of Bosnian Serb armed forces described this demand as an attempt to deprive the Serbs of their right to self-defense. He told the "Krajina soliders" monthly that Western countries want the use of Tuzla airport because they intend to provide the Bosnian Muslims with large supplies of weapons, ammunition, and mercenary troops. At the same time, the military leader said, Serbs are banned from transporting the wounded, the elderly, and pregnant women. He pointed out that as a matter of fact, the west does not need the use of the airport because they are daily shipping in everything the Muslims need over land routes. The West's demand that the Tuzla airport be opened is meant to put pressure on the Serbs, he added. The Tuzla airport opening can be put on the agenda only when the opening of a Serbian airport is also discussed, he stressed. Mladic views the West as trying to shape the world only in ways that comply with their own interests, saying "they have torn apart (the former) Yugoslavia, and have been taking every repressive measure against the resistance of our people. " On the Sarajevo crisis, the military commander emphasized that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization had no right to issue the ultimatum against the Serbs, who have not launched war against anybody. He criticized Western countries for authorizing themselves to decide which country can survive and how long it can live. Mladic said Serbs will defend themselves if attacked even though their heavy weapons are under United Nations control.
