FBIS4-39000 "drsov108_b_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-108 Daily Report 4 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Proposed FCS Special Operations Directorate Described Proposed FCS Special Operations Directorate Described MK0406080094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 4 Jun 94 p 1 MK0406080094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [SEGODNYA report under the "Special Services" rubric: "A New Directorate Will Be Set Up in the FCS"] [Text] A special operations directorate is likely to be created in Russia's Federal Counterintelligence Service [FCS]. FCS sources confirmed to INTERFAX 3 June that this possibility was discussed in the course of Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin's visit to the counterintelligence service's headquarters late in May. It is supposed that power structures -- special units of the "Alfa" and "Vympel" groups type -- will be set up under the special operations directorate. Earlier both groups were part of the KGB structure before they were transferred to the Main Directorate for the President's Security, while some time ago "Vympel" was once again reassigned, this time to the Russian Federation Ministry of Internal Affairs. A number of officers of this special unit refused to be transferred to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and were taken on by the FCS. Mr. Yerin's agency is planning to create a special union named "Vega" on the basis of what remains of "Vympel." Let us remind you that the "A" group ("Alfa") was created on Andropov's initiative to combat terrorism, whereas "Vympel" is a former unit of the KGB's First Main Directorate (Foreign Intelligence Service) designed to carry out "in-depth intelligence activities" (intelligence-sabotage-terrorist activities in the rear of the potential adversary). Mr. Stepashin told a news briefing that in the FCS structure there are several off-the-books "commando groups" [gruppy zakhvata] within the major territorial directorates. According to information from confidential sources, it is not ruled out that the forming of the new directorate will be entrusted to General Dmitriy Gerasimov, former commander of "Vympel."
