FBIS3-14404 "drnes059_j_94002" FBIS-NES-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Kuwait Editorial on Military Resurgence of Iraqi Regime JN2703211294 Kuwait AL-RA'Y AL-'AMM in Arabic 19 Mar 94 p 1 JN2703211294 Kuwait AL-RA'Y AL-'AMM Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Ineffectual Treatment of Chronic Condition"] [Text] It was natural that the UN Security Council should restate the need to keep the sanctions in place, having reviewed the aberrant Baghdad regime's track record, which shows it to be persistent in its wrong-headedness, flouting all rules of international law. The Security Council has made Iraq's compliance with its resolutions a condition for lifting the sanctions. The nefarious calls that sought to crack the unity of the international position and thus unleash the Iraqi beast while it is still consumed with hatred and aggressiveness have collapsed. With the extension of the sanctions, the international community must now be wondering about the point in seeking to remedy the pathological mindset and conduct that have typified Saddam Husayn's regime since his bloody coup in the early seventies. Can we realistically hope that the wolf will change its inherently treacherous ways? How much longer will it be before the Western powers satisfy themselves that the treatment is ineffectual and the cure impossible? Our questions are prompted by a conviction supported by evidence that a disease persists and that amputation is the only cure to this corrupt regime. This is because the blockade and isolation have changed nothing in Saddam Husayn's behavior and mentality. He continues to issue threats. The dangers posed by the Baghdad regime will only go with its disappearance, since it has become a captive of positions based on treachery, aggression, and empty heroics, which it hopes will, one of these days, help him defeat the world! The international community knew that the military confrontation that ended in the Iraqi occupation troops being driven from Kuwait was not enough to strike at the root of cause of aggression. Now, four years into the life of the sanctions and political isolation, this regime does not seem to have changed a bit. In its adamant refusal to recognize Kuwait's sovereignty over its territory, this regime is a peculiar mix of aggressiveness and arrogance. It continues to hold Kuwaiti prisoners as a bargaining chip, it flouts UN resolutions, and works to regain its offensive capabilities in order to resume the battle that has been weaved into its political fabric. Trade sanctions and political isolation, as a form of treatment for this fatal disease, have ceased to have any healing effects. Every two months, the world will continue to review the Baghdad regime's compliance with the Security Council resolutions. However, the world will one day wake up to discover that this beast, which is swayed by an aggressive instinct, has unshackled itself to shed more blood; and herein lies the responsibility of the international community.
