FBIS4-19486 "drweu075_q_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-075 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 TURKEY Demirel: `International System Has Collapsed' in Bosnia Demirel: `International System Has Collapsed' in Bosnia TA1804184094 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1700 GMT 18 Apr 94 TA1804184094 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Text] President Suleyman Demirel has said that if the problems regarding the Serbian attacks on Gorazde are not solved then this will be an indication that the international system has collapsed. Replying to reporters' questions on the issue at the Cankaya Mansion, Demirel said that NATO which has been a deterrent force against nuclear war close to 45 years has been reduced to a position where it cannot even protect a city. He added: Not only Turkey but all the NATO member countries and everyone who is responsible for and in favor of peace in Europe should ponder this issue. Demirel said: [Begin recording] I am concerned that, and I have been saying this for close to a year now, the United Nations which is charged with securing world peace and the UN Security Council have been unable to implement the CSCE resolutions in Europe because they do not have the power to impose sanctions. The Gorazde incident is not an insignificant one. The quiet achieved in Sarajevo for a while [words indistinct]. The Gorazde developments can wipe it all out. There will be other incidents in other parts of the world. This international system can collapse. Maybe the word collapse is a very strong one but it can be greatly damaged. A damage that is close to a breakdown. [end recording] Demirel stated that the Serbs have the weapons of the former Yugoslav Army, and that the people of Gorazde cannot procure arms because of the embargo. Recalling that he has been arguing with world leaders for the last year saying that they neither protect the Bosnian people nor sell them arms, Demirel concluded by saying that he sent messages on the issue to everyone.
