FBIS4-35248 "drnes104_v_94003" FBIS-NES-94-104 Daily Report 31 May 1994 Pakistan President Rules Out Inspection of Nuclear Facilities President Rules Out Inspection of Nuclear Facilities BK3105083194 Islamabad Radio Pakistan Overseas Service in English 0800 GMT 31 May 94 BK3105083194 Islamabad Radio Pakistan Overseas Service English BFN [Text] The president, Sardar Farooq Ahmad Khan Leghari, has reiterated that Pakistan's nuclear program is peaceful, and we have taken a conscious decision not to use our nuclear capability for weapon production unless our security is threatened. Addressing the Pakistani community in New York, he categorically rejected any inspection of Pakistan's nuclear facilities, saying that the government's policy in this connection is very clear. The president said Pakistan's nuclear program enjoys national consensus, and it is not possible for any government or leader to accept anything imposed from outside contrary to the wishes of the people of Pakistan. He said that reports accusing the government has agreed to open up its facility for any kind of inspections are baseless and frivolous. [sentence as heard] The president said Pakistan has told the United States that no unilateral solution could be imposed on Pakistan. Any solution to the nonproliferation problem in South Asian region has to be resolved in the regional context. He said that Pakistan has proposed several concrete plans to achieve nuclear nonproliferation in the region, but India has rejected all of them. Under the circumstances, the United States or the world at large could not expect realistically that Pakistan would accept any unilateral obligation. Replying to a question, he debunked the reports that Pakistan has entered into any secret talks with the United States on the nonproliferation issue. He said Pakistan is pursuing a quiet diplomacy, but not secret diplomacy, as has been done by others. Referring to his talks with the U.S. Administration, the president expressed the confidence that these talks would yield good results.
