FBIS3-2970 "drchi050_v_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 TAIWAN State-Run Enterprise Officials To Visit Indonesia OW1103141694 Taipei CNA in English 1251 GMT 11 Mar 94 OW1103141694 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Y. C. Tsai] [Text] Taipei, March 11 (CNA) -- Vice Economic Affairs Minister Li Shu-chiu is scheduled to lead a 20-member delegation to Indonesia in early April to help promote the government's "southern strategy," the Ministry of Economic Affairs announced Friday [11 March]. The delegation will be composed of officials from state-run enterprises such as Chinese Petroleum Corp. (CPC), Taiwan Power Company [Taipower], Taiwan Sugar Corp. [Taisugar], Taiwan Fertilizer Co. Ltd., China Steel Corp., BES Engineering Corp., and Taiwan Salt Works. Ministry officials said the CPC will be looking at oil exploration and oil refinery deals, and Taipower is interested in investing in both hydro and thermal power generation projects. In addition, CPC officials will meet with their Indonesian counterparts on the purchase of low-sulphur crude oil and liquefied natural gas, while Taipower will offer to help train Indonesian electricity engineers and managers. Taisugar, Taiwan Salt, Taiwan Fertilizer, and China Steel are looking forward to providing Indonesia with expertise in sugar-cane planting, salt panning, fertilizer manufacturing, and steel making, respectively, the officials pointed out. Moreover, they noted, BES is considering assisting Indonesia in the planning and construction of industrial parks and residential districts. The government's southern strategy has been fueled by Premier Lien Chan's vacation trip to Malaysia and Singapore at the beginning of the year and President Li Teng-hui's unofficial visit to the Philippines, Indonesia, and Thailand in February. The strategy encourages Taiwan manufacturers to increase investment in Vietnam and member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, which groups the Philippines, Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and Brunei.
