FBIS3-11520 "drlat056_m_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 Brazil Constitutional Revision Work To Continue PY2203211594 Rio de Janeiro Rede Globo Television in Portuguese 1600 GMT 22 Mar 94 PY2203211594 Rio de Janeiro Rede Globo Television Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] The party leaders in the Senate and Chamber of Deputies today decided to accelerate the constitutional revision process. They spent the morning meeting with the presidents of the two houses. They also decided to suspend payments to the Judicial and Legislative Branches until the impasse over the wage increase is solved. The constitutional revision sessions will begin earlier as of today, that is, at 1500. The PMDB [Brazilian Democratic Movement Party], the largest party in Congress, will be in charge of the political coordination. On Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays the PMDB will gather the leaders of the other parties to try to reach an agreement on the afternoon voting sessions. The party leaders also decided to create two committees, one to deal with the Social Security reform and the other to deal with tax reform. Constitutional revision rapporteur Deputy Nelson Jobim believes this will facilitate the revision work: [Begin recording] If a consensus is not reached on a subject it will then be voted on, approved or rejected. That is, the process will continue. [end recording] After the meeting the presidents of the two houses announced they decided to suspend paying deputies, senators, and Congress employees until an agreement is reached on the conversion of salaries into URV's [Real Value Unit]. Neither Chamber of Deputies President Inocencio Oliveira or Senate President Humberto Lucena have mentioned retreating from their position regarding the salary increase. Nonetheless, they bet on a negotiated solution. [Begin Humberto Lucena recording] I think we must act like firemen, but we must not add fuel to the fire. Now, in a presidential system such negotiations could only prosper by initiative of the president of the Republic, who is the one who commands the political, administrative, and institutional process of the country. [end recording]
