FBIS3-46072 "drchi017_p_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Jan 1994 Central-South Region Henan Secretary's Activities From 13 to 19 Jan Inspects Counties 17-19 Jan HK2601102494 Zhengzhou Henan People's Radio Network in Mandarin 1030 GMT 20 Jan 94 HK2601102494 Zhengzhou Henan People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] From 17 to 19 January, provincial party Secretary Li Changchun inspected Xiangcheng and Fugou Counties in Zhoukou Prefecture. [passage omitted] Secretary Li Changchun made an important speech in which he said: In the past year the Zhoukou Prefectural Party Committee has done a great deal of work. Practice has proved that this prefectural party committee is united and firm, and the prefecture has made great progress in economic construction. It has registered four first's in the province. First, it was the first to break through major and important cases in the combat against corruption; second, it was the first to introduce foreign capital for Zhoukou City's road construction; third, Luyi and Xiangcheng Counties were the first to top [figure indistinct] in revenue; fourth, the Huaiyang County Public Security Bureau was the first to proceed with crackdowns on highway robberies. Li Changchun requested that prefectural party committee officials emancipate their minds, change their way of thinking, deepen reform, seize the opportunity, boost their morale, and profoundly understand Deng Xiaoping's remarks. [passage omitted] He said there was a need to give prominence to the following points: The first is enterprise reform; enterprises which are operating normally must form a modern enterprise system; loss- incurring enterprises must introduce the shareholding system or the contract system or allow civilians to run them under state ownership. The second is establishing the social insurance system. The third is rectifying the market order. The fourth is stepping up cadre and personnel system reform. The fifth is speeding up housing system reform. The sixth is deepening rural reform and developing a diversified economy. Li Changchun demanded that overdue wages for teachers be paid before the Spring Festival. [passage omitted]
