FBIS4-44252 "drweu124_q_94012" FBIS-WEU-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 TURKEY Investigation of HADAP Congress Launched Investigation of HADAP Congress Launched TA2706184494 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1700 GMT 27 Jun 94 TA2706184494 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report] [Text] The Ankara State Security Court has launched an investigation in connection with the first congress of the People's Democracy Party [Halkin Demokrasi Partisi--HADEP]. According to information received by a TRT correspondent from Nusret Demiral, chief prosecutor of the Ankara State Security Court, an investigation was started on the grounds that propaganda against the nation was conducted during the HADEP congress yesterday. Pointing out that slogans in favor of the terrorist PKK [Workers Party of Kurdistan] organization were voiced during the congress, Demiral noted: We will investigate whether or not this party is a front organization. Demiral remarked that the transcripts of voice and video cassettes recorded during the congress will also be studied within the framework of the investigation. Meanwhile, Interior Minister Nahit Mentese announced that criminal charges will be filed with regard to the first HADEP congress. In a news conference in Istanbul's Yalova District, Mentese said that HADEP was established to replace the Democracy Party, which was banned by the Constitutional Court. Mentese noted that the statements made in favor of the PKK and Apo [nom de guerre for PKK leader Abdullah Ocalan] during the congress constitute a crime and criminal charges will be filed in this connection. He declared: Our country and nation are indivisible. No one will be able to divide them. Mentese explained that the Kurds in Turkey possess all rights, there is no ethnic discrimination between citizens of Turkish, Kurdish, Circassian, or Albanian origin, and everyone is a first- class citizen. The interior minister added: The Kurds may be second-class citizens in Iraq; but, in our country, they are first-class citizens. In reply to a question, Mentese said that the necessary procedures have been started to convert Yalova into a province.
