FBIS3-30824 "dreeu027_c_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Interviewed on Visit LD0802204794 Prague Radiozurnal Radio Network in Czech 1700 GMT 8 Feb 94 LD0802204794 Prague Radiozurnal Radio Network Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Interview with Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus by Lucie Weissova at the conclusion of his visit to Israel; place and date not given--recorded] [Excerpts] [Weissova] Mr. Prime Minister, the official talks with Israeli senior figures are now behind you, so I would like to ask you what the aims of your trip to Israel were and whether your talks fulfilled your expectations. [Klaus] This is the first visit by a prime minister of our country to Israel. I think our relations with Israel have always been good. The episode when we had a communist regime should be quickly erased. This was the main aim of our visit--to learn about the situation in this complicated region. It is really not enough to read books and articles about it; you need to see it yourself. [passage omitted] The other aim was to tell people here about our country. [passage omitted] The last thing is something more specific. For a long time, we found ourselves deadlocked as regards an agreement on the protection of investments; we signed agreements with a number of countries without any problems. However, there was a great problem here because of our different views on the repatriation of investment profits. Our negotiators had been unable to reach a consensus, and the matter really called for a decision to be made by two prime ministers--and we took it. We signed a joint communique, and the agreement can be signed soon. And something even more important: We are interested in opposing protectionism anywhere in the world and are therefore offering free trade zones. [passage omitted] I think we have managed to reach the joint conclusion with the Israeli side that Israel, too, is interested in creating such a zone between our country and Israel soon. This is also included in the joint communique that Prime Minister Rabin and I signed. [passage omitted]
