FBIS3-58295 "drweu007_k_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 PORTUGAL Soares Comments on Crises, Families, East Timor LD1001194694 Lisbon Radio Renascenca in Portuguese to Europe 1700 GMT 10 Jan 94 LD1001194694 Lisbon Radio Renascenca Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Passages within quotation marks are recorded] [Text] President Mario Soares has taken up his New Year message again. Last year left a lot to be desired. The year was marked by an economic recession and numerous international conflicts. Therefore, according to Soares, it is necessary to fight for peace and for the value of the family. The president did not forget East Timor. Maria Rui reports: [Rui] The year 1993 will not be missed. That is how Mario Soares opened his 12-page address to the diplomatic corps accredited in Lisbon. Soares also spoke about Timor, and of the wars and hunger in the world. The president did not forget the various crises, from the economic crisis to the one concerning family values. [Soares] "The year 1993 will not be missed. It was a difficult year in which numerous conflicts emerged and developed, some showing a rare level of violence, in various continents. The year was also marked by a deep and persistent economic recession, which not only affected the weaker nations -- and how -- but also did not spare the major world pillars of development. Two-thirds of humanity, almost at the end of this millennium, unfortunately continue still subjected to the darkest of hungers, to epidemics and various diseases." [Rui] It is necessary to fight, Mario Soares said. To fight against the crisis of civilization, as Pope John Paul II said to fight to defend the family. It is a crisis of values. It is also necessary to fight against the invading power of money and the dazzle of easy material success. It is therefore necessary to preserve the family. [Soares] "Therefore it is necessary to encourage and dignify its existence without forgetting that this implies fighting against poverty and giving each family, particularly the economically weak ones, adequate living and housing conditions and the basic means necessary to ensure that children, who continue to be the world's hope, can be spared the scourge of marginality, violence, delinquency, malnourishment and drugs." [Rui] The president's last words went to East Timor. Portugal continues to seek a solution to end Indonesia's military occupation of Timor with a view to the territory's self-determination.
