FBIS3-12910 "drnes045bb_94003" FBIS-NES-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 Inter-Arab Affairs League Chief: Boycott of Israel To Be Discussed 26 Mar JN0703143994 Amman AL-DUSTUR in Arabic 7 Mar 94 pp 32, 24 JN0703143994 Amman AL-DUSTUR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [By Hamdan al-Haj] [Text] Amman -- Arab League Secretary General Dr. 'Ismat 'Abd-al-Majid has stated that the Arab League foreign ministers will meet at its headquarters on 26 March to discuss the Arab boycott of Israel, an issue which the Arab League constantly keeps on its agenda. He stressed that the ministers will discuss the direct and indirect boycott and make the appropriate decision on the issue. In a telephone conversation with AL-DUSTUR yesterday, Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid said that the ministers will also discuss amending the Arab League Charter by introducing supplements to bring it in line with the current circumstances, changes, and developments. Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid said that the Arab League seeks with all its efforts and capabilities to achieve Arab reconciliation, and overcome the repercussions the Arab nation experiences in the wake of the Gulf crisis by raising the slogan of frankness before reconciliation. Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid said that he summoned the representatives of the UN Security Council permanent and nonpermanent members to inform them about the Arab League denunciation and condemnation of the massacre in the blessed Irahimi Mosque, and asked them to appeal to their countries and governments to take steps to immediately have the UN Security Council issue a resolution condemning the massacre and providing protection for the Palestinians. Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid said that Major General Sa'id Bayraqdar, Arab League assistant secretary general, and head of the Arab League mission to Yemen, phoned him yesterday to brief him on the efforts he is undertaking to settle the Yemeni crisis. Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid said that Maj Gen Bayraqdar will leave for Aden today, Monday to meet Vice President 'ali Salim al-Bid, after which he will return to Sanaa to meet with Yemeni President 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih to exchange views on how to settle the differences between the Yemeni brothers.
