FBIS4-525 "drafr070_a_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-070 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Gabon Government Lifts State of Alert, Curfew Government Lifts State of Alert, Curfew AB0804212294 Paris AFP in French 1935 GMT 8 Apr 94 AB0804212294 Paris AFP French BFN [Text] Libreville, 8 Apr (AFP) -- The state of alert and the curfew that has been in force almost constantly for four months in Gabon were lifted this evening, government spokesman Paulette Missambo announced after a meeting of the Council of Ministers. "After a report by Defense Minister General Idriss Ngari to the Council of Ministers on the calm prevailing in the country, the council decided to lift this emergency regulation as of today," Mrs. Missambo added in a statement to the media at the end of the first session of the new Gabonese Government formed on 25 March. The state of alert, "an emergency decree restricting public liberties" that bans demonstrations and provides for the imposition of a curfew, was decreed on 9 December 1993 following disturbances in Libreville after the reelection of President Omar Bongo was announced. The head of state's victory in the first round of the country's first multiparty presidential election was challenged by the opposition, which claimed it had been won by one of their leaders, Father Paul Mba Abessole, chairman of the National Lumberjacks Rally [RNB]. Lifted on 13 February, the state of alert was reimposed a week later as a general strike called for by a confederation of labor unions close to the opposition resulted in fresh violence in Libreville. Many densely populated districts of the capital were affected by the disturbances, which lasted four days. According to official figures, nine people, including two soldiers, were killed in the violence. The government blamed Father Mba Abessole and his party for the unrest, but the charges were rejected by the opposition. The RNB's radio in Libreville was destroyed "in retaliation," according to the authorities, by the security forces who also attacked the opposition leader's residence. In response to the violence, the main opposition leaders, grouped within the High Council of Resistance, called for the opening of "true talks" with the government, while laying down a series of conditions, including the lifting of the state of alert.
