FBIS3-25480 "drafr035_c_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Issues Statement on Talks MB2102185694 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1834 GMT 21 Feb 94 MB2102185694 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by H.Birns and N. Patterton] [Text] Pretoria Feb 21 SAPA -- The Freedom Alliance [FA] on Monday [21 February] conceded "some victories" had been gained in its talks with the government and the African National Congress, but said negotiations remained deadlocked due to persisting fundamental flaws in the interim constitution. The Alliance said in a statement after meeting in Pretoria positive results included the acceptance of the two-ballot system; substitution of the name "Natal" by "kwaZulu/Natal"; provision for the principle of self-determination; and improvements in the fiscal and financial self-government of provinces, although no autonomy to raise taxes had been gained. "Nevertheless, these are more than counter-balanced by critical and fundamental constitutional issues, which have not been resolved and which are vital for peace and stability in southern Africa." The Alliance insisted the powers and functions of provincial governments had not been improved, nor had concessions been made in this regard. It said provincial governments would have less powers than those held before 1986 by the present provinces or than those of the current self-governing states. Concessions made on the right of provinces to draw up their own constitutions which would be protected, had been "devalued by the lack of improvement of the very powers that are to be protected". There was also still no guarantee that an Afrikaner volkstaat [homeland] would be established before or after the election, and the same held true for others who wanted self-determination. Alliance Chairman Rowan Cronje said the FA remained prepared to negotiate an inclusive political settlement and would welcome it if other parties made continued discussions possible. If they do not, then they leave us with no alternative but to look at alternatives," Mr Cronje said.
