FBIS3-3393 "drchi054_k_94038" FBIS-CHI-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 Political & Social Zhou Nan Discusses Work of SAR Preliminary Committee OW1903114694 Beijing Central People's Radio Network in Mandarin 1100 GMT 18 Mar 94 OW1903114694 Beijing Central People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [From the "Special Program on the NPC and CPPCC Sessions"] [Text] Listeners, there are only three years left before the Chinese Government begins to exercise China's sovereignty over Hong Kong. Over 100 years of British colonial rule in Hong Kong will soon end. In light of Britain's uncooperative position, and pursuant to a National People's Congress [NPC] Standing Committee decision, the Preliminary Working Committee of the Preparatory Committee [PWCPC] of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region [SAR] has begun its work. Speaking about Premier Li Peng's instructions to the PWCPC in his government work report, Zhou Nan, PWCPC vice chairman and director of XINHUA NEWS AGENCY Hong Kong Branch, said: [begin recording] The PWCPC has become operational, entering the stage of practical work. Its main mission is to guarantee Hong Kong's prosperity and stability in the last stage of Hong Kong's transitional period, and to ensure a smooth transition in 1997. This is its major task. The PWCPC will undertake effective preparations for the SAR Preparatory Committee. The PWCPC shoulders a grave responsibility. However, I do not envision any unsurmountable difficulties. As a result of Chris Patten's fracas, Hong Kong compatriots have obtained a deeper understanding of Chris Patten's true face. For people across the country, it is a living education in patriotism. I believe we can successfully carry out the tasks entrusted to us by the NPC Standing Committee, live up to the expectations of people across the country, and complete preparations for Hong Kong's triumphant return to the motherland and the Chinese Government's exercise of sovereignty over the region. We are confident of accomplishing these tasks. [end recording]
