FBIS4-449 "drafr070_d_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-070 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Views Conditions for New Elections Views Conditions for New Elections MB1104123894 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro in Portuguese 1200 GMT 11 Apr 94 MB1104123894 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro Portuguese BFN [Text] The Angolan peace talks, which went into recess last week, are likely to resume tomorrow. This has been diclosed by Conde [as heard], assistant to UN Special Representative Alioune Blondin Beye. That UN official also said that there is no danger that the talks might collapse. He expressed concern, however, about continuing military clashes in general, and in particular about bombardments by the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola- Labor Party, MPLA-PT air force against cities controlled by the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, UNITA. It is noteworthy that the team led by Faustino Muteka, which surprisingly left the Zambian capital last week, has now been back in Lusaka since yesterday. When the Angolan peace talks resume tomorrow, they will be focusing on the issue of the second round of presidential elections. This has been disclosed by a UN source quoted by the Portuguese Broadcasting Corporation, RDP. Meanwhile, UNITA Information Secretary Dr. Jorge Valentim has said today that the second round of presidential elections will depend on three indispensable factors of a material, psychological, and political nature. He noted that the second round of presidential elections will be held when the country has achieved stability and the administrative sector is ready to provide equal service to all people, irrespective of where they may live or the party they support. It is necessary that the people experience security so that all political parties can go openly about their political work. For the second round of presidential elections, UNITA is demanding that the former National Electoral Council, CNE, be scrapped. UNITA has also demanded parity with the government in the future CNE.
