FBIS3-57079 "drsov015_c_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Federal Assembly Rossel Complains of Government Pressure on Parliament MK2101141594 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 21 Jan 94 p 2 MK2101141594 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Irina Vladykina report under the "Regions" rubric: "Eduard Rossel: Federation Council Was Subjected to Pressure. Sverdlovsk Oblast Deputies Want To Set Up `Urals Group' in Federation Council"] [Text] Eduard Rossel and Galina Karelova, Federation Council deputies from Sverdlovsk Oblast, spoke to journalists in Yekaterinburg on the results of the first meeting of the Russian parliament's upper chamber. Eduard Rossel said that he was astonished by the undisguised pressure exerted on the deputies by the "top chiefs." The thing is that on the morning before the vote 58 heads of administration (they were lodged at the President Hotel, not the "Rossiya") were invited to breakfast with Mr. Chernomyrdin, where, to all appearances, they were given a directive to vote for Vladimir Shumeyko. The same went for representatives of the military-industrial sector, the deputy said. Given that 32 deputies from "Siberian Agreement," who had earlier decided to vote for Mr. Romanov, general director of an association from Krasnoyarsk, voted for Shumeyko, as a result the latter won by a margin of eight or nine votes. Galina Karelova, who was elected chairman of the Russian Federation Council's social policy committee, sees the situation somewhat differently. "I think there was an element of persuasion," she told the journalists, "but the voting was held by secret ballot, and administration heads are exceptionally independent people who do not seem to me very amenable to pressure from above. In addition, Vladimir Shumeyko managed to impress the deputies: he is very self- disciplined, restrained, and calm. He did not leave an impression of a man lacking firm view or convictions." Both Eduard Rossel and Galina Karelova spoke out for setting up a deputy group comprising Federation Council members from the Urals. Mr. Rossel plans to create it on the basis of the Economic Cooperation Association of the Urals Region's Oblasts and Republics. Ms. Karelova thinks that this group could operate as a deliberative conference of deputies from the Urals that would help them hold a joint, mutually advantageous stance in parliament.
