FBIS4-49601 "drchi089_o_94012" FBIS-CHI-94-089 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 REGIONAL AFFAIRS East Region Li Zemin Commends Zhejiang's Model Liu Lingying Li Zemin Commends Zhejiang's Model Liu Lingying OW0905053094 Hangzhou Zhejiang People's Radio Network in Mandarin 1000 GMT 11 Apr 94 OW0905053094 Hangzhou Zhejiang People's Radio Network Mandarin BFN [From the "Provincial News Hookup" program] [Excerpts] The Zhejiang Provincial CPC Committee today called a meeting to learn from Comrade Liu Lingying. Liu Feng, deputy secretary of the provincial party, chaired the meeting, at which Deputy Secretary Lu Zhangong of the provincial party committee read out a decision by the committee to carry out activities in learning from Comrade Liu Lingying. On behalf of the Zhejiang Provincial CPC Committee, Secretary of the provincial party committee Li Zemin presented Liu Lingying with a horizontal board on which the following words are inscribed: Dedicated to her work, selfless and dauntless. In his important speech at the meeting, Comrade Li Zemin highly praised Comrade Liu Lingying's deeds, saying: Comrade Liu Lingying is an outstanding representative of our province's many advanced people and model workers in the new period; a fine daughter of the party and people; and an example for the people of the province to learn from. Comrade Li Zemin stressed: In learning from Comrade Liu Lingying's advanced deeds and ideas, first, we should learn from her in putting the interests of the state and people above everything else, and in creating an atmosphere in which everyone should subordinates their own interests to those of the whole and protect and contribute to the latter. Second, we should learn from her in being highly responsible for her work, being willing to work at an ordinary post, being selfless and dedicated to her work, being cautious and conscientious, and working hard in a down-to-earth manner. Third, we should learn from Comrade Liu in having firm faith in socialism and a lofty outlook on life. Fourth, we should learn from Comrade Liu Lingying in being ready to take up the cudgel for a just cause, being selfless and dauntless, and daring to firmly fight against a criminal. Fifth, we should learn from Comrade Liu Lingying in always upholding principles, handling matters impartially, being content with a plain or even poor life, being scrupulous in separating public from private interest, and never abusing her power to seek personal gain. Her ideas, values, moral character, and work style are good, indeed. [passage omitted] Prior to the meeting, Li Zemin, Liu Feng, Chai Songyue, Lu Zhangong, Liang Pingbo, Chen Yuexing, and other leaders of the provincial party and government organizations met cordially with Liu Lingying and her husband. They also asked with concern about her recovery and living conditions. [passage omitted]
