FBIS4-24130 "drafr122_a_94002" FBIS-AFR-94-122 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Equatorial Guinea President Hails French Intervention in Rwanda President Hails French Intervention in Rwanda AB2406113594 Malabo Radio Nacional de Guinea Ecuatorial Network in Spanish 0600 GMT 24 Jun 94 AB2406113594 Malabo Radio Nacional de Guinea Ecuatorial Network Spanish BFN [Text] President Obiang Nguema Mbasogo has sent the following congratulatory message to His Excellency President Francois Mitterrand of the French Republic which reads: Mr. President and dear friend, We have learned with great satisfaction the French Government's historic decision to dispatch troops to Rwanda to provide humanitarian aid and to ensure peace there after the two-month-old massacres resulting from the ethnic war in that African country. This decision, Mr. President, is not at all surprising to my government as it is in response to the imperative need to preserve international peace as advocated by the United Nations, whose (?fundamental) principles have always been France's objective. I would like to express to your excellency my government's unflinching support for and solidarity with the French Government in its efforts to save human lives in Rwanda. This initiative should be supported unconditionally by the entire international community. Please accept, Mr. President and dear friend, the expression of my sincerest support and solidarity as well as my kindest regards. For a better Equatorial Guinea. [Signed] President Obiang Nguema Mbasogo. The president also addressed a message to Prime Minister Edouard Balladur in Paris which reads as follows: Mr. Prime Minister, We have learned with great satisfaction the French Government's historic decision to dispatch troops to Rwanda to provide humanitarian aid and to ensure peace there after the two-month-old massacres resulting from the ethnic war in that African country. This decision, Mr. Prime Minister, is not at all surprising to my government as it is in response to the imperative need to preserve international peace as advocated by the United Nations, whose (?fundamental) principles have always been France's objective. I would like to express to your excellency my government's unflinching support for and solidarity with the French Government in its efforts to save human lives in Rwanda. This initiative should be supported unconditionally by the entire international community. Please accept, Mr. Prime Minister and dear friend, the expression of my sincerest support and solidarity as well as my kindest regards. For a better Equatorial Guinea. [Signed] President Obiang Nguema Mbasogo.
