FBIS4-53190 "dreas096_m_94009" FBIS-EAS-94-096 Daily Report 18 May 1994 Thailand Problems in Relations With Cambodia Discussed Problems in Relations With Cambodia Discussed Impact of Fighting on Thailand BK1805060194 Bangkok THE NATION in English 18 May 94 p A5 BK1805060194 Bangkok THE NATION English BFN [By Marisa Chimprapha] [Text] Phnom Penh -- The Thai Ambassador to Phnom Penh, Sakthip Krairoek, yesterday called on Cambodia and the world at large to recognize the suffering Thailand has had to face as a result of conflicts inside Cambodia. Sakthip said wide criticism had been leveled at Thailand for its alleged support of the Khmer Rouge, but critics seemed to ignore the fact that Thai people had been badly affected. The envoy was referring to criticism by Cambodian prime minister Prince Norodom Ranariddh. The Cambodian government recently appealed for financial support to enable it to finally crush the Khmer Rouge, the Maoist group under whose reign of terror more than 1 million Cambodians died in the 1970s. Thailand's responded to Cambodia's latest request for international support by saying it would be wrong for other countries to supply arms to either side in the long-running Cambodian civil war. The U.S., Australia and France are considering Cambodia's request for assistance. However an informed source yesterday said no written request had been sent to the governments of the three countries. Prince Ranariddh said Thailand's opposition to the request is tantamount to interference in Cambodia's internal affairs. Sakthip said: "We are an immediate neighbor of Cambodia. The continued fighting in Cambodia has seriously affected Thai villagers along the border. Increasing the supply of weapons to Cambodian troops would certainly increase the suffering of Thais. "Does the world community know about the deaths of innocent Thais and the damage caused to Thai property along the border when the Cambodians are fighting. Other countries only seem to be aware of the allegation that Thailand supports the Khmer Rouge," he said. Sakthip said that Thailand has every right to express the opinion that the supply of more weapons to Phnom Penh would prolong the military confrontation. High-ranking Thai officials, including the military, have voiced strong opposition to the request, saying the weapons would be sold across the Thai border by the ill-disciplined Cambodian government troops. "Does Prince Ranariddh know about the Thai suffering. And if he knows, does he care?" said Sakthip. Despite Thailand lodging numerous complaints with the Cambodian foreign ministry, Phnom Penh continued to ignore the plight of Thai villagers. "That's why Thailand resisted the Cambodians' plea for arms," he said.
