FBIS3-21416 "jpnea015___94018" JPRS-NEA-94-015 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 6 February 1994 NEAR EAST SUDAN New Opposition Alliance Describes Goals 94LD0007A London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 6 Feb 94 p 3 94LD0007A London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Language: Arabic Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article: "Sudanese Political Organization Attacks Government and Opposition] [Text] At a press conference held in London yesterday, a group of Sudanese announced the establishment of a new political organization called the "Sudanese Federal Democratic Alliance." The leaders of the new organization announced that their motive for establishing this organization is their fear for [the future of] Sudan, especially after talk began going around concerning the secession of the south, in view of the failure to deal with Sudan's vital issues concerning determining its identity, building its society, and establishing foundations that would include [all Sudanese] people in a single country and promote the building of the country. Mr. Ahmad Ibrahim Durayj, a Sudanese politician who was formerly the governor of the province of Darfur, is head of the founding committee of the Sudanese Federal Democratic Alliance, and he said, in a statement to AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT, that his political group is broaching political ideas and is not hostile to any political party. He said that their political ideas are non-partisan and are directed to all Sudanese, regardless of their political and geographic affiliations and orientations and their religious beliefs. The press statement distributed by the new organization pointed out that, after 38 years [of independence], Sudan is suffering from an unprecedented decline and collapse of its national institutions. He added: "The civil war continues to take the lives of thousands of Sudanese citizens and to force millions to flee their homes and villages, thus causing poverty and famine, destroying the nation's infrastructure, blocking all efforts for development, and leading to the collapse of the economy." The statement, signed by Mr. Durayj, criticized the present regime in Khartoum, which he described as a "continuation, in the extreme sense, of the political views of the sectarian leadership of the country's two main parties." He said: "All political opposition forces have failed to create a common framework with our brethren from the south, and this has made it even more likely that the nation will become fragmented." The new alliance indicated that it is not a political party, but rather a democratic political organization that has the goal of gathering together all political and social forces as well as individuals. He said that he is committed to eliminating the current regime in Sudan, "but does not wish to put in its place forces that would attempt to carry out a program that would not differ from that of the current regime." The leaders of the new organization feel that the form of government that has existed in Sudan since independence has been a failure. They consider the federal form of government to be the solution to the governmental crisis as well as the problems of both the administrative center and the provinces. They also stress, first and foremost, the need to establish the necessary laws and programs for building a unified country, and they feel that religion should not play a role in politics--in other words, they favor the building of a secular state.
