FBIS4-8193 "dreeu070_i_94022" FBIS-EEU-94-070 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA `Laser Technology' Used To Bomb Serb Children `Laser Technology' Used To Bomb Serb Children LD1104162094 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1557 GMT 11 Apr 94 LD1104162094 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN [Text] Belgrade, April 11 (TANJUG) -- The vice-president of the Bosnian Serb republic (R.S.), Biljana Plavsic, on Monday said the attacks by NATO planes near the eastern Bosnian Moslem enclave of Gorazde had killed Serb civilians and that the "bombing of Serb children used sophisticated laser technology". At a protest rally organized outside the U.S. Embassy building in Belgrade by the independent anti-racial association "White Rose", Plavsic said that at the time when Serbs were offering lasting peace, the United Nations, instead of sending observers to Gorazde, sent experts for the guiding of missiles. The R.S. vice-president said a toll of the NATO air strikes is yet unknown, but the R.S. leadership is on the ground. She said it was quite certain that civilians had been killed because she said bombs had been dropped deep in the R.S. territory -- on the populated areas. She said Bosnian Serbs had broken off all contacts with U.N. Protection Force (UNPROFOR). "Nothing is as it had been before the bombing any longer, and the Serbian people has a new aggressor before it," she said. Plavsic announced that further steps to be taken by the Serb side would be decided on Tuesday, at a meeting of the R.S. supreme command. The vice-president of the "White Rose" association, writer Radomir Smiljanic said the air strikes on Serbs had eventually unmasked the United Nations, NATO and the Western powers. By the NATO move yesterday, peace has been undermined, and the world community has sided with one of the parties to the conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina -- the Moslems, he said. The protest was held in front of the U.S. Embassy in Belgrade, in connection with U.S. NATO planes' air strikes on Serb positions near the eastern enclave of Gorazde, which were carried out on Sunday at the request of UNPROFOR. Although Gorazde should have been demilitarized last spring, as one of the six Moslem safe areas, it was used as a starting-point of attacks of 10,000 Moslem troops on Serb positions around the town. According to UNPROFOR reports, the fighting around Gorazde has been provoked by the Moslems. According to Serb military sources, the Moslem authorities in Sarajevo want to capture more territory before the resumption of the peace talks mediated by the international community.
