FBIS3-17193 "drsov057_b_94018" FBIS-SOV-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues `No Crisis' in Energy Complex LD2303215194 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1700 GMT 23 Mar 94 LD2303215194 Moscow Russian Television Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Video report by correspondent A. Pishchayev, including recorded comment by Yuriy Shafranik, Russian minister for fuel and power engineering; from the "Vesti" newscast] [Text] [Shafranik] We think that in the actual fuel and energy crisis...[pauses] in the fuel complex, there is no crisis and never was. [Pishchayev] That is how Yuriy Shafranik described the situation in the fuel and energy complex at a news conference at Government House. Incidentally, he pointed out that there was, nevertheless, a slump in production, but it was caused by a fall-off in demand. There was a general downturn in production in the country's industry in 1993 of up to 16 percent, but in the fuel and energy complex it was no higher than seven, although in other sectors of the national economy the slump was considerably higher. In the minister's view, the main reason for the difficulty lay in the crisis of the financial system and in the insolvency of consumers. They owed the fuel and energy complex a total of some 16 trillion rubles. As in other sectors of the national economy, the way out of the situation is seen as being through the consumer's initiating direct ties with the producer and, in the actual fuel and energy complex, through assigning priority to payments for fuel and energy resources and strict sanctions against nonpayers. If the question of nonpayment were settled, Yuriy Shafranik remarked, the lowering of fuel prices would be guaranteed. Trying to persuade journalists that everything was well in the fuel and energy complex, the minister announced that checks had been made into the financial activities of organizations, including Rosugol [Russia Coal], that make up the fuel and energy complex. No serious irregularities were found there.
