FBIS3-45830 "drchi015_n_94026" FBIS-CHI-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Economic & Agricultural New Laws To Protect Mineral Resources `Essential' HK2101072094 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 20 Jan 94 p 4 HK2101072094 Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:BFN [By staff reporter: "New Laws Essential To Curb Waste in Mining"] [Text] It is time the central government set up tough legislation to protect the nation's mineral resources from random exploitation. Minerals are part of the nation's wealth, but China is getting inadequate return from mining because of the industry's traditional management and benefit distribution system. Under the old system, mining enterprises were deemed to own the minerals they dug out. There was no need for them to pay the State anything so they were left to enjoy the fruits of any profits they made. Even now, to get easy cash, some enterprises abandon mines once they have dug out the most accessible minerals. Meanwhile, others dig where they please leading to a further waste of the nation's resources. The old mining system cannot satisfy consumption when the national economy is growing fast. And despite China seemingly having abundant mineral resources, the amount per head is less than half the average world figure. Mining enterprises, instead of relying on government funds, should try to fund exploration for new ores themselves. Licence The problems in the industry are now so grave that a new management system and legislation must be drawn up. The new system should make fresh mineral resources the property of the State and mining enterprises should apply for licenses to the government before digging starts. In addition, they should pay the State for the use of mines. It is also essential that mines improve their equipment and technology if they are to avoid further wasting mineral resources Only a new management and benefit distribution system can ease the industry's growth, improve the supply of raw materials and so boost manufacturing in the socialist market economy.
