FBIS3-54163 "drnes015_s_94007" FBIS-NES-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Iran Lifting of Arab Boycott on Israel Criticized NC2201074994 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0445 GMT 22 Jan 94 NC2201074994 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Language: Persian Article Type:BFN [Commentary by the News Research and Commentaries Group] [Text] Arab League Secretary General 'Ismat 'Abd-al-Majid has said that at their periodic session in March in Damascus the Arab foreign ministers will study the lifting of economic sanctions on Israel. This announcement by the Arab League secretary general came after his meeting with U.S. Secretary of Commerce Ronald Brown and shows that the addition of this topic on the agenda of the upcoming Arab League foreign ministers' session was done because of U.S. pressure. Political observers believe that U.S. pressure on the Arabs to lift the economic sanctions on Israel cannot be understood with any kind of logic, since the conditions that forced the Arab countries to boycott the Zionist regime 40 years ago still exist and, apart from the signing of a scrap of paper on Gaza-Jericho self-rule, no perceptible change has taken place. In other words, the Zionist regime continues to occupy Arab territories, is avoiding the implementation of Security Council resolutions, and has recently intensified the suppression of the oppressed Palestinian people without having any qualms. Thus, at a time when there is no new variant that can call for the lifting of the Arabs' sanctions on Israel, how can America's request be assessed? There is no doubt that Washington-Tel Aviv relations have had a special characteristic since the establishment of the Zionist regime and that America's supportive attitude toward Israel can be assessed and understood only within this framework. Bill Clinton's meeting with Syrian President Hafiz al-Asad in Geneva last week to remove the existing obstacles in the Syrian-Israeli talks showed that America is the guardian and mouthpiece of Israel, a reality that the White House has not thought necessary to hide for a long time now. These sinister relations between Washington and Tel Aviv have rendered America partial, which is one of the most important obstacles that prevents Washington from playing the role of mediator in the solution to the Middle East crisis. In view of such a situation, the signing of any type of agreement between the Arabs and Israel will definitely benefit the Zionist regime.
