FBIS4-64179 "drsov104_u_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-104 Daily Report 27 May 1994 Latvia Ruling Coalition Agrees on Common Citizenship Bill Ruling Coalition Agrees on Common Citizenship Bill WS3005121194 Tallinn BNS in English 1548 GMT 27 May 94 WS3005121194 Tallinn BNS English BFN [Text] Riga, May 27, BNS -- The Latvian Saeima (parliament) ruling coalition partners, Latvia's Way and Farmers' Union, reached an agreement Friday [27 May] on a common version of the draft citizenship law. The draft represents an optimal version, which took into account both Council of Europe's recommendations and right-wing opposition's proposals, said Latvia's Way faction Chairman Andrejs Pantelejevs. Under the bill, non-citizens are naturalized in accordance with a complicated system of quotas that grants the citizenship only to those who have de facto integrated into the Latvian society. The bill stipulates preferential naturalization of persons at least one parent of whose is ethnic Latvian; persons who legally came to Latvia and lived there before June 17, 1940; Lithuanian and Estonian ethnic minorities; spouses of Latvian citizens who have been married for at least 10 years. All these groups, however, should know the Latvian language. The bill introduces one more category of persons for preferential naturalization -- those who have finished full high school course in Latvian. The rest are free to apply for naturalization starting with Jan. 1, 1996. From those, preference is given to persons who were born in Latvia. Starting with year 2000, persons who do not fall into any of the above mentioned groups will be naturalized in compliance with naturalization quota 0.1 percent of the body of Latvian citizens per year. Pantelejevs prognosticates that the real preferential naturalization will begin Jan. 1, 1995, because the naturalization mechanism is not complete yet. During this stage, 150,000 persons could be granted the Latvian citizenship, he said. Latvian citizenship will not be granted to persons who have been by court recognized as having propagated the ideas of chauvinism, nationalism and fascism, as well as actively worked against the Latvian independence. In addition, citizenship will not be given to former Soviet military retirees, who have chosen Latvia as permanent residence country. This restriction, however, does not refer to ethnic Latvians and spouses of Latvian citizens. Pantelejevs acknowledged that this version was more radical than required in CE [Council of Europe] recommendations but he said it gives citizen candidates a clear view of their future prospects. If the citizenship law is adopted in the Saeima spring session, CE could consider the issue of Latvia's acceptance in its fall session. Pantelejevs forecasts that the bill would be considered in the second reading in the parliament on June 9. Pantelejevs said he hoped that the opposition would not block the law's adoption.
