FBIS4-5415 "dreas069_a_94019" FBIS-EAS-94-069 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Debate on Successor to Hosokawa Continues Debate on Successor to Hosokawa Continues LDP Group Supports Watanabe OW1104103794 Tokyo KYODO in English 1007 GMT 11 Apr 94 OW1104103794 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, April 11 KYODO -- A policy study group of the opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) urged its leadership on Monday [11 April] to initiate a bid to sweep former Foreign Minister Michio Watanabe to power to succeed outgoing Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa. The suprafaction group, "Liberals," chaired by former parliamentary Vice Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa, issued the appeal after adopting it at a meeting of 20 of the group's 36 legislators at LDP headquarters. Kakizawa was vice foreign minister when Watanabe held the portfolio of the foreign minister under the administration of former Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa. Watanabe was not present at the meeting. The group's appeal urged the LDP leadership to put an end to the current "futile" political structure, where LDP forces and anti-LDP forces clash with each other in a bid for power, members said. The LDP lost its 38-year grip on power last August after a series of defections led to the establishment of a seven-party coalition government. The group called on the leadership to strive to create a new coalition government that would not be paralyzed by intracoalition conflicts over crucial policy issues such as diplomacy or defense. The group urged the formation of a new administration led by Watanabe that would keep the "same distance from all political forces" that now comprise the governing coalition. Shokei Arai, a member of the group, told a news conference that followed the meeting, "Our vision is not to have Mr. Watanabe take advantage of Shinseito and Komeito." The two parties -- key forces within the ruling coalition -- are widely deemed as willing to name Watanabe as the next leader of a new coalition government due to his political influence and his parliamentary strength as head the LDP's third-largest faction, which has 46 members. Seiichi Ota, another member, did not rule out the possibility that the group's appeal for support for Watanabe might lead to the establishment of a new political party led by Watanabe. "There could be a range of variations" on possible political forces, he said.
