FBIS3-55988 "drsov009_a_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Paper Cites Officials on Upcoming Clinton Visit Strobe Talbott Comments PM1201122994 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI in Russian 12 Jan 94 p 3 PM1201122994 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report under the general heading "Americans Talk About Russia: U.S. President Bill Clinton's Four-Day State Visit to Moscow Begins Today. In Connection With This Event We Are Publishing Comments on Russia by Well Known American Politicians and Public Figures"] [Text] Strobe Talbott, special adviser to the U.S. secretary of state [title as published]: We are encouraging forces seeking integration with the whole world. An extremely important event for the whole world -- that is how Strobe Talbott, ambassador at large and special adviser to the U.S. secretary of state on the new independents states, described U.S. President Bill Clinton's forthcoming visit to Moscow. Answering journalists' questions during a TV linkup organized by the USIA, he noted that during this visit President Clinton will confirm that the United States "intends to firmly maintain its leading position in the international effort to support reform in Russia." These transformation, in S. Talbott's words, "can be considered the most important event of the present day." During the visit to Moscow President Clinton will also state that "Russia must have its own powerful voice" in determining how the "situation in the sphere of security in Europe and Eurasia in the post-cold war period" will work out. "If Russia continues its course of integration...and continues to pursue a policy based on respect for neighboring states and their sovereignty and independence it will be able to join in the process of integration and the expansion of NATO," S. Talbott noted. After touching on the question of the prospects of relations with Russia, S. Talbott remarked that the Clinton administration looks to the future with "great optimism" because "Russia has a strong president." "President Yeltsin was and remains the leader of the reform process," he stressed. "We are trying," S. Talbott added, "to encourage those forces in Russia which are actively striving to ensure that the country makes the transition from communism to integration with the rest of the world."
