FBIS3-58148 "drweu006__a94024" FBIS-WEU-94-006-A Document Type:Daily Report 10 January 1994 ANNEX Italy Officials Question Former Sisde Official Broccoletti BR0701144694 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 1311 GMT 7 Jan 93--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0701144694 Rome ANSAMAIL Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Sisde Questioning: Rome Prosecutor Denies Press Accounts"] [Text] Rome, 7 Jan (ANSA) -- Today's Italian press reports on what former domestic secret services (Sisde) comptroller Maurizio Broccoletti, suspected of embezzlement and criminal association, told investigators during five hours of questioning yesterday "contain many inaccuracies, and many elements particularly highlighted by the media do not in fact appear in Broccoletti's statements at all," the Rome Prosecutors Office announced today in a statement. That statement came after a meeting in the office of Rome Prosecutor Vittorio Mele that included Assistant Prosecutors Michele Coiro and Ettore Torri, the officials who questioned Broccoletti yesterday in Regina Coeli prison. While the prosecutors, citing judicial secrecy, did not "correct" press accounts in detail, sources close to that office described as "not true" today's newspaper reports of a 10 billion lire transfer to the Christian Democratic party from Sisde secret funds, which leaks said Broccoletti had alleged. That alleged payment was given considerable prominence by several dailies, which deduced that the "political party" referred to in leaks had to be the Christian Democrats -- based on the fact that party has had exclusive control of the Interior Ministry (which Sisde answers to) since 1946. After Wednesday's [5 January] extradition from Monte Carlo, Broccoletti talked to prosecutors about the reported Sisde slush fund, alleging there had been a top-level cover-up -- also involving President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro -- of the breaking Sisde scandal. Those charges, inexplicably leaked to the press with rapidity and in detail despite procedural secrecy rules, were given lead prominence in today's Italian press, touching, as they do, the figure of President of the Republic Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, in what some called a move to delegitimate the country's highest authority just as elections were about to be called. According to at least one paper, Broccoletti was said to have told the prosecutors that three top-level cover-up meetings took place from December 1992 to late spring last year, as evidence of the misappropriation of at least 14 billion lire by Sisde officials including Broccoletti began to surface. The first was allegedly attended by then premier Giuliano Amato, all three by Scalfaro and Interior Minister Nicola Mancino, as well as police chief Vincenzo Parisi, who all reiterated yesterday that the charges "had absolutely no foundation." Talking today with journalists, prosecutor Michele Coiro, said that while the overall investigation of the Sisde scandal is "quite complex," there is "one thread of that investigation that is nearing the point where we can ask for a formal indictment." He said that the charge would probably be for embezzlement, and that the investigation would continue to follow other leads. Broccoletti is expected to be questioned again on Monday, when he will be asked about how Sisde managed funds in the period before Riccardo Malpica was appointed to head the intelligence service. As for the questioning of Gerardo De Pasquale, former Sisde officer taken into custody yesterday, authorities said that would probably take place tomorrow.
