FBIS3-13643 "drnes052_l_94006" FBIS-NES-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 ISRAEL Hebron Arab Leaders Fail To Appear at Commission TA1603174594 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in English 1600 GMT 16 Mar 94 TA1603174594 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The state commission of inquiry into the Hebron massacre this afternoon heard testimonies from members of the General Security Services. The session was held behind closed doors. This morning's session was canceled, when members of the Islamic Trust, or Waqf, from Hebron failed to turn up. Waqf representatives said they would only testify before the Palestinian committees investigating the massacre or to an international inquiry. Mark Weiss reports: [Begin recording] [Weiss] Five officials from the Hebron Islamic Trust, or Waqf, were summoned to appear before the commission of inquiry this morning, including the local Waqf head, Shaykh Salah al-Natshah, and the director of the Ibrahimi Mosque, Shaykh 'Atif Hammuri. The five didn't turn up, and this morning's session was canceled. Hasan Tahbub, the head of the Islamic High Committee that runs Islamic affairs in the West Bank, explains the boycott decision. [Tahbub] In spite of our full respect for the individuals and the high-level personalities, we consider that it is not a neutral commission. And, we are asking for an international commission to inquire as a fact-finding commission. [Weiss] A statement put out by the commission judges expressed regret over the boycott, stressing that the commission is trying to clarify the truth and wants to hear from anyone who can help to achieve this end. A similar statement was issued by the Justice Ministry, which stressed that it was a state inquiry and not a government commission, as the Palestinians claim. The commission has the right to summon the Waqf officials a second time, although such a move is unlikely. A second alternative is to use statements given by Waqf officials when the commission visited Hebron last week. [end recording]
