FBIS3-50652 "drlat003_b_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 Jan 1994 Haiti Former President Manigat Views Situation FL0401221894 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio in French 1130 GMT 4 Jan 93 FL0401221894 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio Language: French Article Type:BFN [Report by Jean-Ralph Fleurizard] [Excerpts] [Passage omitted] We should consider setting aside, by private agreement, the two antagonistic plans that dominate the political scene. This ia proposed by Professor Leslie Manigat, leader of the Assembly of Progressive National Democrats [RDNP]. Speaking for the first time since the fifth convention of his party, Manigat has proposed a (?set) of balanced concessions, a kind of equitable compromise aimed at balancing the scales between the parties. In the opinion of [former] President Manigat, this compromise is essentially aimed at lossening the vise which is stifling the country, at facilitating the emergence of the third centrist democratic stand, and finally at allowing the mobilization of cooperative action by men of goodwill. [passage omitted] Leslie Manigat, who believes that Haitian politics must be conducted in an atmosphere of sincerity, thinks Father Aristide's return as president is neither possible nor desirable. What is obvious, in Manigat's opinion, is that Aristide's return to power cannot be the appropriate solution. Also, he wants to put the government of President Aristide in the dock. He invites the international community to change its (?stand) and to organize the post-Aristide period. [passage omitted] Once again, Manigat says he has stayed on the sidelines so as to have a national and responsible voice heard. Although the RDNP leader is convinced that times have never been so hard for the majority of the people, that a national collapse has taken place, and that the gap between the capital and the provinces has become an abyss, he nevertheless is optimistic -- but cautious. In his opinion, one must not despair because one can do better than survive. He says one is even able to eventually rise above conditions. He criticizes the sanctions imposed on Haiti, sanctions he deems illegal and outrageous.
