FBIS3-43982 "drafr015_b_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 EAST AFRICA Somalia Australia's Evans Says Pressure for Peace Growing AB2301165594 Paris AFP in English 1628 GMT 23 Jan 94 AB2301165594 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Mogadishu, Jan 23 (AFP)--Pressure from a population tired of fighting in Somalia is building a "momentum for peace" that could force the country's clan leaders into agreement, Australian Foreign Minister Gareth Evans said Sunday [23 January]. "Sometimes the people want peace so badly that the politicians have to let them have it," said Evans, comparing the situation in Somalia with that in Cambodia before the implementation of a UN peace plan that he helped develop. The minister, here on a one-day visit to visit Australian troops, said there were "visible developments that give ground for encouragement" in the political situation such as an agreement between rival clans and a peace festival Sunday attended by hundreds of thousands in the south of the city. "The momentum for peace is developping in Somalia," Evans said, adding there was "evident pressure from below." Rival Mogadishu leaders Mohamed Farah Aidid and the self-styled interim president Ali Mahdi Mohamed have both signalled a willingness to reach agreement after years of ferocious rivalry that reduced the country to chaos and famine. Evans also pointed to conciliatory comments made by three of Aidid's top officials after they were released from UN custody on Tuesday. Osman Hassan Ali, the financier for Aidid's Somali National Alliance (SNA), called for an end to clan violence and a resumption of talks between his group and the UN operation in Somalia (UNOSOM). The Australian minister met Aidid in the Kenyan capital Nairobi on Saturday and received assurances that the warlord supported moves by a Mogadishu religious leader to bring the faction together. Aidid "did not discard a UN role in the transition in Somalia," Evan said. Ali Mahdi, who heads an alliance of 12 clans, also told Evans during a meeting Sunday that he was willing to continue talks at the initiative of the Imam of Hirab. "Ali Mahdi indicated a degree of flexibility in the position of the 12 and a general willingness to do what is necessary in order to achieve a result," Evans said.
