FBIS3-49527 "dreeu008_y_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Macedonia PDP `Hard Line' Forming `Liquidation Groups' AU1101183394 Skopje NOVA MAKEDONIJA in Macedonian 11 Jan 94 p 4 AU1101183394 Skopje NOVA MAKEDONIJA Language: Macedonian Article Type:BFN [Commentary by P.Dz.: "Are `Liquidation Groups' Being Formed?"] [Text] Within the framework of the Tetovo PDP [Party for Democratic Prosperity] branch, 55 out of the total number of 70 subbranches are asking for an urgent assembly of the branch. According to information from sources close to the Congress Preparatory Committee, these subbranches have submitted officially signed requests. That can signify that the leader of the so-called PDP "hard line," Menduh Taci, is losing support in the most powerful branch of the party. An assembly of the branch is expected to take place this week and it is possible that Taci will not get enough votes to be president of the branch, member of the PDP Central Assembly, or delegate. Such an outcome could imply that Taci would not be able to participate in the PDP Congress scheduled for 15 January. It looks as if the field actions of the group of delegates and ministers have started producing results, and the group is winning over Taci and his adherents. In Tetovo, like Gostivar, half of the subbranches are asking for the assembly, and that speaks much about the fact that the "hard line" is losing support in the Polog region, where Taci initially received great support. However, will Taci and his group quietly accept losing their positions? Some political circles in Tetovo claim that it is possible that Taci will use force to try to stop the assembly and the congress. He gave a statement in that spirit to Radio Kumanovo. There are also rumors in Tetovo that so-called "groups for the liquidation" of outstanding PDP leaders are being formed. If this is true, it means that the PDP division is entering a new and very dangerous phase. [Box, p 4] The Holding of the Congress Wary An early PDP Congress has been announced for 15 and 16 January in Tetovo, officially signed and sealed in Macedonia. On the occasion of the announcement, we visited the PDP headquarters in Macedonia in order to find out the details about the preparations and the agenda of the mentioned Congress. There, we met a number of PDP members, including Mahi Nesimi, who is in charge of the Information Service and a member of the Congress Preparatory Committee. "The PDP Congress will be held in Tetovo when the necessary conditions are provided and when it is convened by the Congress Preparatory Committee," Mahi Nesimi told us. We did not get an answer to when the twice postponed news conference, announced by PDP President Nevzat Halili, will be held. --J.B.
