FBIS4-47266 "jpust012___94020" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 June 1994 CHEMICAL SCIENCES CHEMISTRY Effluents From Electrolytic Production as Secondary Source Effluents From Electrolytic Production as Secondary Source for Leaching Metals 947M0055B Kiev EKOTEKHNOLOGII I RESURSOSBEREZHENIYE in Russian No. 2, Mar-Apr 93 (manuscript received 5 Dec 92) pp 54-56 947M0055B Kiev EKOTEKHNOLOGII I RESURSOSBEREZHENIYE Russian CSO [Article by N. I. Lebed, O. I. Bent, A. A. Yushin, and V. K. Yatsun, State Committee for Geology, Kiev; UDC622.7.012.7] [Abstract] The state of the environment in Ukraine has been neglected for a long time, although recently there has been a notable improvement thanks to the efforts of scientific and production organizations. Top priority has rightly been assigned to the study of living nature and food products, water, and air. However, in the latter case only the aftereffects of pollution are being studied and not their causes and sources. Therefore, a specialized geological-economic study has been undertaken of one of most active environmental polluters, namely the electroplating industry. According to data from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the annual waste within Ukraine comprises 550-560 million cubic meters, while the total accumulated volume is estimated to be 20 billion cubic meters. The greatest contributor is the mining industry which uses only 12 percent of its output as compared to developed countries which use two thirds of the output. The electroplating, chemical, radio technical, and electronic industries have significantly lower volumes of industrial waste, and therefore are not always counted in the inventory. However, it is these very wastes which contain significant concentrations of toxic and useful metals. It is also important to note that these industries are located throughout the entire territory of Ukraine, although the substantive composition of the wastes is far from being well studied. In one respect this limits the possibility of practical utilization of individual valuable components, and in another the lack of special sites for storing harmful substances results in their being dumped into sewage systems or landfills which are harmful to agriculture, surface and subterranean waters. Thus the Ukraine State Committee has assigned the Ukraine State Committee on Geology and Utilization of Minerals to carry out the development of land evaluation of industrial enterprises producing toxic metal wastes; identification, based on preliminary study of substantive composition of wastes which contain high concentrations of valuable components, especially metals; develop a listing of those enterprises which produce wastes deserving of laboratory-technical investigation to provide an evaluation of the possibilities and prospects for extracting valuable metals; preparation of a list of enterprises whose wastes require storage at special sites. In the present work the problems, methods and preliminary results of geological-economic study of electroplating wastes at the Cherkaskiy and Lvovskiy Oblasts were examined and the economic aspects of extracting metals were evaluated. Recommendations are provided for conducting further research.
