FBIS4-45771 "jpten016___94057" JPRS-TEN-94-016 JPRS Environmental Issues 23 June 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Central Asian States Face Potential Water Resource Conflicts Central Asian States Face Potential Water Resource Conflicts Consequences of Diversion Projects 94WN0282C Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI in Russian No 18, 1-8 May 94 p 9A 94WN0282C Moscow MOSKOVSKIYE NOVOSTI Russian CSO [Article by Aleksey Kirichenko and Azer Mursaliyev: "Possible Consequences of River Diversion Projects"] [Text] Northern Diversion Regions 1. Flooding of farmland and timber land by reservoirs; rising ground water levels. 2. Damage to the fishing industry due to changes in the hydrobiological conditions of rivers. 3. Changes in the permafrost layer (primarily in Siberia). 4. Archaeological, historical and cultural damage as a result of construction and flooding (primarily in the northern European section). 5. Disruption of traditional ways of life and cultures due to the influx of tens of thousands of construction workers into sparsely populated areas. 6. Climatic changes along the shores of large reservoirs. 7. Changes in ice coverage and climate at the mouths of major Arctic rivers (due to reduction in water volume and thermal flow and changes in the river discharge schedule). Southern Diversion Regions 1. Possible introduction of harmful aquatic species and diseases as a result of the merger of northern and southern watersheds. Effects on an International Scale 1. Degradation of certain fish species of international significance (for example, the Atlantic salmon). 2. Effects of European water diversion on the hydrological, saline and biological condition of the Caspian Sea will affect Iran. 3. The tremendous amounts of diversion (200-300 cubic km annually) from rivers in the Arctic Sea basin that are possible by the next century could cause changes in permanent Arctic Sea ice cover (particularly in the Karsk Sea) sufficient to cause climate changes extending beyond the borders of the CIS.
