FBIS3-55070 "drsov004cc_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 January 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS Proceedings of Central Asian Parliaments Reported PM0501162494 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 5 Jan 94 First Edition p 6 PM0501162494 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Vladimir Berezovskiy report: "In Turkestan's Parliaments"] [Text] Tashkent -- The parliaments of the three Central Asian republics completed their work on New Year's Eve. The Turkmenistan Assembly, without procrastination, ratified the recent agreements with Moscow on mutual guarding of the border, the status of Russian servicemen, migration and defense of migrants' rights, and dual citizenship. President Saparmurat Niyazov stressed that the institution of dual citizenship cannot be considered a concession to the 400,000 Russians living in the republic alone. The agreement is also extremely beneficial to Russia's 700,000 Turkmens. There were around 40 questions on the Tajik parliament's agenda. Premier A. Abdulladzhanov resigned. Political circles in the republic think that the head of government has resigned under pressure from the incontrovertible evidence of corruption among and embezzlement of public funds by his entourage. The new premier is 44-year old Abduzhalil Samatov, the former vice premier. He is known as an experienced contemporary economist and the successful head of a commercial firm. Head of state I. Rakhmonov's speech at the session was the crucial one. He admitted that the Pamir economy is on the verge of catastrophe. Civil war has cost the republic too dear. Over 400 enterprises have been looted and destroyed and whole sectors paralyzed. Around 300 major plants, factories, sovkhozes, and kolkhozes are on the brink of bankruptcy. The present Uzbekistan Supreme Council has probably met for its last session. By unanimously adopting the law on elections to the new legislative organ -- the oliy madzhlis -- the parliamentarians signed their own sentence. President Islam Karimov addressed the session and regrettably once again returned to the idea that Russians living in the republic cannot be granted dual citizenship owing to their possibly interfering in internal affairs and the danger of "lessening the patriotic spirit."
