FBIS4-10335 "drlat070_k_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-070 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina UCR's Alfonsin on Olivos Pact, Elections UCR's Alfonsin on Olivos Pact, Elections PY1104143194 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1231 GMT 11 Apr 94 PY1104143194 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS Spanish BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, 11 Apr (NA) -- Raul Alfonsin, head of the UCR [Radical Civic Union] executive board, made it clear that despite the poor results achieved by the UCR, he "would again sign" the so-called Olivos Pact. He stressed that he will not "take a single backward step, or step aside" as party leader. Shortly after 1930, Alfonsin conceded defeat in the Constituent Assembly elections for the district of Buenos Aires at the hands of the PJ [Justicialist Party]. He admitted that this situation will force him "to ponder" before making a decision on his next step. The former president believes that the ticket headed by [Buenos Aires Province] Governor Eduardo Duhalde won because "the people voted based on government actions rather than on constitutional issues." He denied that the Grand Front [FG] victory in the federal capital had been prompted by a rejection of the [Olivos] Pact. It was rather prompted by "a rejection of government actions," he said. In a news conference at the UCR executive board headquarters last night, the former president said the numbers achieved by the UCR "do not represent" the party's "greatest defeat in history." He stressed that, quite to the contrary, "it represents a victory, because the political peace has been saved." Alfonsin emphasized: "It was not the worst elections, and I am very satisfied with our position because we managed to enhance institutional democracy." Alfonsin also confirmed that he trusts that the points agreed upon in the Olivos Pact that he signed with President Carlos Menem "will be absolutely observed." He made it clear that "no meeting has been scheduled" with the president within the next few days. Asked about the possibility of resigning as UCR executive board head, Alfonsin stressed that he does not plan on taking a single step aside, or backward step" because he is the UCR's rightful leader. He emphasized that he feels "strongly supported by half of the party" even though he is not supported by Federico Storani's and Juan Manuel Casella's Convergence Faction and metropolitan UCR leader Fernando De la Rua. Nevertheless, the former president said that if the executive board plenary, which is scheduled to meet late this month, asks him "such a thing," he would have to leave the UCR leadership, even though he predicted that "this will not happen." Alfonsin finally said that a national convention will be called in September to establish the bases of an electoral platform for the 1995 elections. He believes that the UCR presidential ticket will be established "in October or November."
