FBIS4-41640 "drsov123_f_94025" FBIS-SOV-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 National Affairs Masol Book Attacks Kravchuk `Fraud'; Crimea CP Backs Kuchma Masol Book Attacks Kravchuk `Fraud'; Crimea CP Backs Kuchma MK2406102594 Moscow PRAVDA in Russian 24 Jun 94 p 1 MK2406102594 Moscow PRAVDA Russian BFN [Two untitled, unattributed reports on election scene in Ukraine] [Text] A sensational publication from a yet to be published book by Vitaliy Masol, the newly elected head of Ukraine's government, has appeared on the eve of the elections. The author paints a rather unappealing portrait of his protege [as published]. Masol says that none other than President Kravchuk masterminded the introduction of the "governor-generals" [namestniki] institute which caused confusion and, in effect, dual power in the regions. None other than the president guaranteed: Deposits in the Savings Bank will be reliably protected. Owing to inflation, however, millions of people were robbed only a few months later. "Fraud, manipulation of public opinion, and thinly disguised graft are widely used by Kravchuk to shore up his shaky positions," remarks V. Masol. [first report ends] The republic committee of the Communist Party of Crimea points out in its statement that the most reactionary circles at the present time are pooling their efforts and openly speak in support of the candidacy of the current head of state L. Kravchuk. This poses a real threat to Ukraine because it leads to preserving the course toward self-isolation, nationalist restriction, and deepening degradation of society. The republic committee of the Communist Party of Crimea in this connection pledges its support to Leonid Kuchma. Factors in Kuchma's favor are the provisions of his election program, in particular the demand for an urgent search for ways toward economic integration with Russia and the other CIS republics and giving Russian the status of a second state language. It is precisely for this reason that the Communist Party of Crimea calls upon all communists and all the voters to vote for Leonid Kuchma on 26 June.
