FBIS4-29176 "dreas116__a94012" FBIS-EAS-94-116-A Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 ANNEX Japan Continued Reportage on Reaction to DPRK Issues Continued Reportage on Reaction to DPRK Issues Impact on Industry Analyzed OW1606013394 Tokyo MAINICHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 15 Jun 94 Morning Edition p 9 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1606013394 Tokyo MAINICHI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Unattributed article] [Text] With the DPRK (North Korea) having announced its withdrawal from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the question of imposing sanctions against that country has entered a critical stage. However, the sanctions are not expected to affect Japanese industry much because the scale of Japan's trade with North Korea is small while travel between these two nations is close to nonexistent. Trade Japan-DPRK trade ran to about 100 billion yen a year from the late seventies and early eighties. During that period, Japan's exports to North Korea continuously exceeded its imports by a ratio of almost 2:1. But since North Korea announced a policy to balance imports and exports in 1986, Japan's exports to the country decreased by half [the next year] and Japan has imported more than it has exported since 1987. Overall trade came down to a 50-60 billion yen level. Japan's main exports to North Korea used to be manufactured products, like machinery. But since 1992, textile products, such as woolen fabrics, and automobiles have been its major export items. As for imports from North Korea, nonferrous metals used to be major products, but recently men's suits and coats, mushrooms, and anthracite coal have come to be major items. Aviation and Traveling There are no regular airline services between Japan and North Korea. Only chartered planes operate from Nagoya and Niigata Airports. Mushrooms are the major air-freighted product from North Korea, and personnel exchanges are limited to special delegations. In case sanctions are taken, all of these airline operations will be suspended. As for surface shipping, even the Transport Ministry does not know accurate conditions. However, it is estimated that about 100 North Korean ships enter Japan every year. With instructions from the Foreign Affairs Ministry or the Defence Agency, the Maritime Safety Agency can conduct on-the-spot inspections on these ships entering Japan by sending patrol boats, but it is still uncertain how far the agency can go in restricting entry of North Korean ships as part of economic sanctions. Reaction From Business Circles Shoichiro Toyoda, chairman of the Japan Federation of Economic Organizations [Keidanren], at a 13 June news conference, commented: "This [DPRK issue] is an important security issue for Japan, and we must take it seriously. I hope that, if possible, North Korea will soon revert to a position that can be accepted by the international community so that sanctions will be avoided." Minoru Makihara, president of Mitsubishi Corporation, said: "I think Japan can make moves on its own more actively in close contact with the Untied States. Although the sanctions' impact on Japan's economy will be small, this is a problem that is taking place in Asia. How will the government deal with it if the United States decides to wash its hands of this matter?"
