FBIS3-25119 "drafr026_c_94017" FBIS-AFR-94-026 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Investigation Uncovers Major Financial Fraud MB0502110694 Johannesburg SATURDAY STAR in English 5 Feb 94 pp 1-2 MB0502110694 Johannesburg SATURDAY STAR Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Mandy Jean Woods] [Excerpt] Almost every financial rand [finrand] application made to the Reserve Bank between 1987 and 1988 involving large amounts of money -- between R[rand]5 million and R100 million -- that has been examined by investigators of the Witwatersrand Attorney-General's office appears to be bogus. This emerged in the same week that Reserve Bank Governor Chris Stals admitted that about R10 billion in foreign exchange reserves had left the country in the second half of last year. Investigators have so far called for the Reserve Bank files of 44 companies which made multiple (between one and six) applications for finrands during the two-year period in question. They have found that in almost every case: - The application were bogus. - They related to strategic or labour-intensive industries. - They had been approved by Reserve Bank management. - Commercial bank staff -- such as bank managers or staff in the foreign exchange departments with access to bank systems and heaps of money -- had knowingly taken part in the fraud. - Most large commercial banks are implicated. - Lawyers who are prepared to "bend the rules" are involved. The value of the fraud currently being investigated tops R200 million and could rise to double this, as the 10-month investigation continues. Investigators are working around the clock to compile charge sheets for some of the country's top businessmen, lawyers and bankers. Arrests in some of the cases are expected soon. "If the Reserve Bank, as the guardian of South Africa's foreign exchange reserves, is doing the best it can, then at best it is being grossly negligent in its duty," remarked Niko Shefer this week. Shefer, who was jailed in 1990 for his role in a R45 million foreign exchange fraud, is co-operating with the Attorney General's office in the investigation. "If the investments had happened as purported, South Africa would be swimming -- no, drowning -- in money," Shefer said, speaking from his work centre in the Attorney- General's office. Stals said it was not possible to identify the scale of illegal capital outflows, "otherwise they would have been blocked. Such illegal outflows form part of the errors and omissions item of the balance of payments". But investigators said there were glaring errors in the applications approved by the Reserve Bank. [passage omitted]
