FBIS3-2228 "drchi044_k_94015" FBIS-CHI-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Fujian Detains Christian Church Leader HK0503070094 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO in Chinese 5 Mar 94 p 10 HK0503070094 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By New York-based special correspondent Tseng Hui-yen (2582 1979 3601): "Fujian Religious Leader Pan Yiyuan Has Been Detained for Investigation"] [Text] On 2 March, Pan Yiyuan [3382 0001 0337], the leader of the Protestant Family Church in Fujian's Zhangzhou City, was "detained for investigation" by the mainland authorities on the charge that he "carried out underground religious activities." He is currently detained at Zhangzhou City Public Security Bureau Custody House. His relatives and religious friends in the United States revealed the above-mentioned information to reporters from this newspaper. They hope that international human rights organizations can help, and they have urged the mainland to improve its human rights conditions. According to information, 58-year-old Pan Yiyuan is a devoted Christian. After retiring from Zhangzhou Agricultural Bank, he devoted all his energy to carrying out Family Church activities with his mother, Xu Birui. On the morning of 2 March, seven policemen entered Pan Yiyuan's home and took some books on the Christian faith, tapes, "service books," "Pan Yiyuan's rebirth testimony," private letters, pictures, and a diary (this was proved by the "list of items in custody" issued by the public security bureau). After the search, they told Pan Yiyuan to report to the public security bureau on the same afternoon, but when he arrived there they told him that he was under arrest for carrying out underground religious activities. Among the charges laid against him are: First, not joining the "three autonomy's" church but disseminating words confronting the "three autonomy's" church; second, reading and keeping Christian books printed overseas, as well as tapes preaching religion; third, maintaining links with Christians outside the country (in fact they are his relatives); fourth, maintaining links with Christians inside the country and disseminating words of grievance. Afterwards, Pan Yiyuan's wife received from Zhangzhou City Public Security Bureau a "notice to the family members of the person being detained and investigated," but she has not been allowed to see Pan Yiyuan up to now. The house of Xu Birui, Pan Yiyuan's 83-year-old mother, was also searched on the same day. Although the authorities did not detain her, they ordered her to report her religious activities to the public security bureau between 1400 and 1700 every day.
