FBIS4-10815 "drlat075_g_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-075 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 Guatemala President Comments on Freeing of Kidnapped American, Lack of President Comments on Freeing of Kidnapped American, Lack of U.S. Aid PA1804223594 Guatemala City Teleonce Television in Spanish 0400 GMT 18 Apr 94 PA1804223594 Guatemala City Teleonce Television Spanish BFN [From the "Telepress" newscast] [Text] The family of Georgina Rosse Robyn, the girl who was freed last Friday after being kidnapped on 11 April, this Sunday visited the Presidential House to meet with President Ramiro de Leon Carpio. Before entering the building, the girl's mother made a brief statement. Following the visit by the girl's family, President Ramiro de Leon Carpio answered questions on how the girl was liberated, in contrast to other unsolved kidnapping cases. [Begin de Leon recording] This was due to several elements and factors. Here the participation and cooperation of the Robyn family was key. They provided information and immediately went to the authorities. Obviously luck was also on our side. Many elements came into play here. Other cases have been discovered in which families have refused to publicize that the cases have been resolved. In other words, it is very difficult to measure or rate all cases equally. What I can tell you for sure is that the actions we are carrying out with the cooperation of the Army, which I announced days ago, have strengthened civil security forces. The results are beginning to show not only in the case of the Robyn family, but in other cases which will later be made public. Should these results continue, this is a signal the actions taken by the president of the Republic, which some have criticized, particularly about the Army's cooperation in these investigations, are yielding results. We will continue to work in this direction to change investigation procedures and how results are obtained. We will continue to train civil security forces. This is particularly difficult because there are many countries -- I already said this in my message to the nation -- that demand results, like the United States for instance, but do not provide aid or equipment. How do they expect us to cooperate in these investigations if we do not receive uniforms or equipment. The investigation of the Guatemalan Army's Intelligence Department, with the participation and cooperation of the National Police, provided information leading to the arrest of the individuals involved in Georgina Rosse Robyn's kidnapping. I understand the Robyn family requested the participation of FBI agents. I do not know if they finally came or if they came in time, but the result of this arrest was made possible by the investigation of the Army's Intelligence Department and the National Police. [end recording]
