FBIS4-9724 "drlat063_c_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 MEXICO IFE Receives Zedillo Accreditation Request IFE Receives Zedillo Accreditation Request PA3103145694 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 31 Mar 94 PA3103145694 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 31 Mar 94 Spanish BFN [Report by Rebecca Sanchez Fernandez from the "Early Morning" newscast] [Text] This Wednesday, the Federal Electoral Institute [IFE] General Council received Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon's documents requesting his accreditation as PRI [Institutional Revolutionary Party] presidential candidate replacing Luis Donaldo Colosio. The formal request presented to the IFE includes documents attesting the PRI National Executive Committee's unanimous decision for Ernesto Zedillo for the 1994-2000 period. The accreditation request was presented to the IFE General Council so this institute can issue an opinion during its next extraordinary session. On the other hand, Ernesto Zedillo announced that he plans to coordinate his own political campaign. Early yesterday morning, Fidel Velasquez Sanchez, leader of the Confederation of Mexican Workers [CTM] went to the PRI national headquarters to express his support to the new presidential candidate. Mr. Ernesto Zedillo reiterated his decision to honor the commitments with the labor sector adopted by Luis Donaldo Colosio. [Begin Zedillo recording, in progress] ...I fully expect to honor the commitments agreed by Luis Donaldo Colosio and the CTM as well as its affiliates. [applause] I would like to be considered a supporter of the Mexican workers in order to safeguard their demands and to be their staunchest ally in defending their accomplishments. [end recording] During an impromptu event, the PRI presidential candidate headed to the PRI press room and met with the numerous journalists following everything that has taken place. Zedillo thanked them for attending and reiterated his absolute respect for freedom of the press. He also referred to his presidential campaign and indicated that the starting date had not been decided yet. [Begin Zedillo recording] I would like to say that so far, everything related to coordinating the campaign will fall directly under my supervision. I was doing this same type of job for Mr. Luis Donaldo Colosio, and we had developed a strategy he had previously approved and enriched with his own suggestions and great experience. I plan to follow with that same campaign plan. [end recording] Later, Zedillo received a telephone call from Colombian President Cesar Gaviria congratulating him on his nomination. They agreed that Colombia and Mexico are united in their desire to ensure the Bolivarian ideal of a more prosperous and undivided America.
