FBIS4-8729 "dreeu074_c_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-074 Daily Report 2 Apr 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Klaus Denies Tension Within ODS Klaus Denies Tension Within ODS AU1504113194 Prague DENNI TELEGRAF in Czech 2 Apr 94 p 1 AU1504113194 Prague DENNI TELEGRAF Czech BFN [Interview with Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus by Martin Danes; place and date not given: "Tension Between the Government and Parliament Is Natural"] [Text] [Danes] During the rule of the Civic Forum, discord between the government and parliament was a somewhat regular phenomenon. However, this situation continues even today. There is discord not only between the coalition parties, but also between Civic Democratic Party [ODS] ministers and deputies. This has become apparent in the recent "compromise" regarding the elections to the Senate. What is the reason for this discord, and how could it be sorted out? [Klaus] Our discussion about the elections to the Senate was definitely not a standard dispute between the government and parliament. It was not the natural dispute that can occur in any. It would be an absolute mistake to draw fundamental conclusions about relations between the government and parliament from a declaration made by one ODS deputy at a meeting of a group of coalition deputies. At most, we could ask whether this deputy acted in compoliance with the decision taken by the ODS Executive Council. [Danes] There are other instances of discord between ODS ministers and deputies. For example, the Housing Bill presented by Dyba's Econhomics Ministry has been thoroughly redrafted by parliament (with the participation of ODS deputies). [Klaus] Unlike other, more formal laws, the Housing Law is a political issue. Each of us has a certain position on the housing problem. This is a classical example of a law that is more likely to be changed by the deputies than other laws. I would not draw any conclusions from this. [Danes] You do not see any noticeable problems between the ODS ministers and, for example, the ODS deputies, do you? [Klaus] Instead of asking about controversy between the government and parliament, you should rather ask about controversy between the party leadership and some of its members. [Danes] If the classical majority system for the elections to the Senate is not approved in parliament, would you be in favor of eliminating the Senate from the Constitution? [Klaus] I hope that we will find a solution and that the original government draft will pass. This is clear. Restitution, the Senate, regional administration -- we are tired of speaking about these problems. People who want to find a solution different from the one that has been developed, more of less through national consensus, are constantly bringing up this issues. They force us, again and again, to take a position on these issues. We have taken this position so many times. Our reaction is abrupt because we have the feeling that they are reopening issues that were closed a long time ago.
