FBIS3-6788 "dreas055_i_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 Cambodia Koh Kong Province Resort, Casino Plan Accepted BK2103085094 Bangkok BANGKOK POST in English 21 Mar 94 p 6 BK2103085094 Bangkok BANGKOK POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Woranant Krongbunying in Koh Kong] [Text] The Cambodian government has accepted a plan to construct a tourist resort and a casino in Koh Kong province as proposed by a group of Thai companies, Koh Kong Province deputy governor Pal San said on Saturday. Speaking through an interpreter, San said the project had been approved recently but an official announcement had still to be made. The project's construction plans are now being reviewed by the Cambodian Tourism Office, he said. "Its construction can proceed once the review is completed. But it would be left in the hands of the Thai investors to decide when to commence construction," San said. The project was initiated by the Wannachai Company. But according to a local source, the project may not materialise because Thai investors are now having second thoughts about investing in Cambodia because of the Cambodian government's recent decision to grant special concessions to Singapore Airlines to fly to that country. He said Oran's SK Air, which also has a license to operate one of the private airlines to Phnom Penh's Pochentong Airport until July this year, was planning to expand its service by bringing tourists from the capital city to Koh Kong province. "But this plan is being shelved because the SK Air was unable to get a license to provide such a service," the source said. San pointed out that as Koh Kong was set to become a tourist attraction the provincial authorities would welcome any investment projects proposed by foreign companies. The selling point for the tourist, he said, would be the natural beauty and surroundings of the place. At present, the most convenient way to travel to Koh Kong is by boat which takes around one and a half hours from Thailand's Trat province. Road travel is hardly possible due to the poor road conditions.
