FBIS3-43805 "drafr011_a_94021" FBIS-AFR-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 January 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Zaire Minister Denies Dissolution AB1701231094 Kinshasa Tele-Zaire Television Network in French 1900 GMT 17 Jan 94 AB1701231094 Kinshasa Tele-Zaire Television Network Language: French Article Type:BFN [Excerpt of a news conference by Communications Minister Ngongo Luwowo with unidentified local reporters at the National Television House in Kinshasa on 17 January -- recorded] [Excerpts] [Unidentified reporter] It is not to show off that we have come to see you, but we have come to see you so you may answer some questions that have been on the minds of the people. These questions center around the recent speech of the president of the Republic. We have come to you for clarification, especially in your capacity as participant in the political consultations. We would like to have more of such meetings for the better understanding of the developments in the country. My first question, Mr. Minister, is that the public has been wondering whether President Mobutu Sese Seko actually dissolved the High Council of the Republic [HCR] and the parliament? What do you say to that? [Luwowo] You know, things are very clear but it is only those who do not want to see democracy advance and to see an end to the transition period that are complicating matters. In his address to the nation the head of state did not dissolve the High Council of the Republic or the parliament. The head of state simply took note of the decision made by the two major political families of Zaire which were engaged in negotiations at the Palais du Peuple. These two political groups, at the end of their negotiations, decided on a certain number of things among which is the creation of an HCR- Transitional Parliament. That is to say, a single parliament which will comprise the present National Assembly, the HCR, and participants in the political negotiations. [passage omitted] The head of state, who is the guarantor of the nation, did not refer to any constitutional provisions contested by any one of the groups. He referred exactly to what was agreed upon in the protocol agreement and said the HCR as it is now composed ceases to exist, the National Assembly as it is presently composed also ceases to exist, and of course, participants in the negotiations, having arrived at the end of their negotiations, cease to exist as an entity. [passage omitted]
