FBIS3-12704 "drnes043_j_94005" FBIS-NES-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Salih Receives King Husayn's Adviser al-Karaki JN2502153694 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1200 GMT 25 Feb 94 JN2502153694 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Lieutenant General brother 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih, chairman of the Presidential Council, yesterday evening received brother Dr. Khalid al-Karaki, His Majesty King Husayn's adviser. Al-Karaki arrived in Sanaa with a Jordanian military team, led by Major Gen. 'Id Kamil, assistant to the Jordanian Army chief of staff. The Jordanian team will be partly responsible for carrying out the military aspect of the accord document signed in the Jordanian capital. It will also handle part of the the work of the military committee. Dr. al-Karaki conveyed a message from King Husayn to his brother the chairman of the Presidential Council spelling out his majesty's efforts to bridge viewpoints and implement the accord document. The message reiterated Jordan's keenness to see the accord document translated on the ground as an achievement that concerns the Arab nation as well as the Yemeni people. It indicated that it is the duty of all Arabs to rally to Yemen's unity as a pan-Arab project embodying the aspirations of Arab unionists and holding out the hope that the dawn of Arab unity has arrived. President Salih and Dr. al-Karaki reviewed Yemeni developments against the backdrop of the accord document. The president told him he and the Yemeni people were appreciative of His Majesty King Husayn's and the Jordanian people's pan-Arab attitude and genuine concern for unity and democracy in our country. The president said he appreciated that Jordan was doing all it could to help Yemen ride out the tough challenges left by the political crisis. President Salih noted that these efforts were crowned by Amman hosting the gathering of Yemeni political and social figures to witness the ceremonies for signing the accord document. Our people, the president told Dr. al-Karaki, will always recognize Jordan's brotherly stands that dramatize the profundity of ties between the two brother peoples. The president asked him to convey his greetings to his brother His Majesty King Husayn and best wishes for the brotherly Jordanian people. The meeting was attended by brother 'Ali Muhammad al-Anisi, the head of the Presidential Office; Maj. Gen. 'Id Kamil, assistant to the Jordanian Army chief of staff; and Fayiz al-Rubayyi', the Jordanian ambassador to our country.
