FBIS3-59606 "jpest003___94010" JPRS-EST-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 26 January 1994 WEST EUROPE COMPUTERS France: ACRI to Market Own Supercomputer in 1996 94WS0060A Munich COMPUTERWOCHE in German 15 Oct 93 p 92 94WS0060A Munich COMPUTERWOCHE Language: German Article Type:CSO [Article by Lorenz Winter: "ACRI Plans to Market Own First Supercomputer Model in 1996"; Subheadline: "Former Bull Director Stern Is Company's Owner"] [Text] Paris--By mid-1995, the Advanced Computer Research International [ACRI] firm, headquartered in Lyon, intends to unveil the initial prototype of the supercomputer it will have developed. When Jaques Stern first announced his objective in 1989, it was pretty risky business wanting to be on a par with companies like Cray, NEC, Hitachi or IBM. Because of some skillful maneuvering by ACRI's founder, however, the project finally won credibility in recent months. In early 1993, for instance, DEC, Bull, France Telecom, energy supplier EDF, the holding industry of France's atomic energy commission and two banks invested FF40 million (approximately DM13 million) in Stern's company. Company spokeswoman, Anne Schroeder believes: "That will help us to narrow the gap with other European developers like Meiko in England, Parsytec in Germany or even Archipel and Telmat in France, and even to outstrip some of them before too long." Cray Minority Participation Conceivable In the February operation, none of the partners was supposed to have acquired more than seven percent in ACRI. A second capital increase is supposed to follow this autumn. According to Stern, it will be "broader and more international in scope" than the first one. That would make ACRI more extensively secure financially, but its owner will then have to forgo his present capital majority. Fifty percent of the firm's initial capital came from Stern SA trust assets, 25 percent took the form of a French government loan and the remaining 25 percent came from the European Community's [EC] Esprit program. Shortly after the initial injection of capital, Stern came to an agreement with DEC, whereby, except for a processor it developed on its own, ACRI will also use the U.S. Alpha-Reduced Instruction Set Computer [RISC] Central Processing Unit [CPU] and its UNIX version for its computers. Sales Offices Planned for U.S. and Europe In April, then, there was an additional technology partnership with Cray. Under its terms, the French and Americans established the Acset company in Belgium to develop a common compiler for both companies' equipment. Nearly 20 of ACRI's and Cray's engineers and technicians are also supposed to be cooperating via Acset on the portability and optimization of applications programs. According to Stern, subsequent minority participation by Cray in ACRI is "not inconceivable." ACRI currently employs a total of 160 employees. Even before yearend, the number of jobs is supposed to climb to 200. The company is already scouting out new spaces downtown, in preparation for production of the initial small series run. Company spokeswoman Schroeder opines that, after the 1995 prototypes, a final entry-level model and a range of modular-construction computers can be expected. Initially, about 10 preliminary installations are planned among a number of preferred customers in French and European industry. Supercomputers are used in the petroleum sector and the auto industry for modeling of products and processes. Stern believes that now, biochemistry, pharmaceuticals, banking and insurance are also appropriate users. In industry, mainframes are mostly obsolescent. Yet, the penetration of scientific methods in corporate management is rapidly creating demand for a new generation of large computers. ACRI is already planning to set up a sales representation to market its products in the U.S. and another one for the European market. As Stern emphasizes: "not necessarily headquartered in France."
