FBIS4-52958 "dreas094_d_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-094 Daily Report 16 May 1994 South Korea IAEA Inspection Team Arrives in Beijing 16 May IAEA Inspection Team Arrives in Beijing 16 May SK1605042094 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network in Korean 0309 GMT 16 May 94 SK1605042094 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network Korean BFN [By Chon Yo-ok] [Text] The International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA] inspection team, led by its team chief (Hainamen), arrived in Beijing this morning and received visas from the North Korean Embassy there. The inspection team will enter Pyongyang via North Korea's Koryo airliner tomorrow afternoon. The IAEA inspection team chief, (Hainamen), said at the airport that, according to the IAEA policy, he could not make any comments other than the fact that the inspection team will enter Pyongyang tomorrow. As soon as it arrives in Pyongyang tomorrow, the inspection team will see if nuclear fuel rods at a 5-megawatt reactor in Yongbyon have really been replaced. The IAEA policy is that if it determines that North Korea replaced the nuclear fuel rods after removing the seals of the reactor, the IAEA will regard [kyujong] this as a serious incident [simgakhan satae] and will cancel its entire inspection plan and pull out the inspection team earlier than scheduled. However, if North Korea has only begun preparations for the nuclear fuel rods replacement, such as the suspension of operating reactors, the IAEA team will carry out its inspection activities, such as additional inspections of the radiochemical laboratory, the replacement of surveillance equipment, and the checking of the seals at major nuclear facilities until 24 May. Thomas McLarty, chief of staff at the White House, said on 15 May that the United States would watch the IAEA team's inspections of North Korea before deciding whether to increase its pressure on North Korea in connection with the North Korean nuclear issue. Noting that the fuel rods have regularly been replaced, McLarty said: The United States, however, is definitely concerned about their replacement by North Korea. The United States will consider all possible choices, including sanctions, if the IAEA inspection team's report on its activities in North Korea is different from what is expected. Meanwhile, the U.S. Senate warned that the beginning of the replacement of nuclear fuel rods without the presence of the IAEA is a serious act that may lead to economic sanctions by the United Nations. U.S. Senate leaders of the Democratic and Republican Parties said the above in an interview with NBC TV and stressed that the United States should prepare countermeasures against the North Korean action in cooperation with the ROK, Japan, and China.
