FBIS4-50063 "drchi093_u_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-093 Daily Report 12 May 1994 PRC MEDIA ON TAIWAN AFFAIRS Antiterrorism Unit Refutes Claims Over Lake Deaths Antiterrorism Unit Refutes Claims Over Lake Deaths HK1205064294 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS in English 12 May 94 p 9 HK1205064294 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS English BFN [By Bruce Gilley] [Text] China's antiterrorism unit has been brought into public view for the first time. The secretive government cell has been called in to refute rumours that renegade soldiers were involved in the massacre of 24 Taiwan tourists in Zhejiang province. The Ministry of Public Security unit, which is believed to have been set up after the Tiananmen Square incident in 1989, has never been officially acknowledged, except, by necessity, in confidential international police work. Revealing the unit in connection with the boat tragedy apparently reflects the seriousness with which Beijing is treating the incident, which brought cross-straits relations to their lowest point since the late 1980s. He Ting, head of the unit, answered reporters' questions in Hangzhou on Monday. He said there was no evidence of army accomplices in the tragedy on Qiandao Lake on March 31. "This case is 100 percent without any military involvement," he said. A total of nine mainland experts, two of them from the Ministry of Public Security in Beijing, are testifying in the trial of four suspects in the incident. He Ting's first public appearance has become something of a sideshow, with reporters plying him with questions on everything from international terrorist groups based in China to attempts on the lives of senior Chinese leaders. The antiterrorist unit is also in charge of investigating aircraft hijackings. According to a report in Ming Pao, one of He Ting's first assignments as antiterrorism chief in 1989 was to investigate and handle the extradition from Japan of a Hebei Province man who claimed political asylum after hijacking a mainland plane to Japan. In the five years since then, he has earned a reputation for taking a hands-on approach. This included taking charge of an armed assault on the hideaway of a gang of heavily-armed bandits in the Shanxi capital, Taiyuan.
