FBIS3-40432 "jpest006__l94002" JPRS-EST-94-006-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 18 February 1994 WEST EUROPE ADVANCED MATERIALS United Kingdom: Metal Spraying To Offer Cheaper Molding Tools BR1502103094 Oxford ADVANCED COMPOSITES BULLETIN in English Jan 94 pp3-4--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1502103094 Oxford ADVANCED COMPOSITES BULLETIN Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Manufacturing And Processing - Metal Spraying Process May Offer Cheaper Moulding Tools"] [Text] Moulding tools may soon be produced more cheaply and quickly if a process currently being researched, Manufacture Using Spray Peening Technology (MUST), is successfully developed. The MUST project is Brite-Euram funded and involves researchers from Sprayforming Developments Ltd of Swansea, United Kingdom; University, United Kingdom; Grundfos International A/S and Magma GmbH, Germany. The aim is to develop a process capable of producing cheaper forming tools, dies and moulds for the wide range of manufacturing industries that use this equipment. Among the applications being developed in the pilot programme are tools for plastic injection moulding. The basis of the technology is spray forming, a process in which atomized molten metal particles impact with a substrate to form a coherent deposit. The process is similar to powder metallurgy (PM), but unlike PM the metal particles are not allowed to solidify during flight. Simultaneously with the spray deposition, peening shot is projected through the spray cone so that it impinges on the substrate at the point at which the deposit is being laid down. The principle is that the molten spray particles are allowed to splat on the surface of the substrate or mould to build up a substantial deposit. On arrival, the splatted particles cool rapidly spending only a few milliseconds in the liquid state before cooling to the hot working temperature range. During spray deposition, hard peening shot moving at high velocity is propelled towards the depositing surface causing plastic deformation of the top layer of the surface and finally collecting at the bottom of the spray chamber. The programme is investigating two potential routes for MUST. The direct route is potentially more cost effective, but may be limited by the restricted number of former materials that can be used and the poor replication of very smooth surface finishes. In order to replicate smooth surfaces a hybrid route, that uses electroforming to form the working surface of the tool, is also being developed. A paper on the MUST process, "Spray forming: Metal Sprayed Steel Tooling for Tools, Dies and Moulds", is being presented at "Composites Tooling III" to be held 24-25 February, 1994 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. For further information on MUST, contact: Allen D. Roche, Sprayforming Developments Ltd, Innovation Centre, Singleton Park, Swansea, SA2 8PP, United Kingdom; Tel.: +44-792-295238; Fax: +44- 792-295846.
