FBIS3-23405 "jptot013__l94086" JPRS-TOT-94-013-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 24 March 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA LEBANON Shiite Leaders Lambast U.S. `Silence' On Israeli Shelling Further Fadlallah Comments PM2403135894 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 24 Mar 94 p 3 PM2403135894 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Fadlallah: U.S. Decision Behind al-Nabatiyah Massacre; Israelis Will Drink From Same Cup"] [Text] Beirut, AL-HAYAH -- Scholar Muhammad Husayn Fadlallah has said that "there is a U.S.-Western terrorism working to kill us daily in Lebanon and Palestine with U.S. weapons." He also said that "a U.S. decision and U.S. brutality are behind the massacre committed by Israel against our people in the south." He said that "those killing our kinfolk and cities will drink from the same cup and will suffer the effects of this experience, because it is not that we like to kill children, women, and the elderly, as they did, but because we could reach these results when the tragedy develops into more than one people's revolution and more than one state of bereavement." He added: "We understand that a war might move to stir up a problem with troops here and there, and we understand that some civilians can be killed when there is a state of war, but we cannot -- in the context of any political, religious, or cultural position -- understand why civilians, in particular children returning from schools, should be bombarded with a brutal mentality that can aim its shells against people working in their schools, markets, and homes, especially in areas where there are no military personnel or posts at all." He said: "That illegitimate state is a state of massacres that murders children, women, and the elderly; blows up hotels, churches, and mosques; and kills Muslim and Christian worshipers in cold blood." Fadlallah wondered: "If the children killed while returning from their schools and the innocent people killed while at their homes or on their way to work were Jews, would the United States have kept silent? Would Europe have kept silent? Would that world, which calls itself civilized and developed, have kept silent? Or would it have instigated the entire world against what it terms extremists, fanatics, and savages.... We have not heard a single word from the arrogant world or an official word from Lebanon. Are they all frightened to condemn Israel?... [It seems that] what is required is for everyone to give Israel everything in order to risk the peace, as U.S. President (Bill Clinton) says." He said: "When we look at all this spite and all these missiles launched against civilians, we see the U.S. decision, U.S. brutality, U.S. terrorism, and U.S. arrogance, joined from time to time by British and French arrogance." Addressing citizens, he said: "Store all this inside you and teach your children that the United States is the cause of all your problems, as it is the one which gives the enemy all the means of power and obstructs any condemnation of him." He added: "It is the mujahidin who represent Lebanon's strength and freedom, not those who engage in internal sectarian predicaments and massacres."
