FBIS4-38962 "drsov107_f_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-107 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 National Affairs CSCE High Commissioner for Minorities Meets Crimean Tatars CSCE High Commissioner for Minorities Meets Crimean Tatars LD0206204694 Kiev UNIAN in Ukrainian 1645 GMT 2 Jun 94 LD0206204694 Kiev UNIAN Ukrainian BFN [Text] Simferopol -- On 2 June, Max van der Stoel, the CSCE high commissioner for minorities, who has visited Ukraine three times over the past six months, met Mustafa Dzhemilev, head of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people. During a discussion on the status of the Crimean Tatars in Crimea, the possibility of extending aid to the Crimean Tatars along CSCE lines was discussed. It was decided to render such aid to Ukraine as a whole, however, within the framework of a program targeted at Crimean Tatars. Max van der Stoel had his second meeting with Crimean Deputy Prime Minister Yevgeniy Saburov. Summing up the results at the request of a UNIAN correspondent, Saburov pointed out that the talks were, first and foremost, about the status of Russians in Crimea, because Russians are a national minority in Ukraine. According to Saburov, he "told Max van der Stoel about the pressure exerted by the leadership of Ukraine." Saburov also commented on the outcome of the sitting of the International Trade Club, which took place last week in Crimea. He reported that the trade representatives of the embassies sent a letter of thanks for the warm reception, and declared that the representatives of business circles who arrived in Crimea got the impression that the conflict there is not a result of some ethnic processes but just as a result of a conflict between political elites. Saburov underlined: "I am glad that the representatives of the embassies left Crimea as our supporters." On the same day, Max van der Stoel met Serhiy Tsekov, chairman of the Supreme Council of Crimea and Leonid Hrach, first secretary of the Communist Party of Crimea. On 3 June, the CSCE High Commissioner Max van der Stoel is expected to arrive in Kiev where he will meet the Ukrainian president.
