FBIS3-55450 "drsov006_t_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia Government Crisis Over Cabinet Reshuffle Meri Makes Statement on Changes WS1001115794 Tallinn ETA NEWS BULLETIN in English 0803 GMT 10 Jan 94 WS1001115794 Tallinn ETA NEWS BULLETIN Language: English Article Type:BFN [From Office of the President official statement, 10 January POSTIMEES, p 1] [Text] Monday, January 10 -- President Lennart Meri made a TV and radio statement Sunday [9 January] evening. The government reshuffle has run into difficulties, but there is no crisis, he stressed. The president described his actions as "usual in Germany, Austria or any other parliamentary state" and regretted that an internal crisis has broken out in Estonia. President Meri announced that he had discussed a possible change of some ministers in September already, but the prime minister had not considered any changes necessary then. The local elections proved that the balance of power had changed and the prime minister did start preparations for a cabinet reshuffle. The president had recommended to postpone the changes until late February so as to consider the changing powers in Europe. The government failed to listen and the government restructuring regrettable coincided with major events in foreign politics. The president further provided his interpretation of the constitution, explaining that while the prime minister presents the candidates, the president has the right to accept or reject them. As for the background of the decision, the president stressed that the government's activities must be understood by the people and the Riigikogu [parliament]. However, the prime minister's assurances that Toomas Sildmae had lost the confidence of the government, was not borne out by statements of other cabinet members, President Meri stressed. Accepting all changes proposed by the prime minister would have been irresponsible, Meri declared in the statement. He further pointed out that the efficiency of the prime minister's decisions must be clear to the nation, the Riigikogu and the president. "When making any political decisions, we have to consider the state's interests first and subordinate them to any party interests," the presidential statement read. The president concluded by appealing to the Riigikogu to contribute to the completion of the cabinet changes.
