FBIS3-19641 "drweu054_h_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 GERMANY Lamers Warns To Heed Comments AU1903174594 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE in German 19 Mar 94 p 2 AU1903174594 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE Language: German Article Type:BFN ["C.G." report: "French Ambassador Also Commented to Mrs. Schwaetzer"] [Excerpt] Bonn, 18 Mar -- Before his conversation with journalists in Bonn, which led to the diplomat being summoned to the Foreign Ministry, the French ambassador to Germany, Scheer, made similar comments on German-French relations to FRG Minister Schwaetzer. Upon reading the first report by this newspaper on comments "by French circles," the minister recognized the contents of the comments, which Scheer made to her during his first visit as new French ambassador in her office in the FRG Construction Ministry. This became known in Bonn on Friday [18 March]. In the meantime, it has been heard in Bonn that, occasionally, one can sense uneasiness in Paris about the fact that France's influence might decrease as a result of the expansion of the European Union. However, differences between the concepts of Germany and France do not touch the substance of German-French cooperation, because the French Government has officially approved all joint actions, it was said. Mr. Lamers, the foreign policy spokesman of the Christian Democratic Union/Christian Social Union Bundestag group, stated that the behavior of the French ambassador was unusual and, concerning the diplomat's summons to the Foreign Ministry, he said: "One reacts with appropriate measures to unusual steps." However, one must not simply brush aside the concerns and complaints voiced by Scheer. If Germany takes the wrong steps, it could "easily find itsel standing alone." The foreign minister must take into account that self-assurance and self-confidence must be linked with caution and care. Perhaps this has not always been exercised to the necessary extent, Lamers said. [passage omitted]
