FBIS3-477 "drafr045_e_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 WEST AFRICA Benin Joint Franco-Beninese Military Maneuvers Begin LD0703174494 Paris Radio France International in French 1230 GMT 7 Mar 94 LD0703174494 Paris Radio France International Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] In Benin, joint maneuvers between the national army and the French army lasting until 11 March are starting today. Similar maneuvers have just taken place in Cote d'Ivoire. The Nigerian authorities are very unhappy with these Franco-Beninese maneuvers, calling them a show of force. It must be stressed that Nigeria was quite annoyed by the recent arrival of French military reinforcements in Cameroon while relations between the two countries are extremely tense following their border dispute. However, France has often stressed that these joint maneuvers had been planned for a long time and had nothing to do with the situation in Nigeria. More details from Daniel Desesquelles: [Desesquelles] The FAR, Force d'Action Rapide, [Rapid Reaction Force] staff has been planning these Franco-African maneuvers with the Ivorian and Beninese staffs for nearly a year. Therefore they are not linked in any way with the border dispute between Cameroon and Nigeria; besides, Lagos has sent observers for the whole duration of the maneuvers. These Franco-African maneuvers take place every three years with one or two African armies. While Ivorians are used to training with the French, it is the first time the Beninese Army has trained in an international environment. Some 1,000 French soldiers are taking part in this exercise; they belong to the 43th Marine Battalion based in Abidjan which was reinforced by a company of the 8th Marine Paratrooper Regiment. The navy dispatched three light naval craft. Air drops and amphibious operations are on the agenda, but the main new event is the presence of three Mirage F-1CT which will be used in the ground attack role. This is the first time this latest version of the Mirage F-1 has been deployed in Africa.
