FBIS4-63238 "drsov098_f_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-098 Daily Report 19 May 1994 National Affairs Reiterates Supremacy of Kiev Reiterates Supremacy of Kiev LD1905192194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1651 GMT 19 May 94 LD1905192194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondents Viktor Demidenko, Mikhail Melnik] [Text] Kiev, 19 May -- "We shall act decisively and consistently in the defense of the territorial integrity of Ukraine. We shall act within the bounds of the Constitution, of our powers, precisely proceeding from the fact that the Crimea is a component part of Ukraine, as registered in the constitutions of our state and the Republic of Crimea." This was stated by President Leonid Kravchuk at a press conference today. He dwelt on the latest events in the Crimea when the Supreme Soviet of this autonomous republic intends to examine the issue of restoring a number of clauses of the Crimea's Constitution in the edition of 6 May 1992. In particular, this relates to the inclusion of the Crimea in the composition of Ukraine, to dual citizenship, the setting up of military formations and others. "If the Supreme Soviet of the Crimea adopts these documents, I shall immediately submit to the parliament of the Ukraine a draft decision on suspending their effect," the President said. "Solving these issues is exclusively within the competence of the Supreme Soviet of Ukraine," Leonid Kravchuk stressed. Ignoring this fundamental situation registered in the law "On Demarcation of Powers Between the Bodies of State Power of Ukraine and the Republic of Crimea," is fraught with serious consequences for those who set foot on that path. "For each society, for each state, there is a pale beyond which no one is allowed to step," the president pointed out. Those who ignore this, those who are guided by ambitions and by other principles, should remember that their actions are unlawful. They should know that such actions, will primarily have an effect on the entire population of the Crimea. Those who, ignoring the existing legislation and international legal norms, cause the situation to heat up, will have to answer for this. No one will evade the responsibility, regardless of what high regalia and powers he might be in cooperation with, the head of the Ukrainian state stressed.
