FBIS4-32041 "dreeu118_d_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-118 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 SLOVAKIA SDSS Split Over Cooperation With SDL SDSS Split Over Cooperation With SDL AU1706141194 Bratislava SME in Slovak 15 Jun 94 p 2 AU1706141194 Bratislava SME Slovak BFN [TA SR report: "J. Hruby: The Purification of the Social Democratic Party of Slovakia Is No Longer Possible"] [Text] Bratislava--The Social Democratic Party of Slovakia (SDSS) is at the bottom. The coalition agreement with the Party of the Democratic Left on the joint course of action in the early parliamentary elections is too binding for them and deprives them of their identity. This is what SDSS Deputy Chairman Jozef Hruby says in the declaration he provided to TA SR yesterday, through the Press and Information Department of the Movement For a Democratic Slovakia [HZDS]. The enormous debt, amounting to tens of millions, and the permanently reappearing attempts by principal functionaries at violating their own statuses have disturbed the peaceful ranks of the SDSS so much, J. Hruby continues, that the need to establish an authentic social democratic party is being discussed more and more openly. In his opinion, it is difficult to expect a reversal at the meeting of the SDSS Central Council, which is to take place on 25 June. Those who are against the planned merger with the Party of the Democratic Left are most likely to ignore it and will not come. Those who are hesitating or have fear will be silent, and, as soon as the Central Council has a quorum, the supporters of the merger will push through their cause. Jaroslav Volf is likely to enter SDSS history as the SDSS's most successful liquidator. It is a sad thing that he often uses the name of Alexander Dubcek as a shield. In view of his attitudes, it is immoral, Hruby said at the conclusion of the declaration. The SDSS Central Council Presidium rejected Hruby's declaration as fictitious, unfounded, and subjective. It is allegedly motivated by his personal failure to get his name on the preliminary list of candidates for parliamentary elections in 1994 in the order he would like to have seen.
