FBIS4-35165 "drlat126_a_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-126 Daily Report 29 Jun 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Robaina in Caracas on Economic Nature of Event Robaina in Caracas on Economic Nature of Event FL2906210494 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 1700 GMT 29 Jun 94 FL2906210494 Havana Radio Rebelde Network Spanish BFN [Telephone interview with Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina, in Caracas, by Roberto Cavada in Havana, on 29 June; from the "National Radio News" -- recorded] [Text] [Cavada] What is on the first day's agenda of the foreign ministers meeting? [Robaina] The opening ceremony is scheduled for 1100. There is a document ready to be discussed by the foreign ministers. This document covers the fundamental guidelines by which the association should function. As of 1100, we will begin this meeting that should last all day, and which is to approve the document that will be presented to the heads of state. [Cavada] It is being said that documents presented by Caricom [Caribbean Common Market], Latin American Economic System, the Economic Commission for Latin America, and the Central American Integration System have been discussed. These are all economic institutions and organizations. Does this mean that the future Association of Caribbean States could have a prominent role in the economy of the area? [Robaina] Yes, the main drive of this initiative, which has received tremendous support from Caricom in the first place, and from the 37 countries of the Caribbean Basin, is fundamentally economic -- economic, but with new game rules because it is also the only economic organization that deals with environmental issues, social policies, and many other related issues as well. I believe that today, we start on a path toward establishing new game rules. The special characteristic of these game rules is that many countries are not characterized by large resources. They are characterized today by the desire to see this area, which although geographically linked a long time....[end recording]
