FBIS3-27961 "dreas022_c_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 North Korea ROK's Parole of Arrested Former Officials Noted SK0202044294 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0421 GMT 2 Feb 94 SK0202044294 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Papers on Kim Yong-sam Group's `Eradication of Irregularities'" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, February 2 (KCNA) -- The Kim Yong-sam group set free under the name of stay of execution or parol, some politicians, "ranking government officials" and former generals of the puppet Army whom it had arrested on the charge of involvement in corruption and personnel irregularities in the puppet Army while making much ado under the "civilian" veil, as if it were doing a big thing. This is a topic of press commentaries here today. In a commentary titled "Arrest in Public and Release Through Back Door," NODONG SINMUN says: The traitor Kim Yong-sam shouted himself hoarse about "reform" and "eradication of irregularities" under the "civilian" veil. This was, however, no more than a popularity-hunting tactics to improve his public image and a base "political retaliation" to revenge himself on political forces that had laid obstacles to his seizure of power and remove them from the political scene. Whenever the rulers changed in South Korea, a loud advertizement was made about the "uprooting of irregularities," but it got nowhere anytime. [sentence as received] If there was anything different in case of the traitor Kim Yong-sam, it was the greater pomp in the advertizement about "eradication". But it has turned out to have been an empty slogan as he set free the criminals. It is an unpardonable crime of the traitor Kim Yong-sam to have fooled the popular masses with the signboard "uprooting of irregularities." The traitor Kim Yong-sam is stringing out a high-flown jargon to appear "upright." But he is the chieftain of irregularities and the target of overthrow. The traitor is not "liquidating irregularities" but persecuting and arresting people of conscience who exposed them. Noting that the Kim Yong-sam group released the criminals who had been prosecuted under arrest on the charge of bribe taking and irregularities in personnel affairs of the Army in less than one year, MINJU CHOSON says: This shows that the puppets' patronage of the suspects of irregularities has entered an open stage.
