FBIS4-32973 "drlat105_c_94010" FBIS-LAT-94-105 Daily Report 27 May 1994 MEXICO Cardenas Accepts Zedillo Invitation Cardenas Accepts Zedillo Invitation PA2805140994 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 27 May 94 PA2805140994 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 27 May 94 Spanish BFN [From the "Early Morning" newscast] [Text] Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, presidential candidate for the Party of the Democratic Revolution [PRD], said he accepts Ernesto Zedillo's invitation to hold a debate, but he insists that the initiative to hold a debate is his. [Begin Cardenas recording] The candidate for the ruling party made a new invitation to the other candidates to participate in a debate of nine. The candidate for the ruling party seems to forget or does not want to listen to the other invitations made by other candidates, including myself, to hold a first debate among nine candidates. We hope it is not the only debate. The debates must not be regulated by the interest of the ruling candidate. It is time for the nine candidates, through their representatives, to reach an agreement on this next debate, but also on the other debates we may hold before 21 August. I understand there should be at least three more debates among all candidates before 21 August. We also hope to hold debates among pairs of candidates. We hope all candidates can begin discussing this. It is not something the government or the Institutional Revolutionary Party candidate has to impose on us. It is something the candidates must agree upon amongst ourselves. We also have to reach agreements regarding the handling of the media following the debates, especially Televisa, Television Azteca, and Multivision. They should give all candidates the same opportunities to participate in what we may call a postdebate. This time should not be used as an opportunity to favor one or a few candidates to the detriment of the other candidates. These are the guidelines my representatives will be suggesting to the other candidates so that we can all reach an agreement and hold several debates before 21 August. [end recording]
