FBIS3-42491 "jpuma008___94021" JPRS-UMA-94-008 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Central Eurasia Military Affairs 23 February 1994 CIS/RUSSIAN MILITARY ISSUES BLACK SEA FLEET Press Center Statement on Reinstatement of Colonel Yermakov 94UM0195A Sevastopol FLAG RODINY in Russian 21 Jan 94 p 1 94UM0195A Sevastopol FLAG RODINY Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article: "Statement From the Black Sea Fleet Press Center"] [Text] As we know, Ivan Yermakov, the head of the state administration of the city of Sevastopol, was dismissed from his position by an edict of the Ukrainian President dated 19 January of this year. On 28 February 1991 Colonel I. Yermakov, chief of an aviation repair plant of the USSR Naval Aviation, was released from his position in accordance with Decree No 1010 of the USSR Council of Ministers for his term of office as a deputy, during which he was to remain on active duty on the Black Sea Fleet personnel roster. Since the moment of release from his position, Colonel I. Yermakov has been considered to be a member of the RF Navy, he did not take the Ukrainian oath, and he has not expressed a desire to serve in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. On the basis of the above, on 20 January of this year Admiral Eduard Baltin, commander of the Black Sea Fleet, signed an order placing Colonel I. Yermakov at his disposal. The chief of the personnel department of the Black Sea Fleet was instructed to find a position for RF Navy Aviation Colonel I. Yermakov in accordance with his wishes and his military specialty. The command of the Black Sea Fleet and the Russian Ministry of Defense intend to display concern for the fate of each officer in the future as well. A corresponding telegram to the Russian Federation Minister of Defense was drafted. * * * Black Sea Fleet Commander Admiral Edward Baltin received a telegram from Georgian Republic Security Minister I. Georgadze. It read: "Georgia will always be grateful to you for your humanity and for the assistance you provided to my motherland. My warriors and I treasure your friendship. Warmest regards to your command."
