FBIS4-34891 "drlat123_k_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-123 Daily Report 26 Jun 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina Views U.S. Relations Views U.S. Relations PA2606205794 Hamburg DPA in Spanish 1911 GMT 26 Jun 94 PA2606205794 Hamburg DPA Spanish BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, 26 Jun (DPA) -- Argentine President Carlos Menem praised bilateral relations with the United States, anticipated Argentina's prompt joining of NAFTA, and called the opposition's request for a political trial of Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo "outrageous." Upon arriving in the capital following a trip to the United States and Canada, Menem said that "the decision about Argentina joining NAFTA has practically been made," but everything "depends on the invitation extended to us," he said. Menem said his meeting with his U.S. counterpart Bill Clinton at the White House on 24 June was very significant, and that his meeting with former U.S. President George Bush was very "warm and affectionate." As for the request by the Radical Civic Union [UCR], the main opposition party, that Cavallo, who drafted the current adjustment plan, be brought to political trial, Menem said that action cannot be taken just because the minister interpreted a law. Former Argentine President Raul Alfonsin, current UCR leader, told the UCR deputies' faction leader to ask for a political trial of Cavallo following his interpretation of the extension stipulated by Congress to choose between private or state retirement. Despite the 90-day extension to opt for the distribution [de reparto] or capitalization plan approved by the legislature, Cavallo announced last Friday that those who did not choose before 1 July would be registered in an administrating board for private retirement funds. Opposition legislators challenged Cavallo's interpretation and expressed their concern that the executive branch would not promulgate the law approved by Congress before 1 July, when the deadline expires. Menem stressed today that he will decide the issue of the extension for choosing a retirement plan.
