FBIS4-62972 "drsov097_a_94037" FBIS-SOV-94-097 Daily Report 18 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Adamishin Meets Indian Vice President in Delhi Adamishin Meets Indian Vice President in Delhi LD1805185394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1654 GMT 18 May 94 LD1805185394 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Leonid Kotov] [Text] New Delhi May 18 TASS -- Russian First Deputy Foreign Minister Anatoliy Adamishin held meetings with Indian Vice-President Kocheril Raman Narayanan and State Foreign Minister Raghunandan Lal Bhatia in Delhi today. They discussed questions concerning Indian Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao's forthcoming official visit to Moscow, which is scheduled to take place in June, 1994, the development of Russian-Indian political and economic ties as well as a number of international issues. Both sides expressed satisfaction with the develoment of political contacts between Russia and India. They stressed that it is necessary to strengthen ties between the two countries, especially in the economic sphere. During the talks the Russian and Indian sides focused their attention at the forthcoming vist of head of the Indian Government P.V. Narasimha Rao to Russia and the completion of work at documents which will be signed during his stay in Moscow. Speaking to Russian and foreign journalists, Adamishin emphasised that India acquired great significance to the first visit to the Russian capital by the Indian prime minister, and hoped that the visit will give a new impetus to bilateral cooperation in diverse spheres. Especially the two sides should strenghthen cooperation in the sphere of trade and economy in which great possibilities exist for new forms of cooperation, the Russian minister said. Replying to a question by ITAR-TASS, the first deputy head of the Russian foreign department said that during the consultations they discussed the situation in Tajikistan. "I was convinced that India strives more than in the past to help find a political solution to the situation on the border of Tajikistan. Russia supports an inter-Tajik dialogue, putting an end to attacks on the borders of Tajikistan, and India also adheres to an identical position," Adamishin said.
