FBIS3-50237 "dreeu017_c_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Jan 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Prime Minister on Compensation to WWII Victims LD2501211394 Prague Radiozurnal Radio Network in Czech 1717 GMT 25 Jan 94 LD2501211394 Prague Radiozurnal Radio Network Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Interview with Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus by David Stahlavsky; place and date not given] [Excerpt] [David Stahlavsky] Prime Minister, our government, in the process of correcting the wrongs of the past, has gone quite far. One problem still remains to be solved: compensation to the victims of fascism. You indicated at Jachymov that the solution is at hand. How far is the temporal horizon of this solution? [Klaus] Naturally, this matter has two components. One component is the political sphere: What kind of a signal it is, what sort of a decision it is, from both the internal political point of view and the foreign political one. The second thing is the technical aspect of this compensation. I think that, basically, we have gone quite a long way in the technical aspect. One indeed has to understand it not as compensation. We always translate these words into mitigation of wrongs because compensation somehow implies the feeling that something is in the ratio of one to one. As to all the restitution and rehabilitation claims, they are never in the ratio of one to one. We all know this very well. One cannot compensate for one minute's stay in a concentration camp by anything. I know this very well. That is why we say mitigation of wrongs. That is why I also think that it should be [word indistinct], where the wrongs were greatest, and it should not apply to the group of those in enforced labor who, no doubt, we all consider a smaller group, where smaller wrongs were committed. So what we could manage from our means on a temporary basis is to do with the greatest wrongs. From the internal and foreign political viewpoints, it has its important aspect and we are very well aware of it, and I repeat and say clearly and distinctly that, from our point of view, it does not mean at all diminishing or giving up claims toward the German side in these matters. It is simply our own personal responsibility toward our fellow citizens who are fairly old now, and I do not think one can put it off much longer. [passage omitted]
