FBIS3-8725 "dreeu050_y_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Serbia Churkin Assesses Meeting With Milosevic AU1403153294 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 14 Mar 94 AU1403153294 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Text] Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic received Vitaliy Churkin, the Russian president's special envoy. After visiting London, Zagreb, Sarajevo, and Pale, the Russian diplomat arrived in Belgrade with a view to finding a comprehensive solution to the Bosnian conflict. Here is a report by Slobodan Jankovic: [Begin Jankovic recording] The Milosevic-Churkin meting lasted one hour. In a brief statement to journalists afterwards, Yeltsin's special envoy assessed the talks as interesting. Opinions were exchanged on many aspects of the crisis on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Anyway, these talks were not planned for making important decisions, Vitaliy Churkin said among other things and noted that other contacts were also necessary before he could speak about any progress. President Milosevic's attitude was flexible as regards the Muslim-Croatian federation, Churkin said and added that he personally was encouraged by the fact that the agreement on the federation could lead to a final peace solution. Churkin did not want to give a specific answer to the question as to what proposals he had brought to Belgrade, defending this discretion with the simple explanation that deliberations were still involved that were part of a permanent process. He said that, already in the afternoon, he was again leaving for Zagreb to continue his mission there. In reply to a journalist's question as to what would happen if the Serbian side refused to join the federation, Vitaliy Churkin said that refusal was not what the Serbian side had in mind when contemplating this idea. He reiterated that it was the turn of the Bosnian Serbs' to decide what they would do. They need time to study the agreement carefully, Churkin said and stressed that he believed that everything would proceed in the direction of incorporating and not rejecting the idea on confederation. [end recording]
