FBIS3-3885 "drchi057_v_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 TAIWAN Li Unlikely To Accept Zhirinovskiy Invitation for Apr Visit OW2403083094 Taipei CNA in English 0755 GMT 24 Mar 94 OW2403083094 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Sofia Wu] [Text] Taipei, March 24 (CNA) -- President Li Teng-hui is not likely to visit Russia in early April, a presidential office spokesman said Thursday [24 March]. The spokesman made the statement after the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed it has received a letter from Russia's opposition Liberal Democratic Party inviting President Li to attend the party's fifth national congress scheduled to open April 2. The spokesman said President Li is willing to visit any country as long as such visit is in the nation's interest. But, he said, it takes time to arrange Li's overseas trips. "So I don't think it is feasible for our president to accept the Russian party's invitation at the moment," he noted. Earlier in the day, a Foreign Ministry official said the invitation from Russia's largest opposition party lacks the necessary imprimatur of the Russian Government. "It takes the Russian Government's endorsement before Li can visit," said Lo Jih-yuan, director of the ministry's West Asian Affairs Department. "It remains unclear whether the Russian Government would approve our president's visit," Lo noted. Taiwan doesn't maintain diplomatic relations with Russia. Li made unofficial visits to the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand in February. Although the three Southeast Asian countries do not have diplomatic ties with Taiwan, they treated Li as a national guest. The largest Russian opposition party said in its letter, signed by its chairman, the controversial Vladimir Zhirinovskiy, that its leaders hope to discuss with Li international affairs and prospects for Taiwan-Russian cooperation, particularly in economic and cultural fields. It also said if Li cannot attend the party congress, he is welcome to visit Russia at any time.
