FBIS3-57173 "drsov016_a_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Commentator Views Visit OW2501054794 Moscow Radio Moscow in Mandarin 1000 GMT 24 Jan 94 OW2501054794 Moscow Radio Moscow Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [By station commentator Kondratyev from the "Current Event and Commentary" program] [Text] Russian Foreign Minister Kozyrev is scheduled to visit China from 26-29 January. Station commentator Kondratyev said: The main purpose of Kozyrev's forthcoming visit is to prepare for the second Sino-Russian high-level meeting. Everybody will recall that Russian President Yeltsin held high-level talks with Chinese leaders during his visit to Beijing at the end of 1992. That first contact between Russian and Chinese leaders yielded good results. Today, we can definitely say that relations between the two countries have flourished since that meeting. They cover many aspects of state-to- state relations, including economic relations and trade, cooperation in military technology, and border issues. There is ample reason to believe that bilateral trade volume will vastly surpass the highest level of 1982, which was $5.8 billion. Cooperation in military technology has also proceeded smoothly. Here, we would like to specifically emphasize that military cooperation between Russia and China is not directed at any third country. The Russian-Chinese border issue has been resolved without encountering more difficulties. Reductions in each other's border troops and confidence-building measures have also yielded results. During his visit to Beijing, Kozyrev will mainly discuss relations between the two countries. During the visit he is expected to sign agreements on border checkpoints and consultations between the foreign ministers of the two countries. Certainly, the two sides will exchange views on major international and regional issues. Furthermore, the Russian delegation will acquaint itself with China's experience in building special economic zones. These zones have had a positive impact on China's economy. In short, Kozyrev's visit may score great successes.
