FBIS4-24260 "drafr124_c_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-124 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA PWV Places Ban on Revealing Future Housing Sites PWV Places Ban on Revealing Future Housing Sites MB2506121894 Johannesburg NEW NATION in English 24 Jun 94 p 4 MB2506121894 Johannesburg NEW NATION English BFN [Report by Klaas Skosana] [Text] The Pretoria-Witwatersrand-Vereeniging (PWV) provincial government has slapped a ban on information that could lead to the identification of sites selected for housing development because it fears invasion by squatters. According to PWV housing and local government MEC [member of the Executive Council] Daniel Mofokeng, nine suitable tracts of land throughout the PWV area, where show houses will be built within weeks, have been identified. But he said the location of the land cannot be made public for fear that squatters would invade the sites. The secrecy around the location of sites follows large scale invasion of vacant plots of land in the PWV area in recent weeks. Demolition of shacks erected by 850 squatters in Devland and Liefde and Vrede south of Johannesburg in the past weeks brought PWV's premier Tokyo Sexwale into a sharp confrontation with the Johannesburg City Council. Sites identified for relocation of squatters evicted from the Liefde and Vrede informal settlements has also been identified, said Mofokeng, but even this will have to be kept a secret. Mofokeng told NEW NATION: "The problem is huge and serious. If full details of the plan are made public before actual construction started, the following day one may find the place full of squatters and delivery of proper formal housing will be hindered." Minister of Housing Joe Slovo earlier this month warned that land invasion would create additional problems for the authorities who were working hard to deliver housing to the homeless. But squatters claim that, by occupying vacant land, they were helping government identify sites which could be used for housing development.
