FBIS3-24615 "jpust007___94066" JPRS-UST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 25 March 1993 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Child Health Concerns in CIS Republics Interview Reflects Concern About Child Morbidity 937C0292B Moscow PRAVDA in Russian 25 Mar 93 p 3 937C0292B Moscow PRAVDA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Interview with Doctor L. F. Berezhkov: ``A Doctor's Heartache -- Every Other Child in the Russian Federation Has a Chronic Illness''; first paragraph is PRAVDA introduction] [Excerpts]Leonid Fedorovich Berezhkov, doctor of medical sciences and professor, heads the Department for the Study of dynamics of Schoolchild Health Dynamics, Scientific Research Institute of Hygiene and Prevention of Diseases of Children, Adolescents and Young People, of the RF Goskomsanepidnadzor [State Committee for Sanitary and Epidemiological Oversight]. Our correspondent asked him to answer a few questions. [Question]How do you generally assess the physical condition of the youngest Russian citizens? [Answer]Unfortunately, there is little reason for optimism. More than half of all schoolchildren suffer from chronic diseases. In essence this refers to pathology of the nasopharynx, digestive organs, nervous system, anemia and allergies. [Question]What do the scientists predict for the next few years? [Answer]Frankly speaking, nothing good. In view of deterioration of ecological conditions, we should expect a rise in both acute and chronic diseases, particularly allergies, bronchial asthma, and dermatitis. Worsening of nutrition will lead to being underweight, retarded growth, sexual development, anemia, and diminished constitutional resistance. The more stress situations there are, the more often we will encounter mental diseases, poorer immunity, physical development, pathology of digestive and hemopoietic organs. [Question]You mentioned the impact of ecological conditions on child health. In what regions are there more sick kids? [Answer]There are the fewest healthy children in the Central-Chernozem region (33 percent), Volga region (39 percent), the Far East (41 percent), while the best regions are: North Caucusus (55 percent), North-West (54 percent), and Kaliningrad (51 percent). The largest number of children with chronic disease are in Moscow and St. Petersburg. The children of the Urals and West Siberia do not enjoy good health.
