FBIS3-6610 "dreas054__a94008" FBIS-EAS-94-054-A Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 ANNEX Japan Air Rights Issue Intensifies Friction With U.S. OW2103065694 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 19 Mar 94 Morning Edition p 5--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2103065694 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Unattributed "Undercurrent" column article: "Danger Signal for Japan-U.S. Aviation Friction"] [Text] Just before its inauguration, the United States notified Japan that it would postpone approval for a regular Sendai-Honolulu flight by Japan Airlines [JAL]. It was also disclosed that the term approved for several routes operated by Japanese airlines had been shortened. On 18 March, the Ministry of Transport [MOT] decided to take countermeasures by shortening the approved term of operation for U.S. airlines. These are clear signs that "aviation friction" between Japan and the United States is intensifying. At the moment these moves seem to be part of the jockeying for advantage as the prelude to the next round of aviation talks. However, the MOT has said that "if the U.S. is not perceived to be acting sincerely in the measures it takes, further countermeasures will be considered." There is, therefore, a clear danger that the confrontation will be intensified. What underlies the tough attitude being taken by the United States is the difference in view between Washington and Tokyo over the issue of beyond rights -- such rights would allow U.S. airlines to extend their routes beyond Japan to third countries. Current beyond rights are based on the Aviation Agreement signed in 1952. Based on this, U.S. airlines have extended flights beyond Japan to 10 places, including Singapore. For flights to Kansai International Airport [in Osaka], which is scheduled to open in September, the United States is demanding that its airlines be granted unlimited rights to extend flights beyond the new airport. In response, the MOT says that "the Aviation Agreement indicates that efforts be centered on promoting flights between Japan and the United States," and that "attempts to expand beyond rights are tantamount to an abuse of such rights." Japanese airlines have only one beyond-rights flight from Narita to San Paulo via Los Angeles (operated by JAL). This is an obvious inequality and the MOT, therefore, will not change its position on the exercise of beyond rights. It is very important for American companies to secure beyond rights that give them advantages on Pacific flights, a market that is currently growing. United Airlines and other airlines are strongly dissatisfied that their requests to start new flights through the exercise of beyond rights have been denied. And the recent announcement of the shortening of the approved operating period for certain flights can be taken as "the U.S. making clear its dissatisfaction over the beyond rights issue." A Foreign Ministry source said: "Friction in the field of aviation is one thing, but a deterioration in Japan-U.S. relations caused by the trade surplus is quite another." However, Japan now faces another problem in addition to the dispute over the deadlocked Japan-U.S. economic framework talks. Bargaining is expected to continued until the resumption of Japan-U.S. aviation talks. In the meantime, it has been said that "the point at issue now is how far can Japan stick to its hardline position while it is being pressured to improve its relationship with the United States." It is highly likely that the MOT will have difficulties tackling this problem.
