FBIS3-13500 "drnes050_l_94005" FBIS-NES-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 ISRAEL Labor, SHAS Parties Initial Coalition Agreement TA1403205894 Tel Aviv IDF Radio in Hebrew 2030 GMT 14 Mar 94 TA1403205894 Tel Aviv IDF Radio Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Text] Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin and Knesset Member Arye Der'i a short time ago initialed a coalition agreement between Labor and SHAS [Torah Observing Sephardim]. During the signing ceremony, Der'i hoped that the government would expand further. Our party affairs correspondent Sefi Handler reports from the Knesset: The Labor-SHAS coalition agreement was initialed about 15 minutes ago. Why was a full agreement not signed? Because SHAS is waiting for Knesset approval of the Meat Law, which could take all night. Prime Minister Rabin is due to leave for the United States at 0100 [2300 GMT] and he wanted to prevent the opposition from filibustering the bill. It was therefore decided to initial the agreement first, and wait for Rabin's return home for the full signing, since by then the institutions of both parties will have approved it. This is what Prime Minister Rabin had to say after signing the accord. [Begin Rabin recording] I am happy that we agreed on a framework for a coalition agreement with SHAS. We initialed it tonight because it will go into effect only following two more stages. The first stage is approval by Labor institutions and SHAS Rabbi 'Ovadya Yosef -- as long as they have not approved the document, it is an initialed framework -- and after that it will be presented for Knesset approval. [end recording] At the signing ceremony, SHAS leader Arye Der'i hoped that the coalition would continue to expand. Any faction interested in joining the coalition is welcome, he said. The coalition accord states that the agreement and appendices signed between the two parties in 1992, on the eve of the government's establishment, would continue to be valid, except for the amendments to the basic law. It also stipulates that SHAS will receive the Religious Affairs Ministry and the Interior Ministry, portfolios although it is still not clear whether they will have one minister or two. SHAS has also been promised two deputy ministers, which also has to be decided between the prime minister and Der'i.
