FBIS3-39274 "drweu031_i_94013" FBIS-WEU-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 FRANCE * Post-GATT Situation Discussed by Sector * Ministry Document Summarized 94ES0228J Paris LE QUOTIDIEN DE PARIS in French 17 Jan 94 p 13 94ES0228J Paris LE QUOTIDIEN DE PARIS Language: French Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article: "The Industry Ministry's Document: Sensitive Areas"] [Text] When he met with the press last Wednesday [12 January], Gerard Longuet took the opportunity to set forth a first assessment of the results obtained for France in the course of the Uruguay Round negotiations. This assessment is contained in a booklet of 35 pages. We are mentioning here the portions pertaining to certain sensitive parts in our industrial sector. - The European Union has refused to further open up its market for a number of nonferrous metals and is demanding the effective elimination of nontariff obstacles by our main competitors. In order to maintain the 115,000 jobs in their aluminum sector (of which 15,000 are in France), the European nations won agreement on the maintenance of tariff barriers in a market that is suffering seriously from world overproduction. - It was not possible to achieve a multilateral agreement on steel because of the continuing disputes between the United States and the exporter countries (European Union, Japan, Korea), and because of the fact that a decision on the restructuring of the European iron and steel industry is still awaited. The discussions be continue. In the absence of an agreement, the sector would be integrated in the GATT system in 18 months. - The customs duties on the electronic products of the major public enterprises (100,000 jobs in Europe, 14,000 in France) have not been lowered. This is a very sensitive sector because of the manpower costs, the research and development efforts, and the risks involved in the shifting of production facilities to Central and East European countries. - Despite the mutual opening up agreed upon by the Americans and the Japanese in the semiconductor sector, the European nations will continue to monitor the development of this technology closely. This is something a tariff schedule cannot do, and this leaves room for the fear that the established regulations might be circumvented. - The duties on telecommunications and data-processing equipment were the subject of closed negotiations in which the Europeans, Americans, and Japanese participated. This industry in France, where its capacity to compete depends heavily on manpower costs, will have to adapt gradually to a new situation, particularly with regard to telephone sets, on which the duty has been reduced to zero.
