FBIS3-23914 "jpusr022___94052" FBIS-USR-94-022 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 9 March 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS News From St Petersburg Sobchak Adviser on Free Economic Zone 944F0369D St. Petersburg NEVSKOYE VREMYA in Russian 23 Feb 94 p 1 944F0369D St. Petersburg NEVSKOYE VREMYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Report by Lev Golovannik: "Petersburg Cannot Be Fenced In"] [Text] Petersburg cannot be a free economic zone, said the mayor's chief adviser Vatanyar Yagya yesterday at a meeting with journalists in the American-Russian Information Press Center. In his opinion, the idea--great by itself--could be successfully implemented in our city, and in the form of not one but 22 subzones, the projects for which the mayoralty already has. The potential major subzones are: Kronshtadt, Lomonosov, the airport, and the sea port. Foreign experience shows that a free economic zone should be separated from the rest of the territory of the country, and since it is doubtful that a fence could be put around all of Petersburg, the most appropriate place for it would be Kronshtadt because of its natural stand-alone position. However, as is known, Kronshtadt currently is home to a naval base, and the navy is not happy about having commerce for a neighbor. Vatanyar Yagya believes that the military will not give up Kronshtadt, but we will not have other subzones either until the new State Duma passes a law defining the status of a free economic zone. True, there are already two such zones in Russia--Nakhodka Harbor and Kaliningrad Oblast; however, their legality remains very questionable. At the press conference Vatanyar Saidovich also outlined priority directions along which our city authorities are trying to develop international cooperation. The main directions are the pharmaceutical and food processing industry, as well as transportation support. At this point, for instance, implementation is beginning on an agreement between Petersburg and Cuba for shipment of medicines to the city, of which we currently have only half of the needed quantities. International projects in the area of the food processing industry envisage first and foremost reconstruction of the meat-packing plant, whose equipment already had become obsolete in the beginning of the 1930's. There is also a plan to attract foreign investment into setting up privately-owned bakeries in Petersburg. The main problem in our transportation support, in the opinion of city authorities, may be resolved with the help of foreign partners--setting up our own bus manufacturing. So far, there are two ideas for its implementation: at the Kirov Plant as part of the complex of consumer goods production, and in the Severnyy Plant, which as a result of conversion has now began to manufacture mopeds.
