FBIS3-25161 "drafr027_c_94013" FBIS-AFR-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Defense Industry Expects Big Increase in Arms Exports MB0802123194 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English 8 Feb 94 p 5 MB0802123194 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Adrian Hadland] [Text] Pretoria--The SA [South African] arms industry was gearing itself for substantial gains in the export of military and technical products to the international market, Denel spokesman Paul Holtzhausen said yesterday. Huge overseas interest, particularly in niche products such as the G5 and G6 cannon as well as the Roivalk [red falcon] helicopter, had seen a steady stream of international visitors arriving in SA for "courtesy calls", Holtzhausen said. A delegation from France's senate commission on foreign affairs, defence and armed forces arrived in Johannesburg yesterday. Led by former French defence minister Yvon Bourges, the delegation will meet Denel and Armscor [Armaments Corporation of South Africa] representatives, as well as Defence Minister Kobie Coetsee and other political leaders. Also in the country is a delegation from the U.S. Department of Defence, led by Assistant Secretary of Defence for Regional Security Affairs Chas Freeman. A U.S. embassy spokesman said, however, the U.S. delegation was not in SA to pursue arms industry contacts but was more interested in ways in which the U.S. defence department could help the development and integration of SA's new defence force. Until the final lifting of the UN arms embargo, possibly soon after the April election, contact between the SA arms industry and the international market was limited to the strengthening of existing ties and "making people aware of what SA has to offer," Holtzhausen said. SA's representation at the Malaysian air show last December marked the first time local arms manufactures had displayed their wares in the lucrative Pacific Rim market. Other regions with strong export potential included the Middle East and Europe. Holtzhausen said Denel military-related exports represented about 17 percent of its R[rand]2bn[billion] income for the 1993/94 financial year. Despite difficult times, the company hoped to duplicate these figures if not surpass them in the coming year, he said. While Denel had embarked upon an active international marketing campaign, it also hoped to find buyers for its commercial, mining and medical products as well as seek out possible alliances and joint ventures.
