FBIS4-55372 "dreeu093__a94017" FBIS-EEU-94-093-A Daily Report 11 May 1994 ANNEX Hungary SZDSZ: Media `Greatly Influenced' Election SZDSZ: Media `Greatly Influenced' Election AU1105125594 Budapest MTI in English 1106 GMT 11 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1105125594 Budapest MTI English BFN [Text] Budapest, 11 May (MTI) -- The Alliance of Free Democrats (SZDSZ) believes that the results of the first round of parliamentary elections held in Hungary on May 8 were greatly influenced by the operation of Hungarian Radio and Hungarian Television. ``The majority of the citizens receive their information from the electronic media, and it was here that the differences in the parties' manifestos could not be greatly elaborated. "The new government must settle the situation of the media after the elections, and it must dismiss the vice-presidents of Hungarian Radio and Hungarian Television, Laszlo Csucs and Gabor Nahlik, because they both worked in a manner contradictory to public service norms. New presidents and vice-presidents must be appointed to head Radio and Television, in order for them to consolidate the institutions." The above was how SZDSZ executive Peter Hack evaluated the media situation in a meeting with the press in Budapest on Wednesday [11 May], prior to holding a discussion with Dutch students studying the media. According to Hack, there are good reasons for Dutch students to gather information in Hungary, as the media situation in the country can be instructive, similar to the often mentioned "veterinarian horse". The SZDSZ politician said the new Parliament must enact the media law by October at the latest. The law should create the conditions for commercial radio and television so that open bidding can take place early next year. The Free Democrats believe the state should keep an earth-based television channel and a satellite channel, while two earth-based channels could be privatized for 10 to 15 years, based on a concession tender. The SZDSZ believes it justified to have two public service radio channels: Kossuth station and the cultural station Bartok, with private radios broadcasting on the other frequencies.
