FBIS4-42725 "drweu109_i_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-109 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 FRANCE Editorial Views German Participation in 14 Jul Parade Editorial Views German Participation in 14 Jul Parade BR0206154194 Paris LE MONDE in French 2 Jun 94 p 1 BR0206154194 Paris LE MONDE French BFN [Editorial: "A European 14th July"] [Text] Germany was not asked to take part in the celebrations commemorating the 50th anniversary of the allied landings in Normandy (6 June) and Provence (14 August). However, German soldiers belonging to the Eurocorps, along with French, Luxembourg, Belgian, and soon Spanish troops, will parade down the Champs Elysees on 14 July. Meant to end all misunderstandings once and for all, Francois Mitterrand's invitation has been enthusiastically received by Helmut Kohl. This initiative is reminiscent of another one back in 1984, when these two men, holding hands, paid their respects to all the victims of World Wars I and II. Elderly Parisians probably remember seeing the Wehrmacht, complete with marching band, march down the same Champs Elysees in 1940. Over half a century later, after reconciliation was achieved by Charles de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer, the two countries persist in stepping up cooperation in all fields, including defense. Should such a symbol be disavowed? Mitterrand and Kohl have chosen both to eschew forgetfulness and to advance European integration, even though everything is not perfect in the Franco-German dialogue. The Eurocorps itself is a symbol that goes beyond the relations between the two countries. This 45,000-strong army corps, scheduled to become operational in late 1995, will be integrated into a broader organization (either NATO or the WEU [Western European Union]) with a view to ensuring European security. It is a blueprint of a European army which is not yet called as such. Accordingly, other partners have been asked to participate, among which Luxembourg, Belgium, and Spain, which will all contribute troops. In such a context, the Eurocorps is one of the entities on which Europe's defense system will be based, as are the German-American, German-Dutch, and multinational (under British command) corps now being put together. However, the Eurocorps is much more than that. It should one day become the hard core of a European peacekeeping, or even peacemaking, force, either placed under UN command or controlled totally or in part by a single European command, depending on the decision arrived at by each government involved. The Eurocorps' parade on the Champs Elysees can be seen as the first step toward a future European commitment to ensure the stability of its own continent. Ten days before the European election, the initiative of the president of the Republic may also aim to convince those who have been condemning European apathy in the Yugoslav crisis that there are reasons for hope.
