FBIS4-25343 "drchi111_p_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-111 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 Central-South Region Guangdong Strengthens Management of Copyrighted Products Guangdong Strengthens Management of Copyrighted Products OW0806223594 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 2129 GMT 7 Jun 94 OW0806223594 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [By reporter Zhao Wei (6392 4850)] [Text] Guangzhou, 8 Jun (XINHUA) -- The copyright management departments of Guangdong Province are taking vigorous measures to incorporate the import, production, and sale of copyrighted laser audio and video products into regular management to protect the legitimate rights and profits of copyright owners. To harshly crack down on the piracy of laser audio and video products, Guangdong Province has screened the markets of laser audio and video products many times this year. A total of over 140,000 illegal compact discs, 1,322 laser discs, and over 100,000 audiotapes and videotapes were seized on 19 April alone. On 21 April, relevant departments openly destroyed some 63,000 pieces of laser audio and video products. The Copyright Department of the Guangdong Copyright Bureau recently revealed: Screening the market is only one of Guangdong's moves for protecting copyrights. The more important matter lies in strengthening the management of importing, sampling, and producing laser audio and video products. Three measures for strengthening their management are currently being taken: -- Incorporting units engaged in duplicating into under management. The Audio and Video Management Department of Guangdong Provincial Press and Publications Bureau has conducted an overall investigation of the 23 production lines in the province and has put on file the quality, scales, and types of products of enterprises concerned as well as their ownership of copyrights, laying a good foundation for carrying out various management measures. -- Setting up a copyright examination system. The provincial copyright bureau recently worked out the "Interim Procedures of Guangdong Province for Registering the Copyrights of Compact Discs," which stipulates that an enterprise must present a letter of authorization, a power of attorney, and other valid written documents concerning the copyright to the copyright department for examination whenever it wants to put one compact disc on the production line, and may start producing it after passing examination and receiving approval. -- Introducing a licensing system for wholesalers and retailers. Strict examinations and control must be conducted over primary and secondary wholesalers; retailers must apply for permits before obtaining business licenses, and the permits shall be examined every year.
