FBIS3-19888 "drweu057cc_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS EU Protests U.S. `Discrimination' Against Banks BR2303141294 Antwerp DE FINANCIEEL-EKONOMISCHE TIJD in Dutch 22 Mar 94 p 10 BR2303141294 Antwerp DE FINANCIEEL-EKONOMISCHE TIJD Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Article signed KV/PL: "European Union Protest Against Foreign Bank Discrimination in United States"] [Text] Yesterday, in a joint letter addressed to the U.S. Government and Congress, the twelve European Union (EU) member states and the European Commission (EC) protested against a bill proposed by Congress to levy an extra tax on foreign banks. They express their concern over this threatened discrimination. A November 1991 law gives the U.S. Federal Reserve (the Fed) the option of auditing foreign banks and charging costs associated with these audits on to the financial institutions in question. U.S. banks are exempt from any charge resulting from Fed audits. The law is the U.S. answer to the BCCI [Bank of Credit and Commerce International] scandal. There are an increasing number of votes in Congress that favor the implementation of this law. To date, the Fed has resisted pressure from Congress. A final decision will be made in April. But the Twelve do not want to wait for this. The charge are additional to the costs which the banks have to pay in their home country for prudential auditing. This extra charge also affects only foreign banks and not U.S. banks. This is why the EU believes it to be discriminatory. It argues that the bill is an infringement of the principle of equal treatment and the "national treatment" which foreign banks have enjoyed so far in the United States. The new initiative also goes against the principle of a "standstill," which was agreed upon by the OECD, and is certainly not going to help the future multilateral negotiations on the liberalizing of financial services. No full agreement was reached on this in the framework of the Uruguay Round. The participating countries can still modify or withdraw their commitments on access to their financial markets. French Memorandum French Economy Minister Edmond Alphandery yesterday issued a memorandum to his colleagues on the resumption of multilateral negotiations on the liberalization of financial services. He asks the EC to clarify the EU position. Paris wants to know whether the EU would more or less abandon the principle of reciprocity in the treatment of foreign banks, while the United States would respect it. Paris is not prepared to accept such a one-sided situation.
