FBIS3-30982 "dreeu030_k_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 CROATIA Talks Open in Zagreb on FRY-Croatian Relations LD1202172094 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1606 GMT 12 Feb 94 LD1202172094 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Zagreb, Feb 12 (TANJUG) -- Delegations of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (F.R.Y.) and the Republic of Croatia opened talks here on Saturday about the gradual normalization of their relations relying on a declaration signed in Geneva in January. The delegations are headed by F.R.Y. Vice-Premier Zeljko Simic and Croatian Vice-Premier and Foreign Minister Mate Granic. The closed-door talks in the Croatian Foreign Ministry concentrate on the opening of an F.R.Y. office in Zagreb and a Croatian office in Belgrade, a variety of humanitarian questions, and the establishment of transport and telecommunication links. Having signed the Geneva declaration in mid-January, the F.R.Y. and Croatia reasserted readiness for gradual normalization of their relations broken in 1991 when Croatia forcibly seceded from the former Yugoslav Federation. On January 27 in Geneva, the F.R.Y. and Croatian Government delegations agreed to set up joint commissions to deal with the question of missing persons, refugees, and humanitarian matters. The commission held its first meeting in Zagreb on Saturday. The Yugoslav delegation, as was announced, would be received by Croatian president on Saturday evening. It was learnt unofficially that on February 14, Mate Granic should arrive for talks in Belgrade, while one day later the offices of the F.R.Y. and Croatia would be opened in Zagreb and Belgrade, respectively. F.R.Y. Foreign Minister Vladislav Jovanovic stated, after the declaration on the normalization of relations was signed, that this document does not prejudice the question of the final status of the Republic of Serb Krajina (RSK). The RSK was formed in 1991 in predominantly Serb-populated parts of Croatia in response to Croatia's forcible secession from ex- Yugoslavia and its attempt to reduce the status of Serbs to that of a national minority. In March, 1992, the RSK was declared "a United Nations Protected Area" (UNPA). It will maintain this status until the final relevant political solution is found.
