FBIS4-10756 "drlat074_e_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA Costa Rica Extradition of Former U.S. State Senator Viewed Extradition of Former U.S. State Senator Viewed PA1704235894 Panama City ACAN in Spanish 2043 GMT 17 Apr 94 PA1704235894 Panama City ACAN Spanish BFN [Text] San Jose, 17 Apr (ACAN-EFE) -- The Costa Rican justice system gave Paul Carpenter, the former Democratic senator from California, 20 days to present evidence in his defense before resolving a U.S. Government extradition request against him for alleged bribery and misuse of funds. Carpenter was arrested last Thursday by Costa Rican Judicial Investigation Agency (OIJ) officials in a neighborhood in northern San Jose at the request of U.S. judicial officials. The former U.S. senator, located by Interpol (International Police) and the Costa Rican OIJ, has been under an arrest warrant since he fled his country last February to avoid a seven-year prison sentence imposed by a district court in Sacramento, California. Carpenter is accused of alleged bribery and misuse of funds in a political campaign, illegal financial transactions, and obstruction of justice. Carpenter said in San Jose, "I came to Costa Rica to die," in an interview granted to the newspaper THE SACRAMENTO BEE from his San Jose prison, where he has been held under arrest since Thursday awaiting an extradition resolution being handled by the Higher Criminal Court in San Jose. The former politician is suffering from advanced prostate cancer, and he made it known to the Sacramento court in a letter he sent a few days before escaping to Costa Rica, where he entered with a safe-conduct and not with a passport, according to police reports. Carpenter has insisted in Costa Rica that he is "innocent" and says he is a victim of the FBI. It has been learned in San Jose that a Sacramento investigation of corruption led to an accusation against the former congressman and his Democratic assistants Alan Robbins and Clay Jackson, alleged masterminds of a complicated bribery plan to finance his political campaign. Carpenter was a Democratic state senator from 1976 to 1986. "I never broke the law, I am a victim of political ambition, the lawyers, and the FBI," he said. He said he believes he will win the process begun in Costa Rica, where he expects to live until his death.
