FBIS4-26663 "drchi122_n_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-122 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 Economic & Agricultural 60 Billion Yen Bond Issue Expected `Early Next Month' 60 Billion Yen Bond Issue Expected `Early Next Month' HK2406071894 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD (FINANCIAL REVIEW) in English 24 Jun 94 p 1 HK2406071894 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD (FINANCIAL REVIEW) in English 24 Jun 94 p 1 English BFN [By Bien Perez] [Text] China is expected to unveil a mammoth 60-billion yen (HK$4.6 billion [Hong Kong dollars]) Samurai bond early next month, which will mark its debut as a sovereign issue in Japan, according to securities sources. The Chinese Ministry of Finance will be the principal borrower to what will be the biggest Chinese-name debt paper issue yet in the cash-rich Samurai bond market. Sources said Chinese finance ministry officials were currently finalising details of the offering with co-lead managers Daiwa, Securities and Nomura Securities. Both individual and institutional investors in Japan were being targeted by the lead managers, sources said. Samurai bonds are yen-denominated IOUs issued by foreign borrowers exclusively to investors in Japan. The proceeds from the Chinese Samurai bonds would probably be used to support the mainland's ongoing financial-sector reform program, sources said. One of the selling strategies being studied, according to sources, is to split the Chinese government's Samurai bond offering into two; a 30-billion yen issue of five-year notes and another 30-billion yen package of seven-year notes. In line with that set-up, the Chinese government and the lead managers were also considering whether to sell the two packages together or separately. One Hong Kong-based securities official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the borrower would probably benefit more if the packages were launched together to take advantage of "the current healthy appetite by Japanese investors for Chinese-name debt paper. During the past few months, well-heeled Japanese investors swiftly snapped up separate Samurai bond offerings made by the Bank of China (BOC) and the Tianjin International Trust and Investment Corp (Titic). The BOC borrowed 15 billion yen and Titic borrowed 13 billion yen. Despite the prevailing negative sentiments in the international bond markets, more and more foreign borrowers have been drawing fresh funds from the Samurai bond market because of Japan's low interest rates. Although the size of the planned Chinese government Samurai-bond issue this year was record-breaking, the biggest mainland-based borrowers in the Japanese bond market in terms of total number of issues were the BOC and the China International Trust and Investment Corp (Citic), the overseas investment arm of the Chinese government, sources said. The BOC has already made 11 Samurai-bond offerings in recent years, the largest of which was a 50-billion yen package in 1986. Citic has made four Samurai-bond issues, the largest of which was a 40-billion yen issue in 1986.
