FBIS3-7555 "dreas060__a94013" FBIS-EAS-94-060-A Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 ANNEX Japan Hata Favors Study Group on Unifying Coalition OW2903080394 Tokyo MAINICHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 28 Mar 94 Morning Edition p 2--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2903080394 Tokyo MAINICHI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] Tsutomu Hata, deputy prime minister, foreign minister, and head of Shinseito [Japan Renewal Party], gave a news conference at a hotel in Kikuchi city, Kumamoto Prefecture, on 27 March. He commented on the policy study group proposed by Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa for the purpose of uniting the ruling coalition parties into a big parliamentary group, and he stressed: "Prime Minister Hosokawa has suggested creating a study group. It is necessary to form (a unified group) after taking such steps." He added, "When elections are held under the single-seat constituency system, coordination (on choosing candidates) will be necessary," thus indicating his intention to use the policy study group as a venue to coordinate the selection of candidates. Moving on to the issue of the realignment of political parties, Hata said, "I believe it would be good for the present ruling coalition parties to become a monolithic group." He reiterated that he wishes to form a large unified group of the ruling parties and eventually to found a new-new party [shin-shinto]. With regard to the plan for Shinseito to unite first with the Japan New Party in the process of forming a large parliamentary grouping, Hata said: "It is still too soon. There is the question of what to do with the other parties. There are times when you need to do things in the right order. However, nothing is definite yet." He thus indicated that it is not wise to raise this issue at this stage. Meanwhile, Shinseito Managing Secretary Hajime Funada also gave a speech in Toyonaka town, Kagawa Prefecture, on the same day. As for the policy study group, Funada said: "Organizations like this will also form the basis for selecting a common candidate (for the ruling coalition parties). Shinseito thinks that this will contribute to forming a unified group, and a new-new party in the future." He indicated that the study group should be the basis for coordinating in selecting candidates in the future.
