FBIS3-21736 "jptdd010__l94041" JPRS-TDD-94-010L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 7 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA MEXICO Maximum Penalties Sought in Bribery Case Against `El Chapo,' Former Officials 94WB0027C Mexico City EXCELSIOR in Spanish 14 Feb 94 pp 5-A, 33-A 94WB0027C Mexico City EXCELSIOR Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Article by Hector Adorno Ruiz] [Text] The closing of the preliminary investigation period has been ordered in the suit being brought in the Fourth District Court of Criminal Proceedings against the ex-secretary of safety and roadways, Santiago Tapia Aceves; the Federal Judicial Police ex-first commander, Fulvio Jimenez Turengano; and the presumed drug trafficker, Joaquin Guzman Loera, alias "El Chapo." They are presumed guilty of the crimes of improper exercise of public service and bribery. The order was given by the agent of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, who called for the maximum penalty, 15 years in prison, to be imposed on them, since their guilt of the criminal acts ascribed to them is considered to have been demonstrated. The defendants' legal representatives, for their part, stated to the administrator of justice responsible for bringing the pertinent criminal suit, Pablo Vicente Monroy Gomez, that, during the process, the criminal liability of those indicted was not accredited. Claiming that, on the contrary, their clients' innocence had been proven, their defenders declared: "Therefore, they should be acquitted of the charges brought against them and their immediate release should be ordered." After this final day of the period in question, the aforementioned administrator of justice will have 15 working days to set the date for the hearing in these proceedings. On that occasion, both parties (the accusers and defendants) will ratify their concluding arguments, so that the judge may finally set the date for a judgment in the case. According to the records of the proceedings, on 18 June 1993, the Office of the Attorney General of the Republic brought criminal action against the following: Tapia Aceves, who recently received a provisional release; the presumed drug dealer, "El Chapo" Guzman; the Federal Judicial Police ex-first commander, Fulvio Jimenez Turengano; the ex-chief of the Oriente-Venustiano Carranza Second Sector, Rogelio Herrera Perez, aka "El Pispion"; and the deputy chief of that Crime Prevention Police sector, Oscar Daniel Salcedo Ochoa, aka "El Caballo." With this action, criminal proceedings 85/93 were initiated. The federal judge decided to order the formal imprisonment of those implicated, since the Federal Public Ministry believed that there was sufficient evidence to establish their participation in the crimes of which they were accused. Of the group, only Joaquin Guzman Loera was notified of his formal incarceration in the federal maximum security prison at Almoloya de Juarez, in the Mexican state of Chiapas, on the Guatemalan border, where he has been confined since his capture. During the proceedings, it was indicated that the amount of the bribe with which Santiago Tapia Aceves is charged had not been determined, because there is no exact sum that he is considered to have received from "El Chapo" Guzman for his release. Meanwhile, the nine Crime Prevention Police members who made the pertinent charge ratified their claim on the judicial premises. There, the representatives of the news media were asked to keep the identities of these policemen confidential, because of the reprisals that might be taken against them.
