FBIS3-37885 "drsov037_h_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 Moldova Snegur Issues Election Decree; Poll Shows Preferences AU2302215294 Bucharest Radio Romania Network in Romanian 1800 GMT 23 Feb 94 AU2302215294 Bucharest Radio Romania Network Language: Romanian Article Type:BFN [Mircea Dascaliuc report from Chisinau] [Text] Today, the president of the Republic of Moldova, Mr. Mircea Snegur, signed a decree in connection with the creation of conditions for the participation of the residents on the left bank of the Dniester River and from the city of Tighina [Bendery] in the sociological poll Consulting the People. According to the Presidency Press Service, the decree establishes for the citizens on the left bank of the Dniester and the city of Tighina the way this poll will be conducted [as published] from 27 February to 6 March inclusively. The decree establishes that the application of the present decree belongs to the competence of the republic's commission for carrying out this poll. Also today, observer missions arrived in Chisinau on behalf of the parliamentary assemblies of the Council of Europe, the North Atlantic Alliance, and the CSCE, the national radio broadcasting station of the Republic of Moldova reported. It also specified that these missions are made up of parliamentarians from 15 European and North American countries, and of dignitaries from various international forums. Their activity will begin tomorrow, 24 February. To ensure that the poll at the end of the current month is taking place under proper conditions and in accordance with the Electoral Law provisions, an increased number of policemen and troops of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Moldova took the polling stations under their wing beginning today. As the security chief in the Ministry of Interior stated, the tasks of these troops for the duration of the elections are to ensure public order, guard institutions, ensure the security of polling stations and of the documents in voting stations, as well as accompany official figures. Also today, the results of an opinion poll were published, which was organized by the Bessarabia Foundation, the Academy of Science of the Republic of Moldova, and the Current Events program of the Chisinau radio station. This poll was held from 16-21 February 1994 and was carried out on 1,135 representative people who answered two questions: 1. Will you participate in the elections? Yes. No. 2. For whom will you vote? The results indicate an estimated participation of 79.5 percent. Regarding political formations, the following options were recorded, expressed in percentages: --The Christian Democratic Popular Front Alliance 12.3 percent; --The Democratic Party 5.4 percent; --The Socialist Bloc and the (?Edinstvo) Unity Movement 17.1 percent; --The Bloc of Peasants and Intellectuals 9.3 percent; --The National Christian Party 1.9 percent; --The Republican Party 3.4 percent; --The Reform Party 2.9 percent; --The Social-Democratic Party 7.2 percent; --The Ecological Party-Green Alliance 1.7 percent --The Agrarian Democratic Party of Moldova 18.6 percent; --The Democratic Party of Labor 8 percent; and --The Alliance of Victims of the Communist Totalitarian Regime 3.7 percent.
