FBIS4-65482 "drweu096aa_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-096 Daily Report 17 May 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kinkel Warns NATO Not To Give Russia Veto Power Kinkel Warns NATO Not To Give Russia Veto Power AU1705174194 Paris AFP in English 1718 GMT 17 May 94 AU1705174194 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Vienna, May 17 (AFP) -- German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel insisted Tuesday [17 May] that Russia must not be granted an official veto over whether Eastern and Central European countries join NATO. He said this rule also should apply to membership of the Western European Union, effectively the military wing of the European Union. Kinkel was in Vienna with his Dutch counterpart, Pieter Kooijmans, to present a joint initiative on strengthening the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) in the area of conflict prevention. Speaking at a press conference, they expressed hope that the plan would be approved at a CSCE summit in December in Budapest. Kinkel said that in the wake of the Cold War, Eastern and Central European countries needed to avoid "new divisions" and that this was why NATO's Partnership for Peace [PFP] plan was open to both Russia and them. The Russians, he noted, want to join the partnership but "are seeking certain specific rules in their negotiations with the alliance." The plan offers military cooperation in a number of areas between NATO and mainly the former Warsaw Pact countries but stops short of offering full membership any time soon. It was conceived in January by the United States as a way to respond to Eastern European countries' pleas for greater security at a time of political volatility and growing nationalism in Russia without alienating Russia itself. On the CSCE, Kooijmans said one of the main goals of the German- Dutch initiative was to boost the CSCE as a regional organization to help the United Nations. "When we see that the United Nations is not in a position to do everything asked of it around the world, it is important to consolidate regional organizations to help the United Nations," Kooijmans said.
