FBIS3-39279 "drweu031_j_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Party Leaders Outline Economic Programs 94ES0242A Milan MONDO ECONOMICO in Italian 25 Dec 93 pp 24-26 94ES0242A Milan MONDO ECONOMICO Language: Italian Article Type:CSO [Report by Vito Biello: "The Economics of the Second Republic"] [Text] A platform, be it progressive or leftist, already exists in a certain sense and will be made known very soon. A moderate or rightist one has yet to be created. It does not matter whether it is square, round or rectangular, for now political groups are watching this "program platform" which should show the way for the government program in the next legislature. The progressive forces that gravitate around the PDS [Democratic Party of the Left] seem to be going full speed ahead, strengthened by the successes in the recent administrative elections. Favored in the polls, propelled by unprecedented international acceptance, the Alliance is now facing its ordeal by fire, precisely that of its platform. "The government's program is going to come out of this," Occhetto is fond of repeating, "and it will decide who is in and who is out." The compatibility of the forces ranging from the Greens to Refoundation is up for discussion. The economists of the oak tree [the electoral symbol of the PDS] insist that there is no turning back for the policy of reform. Occhetto professes moderation, D'Alema is the first to hint at a return of Ciampi, and insists on a "government of transition," but for the progressive forces, the proof of the pudding is around the corner. Among the moderate forces on the other hand, everything is up in the air. The political groups are thinking more about agreements and alliances than about programs. The DC [Christian Democratic party] is preparing to become the Italian Popular Party, and the confusion is great; the other political groups regard one another at times with suspicion, or alternately offer the hand of friendship. Bossi and Segni, Berlusconi's (eventual) political party and the Popular Party exchange messages while waiting to make a decision. But on this front as well, the coming weeks will be decisive. Therefore, it is time for some answers, beginning with those to the 10 questions posed by the Confindustria [General Confederation of Italian Industry]. MONDO ECONOMICO listened to the views of Michele Salvati, leading economist of the PDS and author of its economic program; Maria Segni, leader of the Popularists; and Roberto Maroni, head of the group of League deputies in the Chamber.
