FBIS4-2246 "drchi068_k_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-068 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Drug Companys Licenses Aimed at Black Market Drug Companys Licenses Aimed at Black Market HK0804030094 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 8 Apr 94 p 1 HK0804030094 Beijing CHINA DAILY English BFN [By staff reporter Zhu Bao: "Local State Licenses To Clean Up the Drug Trade"] [Text] The government is introducing local authority licenses for all pharmaceutical traders from July in a bid to crack down on the black market in fake and shoddy drugs. All producers and dealers must apply to their provincial health and pharmaceutical administrations for the new licenses by the end of the year, according to the Ministry of Public Health. Unlicensed traders will be shut-down and punished starting from next year. Hospital laboratories will also need licenses under the new system, said the ministry's Pharmaceutical Administrative Department. The registration scheme aims to upgrade the country's pharmaceutical industry and ensure the safety and effectiveness of its products. And it will crackdown on the production and sale of substandard drugs, the ministry said. All drug producers will have to pass rigorous hygiene standards, which cover staff, facilities, raw materials and packaging. And their production processes will be fully inspected. Drug businesses which fail to meet the stipulations of the State Pharmaceutical Law will be required to come up to standard by a set deadline or face being shutdown. Traders which pass the inspection will be given a licence by the end of this year. Both the Ministry of Public Health and the State Pharmaceutical Administration have stepped up preparations for applications and inspections. And improved controls over the medicine industry will help China's pharmaceutical sector come up to advanced international standards, said Qi Mojia, Director of the State Pharmaceutical Administration. More international drug-production standards and techniques will be introduced, he said. And regular quality-control inspections will encourage medicine makers to improve their manufcturing methods, he said. Quality has improved over the past year, Qi said. And government standards have become more rigorous. The ministry has revised the "national standard for medicinal product quality" promulgated in 1988, bringing it into line with World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. The new standard obliges pharmaceutical producers to improve quality control and report any patient side-effects to the local health authorities. Over 95 percent of pharmaceutical plants surveyed reached State standards last year. Medicine exports came to moe than $1.4 billion last year, an increase of 10 percent over 1992. But an illegal medicine market still exists in the country, Qi said. Profiteers continue to produce and sell fake and substandard medicines.
