FBIS3-1720 "drchi040_w_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong `Analysis' Views Disclosures on Sino-British Talks HK0103054294 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 1 Mar 94 p 1 HK0103054294 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Analysis" by Political Editor Fanny Wong] [Text] Much has been said from London and Beijing about their good intentions of disclosing details of the 17 rounds of secret negotiations over the future political structure of the territory so that Hong Kong people can come to their own verdict on who is right and who is wrong. Britain delivered its version of the story on Thursday [24 February], although it was an abridged account. China followed suit last night. Again, not surprisingly, it was a summarised report. If both governments were trying to be transparent on a subject so vital to the future of Hong Kong people and win over six million hearts and minds, their public relations exercises have failed. They claim they have no fear in sharing the details of the highly secretive diplomatic exchanges. But what is presented is no more than fragmented documentation of what has really happened, with both sides concentrating on particulars that serve their own interests. Fresh in people's minds is the challenge by the Director of the Chinese State Council's Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, Lu Ping, for Governor Chris Patten to "disclose all the records and documents". Certainly, from what was released last night, Beijing has not been so generous. And the timing was a public relations nightmare. First hints that Beijing would publish its version of the story came out after 5.30 pm [0930 GMT], indicating that the 17,000-character document would be out at 8 pm. Not a word actually ran from the machine until 9.45 pm. If China wants its case heard properly by the Hong Kong community, it could have done better. It now has to contend with a hasty appraisal, and a clever offer by the British side last night to disclose even more of its version by the week's end.
