FBIS3-4231 "drchi059_u_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 PRC MEDIA ON TAIWAN AFFAIRS ARATS Writes SEF on Fishing Boat Shooting Incident OW2103113894 Beijing Central People's Radio in Mandarin to Taiwan 2200 GMT 18 Mar 94 OW2103113894 Beijing Central People's Radio Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [From the "News and Current Events" program] [Text] On 18 March, the mainland's Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Strait [ARATS] wrote a letter to Taiwan's Strait Exchange Foundation [SEF] on a recent incident wherein Taiwan's defense troops stationed on offshore islands fired at Fujian fishermen. The letter says: As informed by relevant Fujian provincial authorities, at about 0400 on 6 March, (Zheng Baoxing) and other fishermen from (Simu) Village, Huangshi Town, Lianjian County, set sail on fishing boat (?Yuminyu) No. 8509 to fish at waters near Mazu's (Daqi Island). While searching for their lost fishing hooks due to broken lines, they were suddenly fired at by the defense troops. (Zheng Baoxing), a crew member, was shot dead on the spot, while (Yan Huayong) and [words indistinct] were injured. After the incident, the boat sought medical treatment but was rejected by the defense troops firing their guns. Fifteen minutes later, the boat sailed to Mazu's Beigan to moor at (Huaikaicun) pier, and was again fired at by the defense troops. Only after the repeated requests of crewman (Lin Huoqiang), two men, who appeared to be officers, came to investigate and summoned a doctor to give simple dressings for (Wu Guoyou)'s wounds. One of the officers gave $15,000 New Taiwan dollars to (Lin Huoqiang) as compensation. At about 1300, the Mazu side sent a boat to tow (Yuminyu) No. 8509 from the pier. The fishing boat returned to Huangshi, Lianjiang, at 1430. The letter says: Over a long period of time, Taiwan's defending troops stationed on offshore islands ignored the brotherly friendship between the people on the two sides of the Taiwan Strait. The incidents of firing at and killing or injuring mainland fishermen occurred occasionally. In 1993 alone, there were 18 incidents wherein defense troops in Jinmen and Mazu fired at or shelled mainland fishermen working on the sea, causing bloodshed, deaths, and injuries. Of these, seven people were killed and 15 were injured. The disgusting conduct of Taiwan's defending troops stationed in offshore islands not only caused great harm to the feeling of mainland's coastal fishermen but also disrupted the normal production and life of the Taiwan Strait. In addition, it brought utmost mental agony as well as tremendous economic loss to the families of the dead and injured fishermen. Recently, we made many representations to relevant Taiwan authorities. However, not only did the defense troops' firing not stop, it became increasingly rampant. Our country has strongly asked the relevant Taiwan authorities to adopt positive and effective measures to stop this kind of incident from being repeated and pay compensation, including compensation for the losses of dead and injured fishermen in the (?Yuminyu) incident.
