FBIS4-674 "drafr072_c_94004" FBIS-AFR-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Mediation Efforts `Collapse' Over Preconditions Mediation Efforts `Collapse' Over Preconditions Further on de Klerk News Conference MB1404061994 Johannesburg SAPA in English 2355 GMT 13 Apr 94 MB1404061994 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Report by Norman Patterton] [Text] Pretoria April 13 SAPA -- President F W de Klerk said on Wednesday [13 April] he hoped the international mediation effort to resolve policial differences would result in agreements that had long escaped the country. Addressing a press conference in Pretoria after a cabinet meeting, he said government negotiators had been instructed to be constructive rather than technical at mediation talks. Some progress had been made on Wednesday to establish the terms of reference for the mediation process for kwaZulu/Natal. "Hopefully, mediation will take off soon as a result of this meeting," Mr de Klerk said. He warned that the success of the mediation effort hinged on the will of political parties to find a solution. If any party tried to use mediation for fancy tricks it would not work, Mr de Klerk said. It seemed mediation might begin by Friday night or Saturday morning. A second four-way summit would not be held before this because the bid to find a solution to the issue of a Zulu monarchy had to be co-ordinated with the foreign mediation effort. He believed the four-way summit task group had come up with with a document which contained a solution to the issue of the political accommodation of Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini. Mr de Klerk said he did not believe the election date should be "mediable". The date was a matter to be addressed by the country's political leaders. Government, however, believed the elections should be held on the scheduled date. Expressing his "deep concern" over strikes throughout the country, he said political parties such as the African National Congress, which was affiliated to unions organising the strikes, should be responsible for halting the stoppages and contributing to free and fair elections. "Any action which harms the economy of the country is harmful to each and every voter." Mr de Klerk denied the Transitional Executive Council had proposed that the state of emergency regulations for Natal be tightened. This was an oversimplified interpretation. The Executive Council had adopted a resolution that certain investigations should be conducted into the situation in the region, Mr de Klerk said. Reacting to a television cameraman's remark that he found political developments confusing, Mr de Klerk said: "I don't hold it against you. I thnk things are pretty confusing."
