FBIS4-17109 "drsov077_a_94034" FBIS-SOV-94-077 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Difficulties in Splitting Black Sea Fleet Predicted Difficulties in Splitting Black Sea Fleet Predicted MK2104132094 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 21 Apr 94 p 1 MK2104132094 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Russian BFN [Vladimir Maryukha report: "How Is the Black Sea Fleet To Be Divided?"] [Text] Will the Agreement on the Phased Settlement of Black Sea Fleet Problems give a boost to cooperation or will it undermine relations between Russia and Ukraine? The 10-day period provided for in the Agreement on the Phased Settlement of Black Sea Fleet Problems, which was signed 15 April, is expiring implacably, but there is still no mechanism of splitting the fleet in new proportions. Ukraine, however, continues to interpret unilaterally the document approved at the highest level, something that does not contribute to the attainment of accord. For instance, Ukrainian sailors and politicians have put forward an idea of setting up an Ukrainian naval base in Sevastopol so as to start talks on leasing it to Russia afterward. Given the agreement that the Black Sea Fleet and Ukrainian Navy ships will be based separately, the Black Sea Fleet will effectively lose for some time, if not forever, its main base. At the same time, in Sevastopol, local residents and the city administration stand for handing all Black Sea Fleet units and formations deployed in Crimea over to Russia and for Russian jurisdiction over the fleet's main base. To all appearances, difficulties are also bound to emerge when specific shares of the two sides are calculated. First, because 15-20 percent of Black Sea Fleet ships are by no means a specific value. Second, Ukraine is not going to take into account in the negotiating process the part of the fleet it has already seized unilaterally, including a number of Black Sea Fleet ships and facilities. Despite the appeal by Vice Admiral Vladimir Bezkorovaynyy, commander of the Ukrainian Navy, to refrain during the expert talks from the "Ukrainization" of Black Sea Fleet units, pressure on Black Sea Fleet sailors in garrisons far-flung from Sevastopol continues with no sign of letup. The Ukrainian Defense Ministry, for instance, plans to set up a Ukrainian Navy Water Area Protection brigade on the basis of an Izmail-based brigade of small naval combatants as early as by 1 June.
