FBIS4-38372 "drsov104_a_94016" FBIS-SOV-94-104 Daily Report 28 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Praises Shanghai as Economic Model Praises Shanghai as Economic Model LD2805142394 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1036 GMT 28 May 94 LD2805142394 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS special correspondents Lyudmila Aleksandrovna, Vyacheslav Tomilin] [Text] Shanghai, 28 May -- "The economic zone in Shanghai is a real miracle, and the Chinese experiment should be put to use in Russia as quickly as possible," Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin said today after acquainting himself with a new district of China's largest city. A visit to the Pudong economic development zone was the main item on the agenda for the third day of the Russian prime minister's official visit to China. After looking at Pudong, Viktor Chernomyrdin told journalists of the need to start real work right away on free economic zones in Russia, perhaps without even waiting for a law on them to be passed. "We need to start immediately in individual parts, in the regions," he said. The head of government also stated his intention to "immediately fly to Nakhodka" where there are plans to set up a free economic zone and, if possible, to prepare the appropriate presidential decree. "This should be the locomotive that will move everything else," Viktor Chernomyrdin concluded. During his visit to Pudong, the deputy head of administration of the district, Huang Qifan, told the Russian prime minister how the new territory had been exploited. Huge resources had been invested in Pudong during the four years of its existence. At present, there are about 2,000 enterprises with foreign involvement registered here, and the total investment through concluded contracts amounts to $8.5 billion. According to Huang Qifan, foreign investment is being directed not only into the development of industry, but also into trade and economic and financial spheres. Large resources -- more than 20 billion yuans -- have been used to set up the infrastructure. The deputy head of the district administration gave two reasons for the success: the state's preferential tax policy and the major investment of Chinese national capital, $10 billion over less than five years. The Russian prime minister showed special interest in the conditions of preferential taxation. The district leaders presented Viktor Chernomyrdin with a package of documents concerning the functioning of Pudong and also a symbolic souvenir -- a stone from the Nanpu suspension bridge, which was crossed by the Russian delegation's motorcade. Viktor Chernomyrdin also visited a joint Chinese-Japanese enterprise producing air conditioning systems and the Waigaoqiao free trade zone. Then, the head of the Russian government laid flowers at the monument to Aleksandr Pushkin. Viktor Chernomyrdin's program in Shanghai ended with a meeting with the city's leaders. Tomorrow. the prime minister leaves Shanghai for Dalian.
