FBIS3-1710 "drchi040_d_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 Northeast Asia Zhu Rongji Attends Breakfasts Given by Business Groups OW0103092794 Beijing Central Television Program One Network in Mandarin 1100 GMT 28 Feb 94 OW0103092794 Beijing Central Television Program One Network in Mandarin 1100 GMT 28 Feb 94 Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Text] Attending a breakfast given by Japan's Mitsui Group on the morning of 27 February, visiting Chinese Vice Premier Zhu Rongji pointed out that China's economic reform certainly will succeed, and China's economic growth rate will be maintained at 8 or 9 percent annually for a long time to come. He stressed: The favorable factors -- right time, geographical proximity, and harmonious relations between the two peoples -- have brought China and Japan closely together. China-Japan friendship is an irresistible historical tide. China's development needs Japan's capital and technology, and Japan's economic revitalization needs China's market and resources. Only by strengthening our cooperation can our two countries achieve our respective prosperity. When our two countries proceed with our mutually beneficial cooperation on an equal footing, we must resolve existing problems through mutual understanding and friendly consultations so we can continue to promote Sino-Japanese good neighborly relations and friendship. Speaking at a breakfast given in his honor by Sanwa Group in Osaka on 28 February, Zhu Rongji said: The economy of Japan's Kansai areas is full of vitality. This has everything to do with the continual development of cooperation with China. I hope people in Kansai's economic circles will continue to take the lead in developing China-Japan economic cooperation and trade. [video shows the arrival of a bullet train at a train station, a panoramic view of Osaka, and Zhu attending a breakfast. Video then cuts to show close-ups of a seated Zhu making an impromptu speech] Zhu Rongji also gave a brief report on China's economic development and the situation of this year's reform. Kenji Kawakatsu, president of Sanwa Bank, and persons in charge of a dozen or so other mainstay businesses of the Sanwa group, repeatedly hailed the successes China has achieved in reform and opening up.
