FBIS4-12661 "drnes070_r_94002" FBIS-NES-94-070 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 SOUTH ASIA India Statement Issued on Visit of Yemeni Foreign Minister Statement Issued on Visit of Yemeni Foreign Minister BK1204004394 Delhi ISI Diplomatic Information Service in English 1507 GMT 11 Apr 94 BK1204004394 Delhi ISI Diplomatic Information Service English BFN ["Official spokesman's statement dated 11-4-94"] [Text] H.E. [His Excellency] Mr. Muhammad Salim Basindwah, minister for foreign affairs of the Republic of Yemen, visited [as received] India (April 10-13, 1994) at the invitation of Shri Dinesh Singh, minister for external affairs. This was the first ever visit by a cabinet minister to India from unified Yemen. At their meeting today, the two ministers recalled age-old, friendly relations between Yemen and India and expressed their keen desire to further strengthen them in the coming years. They exchanged views of regional and international issues. The visiting minister expressed the desire of the Government of Yemen for an intensive interaction in the economic area, especially to increase trade and technical cooperation. During the discussions it emerged that there is a great scope for strengthening mutually beneficial relations in the field of irrigation, telecommunications, health sector, agriculture, trade, training of Yemeni students in professional institutions in India in the areas of engineering, management, electronics etc. The Yemeni foreign minister invited investments from India in the development projects being carried out there. Our external affairs minister welcomed the suggestion. It was agreed that India and Yemen would jointly explore the possibilities of establishing joint ventures in the field of oil exploration, extraction, refining, distribution and marketing, development of Aden free port, civil construction etc. India extended its best wishes for the success of multi-party democracy introduced in April 1993 in the Republic of Yemen and hoped that the long-felt, cherished dream of the Yemeni people to see their unified country proceed further on the path to peace and development, would be realised soon. Yemen expressed its concern at the menace of growing fundamentalism and terrorism in the world. Yemen supported India's concern on cross-border terrorism and the rejection of interference in the internal affairs of any country by external forces. Yemen supports India's stand on Kashmir issue and hoped that it would be resolved through dialogue between India and Pakistan and not by resorting to polemics and violence.
