FBIS4-4968 "dreas066_m_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-066 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 Thailand Embassy Expects U.S. To Link GSP Privileges Embassy Expects U.S. To Link GSP Privileges BK0604031194 Bangkok THE NATION in English 6 Apr 94 p B1 BK0604031194 Bangkok THE NATION English BFN [By Manirat Chitsamankun] [Text] Thai Embassy officials in Washington expect the United States to link its decision to extend tax concessions to Thailand to environmental protection issues when the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) agreement is reviewed in September. A report from the embassy's commercial counsellor indicates that environmental issues are among general social issues likely to be considered in the review of the GSP for Thailand. Addressing environmental issues through trade restrictions, however, has been opposed by some conservation groups such as Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace and the National Wildlife Foundation [as published], which argue that it was difficult to apply such pressure on trade. The United States, the report noted is also likely to grant concessions to an additional 40 developing countries, especially from Africa. Washington will further consider lowering the GSP's per capita income ceiling condition for some countries, as it feels the current set level is too high. Meanwhile, the report said, US importers have lobbied for higher levels of imported goods under the GSP programme, especially for the three most active sectors -- textiles, footwear and leather products. But local producers of these products are strongly opposed to any increase, fearing an influx of cheap imports will hurt US industries. Washington has reduced import tariffs affecting US$19.5 trillion worth of goods under the GSP programme, cutting US$500 million from the normal level. Meanwhile, the European Union (EU) recently informed the Thai Commerce Ministry that it will announce new conditions for Union GSP privileges by June 15. The EU is considering new tax concessions for its GSP programme that will take into account the level of economic development of exporting countries as well as the level of per capita income. The Foreign Trade Department expects the EU might cut the volume of Thai exports in some categories under its GSP programme. Last year, Thai exporters took full advantage of the GSP programme in many sectors, including textiles and apparel, yarn and processed pineapple. The European Union's new conditions for its GSP programme are expected to be introduced next year.
