FBIS4-60986 "drsov085_m_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-085 Daily Report 2 May 1994 Tajikistan UN Observer: Recent Murders May Not Have Political Motive UN Observer: Recent Murders May Not Have Political Motive LD0205152694 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1321 GMT 2 May 94 LD0205152694 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] The head of a U.N. team of observers in Tajikistan said that last month's group murders in the Central Asian Republic (eight people being killed in Hissar District, five in Dzhirgatal District and four in Tajikabad District) may not have been politically motivated. Liviu Bota, in an interview with INTERFAX, said it is the economic situation in Tajikistan that accounts for the high crime rate there. However, "although many of the latest events of that kind have no political motives behind them, they may grow into political confrontations," he said. Liviu said crime is a serious problem throughout the Commonwealth of Independent States, and "Tajikistan is no exception." But in Tajikistan "this is taking place against the background of a political confrontation and may have undesirable consequences," he said. "The United Nations and states friendly to Tajikistan will be doing their best to achieve reconciliation in the Republic and to make sure that goodwill intentions stated at the first round of Tajik talks (negotiations between Tajikistan's government and opposition) in Moscow at the beginning of April develop into effective measures," Bota said. He said the international community approved of the present rapprochement between the conflicting parties in Tajikistan, which was clear from some countries' declared readiness to increase their humanitarian aid to the republic. Bota said the conflict would take time to resolve, but expressed satisfaction that "the parties have realized that the problem cannot be solved by force." He said preparations were underway for a second round of talks, where many questions taken up at the first round would be addressed more closely. Asked whether the adoption of a new constitution, a draft of which is currently under discussion in Tajikistan, would be premature now, Bota said, "Since (today) a Soviet-era constitution is in effect in the republic today, a new one, whatever it is, would be a step forward." But he said there was no reason to hurry up with the adoption of the document. "It would be better to provide conditions for all Tajiks to take part in the [discussion] process," he said.
