FBIS3-41505 "jpten003___94114" JPRS-TEN-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 7 February 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM EC Water Pollution Standards Easing 94WN0117 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH in English 14 Dec 93 p 6 94WN0117 London THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Charles Clover and George Jones] [Text] Britain will be allowed to delay or relax EC pollution standards for drinking water, bathing beaches and rivers. Mr. Major confirmed in the Commons last night that the European summit in Brussels had agreed to repeal the 10-year-old bathing and drinking water directives and replace them with less intrusive regulations, enabling ``broad, general standards'' to be applied at national level. Seventeen EC directives have been withdrawn or amended in the purge of legislation, part of an Anglo-French initiative to apply the principle of ``subsidiarity'' to laws which gave Governments little flexibility. Two key EC directives on water quality remain in force: one aimed at reducing pollution from nitrates and another on urban waste water treatment, which Mr. Clarke, Chancellor, said recently would cost Britain £10 billion to implement instead of the original estimate of £2 billion. According to Mr. Yeo, Environment Minister, water bills--forecast to rise by up to £100 by the end of the century in some areas--would now rise more slowly. Mr. Major said other Governments were listing EC laws to axe. ``We are determined to maintain high standards, but we are determined, too, to simplify European legislation, to make it less intrusive and leave more room for national choice.'' However, officials stressed that the extent to which Britain would be allowed to relax standards for drinking water was not clear, as new directives had to be agreed in the spring. ``We cannot repeal EC laws simply because we think the standards are set too high,'' said one. ``The aim is to simplify decision-making and meet the Maastricht Treaty requirements that as much legislation as possible is conducted at national level unless it can be shown that it would be more effective at EC level.'' The cull of EC directives has been led by Mr. Major and Mr. Clarke, against the advice of Mr. Gummer, Environment Secretary, who has said it would be politically unpopular to be seen dismantling EC pollution controls. Ministers argued yesterday that there would not be a fall in Britain's standards. Mr. Yeo said the Government would be using the new flexibility to determine its own standards for drinking water, incorporating the latest advice from the World Health Organisation on relaxing the standard for some pesticides. Britain provides water in excess of the present EC pesticides standards to 14.5 million people. The WHO recommends, however, a five-fold tightening of standards for lead, one of the most toxic substances. Mr. Yeo said: ``I see it as part of my job to protect consumers against the extraordinary demands of some of the Green lobbies, who have the Brussels bureaucrats totally in their power and who are pressing ahead with demands for improvements which have no scientific or medical basis at all.'' ``We do not want to waste money on things that have no benefit to the consumer.'' Mr. Chris Smith, Labour environment spokesman, called the legislative changes a disaster. ``This is a smokescreen for saying the Government wants lower standards because they want lower costs. What this represents is a major step away from the fight against pollution.'' Mr. Andrew Lees, campaigns director of Friends of the Earth, said: ``The idea that the British Government can be trusted on its own to ensure compliance with the highest standards to protect the quality of our rivers or drinking water is a joke.''
