FBIS3-20989 "jpest006___94026" JPRS-EST-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 9 March 1994 WEST EUROPE NUCLEAR R&D Germany: Juelich Reactor Uses Cross-Flow Technique in Simulation 94WS0167D Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT in German 22 Dec 93 p 8 94WS0167D Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT Language: German Article Type:CSO [Article by JB: "Juelich Reactor Operates With Biomass Support; Activated Sludge Tank Simulated; Separately Ordered Filtration Uses Cross-Flow Technique"] [Text] Juelich--Bacteria perform important tasks in sewage plant activated sludge tanks. They break down a multitude of undesirable compounds like ammonium and highly ecologically harmful, problem-creating substances. Simulation of the growth processes in these tanks is necessary in order to study the decomposition processes. Wolfgang Tappe of Juelich Research Center, Ltd., (Institute for Biotechnology [IBT3], 52425 Juelich) has now developed a bioreactor system that is suitable for these tasks. As Tappe informed us in Juelich, bacteria grow in the soil and in water, as well as at sewage plants, at very low rates of growth. The supply of nutrients is frequently so limited that it is only enough for bacteria to survive, but not sufficient for growth. The study of these processes is important in view of the services bacteria render in breaking down harmful substances. With conventional bioreactor systems, however, simulation of these kinds of growth conditions is impossible or only very limited. With a continously operating laboratory bioreactor, a specific amount of fresh nutrient solution per time unit is supplied and the corresponding amount of consumed medium removed. In the process, biomass is also lost, which has to be replaced by the growth of the bacteria in the reactor. Now if the organisms' maximal rate of growth is very low, the danger exists that the lost biomass can no longer be replaced. Since the average generation periods at activated sludge plants range from 150 to 500 hours, they are comparatively long. In simulating these growth conditions, conventional bioreactor systems are frequently overtaxed. Since the nutrient supply in this case is only very little, an even distribution is in part no longer attained in the reactor. The result is that the bacteria population is no longer homogeneous. Some bacteria grow faster than others. The solution to the problem lies in the Juelich reactor with biomass support. The principal difference between it and the conventional, continuously operating reactor is a separately ordered filtration module. In it the consumed medium is filtered out while the bacteria are held back. The filtraiton process is not simple since the round filter has a tendency to get blocked. Tappe has solved this problem with the cross-flow technique. A magnetic agitator that creates a flow that moves at right angles to the direction of filtration (cross-flow) rotates right above the membrane. With this system, blockages can be successfully prevented. The molecule is surrounded by a high-grade steel housing and is connected with the reactor container by hoses and pumps. In this way a continous supply of nutrients can be obtained without any loss of biomass and bacteria with very low rates of growth can be studied. These growth conditions come very close to the actual conditions in activated sludge tanks. The Juelich system's filtration module can also be used for on-line monitoring of sewage plants. It delivers a biomass-free sample from which chemical parameters can be determined.
