FBIS3-42565 "jpusr008___94009" FBIS-USR-94-008 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 2 February 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Diamond Stock Exchange Founded in Yakutia 944F0266A Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 11 Jan 94 p 13 944F0266A Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Report by INTERFAX: "Yakutia Will Establish a Diamond Exchange Before the End of January 1994"] [Text] An edict on establishing a diamond exchange in Yakutia (a republic belonging to the Russian Federation in the northeastern part of Siberia) will be signed by President of the Republic Mikhail Nikolayev before the end of January. Vyacheslav Shtyrov, vice president of the republic and chairman of the Yakutia Government, informed INTERFAX of this. In November 1993, the Yakutia Government and 16 producers of cut diamonds, jewelry, and tools in which diamonds are used agreed to set up a diamond exchange which, according to documents, is being established to "hold trading sessions, auctions, and wholesale and retail sale of products made of cuttable and industrial diamonds, precious metals and stones, and as a secondary market for the sale of rough diamonds." According to Pavel Andreyev, the president of the exchange who heads the republic association of exporters, Sakhaeksport, it is planned to hold the first session on the exchange, which will be located in the capital of the republic, Yakutsk, in February of this year. Experts from Yakutia project that the volume of sales on the exchange in 1994 may come to $50 million. It is planned to sell cut diamonds and jewelry worth $15 million at the first trading session. All diamonds for the first trading session will be manufactured by cutters especially brought in from Belgium, as well as from Kiev and Smolensk. They have been commissioned to manufacture up to 10 cut diamonds, the cost of each of which may reach $1 million. The Yakutia diamond exchange has been founded as a privately held joint-stock company with the statutory capital of 1 billion rubles [R] (the republic accounts for virtually the entire volume of diamond production in Russia). However, the initial statutory capital will be smaller by a factor of two--R500 million. This is due to the fact that most producers of diamonds, jewelry, and tools using industrial diamonds do not have sufficient financial resources at present. According to Prime Minister Vasiliy Shtyrov, the delay in M. Nikolayev's edict (it was expected as early as the end of November 1993, after a meeting of the founders of the exchange--note by INTERFAX) has been caused by the desire to coordinate the actions with the international association of diamond exchanges. According to charter documents of the exchange, the Yakutia Government will receive 30 percent of the stock, the face value of which will come to 5 million rubles. The rest of the founders will hold 3 to 7 percent of the stock.
