FBIS3-39471 "drweu033__a94038" FBIS-WEU-94-033-A Document Type:Daily Report 17 February 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Bosnian Envoy Supports More Active Italian Role BR1402131194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 1341 GMT 13 Feb 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1402131194 Rome ANSAMAIL Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Bosnian Ambassador Wants More Active Role For Italy"] [Text] Bergamo, 13 Feb (ANSA) -- The Bosnian ambassador to Switzerland, Mohammed Filipovic, declared here that Italy should take on a more active role in Bosnia-Herzegovina as the head of Italy's CISL [Italian Confederation of Trade Unions] trade union confederation proposed sending workers to Sarajevo for the May 1 Labor Day holiday. At a study seminar organized by the CISL confederation, in this city northeast of Milan, the visiting ambassador was welcomed by the assembly with a long round of standing applause. "We want a more active role for the Italian government, which must be much more involved in peace in Bosnia," declared Filipovic who said the Rome government should take on a "leadership role." On the sidelines of the seminar, Cabinet Undersecretary Antonio Maccanico said, "At the level of humanitarian relief, Italy is perhaps doing more than any other European country for Bosnia." In his statement, the Bosnian ambassador spoke of living in "stone age" conditions in the ex-Yugoslav republic, "forced to live without water, light, gas, food. And when they go to look for them, they are killed by the artillery of the Serbian troops," he said in the dead silence of the hall. "We will never accept anything that is not freedom and democracy for our country. We want peace...with a political solution," declared Filipovic who noted that canons only serve to prolong the war. The ambassador, who was invited here by the Bergamo Refugees Committee, began distributing Bosnian passports over the weekend to fellow nationals holding Yugoslav passports, which were declared invalid as of January 1. Bosnian refugees from around Italy were arriving here to join some 150 fellow refugees already in the city. For its part, the CISL urged the other two big trade union confederations, the CGIL [Italian General Confederation of Labor] and the UIL [Italian Federation of Trade Unions], to join in the organization of a May 1 for Italian workers in Sarajevo, the war- torn Bosnian capital, an event which, according to planners, will be broadcast live to Italy. D'Antoni said Italian planning for the day should go ahead if the European Trade Union Confederation failed to take the initiative at the European level, because of differences within the organization. "Conditions within ex-Yugoslavia are so dramatic that everyone must do something," declared the CISL leader.
