FBIS4-14203 "drnes082_o_94006" FBIS-NES-94-082 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 SYRIA Russian Ministers Pay Visits, Sign Agreements Russian Ministers Pay Visits, Sign Agreements Military Agreement Signed JN2804094294 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0415 GMT 28 Apr 94 JN2804094294 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Text] His Excellency President Hafiz al-Asad received Russian First Deputy Prime Minister Oleg Soskovets yesterday afternoon. The meeting was also attended by Dr. Salim Yasin, deputy prime minister for economic affairs. Soskovets relayed a message from Russian President Boris Yeltsin to his excellency the president on bilateral cooperation and the Middle East peace process. The talks addressed some international issues and the peace process. They also touched on bilateral relations and prospects for promoting them in the interest of both countries. Soskovets left Damascus last night following a three-day visit to the Syrian Arab Republic. He was seen off at Damascus International Airport by Dr. Salim Yasin, deputy prime minister for economic affairs; Dr. Muhammad al-'Imadi, minister of economy and foreign trade; several assistant ministers; and the Russian ambassador in Damascus. Soskovets made a statement to the correspondent of the Syrian Arab News Agency, expressing deep satisfaction with the outcome of his Damascus visit, and the talks he held with His Excellency President Hafiz al-Asad and Syrian officials. He added: These talks provided an opportunity for a thorough discussion of the ways and means to promote and enhance bilateral ties. Soskovets indicated that several agreements were signed yesterday to promote Syrian-Russian ties. He added that the means of expanding bilateral ties were also examined. He went on to say: The Russian and Syrian economies are bound by old and long-lasting ties in various areas, including military and technical cooperation, energy, trade, and the exchange of commodities and goods. It is our duty to promote and enhance these ties in the future. A military agreement was signed yesterday at the conclusion of Soskovets visit to Damascus. Also signed were the minutes of meetings on the promotion of the bilateral economic, trade, scientific, and technical cooperation; signing for Syria was Dr. Salim Yasin, deputy prime minister for economic affairs, and for Russia, Russian First Deputy Prime Minister Soskovets. The minutes call for the implementation of the agreements concluded in various areas, including energy, irrigation, and mineral resources among others. The minutes also provide for fostering other aspects of bilateral cooperation in various economic areas, including trade exchange, the launching of projects in various sectors, the establishment of joint ventures, and other aspects of joint cooperation.
