FBIS4-14407 "drsov062_a_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-062 Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Trade, Economic Cooperation Agreements Signed With U.S. Trade, Economic Cooperation Agreements Signed With U.S. LD3003152494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1457 GMT 30 Mar 94 LD3003152494 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Irina Bolshova and Vladimir Kikilo] [Text] Moscow March 30 TASS -- Russia and the United States signed agreements on trade and economic cooperation in Moscow on Wednesday. Russian Vice-Prime Minister Aleksandr Shokhin and visiting U.S. Secretary of Commerce Ron Brown signed a joint statement giving the two countries access to each other's markets. Brown and Russian Minister of Foreign Economic Relations Oleg Davydov signed a memorandum to establish American business centres in Russia, a joint statement to improve terms of cooperation in medical industry and a document on the American-Russian Business Development Committee. "We attach great importance to the visit to Russia by a representative U.S. delegation led by Secretary of Commerce Ron Brown," Davydov said. "Two days is not enough to solve all our questions which have piled up since the cold war era. But we have moved along this path. This is proved by the documents we have signed. They allow our trade and economic ties to develop more successfully. Additionally, we discussed issues which still impede our cooperation, including flaws in Russian laws and the difficulties which remain in the American trade laws with respect to Russian manufacturers," he said. Davydov said that American colleagues understand the need of lifting trade restrictions on Russian goods and assured him that the U.S. will take concrete steps in this direction. [sentence as received] The committee plans to hold its next meeting in Washington in June 1994 to discuss large American investments in Russia. "We have pledged to provide maximum state support for these projects. This particularly concerns the Sakhalin-2 project and the development of the Timano-Pechora oil deposit," the minister said. Another key issue do be discussed in June will be the removal of barriers hampering Russian-American trade and economic cooperation.
