FBIS4-24098 "drafr121_d_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-121 Daily Report 22 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Clashes Continue in Kuito, Lunda Norte Clashes Continue in Kuito, Lunda Norte MB2206180294 Luanda Radio Nacional Network in Portuguese 1200 GMT 22 Jun 94 MB2206180294 Luanda Radio Nacional Network Portuguese BFN [Italicized passages recorded] [Text] The clashes are still on in the country. The city of Kuito, Bie Province, is still under intense shelling. Jonas Savimbi's troops are suffering heavy losses on the ground. Our correspondent Abel Abraao reports: [Abraao] Kuito is still under intense shelling. While Jonas Savimbi's rebel organization continues shelling the defenseless residents, in the military field they are suffering heavy losses because the government forces have had enough of the provocations of National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] bandits. This was revealed to our news desk by Brigadier Damiano Mocume, second commander of the Angolan Armed Forces [FAA] regional command in Bie. Brigadier Mocume told Radio Nacional de Angola that over the past few hours the FAA intercepted and destroyed four vehicles carrying war materiel south of the city of Kuito. In Cuche commune, the FAA detachment was attacked but gave a lesson to Jonas Savimbi's soldiers, killing seven rebels and capturing [words indistinct] five 81-mm mortars with shells. In Ganda District, Benguela Province, UNITA troops yesterday burned more than a dozen trucks belon+ging to the World Food Program, WFP, carrying food aid. Our correspondent Celestino Matos reports: [Matos] More than a dozen WFP trucks were attacked and burned by UNITA forces when carrying food aid for Culango residents. The attack took place in the Lobito-Culango road, where the vehicles were carrying basic commodities for residents of that area who face acute food shortages. The extent of the damages caused to the convoy, which was unarmed, is not yet known. The WFP in Benguela has not yet reacted to the UNITA attack. Lunda Norte Provincial Governor Moises Nele has described the situation as worrisome in his province, taking into account the increase in UNITA operations. Our correspondent reports: [Unidentified correspondent] Lunda Norte Provincial Governor Moises Nele today described as worrisome the political and military situation in his jurisdiction. Nele, who is attending the third Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola [MPLA] regional meeting in Saurimo made his statements, in response to UNITA operations on the road linking Dundo to the diamond areas of Lusage and Lucapa. That official accused Zaire of involvement in the Angolan conflict.
