FBIS3-42245 "jptot006__l94057" JPRS-TOT-94-006-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 9 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Irkutsk Gang Engaging in `Armed Terror' Arrested PM0302162594 Moscow TRUD in Russian 3 Feb 94 Night Edition (Signed to Press 2205 Hours) p 2 PM0302162594 Moscow TRUD Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Sergey Bystrov report: "`Savior of Siberia' Lands Up Behind Bars"] [Text] As the editorial office has been informed by the Russian General Prosecutor's Office Information and Public Relations Center, the Irkutsk Oblast Prosecutor's Office, acting in conjunction with the East Siberian Regional Administration for Combating Organized Crime, has halted the activity of a dangerous group whose aim was to perpetrate armed terror against entrepreneurs, law enforcement agency chiefs, and the heads of city and oblast administrations. This formation hid behind a "front"--a private legal practice called Partner LTD, which was supposedly intended to give legal assistance to the population regarding the privatization of state property. In fact a well organized, cohesive gang was set up complete with its own operations administration, security service, special department, and skillfully camouflaged bases in neighboring woods, where they stored arms and munitions, interrogated citizens with the use of physical violence, worked out kidnapping plans, and trained gang members in the use of guns and knives and in unarmed combat. The general director of Partner LTD, who styled himself the "savior of Siberia" and his gang the "Movement for the Recovery of the Siberian Nation," committed with his partners in crime the murder of two entrepreneurs in the city of Shelekhov, Irkutsk Oblast, and was preparing to commit other acts of terror. The uninvited "savior of Siberia" and 13 members of his gang were arrested as a a result of measures taken by investigations operatives. All have had charges pressed against them. Another three gunmen are being sought. During the operation to eliminate the gang 4 assault rifles, 14 sawed-off guns, 11 sporting shotguns, around 40 grenades, hundreds of kilograms of napalm, 12 radio sets, a large number of sets of militia uniforms, camouflage clothing, and other military equipment and munitions were seized at storage sites. The case is being investigated by an Irkutsk Oblast Prosecutor's Office investigation operations group. The investigation is constantly monitored by the Russian General Prosecutor's office.
