FBIS3-16804 "drsov054_t_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia Ulmanis Holds News Conference on Visit to Italy LD1803164094 Riga Radio Riga Network in Latvian 1400 GMT 18 Mar 94 LD1803164094 Riga Radio Riga Network Language: Latvian Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] This afternoon the Latvian President Guntis Ulmanis and representatives of the government cabinet returned to Riga from Italy, having discussed on their two-day official visit future co-operation between the two countries. From Riga airport, where a news conference took place, our correspondent Ainars Asaks has returned. Let's listen to the president's brief assessment of the visit. [Begin Ulmanis recording] This was my first visit this year outside the country's borders, and I regard the visit as successful. We are satisfied with the results of our work. For two days we were in two states: Italy and the Vatican. The first purpose of this visit was to create mutual understanding between Italy and Latvia, the Vatican and Latvia. In the two days we met both the Italian president and the foreign minister and Foreign Ministry representatives. On the second day there was to my mind a very important reception at the Vatican. With great sympathy, with great support, the Pope very attentively listened to the problems that are current in Latvia. The parties to the talks (?assessed) Latvian- Russian relations. Although the Pope did not promise anything, nevertheless, I understand from what he said that he regards Latvia and the Baltic lands as very important geopolitically for the development of this region, which could be a golden key in the formation of relations between East and West. [end recording] After the withdrawal of the Russian troops, Italian-Latvian relations will become more stable, emphasized Foreign Minister Georgs Andrejevs at the news conference. [Begin Andrejevs recording] On questions of a general nature, there was of course interest in how Italian-Latvian relations could develop in the future. [end recording] [passage omitted]
