FBIS4-25035 "drchi107_v_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-107 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 TAIWAN Niger President, Delegation Begin Visit Niger President, Delegation Begin Visit OW0306094794 Taipei CNA in English 0725 GMT 3 Jun 94 OW0306094794 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Danielle Yang] [Text] Taipei, June 3 (CNA) -- Visiting Niger President Mahamane Ousmane said he is interested in agricultural cooperation with Taiwan during a visit to the Council of Agriculture (COA) Friday [3 Jun] morning. Ousmane said he hoped Taiwan can assist Niger in developing agricultural technology to promote the economic development and improve people's living standard in his country. Accompanied by Foreign Affairs Minister Chien Fu, Ousmane was received by COA Vice Chairman Wu Tong-chuan and heard a briefing from Wu. Ousmane is especially interested in Taiwan's cultivation of sugar cane and fruits, preservation of water and soil resources, and agricultural budget as well as the small-farm system which Taiwan is developing. Taiwan began to offer agricultural and medical assistance to Niger two years ago to teach people there how to improve planting of agricultural products. Ousmane also said he hoped Taiwan can assist Niger in developing technology and education in the future. Earlier in the morning, Ousmane visited the Government Information Office (GIO) and viewed the multimedia introduction to the Republic of China [ROC]. He said he is impressed with the vitality and spirit seen in Taiwan. Ousmane said that the ROC should be allowed participation in the United Nations and other international organizations. He added that his visit aims to reaffirm Niger's support of the ROC's UN bid. Niger resumed diplomatic ties with Taiwan in 1992. Ousmane is the first Niger president to visit Taipei. He was elected to lead the West inland African country in 1993. Ousmane arrived here Thursday for a six-day visit. He is accompanied by Niger's Foreign and Cooperation Minister Abdourahamane Hama, Trade, Transportation and Tourism Minister Souley Abdoulaye, and other ranking officials.
