FBIS4-17903 "drsov082_b_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-082 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 RUSSIAN NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Civic Accord Signing Ceremony Held 28 Apr Civic Accord Signing Ceremony Held 28 Apr Yeltsin Closing Speech LD2804121694 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1044 GMT 28 Apr 94 LD2804121694 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Russian BFN [Closing speech by Russian President Boris Yeltsin at signing ceremony of the Social Accord Treaty in the St. George's Hall of the Moscow Kremlin -- live] [Text] Esteemed participants in the assembly! The Treaty on Social Accord has become a reality in Russian life. In signing it we had only one objective: to strengthen civic peace in the country, to make the life of Russian citizens more stable and tranquil. The treaty does not harm the interests of any party, organization, or association. Each signatory, while remaining committed to his own convictions and programs, will uphold them in an honest and peaceful political struggle for the votes of the electorate. The treaty places additional responsibilities and obligations on all those who signed it, above all on state bodies. It spells out the priority tasks which must be resolved by the president, the government, the Federal Assembly, and the bodies of power in the republics and regions. These tasks must be resolved, not separately but in close cooperation with each other, with the political and public forces of Russia. The most important thing now is to implement the treaty which we have signed. Every one of us who has signed it and will sign it undertakes the role of guarantor of implementation of this document. I am sure that the mass media and the Russian public will undertake to monitor compliance with the treaty. But the highest guarantee of the treaty's implementation will be our practical deeds in the spirit of cooperation and mutual trust. On behalf of those present, I invite all those for whom the idea of accord and civic peace are dear to join the Treaty on Social Accord. Today it has been signed and comes into force. With all my heart, I congratulate the participants in the assembly and the Russian citizens on this remarkable event. We will spare no effort to ensure that civic peace becomes established in Russia forever. Thank you.
