FBIS3-15416 "drsov044_u_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Latvia Christopher Remarks Elicit `Bewilderment' WS0703121494 Tallinn BNS in English 1659 GMT 5 Mar 94 WS0703121494 Tallinn BNS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Riga, Mar 05, BNS - Latvian Foreign Minister Georgs Andrejevs at a meeting with U.S. Ambassador Ints Silins on Friday [4 March] expressed his bewilderment over recent remarks by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher about Latvia depriving its Russian-speaking residents of the citizenship and voting rights. Christopher at a meeting of the U.S. Senate's subcommittee on March 2 had said that according to the legislation adopted in Latvia, Russians cannot become citizens of the country and have no right to vote. The U.S. Ambassador in his explanation said that Christopher apparently had not been precise enough, as it was clear that many ethnic Russians are Latvian citizens and have the right to vote in elections. The Latvian foreign minister also expressed worries about Christopher's remarks that Russia had the right to stimulate Latvians to extend the citizen's status to a wider circle of residents and grant the voting right also to the Russians living in the country. The ambassador said that it was only the ethnic Russians living in Latvia who were referred to in Christopher's statement. The remarks also had indicated only legal and democratic methods of action by the Russians toward achieving a settlement of the citizenship issue, only attempts to convince the Latvians that the interests of ethnic Russians should be taken into account. Silins in his concluding remarks pointed out that there was no change in the United States position in principle toward Latvia, and that this was also in evidence during recent visits by Latvian delegations to the United States, as well as in permanent support to Latvia by U.S. President Bill Clinton. The ambassador at the conversation also asked about the process of the Latvian-Russian talks. He said the U.S. ambassadors to Central and Eastern Europe were scheduled to meet in Warsaw soon.
