FBIS3-27725 "dreas020_a_94010" FBIS-EAS-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 January 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Aftermath of Political Reform Accord Reported Lower House Passes Legislation OW2901082194 Tokyo KYODO in English 0810 GMT 29 Jan 94 OW2901082194 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Jan. 29 KYODO -- The House of Representatives on Saturday [29 January] approved the ruling coalition's political reform package whose key phases are set to be revised at the regular Diet session slated to convene on Monday. The two-tier arrangement on parliamentary proceedings was hammered out at an eleventh-hour, horse-trading session between Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa and Liberal Democratic Party President Yohei Kono from Friday night to early Saturday. The powerful lower chamber of Japan's two-chamber Diet gave its blessing to the legislation by a stand-up vote. The seven parties of the ruling coalition and the main opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) endorsed the compromise. The opposition Japanese Communist Party voted against the package. The legislation is almost certain to clear a subsequent House of Councillors session later in the day, the final day of the current extraordinary Diet session. A date for implementation of the legislation was deleted from the government's original bills in line with the agreement between Hosokawa and Kono. The timing of the enforcement of the new law will be finalized through debate at the onset of the regular Diet session. Earlier in the day, the joint committee of both houses of the Diet approved the compromise over political reform reached between Hosokawa and Kono. The 20-legislator joint committee was set up after the upper house voted down the package on January 21, forcing the ruling coalition to mount desperate efforts to salvage the bills. The reform package passed the lower house on November 18. After talks at the panel deadlocked, the stalemate was finally broken in top-level negotiations between Hosokawa and Kono.
