FBIS3-17818 "drsov061_a_94017" FBIS-SOV-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Grachev, Romanian Premier Discuss Bilateral Ties LD2903154394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1401 GMT 29 Mar 94 LD2903154394 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Nikolay Morozov] [Text] Bucharest March 29 TASS -- All European states must help ensure European security, there should not be masters to control their servants in future, Russian Defence Minister General of Army Pavel Grachev told correspondents upon the completion of his meeting with Romanian President Ion Iliescu. In his words, the sides discussed aspects of foreign policy and partnership with Western Europe and the United States, and revealed similarity and peculiarities in their approaches to partnership with other states. They agreed that partnership should have an equal mutually beneficial basis and include neither tutors nor pupils. The sides agreed that Russian and Romanian development has much in common. The Romanian state head said he favors closer cooperation with Russia, is looking forward to a meeting with Boris Yeltsin and hopes the meeting will be held this year. Russia is also striving to consolidate comprehensive relations with Romania which, unfortunately, have been somewhat suspended, said Grachev. Today's meeting of the Russian defence minister and Romanian Prime Minister Nicolae Vacaroiu stressed the importance for boosted bilateral relations. The resumption and expansion of bilateral relations and the use of years-long experience under new conditions corresponds to the interests of both states, said the Romanian premier. In his turn, Grachev voiced the need for boosted relations in all spheres and praised the signed agreement on military cooperation, which provides for Russian training of Romanian officers, joint military exercises and exchange of specialists. The planned interaction in the defence industry, especially conversion, is of much interest as well. The Russian delegation has left for the area of Ploiesti to attend tactical drill of a mechanized armed unit and visit the Peles King palace in the Carpathian town of Sinaia.
