FBIS3-9474 "dreeu058_i_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Warning on Troops Highlighted LD2403194094 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1750 GMT 24 Mar 94 LD2403194094 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Belgrade, March 24 (TANJUG) -- The president of the Bosnian Serb Republic (RS), Radovan Karadzic warned on Thursday that the decision to deploy Turkish U.N. troops in Bosnia-Herzegovina would create conditions for a major Balkan war. Karadzic told a RS parliamentary session in Pale, RS political centre close to Sarajevo, that if Turkish soldiers are sent to the Moslem-Croat state in Bosnia, the Bosnian Serbs would demand that in its territory are deployed the troops of the neighbouring Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as a U.N. member, said Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA. The United Nations has so far operated on the principle not to deploy troops of neighbouring countries and earlier occupiers in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. The region of Bosnia-Herzegovina was for 500 years (until the beginning of the 20th century) under Turkish occupation, and this is still vivid in the memories of the Bosnian population, especially the Serbs. However, the U.N. Security Council on Wednesday gave the go-ahead to a proposal by the secretary-general that Turkish peacekeepers be deployed in Bosnia and passed on the final decision to Butrus-Ghali. The latest reports from the U.N. New York headquarters are that the Turkish U.N. contigent should be deployed along the separation lines between the Bosnian Moslems and Croats, who succumbed to strong U.S. pressure last week and signed an accord on setting up their federation in Bosnia. Karadzic informed the parliamentary session about the outcome of the peace talks on Bosnia held so far and the proposal to determine a new platform for their continuation. Karadzic suggested to the deputies to adopt a platform which would include a demand for establishing peace, just territorial delimitation, the rejection of the Serb participation in the Moslem-Croat federation and which would insist on the Serbs' right to self-determination.
