FBIS3-58136 "drweu006__a94012" FBIS-WEU-94-006-A Document Type:Daily Report 10 January 1994 ANNEX United Kingdom Ministers Comment on European Economic Area Agreement Extends Single Market BR0701092694 London HERMES Database in English 30 Dec 93--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0701092694 London HERMES Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Press release issued by the UK Home Office: "New Agreement Extends the Single Market Area"] [Text] 30 Dec 1993 -- Nationals of five countries outside the EC will be able to live and work in the United Kingdom and other EC member states as the result of an agreement which comes into force on 1 January 1994. The European Economic Area Agreement [EEA] will extend the free movement provisions of the EC's Single Market to Austria, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. The agreement gives reciprocal rights of movement, residence and employment to UK citizens and nationals of other member EC States. The expanded single market area will lead to increased trade and business opportunities for all parties to the agreement. Home Office Minister Charles Wardle Said Today: "The EEA will extend the existing European Community rights of free movement and residence to Austria, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. "This means that nationals of these countries in the future will be treated in the same way as European Community nationals for immigration purposes. They will be able to enter the United Kingdom simply on production of a valid passport or national identity card and will be free to work here or, so long as they are able to support themselves financially to reside here as a student, retired person or in any other capacity. "At ports and airports where there are separate "EC" and "non-EC" channels for arriving passengers, EEA nationals will now be routed through the EC channel. "The European Economic Area Agreement provides new opportunities for United Kingdom companies by extending the Single Market to these five countries. In addition the rights of free movement and residence will allow British citizens to work and carry out business and to reside freely in any of these countries in accordance with Community law." The European Economic Area Agreement was signed in Oporto on 2 May 1993. The United Kingdom ratified the agreement on 15 November 1993. Full ratification came on 10 December 1993.
