FBIS3-46513 "dreas001__a94011" FBIS-EAS-94-001-A Document Type:Daily Report 3 January 1994 ANNEX Japan Local Assembly Protests U.S. Forces Incident OW2612132693 Naha RYUKYU SHIMPO in Japanese 23 Dec 93 Morning Edition p 2 OW2612132693 Naha RYUKYU SHIMPO Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo -- In protest against a recent incident in which a rescue gear was dropped from a U.S. Military helicopter, the Okinawa Prefectural Assembly delegation (composed of five assembly members led by Tadamori Kikuyama) visited the headquarters of the U.S. Forces Japan [USFJ], and other organs including the American Embassy, the Foreign Ministry, the Naha Defense Facilities Administration Agency [DFAA], and the Okinawa Development Agency on 21 and 22 December. In meeting with representatives of those organizations, the delegation called on them to "prevent the recurrence of the accident" and "change a flying course to prevent U.S. military helicopters from flying over residential areas." In response, each representative said: "We will make all-out efforts to prevent the recurrence of the accident." However, in reply to the delegation's call for a change of the flying course, Lieutenant Colonel Charles R. Steed [as published], who is chief of the government-related affairs section of the USFJ Headquarters, said "Okinawa is so small that it is impossible to avoid flying over the residential area," thus indicating change of the flying route is impossible. He said the cause of the accident is "under investigation," stressing "we will do our utmost to prevent the recurrence of accidents from now on." Nobukatsu Kanehara, principal deputy director of the National Security Affairs Division under the North American Affairs Bureau of the Foreign Ministry, said: "We have called on the U.S. military to prevent the recurrence of the accident and take safety measures." Tadayuki Nakada, director of Compensation and Operation Division of the General Affairs Department under the DFAA, said: "The DFAA cannot make any direct petitions to the U.S. forces."
