FBIS3-29962 "dreas037_m_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 Thailand Army Chief Comments on Vang Pao, Arms Barter BK2402123594 Bangkok Radio Thailand Network in Thai 0530 GMT 24 Feb 94 BK2402123594 Bangkok Radio Thailand Network Language: Thai Article Type:BFN [Text] General Wimon Wongwanit, the Army commander-in-chief, granted an interview to reporters after presiding over activities marking the anniversary of the military intelligence unit this morning. He discussed the fact that the director of the Army Intelligence Department filed a lawsuit against General Vang Pao, head of the Lao National Liberation Front. He said that, in essence, the Thai armed forces only want to officially record the charge regarding his illegal acts, so that it can be used as evidence if this man is arrested when he enters Thailand in the future. This is because a group of people has carried out activities along the Thai border and caused trouble for Thai people in the area. Their recruiting activities have created conflicts between Thailand and other friendly countries. They have also caused trouble for people in other countries by collecting money from Lao immigrants in the United States and claiming the money will be used to support Lao national liberation activities, using Thai territory. The Thai armed forces cannot allow this. As to whether any Thais have joined this movement, the Thai Army chief said he did not think so. However, some Hmong living along the border may have, he said. On purchasing weapons from our trading partners by bartering Thai agricultural goods, Gen. Wimon said that an understanding has been reached by all parties concerned. Press reports, however, have indicated that the military does not understand the barter system. In fact, once a decision is made by the cabinet, it should be regarded as law. Therefore it must be practiced as long as clear explanations are provided regarding the amount of money required and methods to be followed. Then there would be no problems. Personally, he said, he agrees with anything that benefits poor people.
