FBIS3-37076 "drsov030_g_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Cabinet Issues Statement on Russia, Strike LD1002231494 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1413 GMT 10 Feb 94 LD1002231494 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By BELINFORM correspondent Larisa Lazar for TASS] [Text] Minsk, 10 Feb -- The current socioeconomic crisis in the republic is a direct consequence of destroying integration processes in the economy, says a statement which the Presidium of the Belarusian Council of Ministers adopted today. In this connection the document says that the "consistent and well-thought- out moves by the republic's government aimed at a close economic union with Russia mean, above all, a policy of common sense, socio- economic stabilization and overcoming the crisis". As is known, an indefinite political strike is planned for 15 February. Its participants intend to demand the government's resignation, holding early elections to the Supreme Soviet and electing a government of national confidence. The Presidium of the Council of Ministers describes these demands as "political adventurism and violation of the constitution" and as an attempt by certain political forces "to drive the republic to chaos and to put it on the verge of civil confrontation". "Calls for a political strike and social disobedience are nothing else but an attempt to eliminate the legally elected power," the statement says. The document also says that the sovereignty and independence of the state are being built on the basis of a solid economic foundation. The foundation cannot be laid by internal self-isolation and by trying to fence ourselves off from neighboring states with whom we have not only common history in the past and present but in the future as well. The statement says "both fraternal peoples, close in their spirit, culture and history, equally need social stability at present. The guarantor of this stability is the economic union of the two states. The two states have natural interest in each other and will not allow any attempts to create political and human barriers between them."
