FBIS4-64560 "drweu087_a_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-087 Daily Report 4 May 1994 AUSTRIA Vranitzky Welcomes European Union Endorsement Vranitzky Welcomes European Union Endorsement AU0405185594 Vienna Oesterreich Eins Radio Network in German 1600 GMT 4 May 94 AU0405185594 Vienna Oesterreich Eins Radio Network German BFN [Interview with Chancellor Franz Vranitzky by Gisela Hopfmueller in Vienna on 4 May] [Text] [Hopfmueller] The chancellor has been commenting on the Strasbourg decision outside his office, where he has been answering journalists' questions. Asked whether he was surprised by the clear-cut decision, he said: [Vranitzky] No, I am not surprised. This is an absolutely pleasant and successful day for Austria and for European policy. Over the past few days and weeks I have had numerous contacts with representatives of European Union [EU] states, where I repeatedly said that the catastrophic warnings that the vote might fail were unfounded. This result confirms my view very clearly. We have moved a step forward. This outcome shows very clearly that not only do we Austrians want to get into the EU, but the EU is trying to get us as members. This also shows that the goal of Austrian membership is being taken seriously and is appreciated beyond Austria's borders. This is a pleasant day internationally, with apartheid being voted out in South Africa, with the Gaza-Jericho Agreement being signed today, and now with this overwhelming majority for Austria's accession to the European Parliament. This has been a good day for international understanding and cooperation. [Hopfmueller] Do you think that today's decision will have an effect on Austrian opinion with regard to the forthcoming referendum? [Vranitzky] Yes, I think so, because, owing to incorrect reports from Strasbourg, many commentators and observers have been doubting lately whether the EU wanted Austria as a member at all. That we are welcome has become very clear today, and I think that this is a positive sign for our referendum. But, as I already said in parliament today, and I can only repeat it: International events are one thing, and winning over the Austrian population for this objective is another. This is the real political task that lies before us. It is also a matter of putting those in their place who are linking the European issue with the population's fears and doubts. But in fact, politics should create trust and credibility; and this task will be taken very seriously over the next few days and weeks.
