FBIS4-56277 "drlat084_c_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 MEXICO Tijuana Municipal Police Director Shot to Death Tijuana Municipal Police Director Shot to Death PA2904162694 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 29 Apr 94 PA2904162694 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 29 Apr 94 Spanish BFN [Report by Martha Eugenia Davila in Tijuana from the "Early News" newscast] [Text] Violence and insecurity unfortunately continue here in the city of Tijuana. Federico Benitez Lopez, director of the Tijuana Municipal Police, was killed last night in an attack. According to preliminary reports, an anonymous call was received at 2000 at the Tijuana Public Security Directorate, which was headed up by Benitez Lopez. The phone call warned that a bomb had been planted at the Tijuana airport. Municipal police officers, led by Benitez Lopez himself, went to the airport. After a fruitless search for the bomb, the police officers left the airport via the airport road. While stopped at an intersection known as Puente Tijuana, Federico Benitez and his bodyguard Ramon Alarid, who were traveling in a white pickup owned by Tijuana Municipality, were ambushed by and fired on from a dark red Bronco pickup with tinted glass windows. This vehicle was later abandoned at the Murua (?parking lot) in this same city. Policemen were deployed in large numbers after this unfortunate incident. Members of the Federal Judicial Police, State Judicial Police, Municipal Police, and national security forces were deployed. Federico Benitez was taken to a Red Cross Hospital. He had two bullet wounds, one in the head and the other in the neck. Despite efforts to save his life, Federico Benitez died at 2215. His bodyguard Ramon Alarid had died instantly. Surveillance of the area was ordered. All exits from Tijuana, the most visited city in the world, were also placed under surveillance. This operation continued throughout the night and continues this morning. Apparently, a medical report was going to be released, but this was postponed. We are waiting for more information. In an interview, Jorge Alvarez, commander of the 2d Sector of the State Judicial Police, and Captain Jose Luis Lopez, of the same police department, agreed the ambush had been carefully planned. This situation has created anxiety among the population. This is one of the unfortunate incidents that has infuriated the people of Tijuana, Baja California, and the entire nation.
