FBIS3-59906 "jptac001___94031" JPRS-TAC-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Arms Control 18 January 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA KAZAKHSTAN Russia To Lease Baykonur Cosmodrone From Kazakhstan Following Lengthy Negotiations U.S. Congressmen Visit Cosmodrome LD0212171593 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1406 GMT 2 Dec 93 LD0212171593 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By KAZTAG correspondent Konstantin Borodinov for TASS] [Text] Almaty, December 2 TASS -- A group of U.S. congressmen and experts numbering 35 visited Baykonur cosmodrome on Thursday to study the possibilities of international cooperation under Alpha project. The project envisages the creation of a large international orbital complex which will be launched and serviced from Baykonur cosmodrome. "The visit by a large delegation like this may signify a decisive turn in Baykonur's destiny," said Galym Abilsiitov, Kazakhstan's deputy premier and minister of science and new technologies. "If the guests get convinced that the cosmodrome can operate effectively, new partners can be found, and it can become possible to operate the cosmodrome on a commercial basis." Plans for an international space corporation on a basis of Baykonur cosmodrome were set out at a news conference by Yuriy Koptev, director-general of the Russian Space Agency, and Tokhtar Aubakirov, director-general of the Kazakhstan Aerospace Agency. The corporation is planned to be formed with the participation of Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and, possibly, other countries. Baykonur is living though difficult times. Representatives of Russia and Kazakhstan are to discuss pressing problems and bring closer the stances of the two countries on the ways of practical implementation of intergovernment arrangements. The heads of the space agencies of the two countries unanimously believe that after the breakup of a great power, Russia and Kazakhstan do not have enough funds to ensure the operation of the huge complex. A number of international projects are considered. The participation of four partners -- the United States, Canada, Japan and the European Space Agency uniting 12 countries -- is proposed in one of them. There are also plans to lease the cosmodrome. Baykonur is still unmatched in the world.
