FBIS3-46414 "drchi019__a94001" FBIS-CHI-94-019-A Document Type:Daily Report 28 January 1994 ANNEX General U.S., Japan, France Criticized on Taiwan Contacts OW2612034893 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 26 Dec 93 Morning Edition p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2612034893 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [By correspondent Moriyasu Okazaki; received via Nikkei Telecom Database] [Text] A bureau chief of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry who recently visited Taiwan has spoken of his intention to effect visits by cabinet members to Taiwan, and moves concerning this are afoot in Japan to invigorate intergovernmental exchanges between Japan and Taiwan. Commenting on 25 December on these moves in Japan, a top Chinese Foreign Ministry official expressed unhappiness with the moves, saying, "Some forces in Japan are instigating matters." The same Chinese official also asked Japan to deal with the issue of promoting exchanges with Taiwan "solemnly, cautiously, and properly," in line with the principle established by China and Japan when they normalized their diplomatic relations. Some Japanese Government officials are bitterly complaining about Japan's restrictions on travel by high-ranking government officials to Taiwan, citing visits by high-ranking European and U.S. government officials to Taiwan. Touching on the bitter complaints, the top Chinese Foreign Ministry official said: 1) France and the United States have gone beyond the limit, thereby adversely affecting their relations with China, and their excesses have become a diplomatic issue. Japanese-Chinese relations are now extremely good, and there is no need for the two countries to do anything that could adversely affect their relations, and 2) There are the issues of exchanges between Japan and Taiwan and the past history between Japan and China. Japan's expansion of exchanges with Taiwan may hurt the feelings of the Chinese people. The same PRC official said that China is looking forward to the visit of Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Hata to China for two days from 8 to 9 January, and he expressed the hope that Prime Minister Hosokawa will visit China as soon as possible next year. The PRC official also added that China is examining the possibility of having one or two party and government leaders visit Japan next year.
