FBIS3-57989 "drweu004_n_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Jan 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * Two Polls Show Drop in Support for EU * Membership Referendum Questions Aired 94EN0175D Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 6 Dec 93 p 5 94EN0175D Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Language: Finnish Article Type:CSO [Article by Unto Hamalainen: "Three Choices in Referendum on EU in the Offing; Ballot Also Offers Option of Abstaining"] [Text] Finns will have three choices in the national referendum on membership in the European Union (EU) to be held next year. There will be two choices on the ballot for Finland's membership in the EU: either yes or no. In addition, they plan to include a provision on the ballot in which it will be stated that the voter may abstain if neither of the two choices is acceptable to him. The committee that is studying the referendum has decided to support an abstention option on the ballot since the law governing the organization of a referendum enjoins [the state] to protect the voter's right not to support any of the choices offered. The committee appointed by Justice Minister Hannele Pokka (Center Party) did not venture an opinion as to when the referendum would be organized. Headed by office chief Lauri Tarasti, the committee is just now putting the finishing touches to its proposal for organizing the referendum and intends to submit it in early January. Another special law will be enacted for the organization of the advisory referendum. When the law is to be enacted will depend on how far advanced the EU negotiations are. The law will be enacted at the point when the negotiations are brought to a conclusion. Whole Country Is Election District The Tarasti Committee has also looked into the organization of EU parliamentary elections in Finland. Last week the committee listened to party representatives on the organization of elections. The committee will submit its proposal in April. If Finland becomes a member country of the EU, 16 representatives to the European Parliament will be elected from Finland. According to the plans, all of Finland will constitute a single election district in European Parliament elections. A proposal was discussed in the committee, according to which the country would be divided into several election districts as for Eduskunta elections. This plan was abandoned since it would have meant that Finland's seats in the European Parliament would be concentrated among the three biggest parties. No Long Ballots The committee members think that it is in Finland's interest to have many parties represented in its parliamentary delegations. The European Parliament operates through the parties' parliamentary delegations. When a country is a single election district, it is up to the parties to take care of local representation, that is, to see to it that representatives to the European Parliament are elected from all over Finland. In some parties they are planning on a so-called long ballot system. In a long ballot system the members of the parties would vote in the primaries for regular parliamentary election candidates in order of precedence. Those who did best in the primaries would be chosen from the head of the ballot for the European Parliament. The committee does not recommend a long ballot system. They consider it to be poorly suited to the Finnish system. Finland Will Not Be Participating in Next European Elections They are striving for local representation by dividing the whole country into election districts, but they are not yet sure that the model will work. The next European Parliament elections are to be held next spring. Finland will not yet be able to participate in them. Eduskunta Picks First Representatives If Finland becomes a member of the EU, the Finnish Eduskunta will have to nominate its first representatives to the European Parliament. We will not be able to participate in regular elections until the next round at the end of the decade. The Tarasti Committee has considered a so-called dual mandate, or whether a member of the European Parliament can also be a member of his national parliament. In the committee's opinion, the duties of a member of the Eduskunta and a member of the European Parliament cannot be performed simultaneously.
