FBIS4-36867 "drnes114dd_94012" FBIS-NES-94-114 Daily Report 12 Jun 1994 Palestinian Affairs U.S. Donates Communication Equipment to Police U.S. Donates Communication Equipment to Police NC1406112094 Cairo AL-AKHBAR in Arabic 12 Jun 94 p 2 NC1406112094 Cairo AL-AKHBAR Arabic BFN [Report by Halah al-'Isawi] [Text] The Palestinian police have received the most up-to-date communication equipment used in the world today. Its range is up to 560 km. This statement was made by Muhammad Subayh, the permanent Palestinian representative to the Arab League and secretary of the Palestine National Council [PNC]. Subayh told AL-AKHBAR that the United States supplied the Palestinian police with this equipment, which is now being used in the region and the United States. Therefore, the Palestinian police force has received all kinds of equipment that will help it perform its duties properly, including revolvers, machine guns mounted on vehicles, kalashnikovs, and communication equipment. He added that the Palestinian police force is still in dire need of money to develop their capabilities after power is transferred to the national authority. The latter will be concerned with performing the civilized role of a police force, such as combating crime and drugs, instead of the role of the occupation police, which was to track down the struggling citizens. The Palestinian ambassador said he expects some chaos in transferring funds to the police until after the transition period is over. This is in view of the absence of police stations and posts after the occupation forces had occupied these stations and turned them into prisons and military camps. They did not develop or maintain them in any way. Even previously equipped stations were dismantled and removed when the Israeli occupation forces evacuated the self-rule areas. Muhammad Subayh affirmed that there is a temporary agreement on issuing a Palestinian document on which "laissez passer" would be written. He said that he believes this is a very advanced step and that this document will be issued as soon as possible after the National Authority assumes control and a certain period of time is allowed for administrative stability. He said that the laissez passer document will be in Hebrew, Arabic, and English. He affirmed that it will not carry any Israeli stamps.
