FBIS3-48868 "dreas020__a94011" FBIS-EAS-94-020-A Document Type:Daily Report 31 January 1994 ANNEX Japan Envoy to U.S. Urges Presummit Draft Budget OW2701121494 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 26 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2701121494 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [By correspondent Shigeru Omago; from NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 26 January Evening Edition] [Text] Washington, 25 Jan -- At a news conference on 25 January, Takakazu Kuriyama, Japanese Ambassador to the United States, said: "Japan should urgently work out pump-priming measures, including a draft fiscal 1994 budget, to show its will to fulfill an economic responsibility." In this way, he stressed the need for Tokyo to compile the draft 1994 budget before the Japanese-U.S. summit talks take place on 11 February. Noting that Washington has put great expectations on Japan's pump-priming measures, a Japanese diplomatic source in the United States also said: "A delay in formulating economy-boosting measures is against Japan's interests. It also annoys people of the world." During the news conference, Ambassador Kuriyama referred to the ongoing Japanese-U.S. framework trade talks in Washington. He said: "Both Japan and the United States should remember the starting point of the talks," expressing an apprehension over the situation in which Japanese and U.S. negotiators continue confronting each other over whether or not objective criteria should be set. He added: "Japan agreed last July to reduce its current account surplus and increase imports, and that was the starting point." His remark indicates that both Japan and the United States need to make concessions during the talks. Regarding the prospect for the two sides making compromises, Kuriyama said: "Tokyo and Washington earlier agreed during construction talks to set criteria to gauge the openness of the Japanese construction market. This becomes a precedent and will be good for reference." In this way, he indicated that Japan would comply with the U.S. demand for setting criteria if they are yardsticks to evaluate results.
