FBIS4-31293 "dreeu110_m_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-110 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Joint Scientific Projects With Albania Joint Scientific Projects With Albania AU0706154094 Skopje NOVA MAKEDONIJA in Macedonian 1 Jun 94 p 3 AU0706154094 Skopje NOVA MAKEDONIJA Macedonian BFN [Unattributed report: "Cooperation Through Joint Scientific Projects"] [Text] Branko Crvenkovski, prime minister for Macedonia [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia -- FRYOM], yesterday received an Albanian Government delegation headed by the president of the Committee for Science and Technology, Maxim Konomi. The meeting emphasized the satisfaction with the action taken to promote cooperation between the two countries through the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation that will be signed by Macedonian Science Minister Aslan Selmani and Konomi. It was concluded that this agreement was very important for promoting cooperation in the area of science as a basis for cooperation in more important areas of mutual interest for the two countries. The possibilities for cooperation envisaged in the agreement open the road to bilateral and multilateral cooperation between the two states, as well as cooperation among the countries in the Balkans, Europe, and the world. Regional scientific projects are the main projects for which financing is envisaged by the European Union and the United Nations, above all traffic, economic, energy, information, and ecology programs. Yesterday, the Albanian delegation also had a meeting with the president of the Macedonian Academy of Science and Arts, Ksente Bogoev. Interest in cooperation between the two academies was expressed, as well as general readiness to organize a meeting of the delegations of the academies in Skopje and Tirana. Cooperation can be also implemented by organizing a scientific symposium on the ecological protection of Lake Ohrid, which is of great significance for both countries. Frederika Popovska-Pavlovska, vice president of St. Cyril and Methodius University and responsible for international cooperation, informed the guests from Albania about the organization in our universities. She expressed interest in cooperation at university level, and also at the level of particular faculties and scientific institutions, which will enable cooperation on the level of teaching and scientific personnel through joint scientific projects. Interest was also expressed in including the two countries in the TEMPUS and KOPERNIKUS programs, which involve cooperation among higher educational institutions.
