FBIS4-28370 "dreas112_i_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 Cambodia Dispatch of U.S. Military Personnel Criticized Dispatch of U.S. Military Personnel Criticized BK1006032994 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia in Cambodian 2330 GMT 9 Jun 94 BK1006032994 (Clandestine) Voice of the Great National Union Front of Cambodia Cambodian BFN [Editorial: "The United States is Dispatching 90 Military Advisers and Military Specialists to Cambodia To Continue Fueling the War in Cambodia; Is This a Repeat of the Indochina War of the 1960's and 1970's?"] [Text] There have been reports saying that the spokesman of the U.S. Embassy in Phnom Penh has announced that the United States is dispatching 90 military advisers and military specialists to Cambodia. People still remember the history in Vietnam when the U.S. Government dispatched U.S. troops there in the 1960's -- the Vietnam War started. The U.S. Government dispatched hundreds of military advisers and specialists; more were successively sent until there were millions of U.S. soldiers there. In the Vietnam War, over 50,000 U.S. troops were killed; hundreds of thousands more were wounded. Thousands are missing and their fate remains a problem today. Now the United States will start dispatching military advisers and military specialists to Cambodia to assist the two-headed government to continue fueling the war in the country. People are interested in this and have asked the following question: Is this a repeat of history? The Cambodian people do not need gasoline to pour over the fire; the Cambodian people need water to put out the fire. National reconciliation is water for putting out the fire. The Cambodian people categorically oppose whatever helps fuel the war; they will absolutely not allow this. They will fight on until achieving national reconciliation and genuine peace. The Cambodian people want to coexist peacefully and have friendship with the American people. The two peoples do not want war and do not want to kill one another. Therefore, solving the Cambodian problem for peace and national reconciliation will benefit the Cambodian and American people, and also the people of the region. Furthermore, nobody in the world wants to die in a war.
