FBIS4-35061 "drlat124_o_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-124 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 Colombia Gaviria, Others Urge Defense of Nation's Image Gaviria, Others Urge Defense of Nation's Image PA2406191494 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Network in Spanish 1730 GMT 24 Jun 94 PA2406191494 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Canal A Network Spanish BFN [From "The Midday Newscast"] [Excerpt] Colombia is preparing to oppose all campaigns aimed at tarnishing and destabilizing the country. President Cesar Gaviria, political and private sector leaders, and average citizens all issued calls today for a defense of the nation's greatness and dignity. Colombia is a large and good country, and most Colombians agree with this and oppose those antagonistic citizens who are attempting to drive us into pessimism. Not even our national soccer team's recent defeats or the calls of cowardice cloaked by anonymity will allow anxiety and uncertainty to return to Colombia. Every Colombian agrees on one single truth: Colombia is greater that those who seek to destroy it. [Begin recording] [President Cesar Gaviria] We must not allow the cartels to emerge victorious in what constitutes their main objectives: to divide allies in the struggle against organized crime. When judicial cooperation fails, the cartels win. When Colombia's image overseas is tarnished, the cartels win. When the credibility of our political leadership is attacked, the cartels win. The cartels are quite aware of this. [Vice President-elect Humberto De la Calle Lombana] As the president of the Republic pointed out, we also reject all of these malicious and ill-intended attacks whose ultimate victim will be Colombia. Over the past few days, these malicious and ill-intended attacks have been circulating throughout the foreign media. [Carlos Arturo Angel, president of the National Association of Industrialists] We will continue to work. We simply believe that these are unfortunate incidents which damage us, but they will not stain our country's name. This is a good country. A country of men and women who are determined to forge ahead at all times. [Ernesto Lima, president of the Lima Insurance Co.] I am quite certain the new administration will know how to direct the country toward very optimistic objectives. I am sure that the country, which has been properly directed in recent years, will continue to be directed adequately by Dr. Ernesto Samper. [Sabas Pretelt de la Vega, president of the National Federation of Businessmen] I do not believe that we should return to the past days of violence. The business sector is willing to support Colombia and the new administration in the state modernization process and in all of their attempts to strengthen Colombia's institutions. [passage omitted] [end recording]
