FBIS4-44205 "drweu124_i_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-124 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 FRANCE All Factions Represented in New PS Leadership All Factions Represented in New PS Leadership BR2406065794 Paris LE QUOTIDIEN DE PARIS in French 23 Jun 94 p 5 BR2406065794 Paris LE QUOTIDIEN DE PARIS French BFN [Report by Daniel Bernard: "Emmanuelli Plans Congress for His Coronation"] [Excerpts] [Socialist Party, PS, First Secretary] Henri Emmanuelli has finally achieved the impossible. After meeting with Pierre Mauroy, Laurent Fabius, Michel Rocard, and Martine Aubry on Tuesday [21 June] and continuing his consultations yesterday (directly or through the eclectic Jean Glavany), the new first secretary has managed to persuade all factions to take part in the new PS leadership. From the start of the national bureau meeting, the deputy for les Landes -- rather edgy, according to several participants -- announced the convening of an extraordinary congress scheduled for September. Rocard's supporters, who had demanded the announcement of such a consultation of the members, no longer had any reason to refuse to participate in the leadership. [passage omitted] Although this "transitional" team is to be confirmed at the fall congress, Henri Emmanuelli did not seem to consider his own leadership of the party to be transitional. Of course, his mandate will be reviewed. But he has already indicated that he would be "the first signatory of a motion," which he already knows will be "relatively brief." This will be an opportunity for the PS, he said, to "regain a clear political direction" which "only the members have the right and responsiblity" to define. To break with the "slide from democracy" and the "extremes" which have had the effect of "weakening the political debate," the first secretary expressed the hope that "a majority and minority" should emerge "in order that the party regains a democratic rhythm." Although he wants to make the PSF "a normal party," Henri Emmanuelli above all wants a "boost be given to the Left," not to stick to "the Left's traditional liturgy," but because "the men and women of the Left no longer identify with the PS." Until the PS has clearly established its identity on the Left, the first secretary refused to reveal which Socialist candidate had his preference for the presidential election. "I cannot resign myself to placing the PS in splendid isolation. I want the PS to live within the family of the Left," the man to whom presidential ambitions are already being attributed, said simply!
