FBIS4-8481 "dreeu072_h_94008" FBIS-EEU-94-072 Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 HUNGARY Third Channel Planned for Hungarian Television Third Channel Planned for Hungarian Television 94CH0222C Budapest NEPSZABADSAG in Hungarian 23 Mar 94 p 1 94CH0222C Budapest NEPSZABADSAG Hungarian CSO [Unattributed report: "The TV May Begin Enterprising; Has the Issue of the Third Channel Been Decided?"] [Text] NEPSZABADSAG has been informed that as part of a so-called "3000 series decree" (not published in MAGYAR KOZLONY) the government has concurred with the idea that the Hungarian Television establish a business organization for the operation of the planned third television channel. We have already reported earlier of a plan to make available to Hungarian Television the vacated Channel 58, (which in earlier days carried the programs of Moscow Television). According to information leaked, this frequency would be used by the MTV [Hungarian Television] to broadcast educational programs in the morning hours, and commercial television programs in the afternoons. A corporation--with MTV holding a large proportion of shares--would be established to operate the commercial television, and the cabinet has granted the needed permit at its 3 March session. Some professional and financial investors would also become involved in the corporation, and these would include, for example, Gabor Koltay and Levente Szorenyi. The financial concerns of the television and the radio will once again be discussed at tomorrow's cabinet meeting. Three weeks ago, at their 3 March meeting, the ministers have already dealt with this subject, but the proposal was rejected at the time. This subject was supposed to be discussed again at their meeting last week, but this did not take place, supposedly because of the trip abroad by its proponent, Gyorgy Schamschula. Media executives cannot count on much money, of course, even though the MTV has asserted a claim for about 7 billion forints in subsidies (based on expenditures to be incurred as a result of the mandatory transition to the SECAM broadcasting system). NEPSZABADSAG was informed that the MTV may hope for a grant of 1 billion forints at most, and those funds should also be used to settle the MTV's 500-million-forint indebtedness to the state.
