FBIS4-21861 "jptot015__l94026" JPRS-TOT-94-015-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 3 April 1994 LATIN AMERICA GUATEMALA Constitutionality Court President Killed in Car Constitutionality Court President Killed in Car Police Spokesman Details Forensics PA0404003194 Guatemala City Cadena de Emisoras Unidas in Spanish 2234 GMT 3 Apr 94 PA0404003194 Guatemala City Cadena de Emisoras Unidas Spanish BFN [Report by Lucia Dubon] [Excerpts] A news conference by National Police spokesman Fernando Lopez has just concluded in the parking lot of the 2d Division Headquarters of the National Police. Some very important information was disclosed regarding the status of the investigation into the murder of the Constitutionality Court President Epaminondas Gonzalez Dubon. Here are some statements by National Police spokesman Fernando Lopez: [Begin Lopez recording] [words indistinct] members of the domestic and international press in order that you as well as the Guatemalan people can get an idea of the condition in which Magistrate Epaminondas Gonzalez Dubon's vehicle was found. Again, the incident took place at the intersection of Seventh Street and Seventh Avenue in Guatemala City's Zone 2. [passage omitted] As you may know, we have recovered five .38 caliber bullets. This one was taken out of the body of Magistrate Epaminondas Gonzalez Dubon. This one is a fragment found inside the vehicle. As you can see, when it hit the car it split into [words indistinct] and the rest was found in the magistrate's body. This one was found in the door of the vehicle, and this other bullet was found in the [word indistinct] located in the rear. This bullet was found in the trunk, and this one was embedded in the vehicle's spare tire. These five bullets correspond to the five shots fired at the vehicle. When we combed the area, we discovered a .45 caliber bullet that has nothing to do with the bullets that hit the magistrate's car. This bullet was found approximately 50 meters from the site where the .38 caliber bullets were found. By looking at the car, you can see these three impacts [words indistinct]. The only bullet to hit the magistrate was this one, and, according to reports, it entered the left side of his chest, and this was what caused his death. [passage omitted]
