FBIS4-29634 "dreas118_c_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-118 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 North Korea Radio Reports Carter's News Conference in Panmunjom Radio Reports Carter's News Conference in Panmunjom SK1806132294 Pyongyang Korean Central Broadcasting Network in Korean 1216 GMT 18 Jun 94 SK1806132294 Pyongyang Korean Central Broadcasting Network in Korean 1216 GMT 18 Jun 94 Korean BFN [Text] Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter has held a news conference with domestic and foreign reporters in Panmunjom after visiting our country. In the news conference he talked about the sincere effort that will be made [songuiinun noryokul kiuryo nagalte taehaeso marhaessupnida] for the future harmony [hwamok] between the DPRK and the United States, thus expressing his deep gratitude to President Kim Il-song for his hospitality given to him, as well as to his entourage. He said that his talks with President Kim Il-song had proceeded in an openhearted [hosimtanhoe] atmosphere. Commenting on his impressions of a visit to our country, he said that he was very greatly moved by the art performance by students and children. Also, he said that the art performance that he watched was an outstanding performance that can never be forgotten in his whole life, and that he hopes that the whole world will be able to watch the Korean children's performance. Regarding the nuclear issue and DPRK-U.S. relations, he said that direct talks between the DPRK and the United States will be resumed in the future, and that North Korea's graphite-moderated reactor will be converted into a light-water reactor. Also, he expressed the conviction that all problems regarding the nuclear issue would be solved smoothly. Regarding the reunification of Korea, he stressed that this issue is the issue that should be resolved by the Korean people in the North and South themselves. Regarding the issue of sanctions against our country, he said that the issue to take sanction steps is a very serious mistake [chejae chochilul chwihalttae taehan munjenun maeu simgakhan oryurago hamyonso], and that the sanctions will not have an effective influence. He said he expects that the United States will no longer pursue the sanctions against Korea.
