FBIS4-57915 "drlat103__a94020" FBIS-LAT-94-103-A Daily Report 24 May 1994 ANNEX Cuba `Directorate for Affairs of Cubans Residing Abroad' Created `Directorate for Affairs of Cubans Residing Abroad' Created PA2505180694 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 1530 GMT 24 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA2505180694 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [Report by Javier Rodriguez] [Text] Havana, 24 May (PL) -- PRENSA LATINA learned today that Cuba has taken another step toward normalizing relations with Cuban emigrants by creating the Directorate for Affairs of Cubans Residing Abroad [Direccion Para los Asuntos de los Cubanos Residentes en el Exterior]. The new office reports directly to the Ministry of Foreign Relations and has already started to implement agreements reached at the recent Cuban emigrant conference, which took place last month in Havana. More than 200 Cubans residing in other countries attended the meeting, which was convened by the Foreign Ministry. They discussed ways of securing normal relations with their country of origin, despite the reasons that led them to live abroad. Jose Cabanas, a graduate of the Higher Institute of the Foreign Service of Cuba, was appointed to head the newly created office, whose creation is also a result of the conference between the Cuban Government and the participants at the April conference. According to sources close to the Foreign Ministry, Cabanas is adding the final touches to the first decisions of his new office. The decisions will be announced in the coming days. Among the decisions, as announced by Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina during the recent conference, is the implementation of a process for children of the emigrants to study certain specialized careers at several Cuban higher education centers. Likewise, there are several decisions that will make it easier for Cuban nationals living abroad to travel to the island, including the elimination of a provision requiring them to pay for reservations at local hotels, which is part of the tourism program that has been in place up until now. The Foreign Ministry is planning to set up a publication directed at improving information emigrants receive in the countries where they live, particularly in the United States. Conference participants admitted that this information is distorted. Work at the Directorate for Affairs of Cubans Residing Abroad is directed at implementing these decisions and creating ways to expand the contacts initiated with the emigrants.
