FBIS3-6390 "dreas052_d_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 South Korea IAEA: DPRK Nuclear Inspection `Unsatisfactory' SK1703001494 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network in Korean 2317 GMT 16 Mar 94 SK1703001494 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [Text] Following inspection of North Korea, the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA] has concluded that it cannot exclude the possibility of additional plutonium production in North Korea and has decided to work out sanction measures against North Korea by convening a special Board of Governors meeting on 21 March. Correspondent Cha Man-sun reports from Vienna: [Begin Cha recording] The IAEA has concluded that the recent inspection of North Korea is unsatisfactory [manjok suropchi motada]. In an unofficial Board of Governors meeting urgently convened yesterday [16 March], Director-General Hans Blix revealed that North Korea refused to allow the inspection team to conduct various activities, including the extraction of sample materials from the radiochemical laboratory which is a core target of the current inspection. Thus, the IAEA director-general said that the IAEA could not examine whether or not nuclear material was diverted for other purposes and that the possibility of additional plutonium production in North Korea cannot be excluded. During this inspection, North Korea refused any extraction by the the inspection team of sample material from the plutonium refining facility. In addition, it refused to allow inspection activities surveying (the ?uniformity) of radioactivity in many parts of the radiochemical laboratory. Therefore, the suspicion of additional plutonium production by North Korea has been raised. The IAEA concluded that North Korea's breaking of the agreement it previously made by refusing inspections of its core facilities is a serious situation. Thus, the IAEA decided to convene a special Board of Governors meeting on 21 March with the consent of member states of the Board of Governors. At the special Board of Governors meeting on 21 March, the IAEA will urge North Korea to sincerely fulfill the nuclear accords, will adopt a resolution on sanctions against North Korea, and will report the inspection result to the UN Security Council. [end recording]
