FBIS4-24280 "drafr124_d_94017" FBIS-AFR-94-124 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Namibia Germany Donates Military Equipment Worth N$4.2 Million Germany Donates Military Equipment Worth N$4.2 Million MB2506155994 Windhoek DIE REPUBLIKEIN in Afrikaans 20 Jun 94 p 5 MB2506155994 Windhoek DIE REPUBLIKEIN Afrikaans BFN [Text] Military equipment to the value of N$4.2 million [Namibian dollars] was handed over to the Namibian Defense Force by the German Army at Luiperdsvallei outside Windhoek on Thursday. The equipment consists of eight standard troop carriers, five recovery vehicles, workshops, and the required spare parts. The vehicles form part of the German Government's donation of N$13.2 million of military equipment to the Ministry of Defense over a three-year period. Although technical assistance from the German Army was supposed to have been suspended at the end of this year, Minister of Defense Peter Mueshihange announced that the German Government favorably considered Namibia's request to extend the assistance by an additional three years. The minister said: "We appreciate the assistance because it ensures the Namibian Army's mobility and independence in the area of transportation." Since the cooperation agreement came into effect in 1992, certain members of the Namibian Defense Force were trained by an engineering team from the German Ministry of Defense in MAN mechanics. The members who passed the training exercise were then allowed to train other personnel in the fixing of MAN vehicles. MAN vehicles form the largest part of the Namibian Defense Force's troop carriers and delivery vehicles. The Ministry of Defense, therefore, has made a policy decision to use MAN as the Army's standard troop carrier and delivery vehicle. "The decision was made because of the vehicle's power and reliability. A decision will be made soon on standard control and administrative vehicles. Standardization is necessary because it alleviates the problem experienced with shortage of spare parts and improves the standard of maintenance," according to Mr. Mueshihange.
