FBIS4-17228 "drsov078_f_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-078 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 National Affairs IAEA Declares Chernobyl Power Station Unsafe IAEA Declares Chernobyl Power Station Unsafe LD2104180694 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1100 GMT 21 Apr 94 LD2104180694 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Russian BFN [Video report by correspondent Anton Vernitskiy; from the "Novosti" newscast] [Text] Today, an international conference on the problems of the Chernobyl nuclear electric power station began in Vienna, which is being held under the aegis of the IAEA [International Atomic Energy Agency]. Experts from that organization who made an inspection of that station in the Ukraine came to the conclusion that at the present time the state of the nuclear power station does not correspond to the generally accepted international standards. [Vernitskiy] It was proposed that this conference should be held by IAEA General Director Hans Blix. At the beginning of April he visited the Chernobyl nuclear power station with a group of experts for the purpose of checking how safe it is. The conclusions of the experts were not comforting. According to Blix' statement, the safety norms at the station do not correspond to even the least stringent international standards. First and foremost, the state of the sarcophagus on the destroyed reactor of the fourth power unit gives cause for concern, as well as the shortage of modern equipment and spare parts. Besides this, the funds allocated for the elimination of the consequences of the radioactive contamination are constantly being reduced. The Ukrainian authorities think that the data given in the IAEA representatives' report are somewhat exaggerated, although according to Valentin (Kupnov), who is responsible for the safety of the Chernobyl zone, the best solution would be the mothballing of the Chernobyl nuclear power station. However, Ukraine cannot simply close down the nuclear power station. An extremely acute shortage of energy resources threatens the Ukrainian economy with complete paralysis. It is most likely that at the conference in Vienna, Ukraine will be offered help in financing the development of the atomic industry in exchange for shutting down the Chernobyl atomic power station.
