FBIS3-55503 "drsov006_a_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS U.S. Ties Moving Toward Technological Partnership LD1001104194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1020 GMT 10 Jan 94 LD1001104194 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Moscow January 10 ITAR-TASS -- A new trend is emerging in relations between Russia and the United States: Transition has become from technological confrontation to technological partnership, according to Viktor Glukhikh, chairman of the State Committee for Defence Industries of the Russian Federation. According to Glukhikh, one hundred joint projects in the field of basic and applied research, development, production and marketing are already being implemented. Recently a memorandum of mutual understanding was signed with the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration which promises to become one of the major joint projects. It sets the parameters for joint basic research in aeronautics which will be implemented with the help of the potential, technical capacities and intellectual resources of both Russia and the United States. We developed and produced arms separately but are now looking for sensible and ecologically clean methods of eliminating them, Glukhikh stressed. Moreover, we have thrown open the doors of "closed" factories and research institutes to demonstrate our readiness to cooperate in the technological fields in which Russia's priority is beyond doubt. It is not accidental therefore that recognised American industrial leaders such as the Boeing, Pratt and Whitney, Hughes and Rockwell international corporations are among our present partners. We have already passed over to the American side packages of proposals relating to conversion and involving enterprises in practically all defence industries. We would like to hope that the upcoming visit of President Bill Clinton to Russia will further boost Russian-American contacts in the field of research and industrial cooperation, Viktor Glukhikh said.
