FBIS4-47932 "drafr088_c_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-088 Daily Report 6 May 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA IEC Announces Official Results, Deems Election Fair IEC Announces Official Results, Deems Election Fair MB0605125694 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1239 GMT 6 May 94 MB0605125694 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Johannesburg May 6 SAPA -- The Independent Electoral Commission [IEC] has declared South Africa's April 26-29 general election substantially free and fair. Making the announcement at Midrand near Johannesburg on Friday afternoon, IEC Chairman Mr Justice Johann Kriegler, on behalf of the 16 commissioners, said this was in spite of objections and complaints from political parties. "The election was admittedly flawed, but that is peripheral. Some 20-million people of this land were granted a say in the government of this country. "The electorate was offered a reasonable opportunity to vote. When it came to counting, once again disaster was averted. Alleged electoral violations occurring during the voting and counting periods will be investigated and where appropriately investigated. "We were able to establish the will of the people with reasonable accuracy," said Mr Justice Kriegler. With regard to claims of electoral fraud in KwaZulu/Natal, the IEC chairman said there were problems there with counting of ballots. Therefore, a reliable test of the vote would be to justify it proportionately to the proven support of the parties in that province. He then proceeded to announce the tally of each party indicating the African National Congress had received 62.65 per cent of the total number of counted ballots, with the National Party receiving 20.4 per cent of the tally. The Inkatha Freedom Party was third with 10.5 per cent of the vote, while the Freedom Front received 2.2 per cent. Close to 20 million votes were counted, of which the ANC received just over 12 million votes. In terms of the National Assembly seats for each party, the ANC has 252 seats, the NP [National Party] has 82, the IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party] 43, the Freedom Front receives nine, the Democratic Party receives seven, the Pan Africanist Congress gets five and the African Christian Democratic Party receives two seats. Seats for the provincial legislatures were later read out. Concluding the briefing, the IEC noted that five parties, the African National Congress, the National Party, the Democratic Party, the Freedom Front and the Pan-Africanist Congress have candidates who have been elected to more than one house. "They must decide as soon as possible to which house they send the persons. The IEC will communicate with them," said the commission.
