FBIS4-16092 "drsov072_b_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Zhirinovskiy Sues Gaydar, Kozyrev, Sobchak Zhirinovskiy Sues Gaydar, Kozyrev, Sobchak LD1304163394 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1356 GMT 13 Apr 94 LD1304163394 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Legal suits demanding 1.5 Bn [billion] rubles in total for the protection of honor and dignity were brought by the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia Vladimir Zhirinovskiy against Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev, St. Petersburg Mayor Anatoliy Sobchak, the State Duma deputy Yegor Gaydar, and retired KGB Major General Oleg Kalugin, Zhirinovskiy's lawyer Sergey Belyak reported to Interfax on Wednesday. In his words, the statements of these people addressed to Zhirinovskiy "touching upon his honor and dignity and inflicting moral damage" are the major reason for these claims. In particular, during the pre-election campaign Gaydar compared Zhirinovskiy with Adolf Hitler. In addition, there were assertions that Zhirinovskiy "is an agent of special forces and the work of the KGB." As Belyak reported, the greatest sum, totaling 500 Mn [million] rubles is requested from Yegor Gaydar. According to Belyak, Zhirinovskiy explains this by the fact that "such statements made many electors "afraid of his candidacy." The rest are proposed to pay 300 Mn rubles each. In addition, the newspaper KURANTY which published several statement which allegedly belonged to Zhirinovskiy was being sued for 100 Mn rubles. In his conversation with our Interfax correspondent Belyak inidicated that "such great sums" are explained "by the infectiousness of a bad example," to quote Zhirinovskiy. He pointed to Aleksandr Rutskoy who also brought claims against his political opponents. "The need of appropriate monetary funds to repair the office" is the major reason for "the moral damage's compensation" because Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin "refused to render any material aid on this issue," said Belyak.
