FBIS4-39263 "drsov109_f_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-109 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 National Affairs Newly-Elected Chairmen of Standing Commissions Listed Newly-Elected Chairmen of Standing Commissions Listed AU0406165994 Kiev URYADOVYY KURYER in Ukrainian 2 Jun 94 p 1 AU0406165994 Kiev URYADOVYY KURYER Ukrainian BFN [Editorial: "Chairmen of Commissions Have Been Elected"] [Text] On 31 May, Ukraine's Supreme Council session elected 22 chairmen of standing parliamentary commissions. Yuriy Kostenko, who was proposed for the post of chairman of the Commission for Questions of Ecological Policy, withdrew his candidacy prior to the elections. The following individuals were elected as chairmen of Ukraine's Supreme Council standing commissions: The Commission for Issues of Legal Policy and Judicial and Legal Reform -- Volodymyr Stretovych. The Commission for Issues of State Building, Activity of Councils, and Self-Government -- Oleksandr Steshenko. The Commission for Issues of Social Policy and Labor -- Yuriy Buzduhan. The Commission for Issues of the Protection of Health, Maternity, and Children -- Yuriy Spizhenko. The Commission for Issues of Young People, Sports, and Tourism -- Oleksandr Yakovenko. The Commission for Issues of Science and People's Education -- Volodymyr Storizhko. The Commission for Issues of Culture and Spiritual Values -- Mykhaylo Kosiv. The Commission for Issues of Economic Policy and Management of the National Economy -- Oleh Taranov. The Commission for Issues of Budget -- Volodymyr Shcherban. The Commission for Issues of Finance and Banking Policy -- Viktor Suslov. The Commission for Issues of Basic Branches and Socioeconomic Development of Regions -- Valeriy Cherep. The Commission for Issues of Fuel and Power Engineering Complex, Transport, and Communications -- Oleksandr Kozhushko. The Commission for Issues of Agro-industrial Complex, Land Resources, and Social Development of Villages -- Anatoliy Danylenko. The Commission for Foreign Affairs and Ties With the CIS -- Borys Oliynyk. The Commission for Issues of the Chernobyl Catastrophe -- Volodymyr Yatsenko. The Commission for Issues of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Safety -- Mykhaylo Pavlovskyy. The Commission for Issues of Law and Order -- Leonid Borodich. The Commission for Issues of Combating Organized Crime and Corruption -- Hryhoriy Omelchenko. The Commission for Issues of Defense and State Security -- Volodymyr Mukhin. The Commission for Issues of Regulations, Deputies Ethics, and Provision for the Activity of Deputies -- Petro Sheyko. The Commission for Issues of Legislative Provision for the Freedom of Expression and Mass Media -- Viktor Ponedilko. The Commission for Issues of Human Rights, National Minorities, and Interethnic Relations -- Volodymyr Butkevych.
