FBIS4-7916 "dreeu068__a94003" FBIS-EEU-94-068-A Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 ANNEX Albania Meets With Human Rights Group Meets With Human Rights Group AU0604172694 Tirana ATA in English 1023 GMT 6 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0604172694 Tirana ATA English BFN ["Albania's Acceptance in the Council of Europe Favours the Observation of the Human Rights" -- ATA headline] [Text] Tirana, April 6 (ATA) -- In the meeting of April 5 with the delegation of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Council of Europe [CE], the Albanian Helsinki Committee [KShH] said that Albania's acceptance in the Council of Europe would favour the observation of the human rights and would be fruitful for the development of democracy. The chairman of this committee, Josif Vrioni, made a panorama of the work made for the rehabilitation of the formerly politically prisoners, establishment of the rule of law and the press freedom, underlining the great difficulties that existed in the post dictatorship period. Mr. Kujtim Cashku, one of the representatives of this committee, said that Albania has started the observation of the human rights from the scratch, when there were no ministry of justice and specialised institutions for this purpose, there were no laws on the protection of the private ownership and other such things. Asked by one of the members of the delegation of the Council of Europe whether there are cases of human rights violations in Albania, Mr. Vrioni said that the situation of human rights observation is not perfect, but it is generally good, stressing that Albania fulfills all conditions to become a full member of the Council of Europe. With regard to the existence of an influence from the political forces on the decisions by lawyers, Mr. Vrioni said that to speak about such a thing one needs to have facts and not suspicions. Questioned whether the Albanian Helsinki Committee insists in Albania's becoming a member of the Council of Europe, all its members gave an absolute unanimous positive reply. Mr. Cashku handed to the European delegation a report about the questions of the human rights observation in Albania.
