FBIS3-18506 "drweu043__a94024" FBIS-WEU-94-043-A Document Type:Daily Report 4 March 1994 ANNEX Switzerland Swiss, UK Ministers Discuss Alps Initiative BR0303154394 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 2106 GMT 2 Mar 94 BR0303154394 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed PO: "Official Visit to Great Britain by Adolf Ogi To Explain the `Yes' To the Alps Initiative, British Support"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Bern, 2 Mar (ATS) -- The talks between Federal Councillor Adolf Ogi and John MacGregor, British secretary of state for transport, in London on Wednesday [2 March] focused on the Alps initiative. Mr. MacGregor showed great understanding for the Swiss `yes' to the initiative. However, according to Mr. Ogi, the Federal Council still has to decide how to explain the consequences of this popular decision abroad. Mr. Ogi's two-day visit to Great Britain had been scheduled for several weeks, before the 20 February vote, said the head of the Federal Department of Transport, Communications, and Energy (DFTCE). However, the `yes' to the initiative is now forcing the Federal Council to come up with explanations to foreign governments, Mr. Ogi told ATS. Between now and the year 2004, all traffic of goods passing through Switzerland in transit must switch from road to rail. British Support Mr. MacGregor and Mr. David Heathcoat-Amory, minister of state of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, assured Mr. Ogi of their understanding of the decision by the Swiss people. The British Government is willing to support Switzerland within the European Union [EU]. Nonetheless, its representatives have brought it to the attention of Mr. Ogi that the Swiss situation in the bilateral negotiations with the EU is now more difficult. On 18 April, the EU transport ministers intended to adopt a double mandate to negotiate with Switzerland on road transit and aviation. Now, the `yes' to the initiative has forced the European Commission to reassess the situation. Sporting Metaphor "Just short of the tape, we have been forced to run another lap," stated the federal councillor. The promise of British support merely represents one single voice within an institution of 12 members, he went on. The Federal Council must now decide how to explain the new situation to its foreign partners. It will have to guarantee that the transit agreement signed with the European Community will be respected, without discrimination. The head of the DFTCE will have further opportunities to explain the Swiss position, especially at the pan-European conference of transport ministers, which will take place in mid-March on the island of Crete. One week later, Mr. Ogi will meet with European Commissioner for Transport, Mr. Abel Matutes.
