FBIS3-5923 "dreas049__a94004" FBIS-EAS-94-049-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 March 1994 ANNEX Japan Ozawa: U.S. Ties in `Very Critical Condition' OW1303121294 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 13 Mar 94 Morning Edition p 2 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1303121294 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] On 12 March, Shinseito [Japan Renewal Party] Secretary General Ichiro Ozawa gave a speech to the Shinseito Kochi Prefecture Chapter's meeting held in Kochi City. Ozawa has been staying away from formal scenes -- such as coalition leaders' meetings and the lower house plenary sessions -- from the time that Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa gave up on a plan to reshuffle his cabinet. During this period, he has reportedly been contacting younger Diet members of the Japan New Party [JNP], and seeking measures for breaking the deadlock over Japan-U.S. economic relations. He is scheduled to come back to a meeting with coalition leaders early next week. Ozawa has been "hiding himself" after the 2 March meeting with Prime Minister Hosokawa. However, he met with three JNP lawmakers on the evening of 7 March. According to Ozawa's close associates, he has "already make contacts with the JNP several times." Political turmoil caused by discord involving Hosokawa's cabinet reshuffle plan triggered moves toward the regrouping of coalition parties. Under such circumstances, Ozawa probably believes that a tie-up with the JNP is the key to power in the merger of coalition parties. In the 12 March speech, Ozawa stated "Japan-U.S. relations are in very critical condition." His close associate said, to settle pending issues between the two nations, Ozawa had met with Walter Mondale, U.S. ambassador to Japan, after the Hosokawa-Clinton summit in February. A government official close to the prime minister said "Mr. Ozawa positively dealt with" coordinating work on liberalization of the mobile phone market. In connection with this, he is expected to visit the United States shortly after 20 March.
