FBIS4-42234 "drweu105_h_94021" FBIS-WEU-94-105 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 GERMANY Press Views German-French Summit in Mulhouse Press Views German-French Summit in Mulhouse AU0106120794 Cologne Deutschlandfunk Network in German 0505 GMT 1 Jun 94 AU0106120794 Cologne Deutschlandfunk Network German BFN [From the press review] [Text] FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU deals with the German-French summit, noting: The spring storms in both countries' relations have abated. Nothing is left of the irritations over Germany's nonparticipation in the Normandy celebrations, the differences on European policy, and the questions about the future path of united Germany in Europe. The course of the consultation meeting in Alsace has made it clear that both governments will unerringly continue their close cooperation for the benefit of both countries and for further European construction. This does not mean that in the future there will not be any new contentious issues, about which brains will be racked in Bonn and Paris. However, both are willing to solve such conflicts, FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU says. SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG notes: One of the results is the decisions to combat xenophobia more systematically than so far. The German side praises this as success. However, there are silent differences, which are not mentioned in communiques, because the French are only moderately enthusiastic about the attempt to distribute a problem, which public opinion mainly feels to be a German burden, on several shoulders. The European Union [EU] presidency, which Germany and France will take over for six months each as of 1 July, is to be used to make the EU more dynamic. The Germans want to begin with improving Europe's competitiveness by, among other things, striving for a reduction of ancillary wage costs. Mitterrand, however, has always been rather loath of agreeing to something that basically means a reduction of social benefits, SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG points out. FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE advocates the following view: The busy activities that were presented in Mulhouse with a view to the double EU presidency, should not cover up the fact that European policy is entering a period of calm. The Maastricht Treaty has been concluded. France begins to overcome the uncertainty, which had affected the politicians in Paris after the upheaval in Europe. Whatever Kohl and the Mitterrand-Balladur couple intend for their presidency -- the Bundestag election campaign here and the competition for Mitterrand's succession over there will dominate political activities over the next few months, FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE summarizes. NEUE ZEIT from Berlin notes: Once again a German-French summit has ended in agreement -- surprisingly, one must say, because one of the main issues, namely bringing the East European states closer to the EU, has so far been considered a contentious issue. However, suddenly it seems to have been settled, after President Mitterrand has come out in favor of expansion to the East without any deductions and compromises. In Paris, pragmatism has won out, since there are still many years between the yes to acceptance and the actual expansion, NEUE ZEIT says.
