FBIS3-16347 "drsov051_b_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Gaydar, Khramov Qualify Support for Civil Accord PM1603103794 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI in Russian 15 Mar 94 p 2 PM1603103794 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Untitled comments by Yegor Gaydar of "Russia's Choice" and Sergey Khramov of Association of Socialist Trade Unions under "Opinions" rubric] [Text] Yegor Gaydar: We certainly favor accord if it really is a question of civil accord. In this we do, of course, support the idea voiced by the president [of a memorandum on civil peace and accord]. The crux of the matter, in my view, consists in just one thing. If the memorandum is adopted in order to comply with it, if forces prepared to sign it agree to assume responsibility for the political conduct of their supporters, for their compliance with order, and for their rejection of propaganda of violence, of course we are in favor, but if this is another fig leaf designed to cover up activity aimed at destabilizing the situation in Russia, fanning social strife, and provoking public disorders and to cover up the increasing pressure on the authorities and the increasing discrediting of the institutions of Russian statehood, we will not participate in such a sly game. Sergey Khramov: The idea of social peace is a very good idea, particularly as the trade unions cannot work under other conditions, and they more than anyone need stability and peace. But any agreement presupposes obligations: Who gives what and who receives what, otherwise the contract will not work. Unfortunately, we now place very great emphasis on the purely political aspects, and the economy is regarded only as one aspect of politics. Meanwhile, labor relations should not be underestimated as a very influential factor in politics. But it now turns out that we are introducing market relations into production, while manpower is being sold and bought according to the old, nonmarket rules. This is why there is such a large gap between wages and prices and why there is social tension. The free trade unions would like to introduce market relations also into the sphere of labor relations. In our view, the memorandum must indicate specific obligations and specify liability for violations of them. We are prepared to sign such an agreement. In addition, we will uphold the trade unions' right to strike, only not as a weapon to pressure the authorities and the government, but as a working instrument for resolving disagreements between hired workers and employers.
