FBIS3-4501 "drchi061_k_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Daughter Says Deng To Support Jiang Zemin; Comments on Mao HK3003035494 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO in Chinese 30 Mar 94 p 2 HK3003035494 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN ["Special dispatch": "Xiao Rong Says Deng Xiaoping Will Give Jiang Zemin a Hand When Necessary"] [Text] This month, Deng Xiaoping's daughter Xiao Rong went to Tokyo to promote the Japanese version of her book, My Father Deng Xiaoping. When asked by two KYODO reporters if she felt Jiang Zemin lacked power, she replied: "If he (Deng Xiaoping) gives a hand, he will become more powerful." She added: "To put it more specifically, if he (Deng Xiaoping) says a word, it may have better results than others." "Therefore, when necessary, he will appear." On Deng Xiaoping's southern tour, Xiao Rong said that his purpose was to help the incumbent leaders implement policies and principles, because at that time Deng Xiaoping thought he was experiencing a good opportunity for development. He wanted to do some leaping [tiao yue yi xia 6426 6460 0001 0007], so he appeared to help Jiang Zemin et al. Xiao Rong stressed: Deng Xiaoping is not suffering from any illness and he has no trouble speaking for a half hour, but during television appearances his voice is not broadcast. She continued: Deng Xiaoping does not have a new idea or a new proposal on the country's reunification. "One country, two systems" is a major policy. Hong Kong's and Macao's sovereignty will be recovered in 1997 and 1999 respectively. On the reunification of the two sides, Xiao Rong said that there is no time table, but a time table can be worked out at will. On appraising Mao Zedong, Xiao Rong said: My father does not agree with the complete negation of Mao Zedong, because he knows the complete negation of Mao could mean the negation of the Communist Party's history. Therefore, viewed from the angle of personal feelings or from the overall political situation, Mao Zedong should not be completely negated. Xiao Rong indicated that Deng's family does not agree with the idea of building a Deng Xiaoping memorial hall.
