FBIS4-44164 "drweu124_b_94008" FBIS-WEU-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 BENELUX Netherlands Major Parties Divided on New EU Presidency Candidate Major Parties Divided on New EU Presidency Candidate BR2706131894 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT in Dutch 27 Jun 94 p 5 BR2706131894 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT Dutch BFN [Unattributed article: "Opposition to Another Dutchman for European Commission"] [Text] The four major political parties are divided on the question as to whether the Netherlands should put forward a new candidate for the presidency of the European Commission. The VVD [People's Party for Freedom and Democracy] and the CDA [Christian Democratic Appeal] consider that the Netherlands should not knuckle under following the failure of the candidacy of outgoing Prime Minister Lubbers. The PvdA [Labor Party] and D66 [Democrats 66]) on the other hand find it "unwise and inopportune" to submit a new Netherlands candidate. Following the failure of Corfu, the political parties are united in their disappointment at the failure of Lubbers to succeed Jacques Delors as president of the executive arm of the European Union (EU). They are all also critical of the intransigent stance of German Chancellor Kohl on the Netherlands candidacy and of the British veto against Belgian Prime Minister Dehaene. But The Hague is politically divided on the question as to whether the Netherlands should once again enter the battle. Deadlock again seems likely at the special summit now planned for 15 July. The German presidency of the Union (from 1 July) remains committed to Dehaene while Mr. Major's Conservative government in Great Britain is equally committed to its veto against the Belgian prime minister. If Dehaene sees the lack of consensus as grounds for withdrawing his candidacy, the battle is then thrown open again, Second Chamber members Weisgals (VVD) and De Hoop Scheffe (CDA) believe. They will then call upon the PvdA, the CDA, the VVD, and D66 leaders to consider a new Netherlands candidate.
