FBIS4-49478 "drchi088_w_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-088 Daily Report 4 May 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Deng Xiaoping's Brother To Visit Territory 8 May Deng Xiaoping's Brother To Visit Territory 8 May HK0405064294 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS in English 4 May 94 p 1 HK0405064294 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS English BFN [By Chip Tsao, political editor] [Text] Deng Xiaoping may not live to fulfil his wish to visit Hong Kong after 1997, but his younger brother, Deng Ken, 86, will have a glimpse of the territory well before the handover of sovereignty. Deng Ken will visit Hong Kong on Sunday for five days at the invitation of Lo Yuk-sui, the chairman of the Paliburg Group. Deng Ken's visit will be private and low-profile. Guided by Lo, he will visit the Po Lin Buddha on Lantau Island, the Peak, Ocean Park, the Bank of China headquarters and a few tourist spots in the New Territories. He will stay in a VIP room at the Regal Hotel in Causeway Bay, which is controlled by Paliburg. He will also pay a courtesy call on local New China News Agency (Xinhua) officials. No politics will be discussed and he will not meet any members of the Preliminary Working Group, Hong Kong affairs advisers or Hong Kong delegates to the National People's Congress. Nor will he meet the Governor, Chris Patten. Lo is arranging a dinner in Deng Ken's honour for a number of prominent local personalities. Considerably taller than his brother, the younger Deng has a much lower profile in China. A former reporter and former vice-governor of Hubei province, Deng Ken is regarded as the most intellectual of Deng Xiaoping's seven brothers and sisters. His stopover in Hong Kong will come after a tour of Singapore. It is understood that he is being accompanied by a close - associate, Yu Zhian, the general director of China Chang Jiang Energy Group, which has an association with Lo's Paliburg. Paliburg signed an agreement with Chang Jiang Power in March this year to pursue an electricity generating joint venture. The agreement has paved the way for further investment opportunities for Lo's group in China. Unlike Deng Xiaoping's off-spring, Deng Ken has not visited Hong Kong before. Deng Xiaoping's three daughters and two sons have been frequent visitors to Hong Kong. Deng Rong, one of Deng's daughters, came to Hong Kong last September.
