FBIS3-56452 "drsov011_b_94040" FBIS-SOV-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Other Officials View Resignation of Gaydar Leading Politicians, Officials Comment PM1701195194 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI in Russian 18 Jan 94 p 1 PM1701195194 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed roundup of comments on Gaydar's resignation, followed by excerpt "`From the Draft Declaration on the Social Policy of the Government of Economic Reforms' prepared by the Ministry of Social Protection of the Population," carried under the general heading "Reorganization of Cabinet of Ministers Ended in Sunday's Sudden Government Crisis. Its Essence: Will the Character of the Reforms Be Preserved Given the Change of Cast?"] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] Boris Fedorov: The Executive's Recent Decisions Herald the Start of a Change of Direction I understand Yegor Gaydar's decision to turn down the post of first vice premier of the government. The executive's recent decisions do indeed herald the "beginning of a change of direction." I "had no advance information" about Yegor Gaydar's decision. I have not yet personally been invited to join the new government. Valentin Sergeyev: Gaydar's Decision to Refuse To Join the New Government Was Not Unexpected "Yegor Gaydar's decision to refuse to join the new government was not unexpected for Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin," Valentin Sergeyev, leader of the Russian Federation Government's press service, stated. The first vice premier's decision, he added, was also inevitable if only because he has been elected leader of the "Russia's Choice" parliamentary faction. Concerning the charges of some democratic parties that reduction of the government corps is being carried out at the expense of the reformist wing, Valentin Sergeyev stressed: "The government headed by Viktor Chernomyrdin was, is, and will be reformist." Grigoriy Yavlinskiy: Gaydar's Reappearance in Government Was Rather a Token Gesture Yegor Gaydar has been unable to pursue his line in the government for quite some time now. Gaydar really did have disagreements with a number of government members, but he could only try to defend his positions, since he was deprived of the opportunity to make any decisions. In effect the situation developed without Gaydar's influence. Gaydar's reappearance in the government last September itself was rather a token gesture. Now the need for the gesture has faded. That is why Gaydar is quitting. Aleksandr Shokhin: Reasons Cited Clearly Insufficient for Resignation Yegor Gaydar's resignation statement is "either an emotional step, or a tactical maneuver. At any rate, the reasons cited by Yegor Gaydar are clearly insufficient for resignation." It cannot be ruled out that this could be just "an attempt to bring about the formation of a pro-Gaydar government cabinet." If Gaydar was really concerned by the problem of uniting the monetary systems of Russia and Belarus, he should have concentrated on working on this problem. In fact he did not do so. As for the question of building a parliamentary center in Moscow, this question should be settled with the president, not the prime minister. Vyacheslav Kostikov: A Compromise Is Still Possible The possible departure of Yegor Gaydar from the post of first vice premier "would seriously denude the Russian president's reformist wing." A statement to this effect was made on Sunday by the president's press secretary, Vladimir Kostikov. He expressed the hope that Boris Yeltsin would not accept the resignation and that the factors which caused Yegor Gaydar to take this step will be removed. In the press secretary's opinion, the arguments with which Yegor Gaydar supports his decision to resign are "a considerable weight." At the same time Vyacheslav Kostikov stressed that the reasons which prompted Yegor Gaydar to resign "do not bear a globally strategic character which would make compromise impossible." Ella Pamfilova: I Worked While Hope Remained I have decided not to except an offer to join the reorganized government. The point is that I cannot work in a situation where I have to answer for the consequences of decisions which are made by others. I worked while hope remained that I could change something. But now I am finally convinced that nothing depends on me. I am sad to observe that the package of documents on social questions which was prepared by our ministry was simply buried in the government apparatus. Further efforts on our part would be simply senseless. From the Draft Declaration "On the Social Policy of the Government of Economic Reforms" Prepared by the Ministry of Social Protection of the Population B. Monetary Income of the Population 1. Social and legal recognition of income from entrepreneurial activity and from property. 2. The inadmissibility of any direct state-imposed ceiling on income earned, except for the use of the system of progressive taxation. 3. The establishment by the state of a centrally established minimum wage in all sectors of the economy and transition to determining tariff rates and salary scales for employees by means of contracts between the state, employers, and hired labor organizations. 4. Obligatory state insurance for the working population, including insurance against unemployment. 5. Bringing the minimum work wage and the minimum pension up to the subsistence minimum (as the economic situation improves). 6. The protection of citizens on fixed incomes from inflation. 7. The preservation of savings in state banks and the indexation of these savings in conditions of inflation.
