FBIS3-3476 "drchi055_k_94023" FBIS-CHI-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Li Peng's Government Work Report Revised OW2203073294 Beijing XINHUA in English 0720 GMT 22 Mar 94 OW2203073294 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 22 (XINHUA) -- Premier Li Peng's government work report has been revised according to opinions and suggestions raised by deputies to the Eighth National People's Congress (NPC). The additions deal with reducing peasants' burden, the modern enterprise system, the promotion of socialist ethics and culture, and the Hong Kong issue. The revised government work report was adopted at the closing meeting of the NPC second session here today. Reducing peasants' burden and increasing their income was a daily topic during the 13-day NPC session. The report adds "special handling of outstanding issues" after stressing continuous implementation of measures to reduce peasants' income. Establishment of a modern enterprise system is the direction for reform of state-owned enterprises. The report adds "actively summing up experience and gradually forming standard implementation methods to facilitate their dissemination" after the content of launching pilot programs adopting the modern enterprise system in accordance with the company law. On socialist cultural undertakings, the report adds "opposing and resisting bad works that hurt people's unity, social progress and physical and mental health of juveniles." As extravagance and waste remain widespread at present, the report adds "being diligent, thrifty, practicing economy and working hard." On the Hong Kong issue, the report, according to opinions of some Hong Kong and Macao deputies, adds a sentence: "Hong Kong compatriots are expected to work together with the whole nation, make concerted efforts and contribute to Hong Kong's stability and prosperity." At its conclusion, the report replaces "hard struggle" with "blazing new trails, self-reliance and hard struggle." Compared with similar reports in the past, this year's report has fewer revisions because opinions and suggestions were solicited from various circles during the drafting process. Since mid-December of last year, the political bureau of the Chinese Communist Party central committee and the State Council held many meetings to discuss the draft report. Premier Li Peng invited leaders of the democratic parties, persons without party affiliation, representatives of science, technology, education and culture fields, officials of grassroots administrative and judicial departments and leaders of enterprises and institutions for five meetings and heard their opinions and suggestions.
