FBIS3-5556 "dreas046_d_94011" FBIS-EAS-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 South Korea USTR Trade Policy Report on ROK Described SK0903034194 Seoul YONHAP in English 0238 GMT 9 Mar 94 SK0903034194 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, March 8 (YONHAP) -- South Korea has played an active role in the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations, contributing to global liberalization benefiting its own economy as well as those of its trading partners, the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) said Tuesday. In its annual trade policy report released Tuesday, the USTR said, however, that South Korea should soon implement laws to protect patents, trademarks and copyrights (trips) as reports of piracy and counterfeiting continue. The USTR also urged Seoul to ease formal and informal restrictions on motor vehicle imports. "As part of its contribution to a successful Uruguay Round, Korea will lower barriers to trade that will benefit U.S. exporters and investors," the report said. It recalled that last July, Presidents Bill Clinton and Kim Yong-sam launched the Dialogue for Economic Cooperation (DEC), a one-year initiative to expand bilateral economic ties with special attention paid to Korea's plans to deregulate and internationalize its econony. "Liberalization of Korea's investment restrictions is a top priority for the United States in these consultations," the report said. In another area, the United States and South Korea concluded an agreement in July 1993 which contained specific steps to open Korea's beef market fully, it said. The agreement, subsequently expanded and modified as part of the Uruguay Round negotiations, strictly limits the Korean Government's involvement in regulating importation and distribution of beef and creates an alternative private-sector distribution channel, it said. Korea has also taken positive action in lowering tariffs on agricultural and manufactured goods, it said. "In the services area, Korea has provided broad commitments with relatively few qualifications," it said. "Korea's commitments are especially strong in advertising, architecture, engineering, computer services, construction, value-added telecommunications, and movement of personnel." "Korea's offer provides not just a standstill commitment to adopt no new restrictions, but a rollback of existing restrictions," it said. Last December, Korea completed its accession negotiations to the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) government procurement agreement in renegotiating the pact in parallel with the Uruguay Round. The agreement will result in significant new opportunities for U.S. exporters from 1997, the report said.
