FBIS4-53850 "dreas100_c_94027" FBIS-EAS-94-100 Daily Report 22 May 1994 North Korea KPA Soldiers Help in Rice Transplanting Activities KPA Soldiers Help in Rice Transplanting Activities SK2305120894 Pyongyang Korean Central Television Network in Korean 1100 GMT 22 May 94 SK2305120894 Pyongyang Korean Central Television Network Korean BFN [Text] Soldiers of the Korean People's Army [KPA] unit to which Comrade Han sang-tok belongs are vigorously helping the rice transplanting battle of the agricultural working people at Chongbang cooperative farm in Sariwon city upholding the party's agriculture-first policy. [Unidentified cooperative farm member] To make this year, which marks the 30th anniversary of the publication of the agricultural theses, a rich year we think it is most important to carry out the present rice transplanting in a timely and qualitative manner. So, our cooperative farm has carried out rice transplanting work on many fields by properly planning and coordinating a rice transplanting battle while giving priority to political work. Under such realities, soldiers and employees [chongopwondul] of the KPA unit to which Comrade Han Sang-tok belongs have been helping with the rice transplanting in the farm from early dawn today, and, as a result of this, the whole field is filled with vitality and the success of the rice transplanting battle is increasing by far. We can easily achieve a bumper year this year because soldiers and the people work together. [Unidentified soldier] Today we soldiers have come to the field of the Chongbang cooperative farm in Sariwon city where the great leader and the respected and beloved comrade supreme commander visited in the past. As we see today, soldiers and the people are carrying out rice transplanting work with one mind and one will while dancing and singing during the break. So, we are very pleased today. Only when the country's rice chest is filled with rice can the country become prosperous and mighty and can we smash the imperialists' crushing maneuvers today. Therefore, we will help cooperative farm members' rice transplanting work with one mind and one will. By doing so we can uphold our party with rice and safeguard and defend our own style socialism.
