FBIS3-13403 "drnes049dd_94022" FBIS-NES-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Palestinian Affairs DFLP Statements on Border Raid Reported NC1203190994 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Arabic 1730 GMT 12 Mar 94 NC1203190994 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Muhammad Bishqar in Beirut] [Text] Palestinian mujahidin launched a major attack on a Zionist settlement in northern occupied Palestine today. Subsequent extensive clashes between the mujahidin and the Zionist forces left a large number of the latter dead or wounded. The Nayif Hawatimah-led Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine [DFLP] issued three successive statements in Beirut this afternoon, claiming responsibility for the attack. It reported that one of its groups infiltrated occupied Palestinian territory via south Lebanon and attacked a Zionist settlement. Several hours of fierce fighting with the Zionist occupation forces followed, during which the DFLP fighters killed or injured a large number of enemy troops. The DFLP statements asserted that one of its fighters, who was in charge of maintaining communications from south Lebanon with the other group members, was arrested by the UN Interim Force in Lebanon [UNIFIL]. The DFLP demanded his immediate release. According to earlier reports from south Lebanon, two Palestinian martyrs fell during fighting with the occupation forces today and a third was captured by the enemy. A fourth was arrested by UNIFIL's Norwegian contingent. This afternoon the Zionist occupation forces bombarded and raked with heavy machine-gun fire liberated villages in the eastern sector of the southern border belt, including Dallafah, Qilya, Zummarayya, and Jabal al-Dahr. Meanwhile, the Islamic Resistance addressed a new warning this afternoon to the agents serving in Antoine Lahd's militia [South Lebanese Army, SLA] that it will punish all of them sooner or later. The warning added that the enemy Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin's visit to south Lebanon to reassure the agents and all the financial and military assistance given to them will not save them from the mujahidin.
