FBIS3-39545 "drweu033_o_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 CYPRUS Clark Optimistic on Results of Proximity Talks NC1702081794 Nicosia CyBC Television Network in Greek 1830 GMT 16 Feb 94 NC1702081794 Nicosia CyBC Television Network Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Report on interview with Joe Clark, the UN secretary general's special representative in Cyprus, by unidentified Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation correspondent; place and date not given -- Clark speaks in English] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] [Announcer] Joe Clark, the UN secretary general's special representative in Cyprus, believes that both President Glavkos Kliridhis and Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktas will attend the talks with goodwill. [Clark] I believe there is goodwill on both sides. Obviously there are going to be questions, obviously people come at this from different perspectives, but I think there is recognition that the international community has been working hard to help the people of Cyprus come to an agreement on these measures. The other thing that, of course, is clear is that this is not at all the end of the process. We have to build confidence in order to get on to deal with some of the basic questions that have divided the island. And I don't regard the confidence-building measures as being an end unto themselves, but I certainly do regard them as being an important key to the door that will let us deal with the more basic questions. [Announcer] Asked what one could expect in the best scenario, Clark said he hopes the UN secretary will be able to state in his report to the UN Security Council that there has been progress. It would be ideal, he added, if he could mention that an agreement has been reached to implement the measures. But, it would be unrealistic to expect this to happen in nine or ten days. [Clark] Certainly, however, I think its going to be critically important that there be agreement on the way we give effect to these measures and that we start giving the effect, I would hope by at least the end of March. That means we have to make real progress in the next couple of days. [Announcer] How and why is Joe Clark optimistic? [Clark] I am certainly more optimistic now than I was two or three weeks ago because there has been important movement, I think on two issues. One, a clear statement of principle in support of the proposal by each side and, secondly, an agreement on the way we should proceed. Now, we have to get down to the details as to what we do to give effect to these measures and if we agree on that, as I think it is possible we can, we then get on to the more basic question.
