FBIS3-18764 "drweu045_i_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 FRANCE Position on Iraqi Embargo `Not Changed' PM0703125594 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 5 Mar 94 p 6 PM0703125594 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Randah Taqiyy-al-Din: "Al-Qaysi Meets With French Foreign Ministry Official"] [Text] Paris -- Daniel Bouchard, head of the Middle East and North African Department at the French Foreign Ministry, yesterday received Riyad al-Qaysi, director of international affairs at the Iraqi Foreign Ministry, who also met with Jean-Piere Lavon, director of the UN office at the Foreign Ministry. Al-Qaysi's visit comes before the Security Council's reexamination in mid-March of the international sanctions imposed on Iraq. French sources have said that Iraqi officials are seeking to persuade Paris to intervene with its allies to lift the sanctions, especially as the Iraqi side "interpreted the French position as unrealistic." French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe spoke of progress in Iraq's implementation of the international resolutions. However, he urged the Iraqi authorities to recognize the Iraqi-Kuwaiti border demarcation and Kuwait. The sources also said that al-Qaysi's visit comes after a visit by an Iraqi Oil Ministry delegation which left Paris after a series of meetings with representatives from the two companies Totale and Aquitaine, but it does not mean that France has abandoned its position of stressing the implementation of the Security Council resolution. The sources said that Juppe does not receive Iraqi officials because relations are severed between the two countries. The sources pointed out that if Rolf Ekeus, head of the special UN committee, decides that Iraq has complied with the Security Council resolutions, [Iraq] can then enter the trial period [al-marhalah al-ikhtibariyah], which has not yet begun, for the long-term inspection of its weapons. French officials stress that the embargo against Iraq would be lifted when the Security Council resolutions are complied with and the trial period -- six months -- begins. While the United States adopts a more hard-line position. The U.S. Administration has not specified the duration of the trial period. It says that for a period of time -- it may be long -- Iraq must show its willingness to implement all the international community's demands, beginning with implementation of the Security Council resolutions through to respect for human rights. Despite the frequent visits to Paris by Iraqi officials -- including Deputy Prime Minister Tariq 'Aziz, the Oil Ministry delegation, and al-Qaysi -- and the opening of an Iraqi interests office in France, run by Dr. Ahmad al-'Izzawi, who arrived in Paris recently, the French position on the embargo has not changed, nor will change as long as Iraq has not embarked on the trial period or fulfilled the requirements with regard to its recognition of Kuwait and the border demarcation.
