FBIS4-64825 "drweu089_e_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-089 Daily Report 7 May 1994 UNITED KINGDOM RAF on Standby To Evacuate Citizens From Yemen RAF on Standby To Evacuate Citizens From Yemen LD0705160894 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 1442 GMT 7 May 94 LD0705160894 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By Gavin Cordon, PRESS ASSOCIATION News] [Text] RAF [Royal Air Force] Hercules crews were tonight on stand-by to fly out to the Middle East to help rescue Britons trapped by the civil war in Yemen. Up to 800 were believed stranded by the fighting which broke out on Friday after the failure of efforts to unite the old states of North and South Yemen. Sixty-four Britons were among the 577 foreigners taken on board the French warship Jules Verne earlier today in the former southern capital of Aden. They were taken to the Red Sea port of Djibouti, a former French colony. The Foreign Office said that they were expecting the ship to return to Aden -- where about a third of the Britons are based -- to continue the evacuation. The rest of the ex-patriate community is split between the capital Sanaa and oil fields. A Foreign Office spokesman said contingency plans to evacuate Sanaa were under consideration -- including the use of Hercules from RAF Lynham to airlift the British nationals. With overland routes out of the country severed by the fighting, the Americans were also reported to be considering an airlift to rescue Western nationals in the city. Sanaa radio said five Scud missiles were fired "in a cowardly attack" at public utilities in the capital this morning. However there were no injuries and no damage and the city was later reported to be quiet. Foreigners were being advised to remain in their homes. Among the Britons trapped in the city were the 14 crew of a British Airways [BA] DC10 flight which flew in on Tuesday night. They were due to return to Gatwick tonight after being replaced by a relief crew during the stopover. A BA spokesman said they were staying at the Sheraton Hotel while waiting to get out. "They are safe and well and in good spirits. They have got adequate food and supplies and they have reported that there has been no damage to the hotel," he said. He said that when the flight went in on Tuesday there had been no warning that the situation was about to deteriorate. The airline also has eight ground staff in the city.
