FBIS3-7828 "dreeu040_a_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 ALBANIA Croatia's Tudjman Visits, Meets With Berisha Further on Leaders' Comments LD2802174694 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 1600 GMT 28 Feb 94 LD2802174694 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] [Announcer] The high level Croatian-Albanian talks that were held in Tirana in the light of the implementation of the UN resolution on the downing of Serb planes in the Bosnian sky. [sentence as heard] The two sides were led by Presidents Franjo Tudjman and Sali Berisha. Andjelko Perincic reporting: [Perincic] Addressing reporters after the talks, the Albanian president said the attack today by NATO aircraft was an important action and that the U.S. pilots' courage will contribute to peace and stability. He reiterated the well-known Albanian position that the Serbs were the only aggressor in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Commenting on the implementation of the UN resolution whereby force can be used against the Serb planes, Croatian President Tudjman said that this action showed: [Begin Tudjman recording] Resolve by the main European states and the main world superpower, the United States, to oppose the Serb aggression and, I would also say, Russian interference in the Balkans. [end recording] [Perincic] Both presidents said that existing cooperation between Croatia and Albania could be significantly intensified and improved. The Albanian president believes that this meeting could provide an impetus for improved cooperation, and our head of state said that their good relations could influence efforts by international circles to establish peace in this part of Europe. [passage omitted] President Tudjman is now expected to hold talks in his temporary residence in Albania with Albanian Prime Minister Aleksander Meksi and Parliament Speaker Pjeter Arbnori. Croatian Deputy Foreign Minister Ivo Sanader and Albanian Foreign Minister Alfred Serreqi will also hold talks. [passage omitted]
