FBIS4-60106 "drnes099cc_94001" FBIS-NES-94-099 Daily Report 23 May 1994 Islamic Affairs Political Islam Review: 'AQIDATI 10 May Political Islam Review: 'AQIDATI 10 May NC2005183894 NC2005183894 BFN [Editorial report] The following review of the 10 May issue of Cairo 'AQIDATI summarizes articles that are Islamic in nature. CONTENTS: 1. Al-Azhar and Ulema Support Organizing Religious Rulings 2. Ulema and Preachers Conference Convenes After 'Id 3. Al-Mansurah University Organizes Course for Prayer Leaders 4. Writer Praises Banning Satellite Dishes in Governorates 5. Writer Views Book on Islamic Resistance to West's Domination 6. Writer Criticizes Foreign-Funded Research 7 World Islamic Council Appeals to Yemenis To Stop Bloodshed 8. Writer Slams Western Indifference to Bosnian Tragedy AL-AZHAR AND ULEMA SUPPORT ORGANIZING RELIGIOUS RULINGS A 2,000-word report on pages 1 and 10 by Musa Hal and Tariq 'Abdallah notes that the Islamic ulema and al-Azhar Mosque have expressed their support for a call outlined in 'AQIDATI's board chairman Samir Rajab's column "Rightfully, I say" published in the 3 May issue to enact a law unifying fatwas [religious rulings]. The report says that the ulema stressed that passing religious rulings is a "serious task" that must not be left to irresponsible and unqualified people. The ulema say that al-Azhar Mosque and the Islamic Research Council are the only parties qualified to pass religious rulings so that the Muslims may unify their stance and eliminate their differences. The report cites named ulemas' views on the issue. ULEMA AND PREACHERS CONFERENCE CONVENES AFTER 'ID A 150-word unattributed report on page 2 notes that the second general conference of ulemas and mosque preachers will convene under Awqaf Minister Muhammad Mahjub after 'Id al-Adha. The three-day conference will discuss numerous important issues affecting the Islamic and Arab nations through research papers prepared by senior ulemas. It will also discuss the tasks of preachers during the current stage. AL-MANSURAH UNIVERSITY ORGANIZES COURSE FOR PRAYER LEADERS A 1,200-word report by Khalid al-Kilani on page 3 states that after a request from the Awqaf Ministry, al-Mansurah University has arranged an advanced course for prayer leaders and preachers in al-Daqahliyah Governorate to qualify them for the job. A named prayer leader said that the course opened the participants' minds to new horizons and linked them to their "political and legal society." They learned how economic wars--which affect the Islamic world, particularly Egypt--are launched. The head of the Legal Studies and Consultations Center, Dr. Muhsin al-Bih, said these courses will broaden the role of universities in serving society. He notes that the center drafted a program outlining the "state's general policy" in all fields so that the prayer leaders will benefit from their activities. WRITER PRAISES BANNING SATELLITE DISHES IN GOVERNORATES In a 700-word column "With All Frankness" on page 6, Basyuni al-Halawani praises the Dumyat and al-Daqahliyah governors' decision to ban the use of satellite dishes in cafes and clubs to protect ethics and prevent perversion. He says that satellite programs carry dissolute films representing foreign values and behavior into our Islamic society. He says this deluge of films is designed to extricate what has remained of our Islamic roots, values, and traditions. He notes that several Arab and Islamic countries have made "courageous decisions" banning the use of satellite dishes. WRITER VIEWS BOOK ON ISLAMIC RESISTANCE TO WEST'S DOMINATION In his 800-word "Islamic Views" column entitled "The Western Challenge to the Islamic World" on page 7, Islamic Writer Dr. Muhammad 'Imarah discusses a book by Jewish writer Martin Kramer, who reviews Muslim ways of resisting the Western invasion of the Islamic world. He notes that Kramer lists all the conferences that the Muslim leaders have held on this subject, stressing that they have all failed. Kramer concludes by saying that the Muslims never agree on anything. 'Imarah admits that Kramer is right that the Muslims have consistently differed in all their conferences, but he notes that this is only half the truth because he fails to say why they differed. 'Imarah asks if the Muslims differ because they believe in Islam. WRITER CRITICIZES FOREIGN-FUNDED RESEARCH In a 650-word column, Majdi Salim reviews development of the colonialists' attempts to dominate other countries. He notes that the colonialists now have "local ideological and cultural agents." He says that the West's attempts to dominate the Islamic countries have local advocates. Under the claims of "freedom and civilization," they introduce the West's defects. The "most dangerous" thing they are doing is their public activities and research on social, economic, and cultural aspects of Egyptian society funded by foreigners. This research must be checked, he concludes. WORLD ISLAMIC COUNCIL APPEALS TO YEMENIS TO STOP BLOODSHED A 150-word report by Jamal Salim on page 20 notes that the World Islamic Council for Relief and Call has issued a statement appealing to the Yemeni parties to exercise self-restraint and immediately stop "the bloodshed of Muslims." The report notes that the council appealed to the Arab and Islamic heads of state to act promptly to contain the crisis and initiate a fraternal dialogue between the two parties. The statement "condemns the enemies of Yemeni unity who instigated the sedition." WRITER SLAMS WESTERN INDIFFERENCE TO BOSNIAN TRAGEDY A 300-word column by 'Adil Dayf on page 21 notes President Clinton's defense of U.S. vacillation on dealing with the crisis in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the West's inaction. He says that this reflects the magnitude of the tragedy of the Muslims in Bosnia and Western "plotting and indifference." He says that the new world order is "plotting" against the Muslims and is "rewarding" the Serbs for their crimes against Muslims.
