FBIS3-32510 "drlat027_a_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 February 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Minister Views Education Under Difficult Conditions FL0902024694 Havana Cuba Vision Network in Spanish 0100 GMT 9 Feb 94 FL0902024694 Havana Cuba Vision Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN ["Exclusive" interview with Education Minister Luis Gomez Gutierrez by Ricardo Lopez and Hilda Suarez at the Yuri Gagarin Polytechnic School in Caimito -- live] [Text] [Gomez] Well, during this special period we have learned to do many things in the education centers, and at the Ministry we have learned how to use our resources more rationally. We can also say that with fewer resources, we have begun classes and are trying hard to enhance the quality of education, which we think is possible. We believe that a good education does not depend on imports, currency, or raw materials, but mostly on political willingness. We have this because we have excellent teachers who are opposed to the closing of any school, and who are willing to make all possible efforts so the quality of education will be continually improved. [Lopez] The schools in the interior involve a more difficult process because there we need some resources, and the agricultural polytechnic institutes are capable of achieving them, the minister said. [Gomez] Right now we have provinces that have attained higher levels of self-sufficiency in the fields, especially in establishing plans to increase production of pork and milk. They also managed to find rational solutions to water supply problems when there is no electricity. Nevertheless, the schools have been kept open because in each place, everything has been done with intelligence and rationality. It is the third term here and we must now develop our teaching activities under these conditions. Experience has already been accrued and of course we are willing to develop further. We are sure that the living conditions of the students and the workers will be as comfortable as possible.
