FBIS4-28053 "dreas110_n_94011" FBIS-EAS-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 Vietnam National Assembly Considers Investment Law National Assembly Considers Investment Law BK0706134794 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network in Vietnamese 0500 GMT 7 Jun 94 BK0706134794 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network Vietnamese BFN [Summary] "The Ninth National Assembly's fifth session entered its 11th day today. In the morning, the National Assembly held a plenary meeting at the conference hall under the direction of National Assembly Vice Chairman Nguyen Ha Phan to continue debating the draft law on domestic investment promotion. "The National Assembly heard Do Quoc Sam, minister and chief of the State Planning Commission, speaking on behalf of the Law Drafting Committee, present a report on ideas and viewpoints of National Assembly deputies on the draft law." Many deputies suggested that only overseas Vietnamese who still hold Vietnamese citizenship are entitled to enjoying privileges specified by the law. Other deputies proposed that the government issue concrete regulations to prevent foreigners from making their investments under the name of local Vietnamese. All deputies expressed their unanimous views on granting privileges and encouragement to investment projects in areas with numerous difficulties, in mountain regions, and offshore islands. They suggested that income tax exemption should be granted to these projects for two to four years, and business turnover tax for two years. Many deputies expressed their concern over the granting of loans to promote domestic investment projects. They questioned whether the loans should be granted at the beginning of projects or later when they begin to bear fruit. "Some deputies suggested that if the National Assembly passes the law on domestic investment promotion this year, the government should promptly issue regulations for its implementation." Several deputies also suggested that for key investment projects proposed by overseas Vietnamese or by long-time foreign residents in Vietnam, the government should submit them to the National Assembly Standing Committee for consideration.
