FBIS3-20725 "jpeer007__s94054" JPRS-EER-94-007-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 2 March 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Kosovo Four Albanians Sentenced as Secessionists 94P20366A Belgrade POLITIKA in Serbo-Croatian 2 Feb 94 p 15 94P20366A Belgrade POLITIKA Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:CSO [Article by P. Pasic: "Four-Member Hostile Group Sentenced"] [Text] A three-member board of judges of the District Court in Pec, presided over by Judge Dusan Micanovic, has pronounced Afrim Mehmeti (age 38), Gazmend Muhadjeri (age 34), Mehmed Lekaj (age 34), and Ibrahim Mehmeti (age 35), all from Pec, guilty of the criminal act of threatening the territorial integrity. Afrim Mehmeti was sentenced to five years, Gazmend Muhadjeri and Mehmed Lekaj to four years, and Ibrahim Mehmeti to three years of imprisonment. During the proceedings, it was established that all of the accused, from April to the end of September 1993, carried out preparations for the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. They proceeded from the assumption that the so-called Kacanik assembly, in declaring the "Republic of Kosovo," had created the legal conditions for the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from Yugoslavia. It was established that the accused started forming illegal paramilitary bodies and prepared the founding of paramilitary units. The hostile group received instructions from the illegal republic defense headquarters which acts within the framework of the ministry of def ense of the "Republic of Kosovo." The group intended to start armed action at an appropriate time and to have Kosovo and Metohija secede by force from Yugoslavia. According to information from the so-called republic headquarters, the accused Afrim Mehmeti was appointed the commander of the headquarters in Pec, and Muhadjeri and Lekaj were appointed his deputies. One of the aforementioned deputies was tasked with military action on rear lines and the other with security. The fourth acccused, Ibrahim Mehmeti, had the specific duty of finding reliable people for forming paramilitary units in local communities.
