FBIS4-4342 "dreas062_i_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 Cambodia Khieu Samphan Prepares To Return to Phnom Penh Khieu Samphan Prepares To Return to Phnom Penh BK3103103294 Phnom Penh REAKSMEI KAMPUCHEA in Cambodian 31 Mar 94 pp 1, 2 BK3103103294 Phnom Penh REAKSMEI KAMPUCHEA Cambodian BFN [Text] Reports about the readiness of the Royal Government of Cambodia [RGC] and the Khmer Rouge to attend a meeting were heard while fighting was underway in northwestern Cambodia. Now there is a report that Khieu Samphan is prepared to return to Phnom Penh. In Sopheap, the Democratic Kampuchea representative in Phnom Penh, has said: We are prepared to meet to solve this problem. Samdech Hun Sen, second prime minister of the RGC, was quoted as saying on 28 March that the government is leaving the door open for talks with the Khmer Rouge. Moreover, Prince Kromkhun Norodom Sirivut, deputy prime minister and minister of foreign affairs, said in Bangkok on 28 March: I hope the Khmer Rouge will listen to the advice of the king father of the nation and sit down at the negotiating table. It is worth recalling that Prince Kromkhun Norodom Sirivut recently informed domestic and international reporters of the king's desire to see national reconciliation among Cambodians and an end to the bloodshed. While the conflicting parties' intent to reach a peaceful solution is being heard, there is also a rumor that Khieu Samphan, the nominal leader of the Khmer Rouge, will soon return to Phnom Penh. The Democratic Kampuchea official did not confirm or deny this report. It is known that His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk and the queen will return to Phnom Penh on 8 April. Prince Kromkhun Norodom Sirivut says he hopes that talks with the Khmer Rouge will resume at that time. The talks have been adjourned since mid-January following a series of futile talks between First Prime Minister Prince Krompreah Norodom Ranariddh and Khieu Samphan. Nevertheless, Samdech Hun Sen has said: Our position remains unchanged. We are keeping the door open and are considering the possibility of such a meeting when the king returns. Khieu Samphan's whereabouts are currently unknown. A military source, however, has disclosed that Pol Pot is staying in Kum Rieng village, only a few kilometers north of Pailin. He fled Pailin two days before the stronghold fell to the government.
