FBIS4-9807 "drlat064_i_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-064 Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 Nicaragua Government Discusses Signing of ESAF Accord Government Discusses Signing of ESAF Accord PA0104135594 Managua Sistema Nacional de Television Network in Spanish 0200 GMT 25 Mar 94 PA0104135594 Managua Sistema Nacional de Television Network in Spanish 0200 GMT 25 Mar 94 Spanish BFN [Report by Maria Elsa Suarez from the "National Newscast"] [Text] The government has held a nine-hour meeting to discuss the significance of the signing of the ESAF [Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility] Agreement with the IMF. This meeting was attended by 58 delegations from across the nation and included representatives from unions, Army, police, political parties, producers, businessmen, mayors, and media directors. At the beginning of the meeting, President Chamorro called for a moment of silence for the recent assassinations of Javier Barahona in Wiwili and Donaldo Colosio in Mexico. Chamorro later asserted that stability will lead to the country's growth. She also welcomed the recent visit by the IMF director and the International Development Bank president, who granted additional resources to support production. In addition to this, she underscored the importance of signing the ESAF Agreement. [Begin Chamorro recording] This agreement will enable us to obtain additional resources that are unavailable to other countries that have not complied with the economic plans and commitments assumed with the international financial institutions [IFI's]. Today, I have asked cabinet members to brief you on the progress made in our negotiations with the IFI's so that we can have your valuable contributions and recommendations. [end recording] During this meeting, all sectors presented their positions regarding the ESAF accord. The president of the Central Bank and the minister of finance presented a detailed report on the current situation and ESAF conditions. [Begin Central Bank President Jose Taboada recording] The reforms now being negotiated with the IFI's have been discussed extensively, and, as a result of successive negotiations, some conditions or aspects that were considered vital during the initial negotiations have been overcome. [end recording]
