FBIS4-41234 "drsov121_r_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-121 Daily Report 22 Jun 1994 Azerbaijan President Receives Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister President Receives Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister NC2206151194 Baku Azerbaycan Radio Televiziyasi Television Network in Azeri 1300 GMT 22 Jun 94 NC2206151194 Baku Azerbaycan Radio Televiziyasi Television Network Azeri BFN [Text] The Azerbaijani President Geydar Aliyev received today the Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Morteza Sarmadi. Here is a report by our correspondent Sakit Ocagli: [Ocagli] Various fields of cooperation with neighboring Iran were discussed during the formal talks. Geydar Aliyev noted that a number of documents on cooperation were signed during Iranian President Hashemi-Rafsanjani's visit to Baku last October and that special care is being taken to implement these documents. The Azerbaijani president said he was deeply disturbed by the tragedy that occurred near Imam Reza shrine in Mashhad on the day of `Ashura, a holy day for all Moslems. He hoped that those individuals who showed (?hostility) to the sacred place of pilgrimage on that day will certainly be found and punished. Geydar Aliyev once again conveyed his condolences to the Iranian people in connection with the tragedy. Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Morteza Sarmadi said that as part of his contacts in Azerbaijan he visited the Ministry of Culture, the Azerbaijani State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company, and the Information Ministry, and briefed the president on his contacts and talks at these institutions. The Iranian guest noted that the talks on cooperation with Azerbaijan in the information field concluded that the two neighboring states, which have similar and close position on many issues, should pay attention to developing cultural ties. Morteza Sarmadi also spoke of his contacts at the Azerbaijani Foreign Ministry. In his view, all his contacts during the visit was fruitful and constructive exchanges of views were held on problems needing solution. The Azerbaijani President regarded his upcoming visit to Iran as yet another sign of the fruitfulness of today's talk. Noting the great importance of the upcoming visit, the Azerbaijani President Geydar Aliyev stressed the need to broaden the multifaceted cooperation with Iran.
