FBIS4-11612 "drlat083_o_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-083 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 Colombia Jamaican Prime Minister Signs Cooperation Accords Jamaican Prime Minister Signs Cooperation Accords PA2804152194 Santa Fe de Bogota EL TIEMPO in Spanish 21 Apr 94 p 8A PA2804152194 Santa Fe de Bogota EL TIEMPO Spanish BFN [Text] The governments of Colombia and Jamaica signed several tourism, scientific, and technical cooperation agreements yesterday. These are the first steps in the new relations of exchange between the two countries. On the last day of his three-day visit to Colombia, Jamaican Prime Minister Percival J. Patterson and Colombian President Cesar Gaviria also signed a joint statement. In the statement, the two countries agree to continue developing their relations, aimed at cultivating new areas of bilateral cooperation. Patterson then returned to his country. The two chiefs of state said the agreements establish an exchange of expertise and information in areas such as agriculture and language education. During a news conference, Prime Minister Patterson broached the crisis of democracy in Cuba. He said he personally has no expectations about a possible role President Gaviria could play as OAS secretary general in the Cuban issue. He said such decisions arise from a consensus among the member nations. He did say, however, he views the Cuban situation as a priority issue for the regional organization. Undoubtedly, Cuba's political system is different. There is no reason, then, to exclude Cuba from the family of Western nations," he said. [no opening quotation mark as published] He added he hopes Cuba will soon become a full OAS member because any contribution toward defining the Cuban crisis "should come through cooperation with them and not through their isolation." Patterson predicted a positive outcome from the current negotiations between Colombia and the Caribbean Common Market (Caricom), of which Jamaica is a member. The talks are aimed at confirming a free trade agreement to be signed in July. He also announced aeronautics officials from the two countries will meet in San Andres at the end of May to complete the final details on an air transportation agreement to promote further development of bilateral relations. Although Jamaica did not vote for Gaviria for OAS secretary general, Patterson expressed both his congratulations to the Colombian leader and his confidence Gaviria will make "the changes the new international situation and hemispheric problems will require from the organization."
