FBIS3-25470 "drafr035_a_94007" FBIS-AFR-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 February 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda Prime Minister Deplores Riots EA2002202594 Kigali Radiodiffusion Nationale de la Republique Rwandaise in French 1800 GMT 20 Feb 94 EA2002202594 Kigali Radiodiffusion Nationale de la Republique Rwandaise Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] The prime minister, Madame Agathe Uwilingiyamana, has asked the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Justice to carry out an exhaustive investigation into the acts of insecurity perpetrated in Kigali today, so that those responsible can be punished in accordance with the laws in force: Let us listen to her. [Begin Uwilingiyimana recording] Ladies and gentlemen of Rwanda, I deplore the insecurity that prevailed in the town of Kigali today following the violence perpetrated by members of some political parties that do not want to see the implementation of the Arusha Accords. These wrongdoers, from those political parties that do not support the return of peace in our country, claimed that they aimed to stop a meeting to be held by the Republican Democratic Movement. This meeting had been authorized, and the security services had been informed in order to maintain the security of people and their property. We sympathize with those harassed and seriously injured persons, whose number is not yet known. My condolences go to all those whose family members may have died in these ignominious acts perpetrated by the enemies of peace. I call upon the services of the Ministry of Justice and those of the Defense Ministry to undertake exhaustive investigations into today's events. Ladies and gentlemen of Rwanda, be patient. Only two days remain before the establishment of the transitional institutions, namely the National Transitional Assembly and the broad-based Transitional Assembly. The date which has been eagerly awaited by the entire Rwandan people and the entire international community is 22 February 1994. Thank you. [end recording]
