FBIS4-34878 "drlat123_f_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-123 Daily Report 25 Jun 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA El Salvador Defense Minister Condemns Death Threats Defense Minister Condemns Death Threats PA2706013794 San Salvador EL DIARIO DE HOY in Spanish 25 Jun 94 p 3 PA2706013794 San Salvador EL DIARIO DE HOY Spanish BFN [Text] Defense Minister General Humberto Corado yesterday condemned the threats made by self-styled "revolutionary" groups, saying they are more likely the product of sick minds that want to maintain unrest in our country. "It is condemnable that at this time there are sick minds that use anonymous statements to spread terror and generate unrest," Defense Minister Gen. Corado said yesterday, referring to an anonymous statement that purports to be a "communique by the Salvadoran Revolutionary Front," which has circulated in San Salvador. The statement includes deaths threats against several members of the cabinet and people from democratic sectors under the pretext that "if something happens to the people threatened by the `Domingo Monterrosa Command,'" they will take reprisals. Gen. Corado said no one has proven the existence of the so-called Monterrosa Command, which is most certainly a ruse by the same leftist groups, just as it happened with the so-called Maximiliano Hernandez Martinez Brigade. It is most likely that they, the so-called "radical left," want to get rid of certain people and are grandly "condemning them to death" to then "execute them and take reprisals." Leftists of the Mao Zedong line invented this tactic. The official said anonymous groups are trying to besmirch the name of Colonel Monterrosa, who is regarded as a national hero. "As soldiers living in a time of peace, we must condemn all violence promoted by any sector, regardless of its affiliation," he stressed. To declare this or that place "a military objective" will only generate distrust and make life impossible for a government that is struggling to maintain peace," Minister Corado said. [no opening quotation mark as published] "We as soldiers regret that there are still some sick minds circulating these kinds of anonymous statements," the ranking officer said.
