FBIS3-29357 "dreas033_d_94014" FBIS-EAS-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 South Korea Foreign Minister on Nuclear Issue, Dellums Visit SK1702010394 Seoul THE KOREA TIMES in English 17 Feb 94 p 2 SK1702010394 Seoul THE KOREA TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [By THE KOREA TIMES correspondent Chong Pyong-chin] [Text] OTTAWA -- Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu said here Tuesday that he will tune policies with U.S. officials on the North Korean nuclear problem in Washington again after seeing the schedule for inspections by an IAEA team. "I hope that the inspection will go smoothly as agreed upon by the IAEA and North Korea," Han said, welcoming North Korea's decision to open the facilities to the IAEA inspection. Following are questions and answers from a press conference at Westin Hotel here. Q: What do you think about reports that North Korea accepted a fullscope inspection of its nuclear facilities? A: North Korea representatives in Vienna informed the IAEA just a few hours ago that the North will accept the IAEA's inspection to maintain continuity of safeguards at seven declared nuclear sites. We welcome this and hope that the inspection will be carried out as agreed on by the IAEA and North Korea. Q: When do you think the inspection will begin? A: I don't know the exact date. But I believe that an inspection team will enter Pyongyang in a week. Q: When do you expect Rep. Ronald Dellums, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, to visit Pyongyang? A: The Department of State had not reached a final decision on when he would visit Pyongyang due to the expectation that North Korea and the IAEA would make progress at inspection talks. Even now, I believe there is no finalized schedule. Chairman Dellums himself has his own plan. I believe that he will be able to visit Pyongyang in a few days if his visit to North Korea is not likely to hinder the nuclear negotiations. Q: Will high-level North Korea-U.S. contacts resume soon in New York? A: I believe that a North Korea-U.S. contact had been sought before the negotiations made progress in Vienna. North Korea proposed resumption of a high working-level contact in New York. U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Thomas Hubbard and Ho Chong, North Korean deputy representative to the United Nations, are scheduled to meet at five Tuesday afternoon in New York. The contact will take place as there is no reason to cancel it now that progress has been made in Vienna. Q: What do you think about reports that North Korea proposed to the United States a contact in New York last weekend? A: I think it's better not to mention it now that progress has been made on the IAEA's inspection of North Korean nuclear sites. Q: What will you talk about in your second meeting with U.S. officials in Washington Feb. 17? (Han is scheduled to reenter Washington Thursday via New York, where he will meet with United Nations Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali Wednesday.) A: First of all, I will look at the itinerary of the IAEA inspection team. But nothing has been decided on whom I will meet. The schedule will be fixed when I go there.
