FBIS3-58631 "drweu012_e_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Foreign Office Denies Approving Lockerbie Trial Plan PM1801144294 Edinburgh THE SCOTSMAN in English 17 Jan 94 p 5 PM1801144294 Edinburgh THE SCOTSMAN Language: English Article Type:BFN [Severin Carrell report: "Reports of UN Venue for Bomb Trial Denied] [Text] The Foreign Office yesterday strenuously denied reports that it had approved a proposal to try the two Libyans accused of the Lockerbie bombing at a United Nations court in the Netherlands. A spokesman for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said last night the Government was determined that their trial should take place either in Scotland or in the United States. It emerged yesterday that a proposal has been developed by an independent intermediary, suggesting that the trial could be held at the UN International Court of Justice at The Hague. It would be held under Scottish law and rules of evidence with a Scottish judge presiding over an international panel of judges sitting without a jury. The plan is the latest in a string of compromises put forward with the approval of the Libyans' lawyers. It is to be put formally to Lord Rodger, the Lord Advocate, this week. It will also be raised with Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, by the Tory MP, Teddy Taylor, who recently visited Libya to investigate their complaints about the Lockerbie case. 'Abd-al-Basit 'Ali Muhammad al-Meqrahi and Al-Amin Khalifah Fahimah were accused by both the UK and US in late 1991 of planting the bomb, killing 259 passengers and crew onboard PanAm Flight 103 and 11 Lockerbie inhabitants on 21 December 1988. The Government has been informally aware of the plan, disclosed yesterday in Scoland on Sunday, but has refused to endorse it. The FCO spokesman said: "Our position remains the same. We expect the two suspects to be surrendered for trial in either Scotland or the United States. This is a UN Security Council requirement." The proposal, which has been provisionally accepted by the Libyan accused, is to be discussed in detail by their legal team in Geneva this week. Alistair Duff, the Edinburgh-based solicitor-advocate acting for them in Scotland, is expected to fly out tomorrow. It was designed to overcome Libyan claims that pre-trial publicity has destroyed the chances of a fair jury trial in either Scotland or the US, and the Government's refusal to countenance Libyan schemes for a trial in a neutral country. A Scottish Office spokesman said it would not comment until it had seen the proposal. But it is understood the Government believes it is unworkable as there are no legal mechanisms which allow a Scottish judge to sit abroad, or for Scottish law to be transferred abroad. The proposal's supporters claim the Government could make it possible if it had the will. Mr Taylor, MP for Southend, believes the scheme has merits. "There are procedural problems, but these could be worked out in 10 minutes by the House of Commons." It is understood it is a refinement of a scheme first outlined in a letter sent by the Egyptian government to every member of the UN Security Council, including the UK and USA governments, five weeks ago. The UN secretary general, Butrus Butrus-Ghali, also received a copy. Mr Taylor said the Egyptians had, in consultation with Libya, proposed on 8 December to Britain holding the trial under Scottish law in a neutral country, or at the UN International Court. No reply has yet been received, he claimed.
