FBIS3-26557 "drchi027_m_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 Military Provinces Hold Forums on Double-Support Work Xie Fei Discusses Work HK0702150394 Guangzhou Guangdong People's Radio Network in Mandarin 0400 GMT 2 Feb 94 HK0702150394 Guangzhou Guangdong People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Text] Yesterday afternoon, more than 80 leading comrades from party, government, and Army organizations in Guangzhou gathered at the Zhudao Guest House of the provincial party committee to attend a party. On the occasion of celebrating the forthcoming Spring Festival, they talked freely, reviewing the achievements made in reform, opening up, and the development of the two civilizations, and airing their views on double-support work. Provincial party committee Secretary Xie Fei; Lieutenant General Li Xilin, commander of the Guangzhou Military Region; Lieutenant General Shi Yuxiao, political commissar of the Guangzhou Military Region; and Guangdong Governor Zhu Senlin delivered speeches at the get-together. Comrade Xie Fei said: Guangdong Province has achieved great success in double-support work, and is bound to make greater progress in the new year. This is because the Army units and local authorities share same objectives and interests: To strive for the motherland's prosperity and to defend it against foreign bullying and humiliation. Xie Fei noted: The harmonious relations between the Army units and the government, and between the Army units and the public in Guangdong Province should be attributed the fact that the leadership of the Army units in the Guangzhou Military Region has set great store by the work in this regard. It is hoped that in the new year the Army units, the government, and the public can communicate with each other better, and can help each other. Comrade Xie Fei suggested that the three sides join to study the possibility of running some practical, constructive projects this year so as to further strengthen solidarity between the Army and the government, and between the Army and the masses. Lieutenant General Shi Yuxiao, political commissar of the Guangzhou Military Region, highly appreciated Guangdong Province's performance in the drive to support the Army and give preferential treatment to families of martyrs and servicemen. He disclosed that the funds Guangdong Province appropriated only to finance the operation of local Army units last year totaled 162 million yuan. On behalf of the Army units stationed in Guangdong, he expressed heartfelt thanks to the party and government organs at all levels, as well as the people of Guangdong Province.
