FBIS4-13495 "drnes077_n_94012" FBIS-NES-94-077 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 LEBANON Al-Hirawi Reportedly `Not Happy' With Government Al-Hirawi Reportedly `Not Happy' With Government JN2004155894 Paris Radio Monte Carlo in Arabic 1200 GMT 20 Apr 94 JN2004155894 Paris Radio Monte Carlo Arabic BFN [Report by Antoine Constantine from Beirut] [Text] Eyes turned to Damascus today, where Lebanese President Ilyas al-Hirawi has arrived for a summit with his Syrian counterpart, Hafiz al-Asad. Beirut observers await with extreme interest the practical results of this summit, on more than one level. Regionally, the Syrian-Lebanese summit comes before U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher's expected visit to the Middle East and before the new round of bilateral talks between the Arabs and Israel. On internal Lebanese levels, the Syrian-Lebanese summit follows important developments in the Lebanese arena. The most important of these developments was the crime of blowing up the Sayyidat al-Najat Church and the subsequent political decisions, media and security measures, and the launching of legal cases, the most recent of which is the decision to try two Iraqis accused of killing an Iraqi oppositionist in Beirut. At a time when the Lebanese Government is encountering opposition to its decision preventing electronic media from transmitting news, and preventing the General Federation of Trade Unions from staging demonstrations, the newspaper AL-DIYAR cited unnamed sources as saying President al-Hirawi's stand is in complete harmony with the Damascus position. He wants news and freedom of the press to be restored following his return to Beirut. Here, there is a difference between his stand and that of Prime Minister Rafiq al- Hariri. The same sources told AL-DIYAR that President al-Hirawi is not happy with the government as it is, taking into consideration Prime Minister al-Hariri's overwhelming majority in it. At any rate, this is not the first time there has been talk about a cabinet reshuffle. Despite the talk about difference and alliances within the Council of Ministers, concerning major decisions the Lebanese Government has proved its consolidation. Its rejection of the expected workers' demonstration proves this.
