FBIS4-30171 "dreas122_c_94016" FBIS-EAS-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 North Korea Japanese `Moves Against' Chongnyon Denounced Japanese `Moves Against' Chongnyon Denounced SK2306054994 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0512 GMT 23 Jun 94 SK2306054994 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["Japanese Authorities Must Not Run Riot"--KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, June 23 (KCNA) -- The Japanese authorities must ponder over the grave consequences to be entailed by their moves against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the General Association of Korean Residents in Japan (Chongnyon). Otherwise, they will meet a severe punishment. NODONG SINMUN serves this warning today. The analyst says: The Japanese minister of justice and general director of the public security investigation agency revealed the intention of the Japanese reactionaries to intensify the anti-Chongnyon campaign when they cried on June 21 for a closer watch on Chongnyon and investigation into its activities. The Japanese authorities' anti-Chongnyon campaign which is assuming ever more serious dimensions is part of their moves to stifle the DPRK. It is a deliberate and premeditated political suppression motivated by a sinister intention to threaten Chongnyon, obstruct its patriotic activities and, further, destroy it. Chongnyon, a lawful organization of overseas Koreans of the DPRK, has neither ignored and violated the Japanese law nor interfered in the internal affairs of Japan. Nevertheless, the Japanese authorities have committed a string of fascist outrages unprecedented since the formation of Chongnyon. And they are now crying for an open surveillance over Chongnyon and investigation into its activities. This is clear proof that their anti-Chongnyon moves have reached a very reckless stage. What cannot be overlooked is that their indiscreet anti-Chongnyon moves are timed to coincide with the scheme of the imperialist reactionaries to stifle the DPRK under the pretext of the "nuclear suspicion" against the DPRK. Our people and compatriots in Japan hold the sovereignty and dignity of the country dearer than their lives and they will never pardon those who encroach upon them. The Japanese authorities must know that it is not favorable to them to join the international reactionaries in their scheme to stifle the DPRK and intensify the suppression of Chongnyon.
