FBIS4-58258 "drnes085_m_94005" FBIS-NES-94-085 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 JORDAN Editorials Condemn Saudi's `Naive Political Game' Editorials Condemn Saudi's `Naive Political Game' Saudi Claims on Restoration Criticized JN2104130594 Amman AL-RA'Y in Arabic 21 Apr 94 pp 1, 21 JN2104130594 Amman AL-RA'Y Arabic BFN [Editorial: "The Credit Goes to the One Who Deserves It"] [Text] What has made the brothers in Saudi Arabia involve themselves in the restoration of the Islamic places in the holy city these days, and to claim that the Kingdom is going ahead with its commitment to implement the project in cooperation with UNESCO. Everyone knows that Jordan, and His Majesty King Husayn personally was the one who looked after, supervised, and financed the restoration of the holy places and the Dome of the Rock throughout the past decades. The celebrations held in Amman and Jerusalem a few days ago to mark this great achievement were evidence of this restoration, which is the third Hashemite restoration that was carried out with pure Jordanian planning, supervision, and financing. That effort was blessed by our people and all religious and popular establishments in Jerusalem and the whole of occupied Palestine. While carrying out this noble duty, Jordan was showing commitment to historical and geographical responsibilities without reminding anyone of a favor or boasting about what it is doing. Jordan only seeks God's satisfaction and wants to serve and maintain the first of the two qiblas and the third holiest shrine. The statement by the official Saudi source, claiming that Saudi Arabia is continuing its restoration of the holy places through UNESCO, can only be understood as arrogance, claiming the work of others, disregarding the efforts of others, and extreme ingratitude. What is worse is that the Saudi official source insists on involving an international organization, that is UNESCO, in what he termed the project to restore the holy places, as if he wants to internationalize these shrines and put them under international control, ignoring that these shrines are Arab and Islamic, and sovereignty over them is only for Almighty God, as His Majesty King Husayn said. His Majesty King Husayn has openly and loudly said: We are carrying out this duty in the name of the Islamic nation and on its behalf, and the path for the restoration of our shrines in Jerusalem is known -- it is the Jordanian Ministry of Awqaf and the Committee for the Restoration of al-Aqsa Mosque and Dome of the Rock. Neither UNESCO, nor any other international establishment or organization have any connection with the reconstruction and restoration because these activities are carried out by the Hashemites, who have jurisdiction and religious right, and who are--historically and geographically--the custodians of the Covenant of 'Umar Bin-al-Khattab. All allegations by any side will only bring regret to those who make them, and the credit will continue to be for the one who deserves it.
