FBIS3-9940 "drlat039_t_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 Venezuela Chamber of Deputies, Senate To Review Banco Latino Bill PA2602165094 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network in Spanish 2350 GMT 24 Feb 94 PA2602165094 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Jose Marcano from "The News" newscast] [Text] The Chamber of Deputies approved in its first debate an emergency bill to solve the Banco Latino crisis, and the Executive Branch will possibly promulgate that legal instrument next week. The debate began at the lower chamber at 1630. The legal instrument establishes the necessary norms so people who deposited their money in the bank may recover their money. [Begin Walter Marquez, Banco Latino Commission chairman, recording] The deputies agreed to approve the bill in the first debate. The proposed changes in style and content will be reviewed during the second debate. The president has announced that an urgent meeting will be held on Monday to complete the process for the bill's approval. Congress will be in permanent session until the bill is fully approved on Monday afternoon or evening. The Senate should review it on Tuesday, and the documents will be sent to the president on Tuesday or Wednesday for promulgation. [end recording] The Chamber of Deputies' Finance Commission has been in permanent session since Thursday in order to prepare the respective report. [Begin unidentified deputy recording] The bill seeks to achieve two goals: first, to regulate this specific emergency at Banco Latino and guarantee account holders will be able to recover the largest amount of money possible; second, to prevent similar situations from occurring in the future. Do you see the importance of this text? [end recording] The Chamber of Deputies debates will possibly continue during the weekend because the Finance Commission, which is in permanent session, is expected to present a report on Friday for the second debate on Saturday. Hence, the deputies will approve the bill, thus allowing the Senate to begin its first discussion on Tuesday. The special bill for Banco Latino will probably be sanctioned by Wednesday.
