FBIS3-39805 "drweu036aa_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-094 Document Type:Daily Report 23 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS U.S., Eurpoeans Set for `Showdown' Over Top OECD Job AU2102073394 Paris AFP in English 0250 GMT 21 Feb 94 AU2102073394 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Jan Kristiansen] [Text] Paris, Feb 21 (AFP) -- The United States no longer wants a European to head the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which is set to assume wider tasks in a changing world economy with Asians and Latin Americas among the major players, Paris-based diplomats say. "We're headed for a political showdown with Washington," a European permanent representative to the OECD said. "Things will heat up over the next few months," another ambassador confirmed in private. Several ranking diplomats at the OECD's Paris headquarters say the Americans are seeking to marshall support from Japan and other non-European member countries in favour of a former Canadian cabinet minister and politician, Donald Johnston, as the next OECD secretary-general. Frenchman Jean-Claude Paye, aged 59, will see his second term in the post expire at the end of next September, but is seeking a third five-year term. "The Americans do not shrink from reminding us in the corridors that the U.S. and Japan between them contribute nearly 50 percent of the budget," a European official said, adding that Washington considers the OECD as "Euro-centric," although a fair share of the key jobs are held by U.S. and Japanese nationals. Paye, who made it clear last July he would seek a third term, is France's official candidate. British Prime Minister John Major has thrown his support behind Lord (Nigel) Lawson, a chancellor of the exchequer under his predecessor Margaret Thatcher, while Germany joined the fray naming senior Economics Ministry official Lorentz Schomerus as its candidate. Belgium and Italy have also signalled possible candidacies, but have so far not cited any names. The Americans, the British and some other OECD governments believe the OECD, which will not for long remain an "exclusive club" of rich industrial countries, will need a "political heavyweight" at the helm to raise its world-wide visibility. Others believe their purposes will be better served by a non-political chief executive seeking to defend the collective cause of its 24 members. They want to preserve its "impartial analysis" of the whole range of current economic, social and technological problems. Well-placed diplomats say the Clinton Administration appears to be taking a new interest in the organization, now perceived as a useful instrument for U.S. foreign policy and domestic economic objectives. "The Americans believe, for instance, that the OECD could be used more effectively in their efforts to open up the Japanese market," a European ambassador commented. A confidential OECD study on labour markets and ways to reverse the rise of OECD unemployment, which could touch 35 million this year, is another case in point. The study will be in focus at President Clinton's "jobs summit" at Detroit from March 13 to 15, officials said. Washington has picked this domain to launch a campaign against Paye by leaking official U.S. documents critical of the OECD's views, European diplomats said. U.S. Ambassador to the OECD David Aaron in a letter accused the OECD secretariat of failing to play a "positive" role in calling for lower interest rates and more growth in Europe as a remedy for run-away unemployment. Rejecting U.S. charges of "Euro-centrism," several OECD ambassadors said the organization had indeed changed since Paye took the helm nearly 10 years ago. They cited the opening in the 1980's of a "dialogue" with the dynamic Asian economies, now extended to emerging Latin American countries as well, and moves in the past four years to open up to the former communist states of East Europe, including Russia. "It is evident that more changes are in the offing," one ranking European diplomat said. Three East European countries are knocking on the OECD's door, while Mexico is set to become its 25th member within a few months and Korea may follow suit around l996. Whatever Paye's own record, the succession is an "excessively complex" issue because it is indirectly linked to the election of a new European Community Commission president, one ambassador said. "The horse-trading is well under way," he added. A "neutral" European official said the choice would be all the more difficult because Canada's Johnston was "hardly known in the outside world" and because some capitals would find it hard to accept Nigel Lawson, a "retired Thatcherite."
