FBIS3-488 "drafr045_e_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 WEST AFRICA Nigeria Bakassi Residents Report Harassment by Cameroon AB0803164594 Dakar PANA in English 1548 GMT 8 Mar 94 AB0803164594 Dakar PANA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Paul Ejime] [Text] Atabong (Bakassi Peninsula), 8 March (PANA) -- Nigerian fishermen on the disputed Bakassi Peninsula say they are still being harassed by Cameroonian gendarmes. Local residents of Atabong West, with Nigerian troops, told the PAN AFRICAN NEWS AGENCY Tuesday [8 March] that the latest harassment was on Sunday when the Cameroonians seized six fishing canoe engines at sea. The engines were valued at 23,000 dollars (500,000 naira). The occupants, who were left adrift at sea, were rescued by other Nigerian fishermen, the residents said. The 1,000 square kilometre oil-rich peninsula is claimed by Nigeria and Cameroon. Tension in the area heightened after reported clashes between troops of both countries on 18 and 19 February. Nigeria denied there were any clashes. The residents claim that Atabong is a village in Nigeria's south-eastern state of Akwa Ibom. The shanty settlement is inhabited mainly by fishermen and traders, most of them Effik-speaking Ibos, A Nigerian ethnic group. Now, it is on the "frontline", where Nigerian troops on the western part of the village are only separated by the sea from the Cameroonian troops on the east. Both sides see each other's gun boats and monitor detailed movements with binoculars. According to military sources the proximity at one end of the frontline is "as close as 1,000 metres separating the opposing troops." Edem Akamino, the chief of Atabong, claimed the Cameroonian gendarmes had collected "illegal levies and taxes, beaten up fishermen, raped women, maimed and killed Nigerians since the end of the Nigerian civil war in 1970." The fishermen say they are now encouraged to fish in the zone because of the presence of Nigerian troops. "We know it is risky but is our only means of livelihood," one of them told PANA. Atabong is one of the string of about 30 shanty villages comprising mainly thatched houses dotting the disputed peninsula. Akamino, who said he has lived there since 1960, said he has always known the place to be Nigerian. Cameroon, which bases its claim to the island on a 1913 agreement between Germany and Britain, has taken the dispute to the UN Security Council and informed the International Court of Justice at The Hague and the OAU. France has also deployed paratroopers in Cameroon under their defense pact. A summit meeting between the two countries is planned for Nigeria, while Togolese president Gnassingbe Eyadema has began diplomatic moves to settle the dispute.
