FBIS3-58299 "drweu007_a_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 AUSTRIA Vranitzky Approves of `Tone' of Clinton's NATO Speech AU1101120394 Vienna DIE PRESSE in German 11 Jan 94 p 1 AU1101120394 Vienna DIE PRESSE Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report on interview with Chancellor Franz Vranitzky by Andreas Unterberger: "Vranitzky Not Interested in NATO Partnership"] [Text] Vienna -- Austria does not have any direct interest in the Partnership for Peace (PFP), which NATO offered to nonmembers on Monday [10 January]. Chancellor Franz Vranitzky made this clear in an interview with DIE PRESSE on Monday. "Austria's main course is the establishment of a collective security system in Europe. To achieve this aim, the Maastricht Treaty is a much more specific tool than Partnership for Peace." "If there is to be a specific offer to the European Union applicants, much of what the PFP could do is covered by the European Conference on Security and Cooperation (CSCE) anyhow," Vranitzky said. Austria already participates in individual areas, such as a working group for peacekeeping measures within the NATO Cooperation Council. As far as further PFP elements are concerned, such as holding joint military maneuvers, Austria is not interested at the moment, Vranitzky signalled. He pointed out that the PFP offer is mainly being addressed to former Warsaw Pact countries. With this in mind, Vranitzky considers it very "positive." The chancellor was also pleased that the PFP offer involves "no disassociation from Russia." At the same time, Vranitzky praised President Clinton's introductory speech at Brussels. "What is particularly important is the basic tone of his speech, saying that turning his back on Europe is not part of his policy." Equally important is Clinton's favorable comment on European integration, which put economic and political cooperation at the center. Like Vranitzky, Defense Minister Fasslabend and Foreign Minister Mock consider the PFP "not relevant" for Austria. Speaking to DIE PRESSE, Fasslabend said: "Joint maneuvers are not an issue for us. We have already had joint exercises, such as the catastrophic exercise at Wiener Neustadt." The minister also expects in the future the United Nations will to pass increasingly more complex peacekeeping missions to NATO.
