FBIS3-38007 "drsov038_a_94018" FBIS-SOV-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Seen Backing Away From Summit Proposal MK2502094094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 25 Feb 94 p 1 MK2502094094 Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Vladimir Abarinov report under the "Power" rubric: "The Declaration of Rights of a Self-Respecting State. Russia Is Intent on Pursuing its Legitimate Interests `Firmly and Resolutely'"] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] The foreign policy section of President Yeltsin's message did not contain any surprises for specialists. It was but the quintessence of concepts and formulas that have been road-tested by Russian diplomats at various international forums for some time now. Such as, for instance, the European security and partnership concept, which has just been announced by Andrey Kozyrev in Krakow. Provisions interpreting regional policy principles have also been basically well known. In this sense, the section is not "portentous." What is striking in it in the first place is the absence in the paragraph devoted to the Balkan crisis of the proposal for a summit of the Group of Five to be convened, a proposal that the Russian president put forward as recently as this week. Presumably, facing an obstructionist stance by its Western partners, Moscow thought it prudent not to press the issue. The other day, your SEGODNYA correspondent happened to hear a conversation between two high-ranking officials from the Foreign Ministry and the presidential administration. The former told his interlocutor that representatives of a number of European countries have been bewildered by the format of the proposed summit: Russia, after all, wants to join the Group of Seven, not the Group of Five. The diplomat suggested that the question of format be left open. So, it cannot be ruled out that the Russian initiative will be repackaged so that it will boil down to the discussion of the Bosnian settlement within the framework of the Group of Seven meeting in Naples. [passage omitted]
