FBIS3-22175 "jpten006___94038" JPRS-TEN-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 8 MARCH 1994 EAST EUROPE YUGOSLAVIA Government Warns of Illegal Importation of Pesticides To Serbia AU1802131694 Belgrade POLITIKA in Serbo-Croatian 15 Feb 94 p 2 AU1802131694 Belgrade POLITIKA Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: ``Pesticides Coming in Without Licenses''] [Text] ``Recently one has been able to notice a trend of uncontrolled importation of pesticides in our country, which is confirmed by the results of the inspections carried out by expert institutions, firms, and associations active in this field, as well as by the Customs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the media.'' This is said in the statement issued by the Government of Serbia regarding the uncontrolled importation of pesticides, and traffic in dangerous chemical substances. POLITIKA has already written on this subject in one of the previous issues. The statement also specifies that the sanctions, economic difficulties, and high prices of the substances manufactured in Yugoslavia actually encourage such an attitude of the farmers, who are trying to cope with difficulties by obtaining pesticides from abroad, and it is mostly pesticides that are either prohibited or not recommended for use in the world. In addition, there is a widespread practice abroad that the dangerous substances and pesticides, whose date has expired, are exported to the underdeveloped countries of the third world, and to the transition countries of Eastern and Central Europe. In the past several months the Ministry for Environment has come across precisely such cases of traffic and use of pesticides with expired dates. The latest case reported is that of Jagodina, where 100 kilograms of such pesticides were found. ``According to data issued by the Association for the Protection of Yugoslav Flora, last year's needs for supplies of substances for the protection of plants amounted to 10,000 tonnes. Some 8,500 tonnes were produced in the country, while nearly 1,800 tonnes were imported. This year the production of 11,000 tonnes of pesticides has been planned,'' it is said in the statement. The government also states that the Association of Pesticide Manufacturers of Yugoslavia, as well as the Institute for Flora Protection in Belgrade, issued a warning to the Ministry of Agriculture on 18 January this year, that last year, within 11 months, pesticides were imported through more than 120 agencies, while only a part of the number had licenses issued by the government. As for the rest, it is not known either who issued the licenses or who carried out the analysis.
