FBIS3-31220 "dreeu032_a_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 ALBANIA Possible Siting of `CIA Spy Planes' Noted AU1502113794 Lezhe KOHA JONE in Albanian 3 Feb 94 p 2 AU1502113794 Lezhe KOHA JONE Language: Albanian Article Type:BFN [Nikolle Ivesi article: "Gjader Military Airport May Become a Base for CIA Spy Planes"] [Text] It has now been decided. Two CIA spy planes, a radio station, and 12 experts will shortly arrive in Albania. We make it clear that this equipment and these experts belong to the U.S. secret service and not the U.S. Defense Department. We have nothing against this idea of Defense Minister Safet Zhulali, or maybe of Berisha, except that the fact that the U.S. secret service is poking its nose in here, and not, as would be more acceptable, the U.S. Defense Department or NATO, makes one suspect the purpose of this "operation." It is the same as if the Albanian National Intelligence Service, i.e. Gazidede, were to establish such a base in the United States. Even more disturbing is the fact that Italian Defense Minister Fabio Fabri himself opposed the establishment of this base at an Italian airport, because it would pose serious problems for Italy if the spread of the war in Bosnia were to lead Serbia to respond with missiles against the site where CIA-commanded GNAT spy planes were based. Italy, although a NATO member, therefore did not agree, while we did immediately. The Albanian authorities have made no statement about the siting of these planes. The problem of their deployment is worrying, because, as foreign news agencies report, these spy planes, if they explode in the air or have defects, are very dangerous for the civilian population of the areas where they are based. If the Defense Ministry is soon going to position them, as is thought, at the airport at Gjader near Lezhe, will it ask the local government representatives of these areas, when these aircraft are known to be dangerous to the lives of local inhabitants?!
