FBIS4-7691 "dreeu065_b_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-065 Daily Report 4 Apr 1994 BULGARIA Cabinet Members React to Zhelev Criticism Cabinet Members React to Zhelev Criticism AU0404143994 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network in Bulgarian 1300 GMT 4 Apr 94 AU0404143994 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network Bulgarian BFN [Text] What is the reaction of the cabinet members to the opinion President Zhelyu Zhelev expressed regarding the current government? Bilyana Mikhaylova, who at present is at the Council of Ministers, answers this question. [Mikhaylova] Perhaps I should remind the listeners that the president accused the cabinet of delaying the privatization, failing to encourage foreign investments in Bulgaria, and blocking the agrarian reform. We were interested in the opinion of various cabinet members and the prime minister himself regarding the president's opinion. Industry Minister Rumen Bikov said that after the commentary of the prime minister the issue has been exhausted, and he would not allow himself a commentary as to what the president is doing. However, Acting Prime Minister Evgeni Matinchev was more talkative. He said that when the president makes such a statement this naturally should make the cabinet members uneasy, but according to him, the president's assessment is more emotional than based on real grounds in every single aspect mentioned by the president. Matinchev also pointed out that no cabinet member contemplates resignation. He had a talk with Prime Minister Berov, and neither the prime minister nor he or any other member of the cabinet intend to resign. Matinchev did not deny the fact that he feels himself responsible for the situation in which we find ourselves and the measures that the government must adopt in order to calm the situation as soon as possible. He added that he does not think that the hysteria which developed recently would positively affect the important accord and agreements that will be signed soon. He did not deny that personnel changes were possible, but he said that it is too soon to talk about this. First of all, structural changes should take place, and this means assessing the present situation and deciding how to improve the efficiency of the government. It appears that we will not learn anything specific until the precise and concrete opinion of the prime minister is issued.
