FBIS3-859 "drafr050_d_94013" FBIS-AFR-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Diplomats Concerned Over Recent Army Appointment MB1203161694 Maputo DOMINGO in Portuguese 6 Mar 94 p 5 MB1203161694 Maputo DOMINGO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article] [Excerpts] On 7 March it will be a month since Lieutenant General Lagos Lidimo was promoted to his present rank, following his appointment to the Supreme Council of the Mozambique Defense Armed Forces (FADM). [passage omitted] Reacting to the appointment and subsequent promotion of the senior government army officer to the FADM Supreme Council, diplomatic sources in Maputo expressed regret at the choice, linking Lidimo to Mozambique's shadowy war period when he was chief of Military Counterintelligence (JIM). Other diplomats went as far as to approach FAM/FPLM [Mozambique Armed Forces/Popular Forces for the Liberation of Mozambique] officialdom to express their annoyance at Lidimo's appointment. Moreover, they noted issues relating to the period before independence when Frelimo [Mozambique Liberation Front] guerrillas clashed with Portuguese colonial troops in Mozambique, particularly in Cabo Delgado where Lidimo was born and operated. Contacted by DOMINGO, senior government army officers categorically rejected those arguments, emphasizing that that amounted to interference in the country's domestic affairs. They based their views on the fact that Lagos Lidimo played a leading role in the defeat of Portuguese colonialism and in?the dismantling of a [U.S.] CIA network in Mozambique. They noted that possible resentment harbored by certain circles after those two events could have prompted the diplomats' attitude. They also mentioned the role played by Mateus Ngonhamo in the war that ended in 1992, during which he operated in central and southern Mozambique, where most of the bloodiest Renamo-sponsored massacres were reported. They said as the country moves toward national reconciliation and democratization, the international community ought to assist Mozambicans in reconstructing their lives in peace instead of opening old wounds.
