FBIS3-28172 "dreas024_q_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 AUSTRALASIA Australia Foreign Minister Evans Cited BK0402055094 Melbourne Radio Australia in English 0500 GMT 4 Feb 94 BK0402055094 Melbourne Radio Australia Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Australia's foreign minister, Gareth Evans, says everyone will benefit from the lifting of America's embargo on Vietnam. Senator Evans says Australia has been pushing President Clinton and his administration on the issue: [Begin Evans recording] We have been urging him and previous administrations to go down this route, of course, for a very long time. We have regarded it as, quite frankly, absurd that the POW-MIA issue should have occupied the time and attention and been the distraction that it was. Obviously it is in everyone's interest that there be a resumption of major economic activity in Vietnam, and we are very glad that has happened. [end recording] Sen. Evans said Australian industry should not fear American competition in Vietnam, because it should generate higher economic activity. The foreign minister said Australian industry was much more internationally competitive and Australia already had an established track record in Vietnam. Belinda Tromp reports that the American decision is expected to remove some obstacles for Australian investors: [Begin recording] [Tromp] With a literacy rate of around 80 percent and a government keen to achieve rapid economic growth, Vietnam has some of the fundamentals for attracting new investment. What is missing, according to an executive member of the Australia-Vietnam Business Council, Robert Wilcox, is a modern bureaucracy. [Wilcox] The Vietnamese need to move, I believe, more quickly with their reforms -- in getting their legal system together, getting their administrative act together -- as a result of this. [Tromp] Mr. Wilcox says the reputation and expertise established by Australian companies already in Vietnam -- such as BHP, Telecom, and the ANZ Bank -- put Australian companies in a good position for the onset of competition from U.S. investors. [end recording]
