FBIS4-44086 "drweu123cc_94029" FBIS-WEU-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS EU Leaders Warn Italy on Neofascist Commission Members EU Leaders Warn Italy on Neofascist Commission Members BR2406121494 Rome LA REPUBBLICA in Italian 24 Jun 94 p 15 BR2406121494 Rome LA REPUBBLICA Italian BFN ["f.p." report: "Three Socialist Prime Ministers Warn Berlusconi: `No to AN Commissioners'"] [Text] Corfu -- Three of [Italian Prime Minister] Berlusconi's 11 partners at the Corfu European Council have unambiguously warned him not to appoint any National Alliance members to the next European Commission. If this should happen -- Greece's Papandreou, Spain's Gonzalez, and Denmark's Rasmussen write -- they will do "everything in their power" to prevent the next European Commission from being ratified by the European Parliament. Up until now, this threat had been repeatedly made only by Socialist European deputies or by exponents of this political alignment. The difference now lies in the fact that the warning has been subscribed to by the Socialist parties' leaders who met yesterday morning in Corfu before the beginning of the European Council meeting. Among them, there were three who hold office in government and who, in this capacity, are taking part in the European summit which started yesterday evening. Jacques Delors -- who, as president of the European Commission, sits at the table of the heads of state or government -- was also there. With his, the signatures subscribing the warning add up to four. Perhaps no one will want to spoil the party by repeating the warning in Berlusconi's face. However, it is written in black and white in the resolution adopted yesterday morning: It comprises 11 points, with the veto on "neofascists in the European Commission" constituting Point 10. In presenting the document to the press, Willy Claes -- the Belgian chairman of the Party of European Socialists -- made the message even clearer by explaining that the concern felt by his political alignment "is due, in particular, to the situation in Italy."
