FBIS4-56984 "drlat091_s_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-091 Daily Report 9 May 1994 Uruguay Another Candidate Joins Presidential Race Another Candidate Joins Presidential Race PY1005125494 Madrid EFE in Spanish 2048 GMT 9 May 94 PY1005125494 Madrid EFE Spanish BFN [Excerpts] Montevideo, 9 May (EFE) -- Cardiologist Roberto Canessa, 42, who survived the Andean tragedy 20 years ago, has promised "new winds" will blow through Uruguayan politics. He founded the "Blue Party" and will run in the 29 November election. Canessa and 122 citizens founded the party and today, will start formal steps to register it at the Electoral Court. [passage omitted] At least seven presidential candidates will run in the 29 November election. The ruling National Party (White Party) has become the most divided. Four different candidates have already announced their candidacies; former Interior Minister Juan Andres Ramirez, who is preferred by President Luis Alberto Lacalle among three possible candidates; Alberto Volonte, current head of the state electricity company; Carlos Julio Pereyra, historic party leader; and current Vice President Gonzalo Aguirre. The Colorado Party, which leads the surveys with a seven-point advantage over the leftist coalition Broad Front and 10 points over the "White" Party, has two candidates. Former President Julio Maria Sanguinetti, representing the center, has a strong possibility of winning because he is supported by 76 percent of his party members. The second candidate is former President Jorge Pacheco Areco, a right wing leader. The leftist coalition Broad Front will run with a single candidate, current Montevideo Mayor Tabare Vazquez. The fourth block in Congress, the social democratic Party for the Government of the People, which has seven percent of the votes, will not present a presidential candidate because its leader, Senator Hugo Batalla, has closed a political agreement with former President Sanguinetti. Electoral laws in Uruguay do not limit the number of candidates because voters vote for a party, and the candidate with most votes within that party becomes president. Canessa will probably run for president representing the Blue Party. He has always said he would like to run for president. [passage omitted]
