FBIS4-51236 "drchi102_w_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-102 Daily Report 25 May 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Official Optimistic on Stability, Development Official Optimistic on Stability, Development HK2605065794 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in Chinese 1335 GMT 25 May 94 HK2605065794 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE Chinese BFN [By reporter You Xiayin (3266 1115 5419)] [Text] Beijing, 25 May (ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE)--Chen Ziying, deputy director of the State Council's Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, today met a Hong Kong Textile Council delegation. He said that China's policy of "one country, two systems" and "Hong Kong people ruling Hong Kong" is based on full trust in Hong Kong compatriots. Chen Ziying listened carefully to the guests' opinions and views on how to realize a steady transition and maintain economic prosperity in Hong Kong. He added that the Chinese Government is trying by every possible means to preserve Hong Kong's position as an international economic and trade center, and hoped that all systems which have been proved effective and beneficial to Hong Kong's stability and prosperity will remain. Chen Ziying reiterated his repeatedly expressed view, namely that he takes an optimistic attitude on maintaining Hong Kong's prolonged stability and development. He pointed out: Hong Kong's present-day prosperity has been created by the Hong Kong people themselves. They have adequate ability and talent to exercise good management over Hong Kong's affairs after 1997. This was the basis for putting forward the policy of "one country, two systems" and "Hong Kong people ruling Hong Kong." In addition, political stability as well as rapid and healthy [kuai su jian kang 1816 6643 0256 1660] economic development on the Chinese mainland also serve as new opportunities and fine conditions for Hong Kong's stability and prosperity and the development of cooperative relations between the mainland and Hong Kong. In conclusion, Chen Ziying indicated: The Chinese side has always cherished sincerity in cooperating with the British side; now the Sino-British talks on Hong Kong's constitutional system have broken down, but we hope that the British side will not adopt an uncooperative attitude in other aspects. This will not only serve Hong Kong's steady transition but is also for the sake of Sino-British long-term relations. After the meeting, Chen Ziying held a banquet in honor of the 30-member delegation. The Hong Kong Textile Council delegation, headed by Fong Hang, arrived in Beijing yesterday. During their Beijing tour, they will visit the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, the Ministry of Domestic Trade, and the Chinese General Chamber of Textiles.
