FBIS3-38880 "drweu027_h_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 GERMANY Scharping Rejects CDU Accusations of SPD-Stasi Cooperation AU0802150894 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG in German 8 Feb 94 p 4 AU0802150894 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report signed "deu": "Scharping: Union Campaign Is Disgusting"] [Text] Hannover/Bonn -- Social Democratic Party of Germany [SPD] Chairman Rudolf Scharping has announced that he intends to request all Stasi records about himself to subsequently publish them together with a description of his experiences. Scharping thus reacted to accusations from the Union parties that in the 1980's he had advocated the recognition of GDR citizenship in talks with GDR politicians. The Christian Democratic Union [CDU] politicians had based their accusations on Stasi files. Before an SPD Presidium meeting in Hannover Scharping harshly criticized the "campaign of the Union." The accusation that SPD politicians had cooperated too closely with the GDR is "disgusting and indecent," the SPD chairman said. In particular the campaign against SPD presidential candidate Johannes Rau is "so mean that I can only be surprised that the chancellor is participating in it." Obviously, the chancellor is in deep trouble; he refuses any discussion about the central topics, such as work and finances. "When conservatives struggle for staying in government, then they use almost any means," Scharping said. Chancellor Helmut Kohl had accused the Social Democrats of having betrayed the goal of Germany's reunification by making concessions to the Socialist Unity Party of Germany [SED] and had in particular attacked Johannes Rau. Deputy CDU Chairwoman Angela Merkel meanwhile stated that she sees the accusation against Rau that during his candidacy for the chancellor's office he had intended to offer recognition to the GDR "refuted" for the time being. Rau stated that what was meant at that time was respect for the GDR citizenship but not recognition, Merkel said. "For me this is acceptable for now." However, for her the suspicion that the SPD cooperated with the SED for the benefit of help in the election campaign remains the "very critical point," Merkel stated. "I believe that this is a point that exceeds a certain limit," the women's affairs minister, who comes from eastern Germany, said. Rau has not given sufficient explanations on this issue. Merkel denied that the CDU wants to use the controversy about the past as ammunition against the SPD in the election campaign. Her party only wants "historical clarification." Merkel and CDU Deputy Rainer Eppelmann, who is chairman of the Expert Committee on the GDR Past, had sent an open letter to Rau, asking him about the controversial contacts between the SPD and the GDR leadership at the end of the 1980's. Rau also answered with a letter.
