FBIS4-38350 "drsov104_e_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-104 Daily Report 30 May 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Moroz Addresses Diplomats on Crimea, Economic Crisis Moroz Addresses Diplomats on Crimea, Economic Crisis LD3005193394 Kiev UT-1 Television Network in Ukrainian 1800 GMT 30 May 94 LD3005193394 Kiev UT-1 Television Network Ukrainian BFN [No video available] [Excerpt] The chairman of Ukraine's Supreme Council today met representatives of foreign embassies and consulates in Ukraine. [Correspondent] More than 50 countries have embassies and missions in Ukraine today. Their heads and diplomats took part in this meeting today. Extending warm greetings to his guests, Ukraine's Supreme Council Chairman Oleksandr Moroz said: [Begin Moroz recording] Diplomats are concerned at the events taking place today in Ukraine. One such event is, of course, the situation in Crimea. The Supreme Council and I have done and will do our best in order to relieve in a civilized and non-violent way the tension over the conflict caused by excessive use of subjective influences in the settlement of the problems which indeed exist in Crimea today. I am talking first of all about negotiations and, thus, a return of parliamentarians and other power structures in Crimea into the Ukrainian constitutional channel. The general view is this: Everybody who is guided by common sense understands that the Crimea-Ukraine status quo must be preserved, and this fully accords with the stance of Ukraine's Supreme Council. [end recording] [Correspondent] The Ukrainian parliament speaker stressed that the Crimean problem is not the only one which calls for the Supreme Council's attention. It is necessary that we urgently set about pulling our economy out of crisis. Considering the nature of his audience, Oleksandr Moroz also spoke about the need to encourage foreign investors who could help Ukraine build an independent state. He also spoke about Ukraine's nuclear status which naturally concerns diplomats. Oleksandr Moroz expressed his willingness to meet personally each of the foreign diplomatic representatives in Ukraine in the future. [passage omitted]
