FBIS4-8762 "dreeu074_i_94035" FBIS-EEU-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Events in Gorazde -- 17 April Events in Gorazde -- 17 April Karadzic Blames Muslims LD1704222294 Zagreb HTV Television in Serbo-Croatian 2105 GMT 17 Apr 94 LD1704222294 Zagreb HTV Television Serbo-Croatian BFN [from the "Picture versus Picture" program] [Excerpts] Radovan Karadzic appeared on the news bulletin of Pale Television late this evening. He already had an answer for the continued fighting in Gorazde this evening. He also said something interesting about future cooperation between the UN Protection Forces [UNPROFOR] and the so-called Srpska republic. [Begin recording] [Karadzic] Unfortunately, we have not managed to establish a cease-fire. Every time we stop firing, the Muslim side thinks that is due to our weakness, and launches a heavy attack which, of course, takes a toll in life. That is very bad tactics. For example, we withdrew our artillery and tanks toward Ustipraca and Kopaci, 3 km away from the bridge leading to the hospital in Gorazde. However, when we withdrew, the Muslims again attacked us on that part of our line, trying to take advantage of our withdrawal. Consequently, our tanks returned. They are being pulled out now, under the condition that the Muslim side does not launch any more attacks. Akashi's warning applies to them too. [passage omitted] UNPROFOR cannot deploy forces on the territory of the Srpska republic, except where the leadership allows them to, along the frontlines, as in Sarajevo. This is a decision passed by our people's assembly, and only the assembly can change it. [Pale TV announcer] And what if someone comes upon UNPROFOR representatives, for example, somewhere on [Mount] Romanija, which has nothing to do with the frontline? [Karadzic] They should not be there because, if they cross through the Srpska republic -- we gave them permission to move freely through our territory, which is now suspended, but we will review that decision -- they have to stick to the route granted to them. If they leave the agreed route, we will provide UNPROFOR with a military escort, and they will not be allowed to go off the agreed route. We have now decided that UNCHR and Red Cross convoys are not to be escorted by UNPROFOR, but by our army. The UNHCR and the Red Cross have accepted that. Foreign military forces will therefore have their movement scaled down in our territory. If we allow a convoy to pass through, it will have to stick to the route. [end recording]
