FBIS4-23903 "drafr118_c_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-118 Daily Report 19 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC Determined To Discover Identities of Former Spies ANC Determined To Discover Identities of Former Spies MB1906195594 Johannesburg RAPPORT in Afrikaans 19 Jun 94 p 2 MB1906195594 Johannesburg RAPPORT Afrikaans BFN [Article by De Wet Potgieter] [Text] The ANC's determination to find out which of their own members spied on the movement has led to a big search in the shadowy world of South African spies. This could have disastrous consequences for the country and could prove to be a big embarrassment for the ANC because heads could roll in top government structures. Such an embarrassment could also prove to be a serious setback for the South African National Defense Force's [SANDF] three-year plan to integrate the various armed forces. The first visible signs of nervousness in the intelligence community were evident a week ago when Minister of Defense Joe Modise obtained a Supreme Court interdict to silence the WEEKLY MAIL & GUARDIAN and two former spies of the Directorate of Covert Collection's (DCC) disbanded front organization PAIIC [Pan Afrik Industrial Investment Consultants]. Earlier this week, Mr. Modise withdrew his application. Talks Last week, Mr. Modise held talks with the PAIIC group. High-level secret talks are also taking place between ANC intelligence officials and members and former members of SANDF and police concerning the sensitivity of information on the identity of spies in the ANC and its military wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe [Spear of the Nation]. The planned Commission of Truth and Reconciliation hangs like a sword over the heads of thousands of policemen and soldiers. Deputy President F.W. de Klerk has already publicly warned "that old wounds should not be scratched open." The anxious policemen are now waiting to see what effect Commissioner General Johan van der Merwe's comprehensive document on the issue to Safety and Security Minister Sydney Mufamadi will have. "We know that we kept the apartheid government in power," says a senior officer to RAPPORT this week, "but the ANC has also committed acts of terrorism and we know what they did. They also know what we did." `Unacceptable' He added that someone like Judge Richard Goldstone would be totally unacceptable to the police as chairman of such a commission of truth. Meanwhile, the continuing rumors surrounding the identities of spies and former spies of the defense force have taken a serious turn with indications that former members fear that the lives of their families are in danger because several former informants are becoming very anxious, fearing reprisals. Mr. Clive Brink, spokesman for the PAIIC group who believe that they were unfairly dismissed, told RAPPORT this week: "We made it clear from the very beginning that we will protect the identities of these people and we even went as far as protecting it with our lives." This was soon after the acting chief of staff intelligence of the SANDF, Major General Dirk Verbeek, said at a news conference that the SANDF would have to consider taking former spies to court if they continue with their threats. He alleged that this group, serving members of the SANDF and the DCC, are making threatening telephone calls day and night.
