FBIS3-10399 "drlat044_o_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Colombia Unidentified Aircraft To Be Shot Down PA0503234394 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0000 GMT 3 Mar 94 PA0503234394 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Miriam Ortiz; from the "24 Hours Newscast"] [Text] The defense minister and the Colombian Air Force commander have decided to provide an explanation concerning the decision to shoot down airplanes which violate Colombian airspace. Let us investigate when an airplane may be shot down and what attitude Air Force pilots must assume, according to the Aviation Routes and Procedures Manual. The procedure begins once the airplane is detected by any one of four military radars located at San Andres, Guajira, Araracuara, or Leticia. Normally these planes are tracked from the United States by U.S. AWACS airplanes, which later give the information to the Colombian radar stations. Then, this signal, which is simultaneously received at the National Defense Military Headquarters in Bogota, is analyzed. This is where they verify if the airplane is legally in transit. If this is not the case, they order the closest air base to send A-37, Kfir, Mirage, OB-10, or Tucano fighter planes to intercept it. When radio communication is not possible, the intercepting aircraft must use the following visual signals: First, move from side to side and turn its navigation lights on and off to warn the airplane it has been intercepted. Second, abruptly move away from the intercepted airplane, making a 90-degree turn upwards to tell it to continue. Third, lower the landing gear leaving the landing lights on. Then raise the landing gear to notify the airplane it must land. Fourth, repeatedly turn all lights on and off. If the airplane does not respond it is shot down immediately. This norm will be enforced in approximately in 45 days, after the Civil Aeronautics Board notifies all airplane companies. [Begin recording] [Ortiz] General [Alfonso Abondano, commander of the Colombian Air Force], how can you guarantee the safety of the pilots who will combat these drug traffickers, taking into account that most of the pilots working for drug traffickers have worked for the Air Force or have been Air Force pilots? [Abondano] We locate the airplanes through the Air Defense's Military Center. Once intercepted, our pilots cannot say they do not have the airplane in sight. [end recording] According to the defense minister this decision was adopted because approximately 600 clandestine airplanes fly over Colombian territory each year.
