FBIS4-16188 "drsov072_a_94032" FBIS-SOV-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Chernomyrdin, Tajikistan's Samadov Sign Agreements Chernomyrdin, Tajikistan's Samadov Sign Agreements LD1304122094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1041 GMT 13 Apr 94 LD1304122094 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Ivan Ivanov] [Text] Moscow, 13 Apr -- Intergovernmental Russian-Tajik talks ended today with the signing of two agreements -- on Russian participation in completing the construction of the Rogun GES [hydroelectric power station] and on a Russian loan to Tajikistan of 80 billion rubles to be advanced during 1994. The delegations from the two countries were headed by Prime Ministers Viktor Chernomyrdin and Abdulmadjid Samadov. Answering a question from an ITAR-TASS correspondent, the chairman of the Tajik Council of Ministers disclosed that economic relations between the two countries were discussed during the talks. The nature of these relations is currently determined to a great extent by the economic situation in our republic and the need to resolve tasks involved in the unification of the Tajik and Russian monetary systems, he said. Samadov added that the 80 billion rubles loan would be spent largely on repayment of debts to Russian suppliers of goods. Referring to today's announcement that the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev would not be attending the CIS summit on 15 April in Moscow, Chernomyrdin said that he has not yet been informed officially of this. As for Nazarbayev's idea of creating a Euro-Asian union, Chernomyrdin believes that at the moment there is no substance to this idea. At all events, the prime minister said, I do not know what lies behind this proposal. The head of the Russian Government agreed that the leaders of many CIS countries were unhappy with the present state of cooperation within the Commonwealth, which, as Chernomyrdin put it, now needs to be intensified. We must move on to action rather than words, he said.
