FBIS3-54758 "drsov001_b_94031" FBIS-SOV-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Media Issues Chief Editor Outlines 1994 Publishing Plans PM3112185193 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 31 Dec 93 p 1 PM3112185193 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Message to readers from Chief Editor Natalya Polezhayeva: "What Is in Store for You? A Nonfuturologist's Forecast for Readers of Our Newspaper"] [Text] As the New Year approaches, it is customary to make predictions. This time we will dispense with futurologists, fortune-tellers, and psychics. No one apart from us can say what is in store for you, our readers, in the pages of ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in 1994. As an official organ, the newspaper will continue to keep you acquainted with all official documents -- laws, edicts, decrees, directives, and statutes. In the new year this list will grow. We plan to print the most important draft legislative acts as well as departmental instructions, recommendations [ukazaniye], and clarifications. We will begin prompt publication of collections of documents in the series entitled "ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Library" [Biblioteka Rossiyskoy Gazety]. The newspaper will be paying special attention to privatization. Beginning in January, two special editions will be published at regular intervals with information on investment funds and property funds. They will be useful to enterprises, entrepreneurs, and ordinary share holders, in other words to all of us. In addition, in the new year ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA subscribers in central regions will receive each week a free color supplement on special topics. The first will be "ROSSIYSKAYA NEDVIZHIMOST" [Russian Real Estate]. The editorial office has concluded a contract with the confederation of consumer societies. Together we will keep readers informed about commodities (quality and prices), services (from consumer services to financial services), water and air, and housing (from construction rights to rental charges). There will be another weekly newspaper within the newspaper wholly dedicated to problems of the economy, business, and marketing. Our country is multinational. We often talk about that but often forget about it, too. As of the new year, ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA will feature ethnic sections on the culture, daily life, language, and history of the peoples inhabiting Russia. The newspaper's Saturday edition will be somewhat different. We can hardly produce a 16-page edition (our financial potential is not great) but we promise that on Saturdays readers will find in their newspapers scoops, scandals, crossword puzzles, and everything else which makes for light reading at weekends. These are by no means all our plans. We shall compensate our subscribers for copies of ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA which they did not receive in the outgoing year by providing free inserts and supplements. We congratulate ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA readers on the New Year! We wish you all stability, peace, health, and prosperity.
