FBIS4-44818 "jpest014___94038" FBIS-EST-94-014 JPRS Science & Technology Europe/International 30 May 1994 WEST EUROPE LASERS, SENSORS, OPTICS UK: New Liquid Crystal Technology Conserves Electric Energy UK: New Liquid Crystal Technology Conserves Electric Energy 94WS0372D Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT in German 30 May 94 p 10 94WS0372D Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE WIRTSCHAFT German CSO [Unattributed article: "Thorn EMI Wants To Have the First Text-Reading System Ready in a Few Months"] [Text] Frankfurt. In the near future, display panels will be able to be operated with much less energy expenditure than has previously been the case thanks to the introduction of new ferroelectric liquid crystals. These liquid crystals can maintain their state even without a constant current. Characters and graphics displayed once can be erased by a short electrical current surge. Transportable computers like laptops, notebooks, and the like, equipped with such displays, can operate for a considerably longer period on one battery charge. Ferroelectric liquid crystals are capable of changing their orientation under the influence of a current pulse, in the course of which they adjust the direction of polarization of the incident light. Sandwiched between two extensive polarization filters with correspondingly crossed polarization directions, the liquid crystals of the display panel turn bright or dark, depending on their orientation. Viewed electrochemically, the ferroelectric liquid crystals are bistable. Electronics engineers at Thorn EMI in Hayes, Middlesex, Great Britain, also refer to the crystals as "electronic paper" because the text or graphics need only be created electronically and then remain. So far, Thorn EMI has had a liquid crystal display with a 13-cm picture diagonal. The company hopes to bring the first practical text-reading system to production readiness in about 6 to 10 months. In the past, ferroelectric liquid crystals have been used to create color picture and minutely staged gray values on liquid crystal screens. Now by combining the switching properties of the liquid crystals with color-producing factors, it is possible to achieve the color manifestations by means of very rapid back and forth switching. The "standing" color pictures with ferroelectric liquid crystals also require a background illumination to make the pixels visible. However, Thorn EMI (Department of Security and Electronics, Hayes, Middlesex UB3 8AT, United Kingdom) reports, the amount of energy expended is much less than conventionally used liquid crystal screens, which require a constant current.
