FBIS3-59638 "jpest003___94042" JPRS-EST-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 26 January 1994 WEST EUROPE FACTORY AUTOMATION, ROBOTICS United Kingdom: Rapid Prototyping Consortium Established BR2912125693 Amsterdam COMPUTABLE in Dutch 10 Dec 93 p 3 BR2912125693 Amsterdam COMPUTABLE Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Article signed MU: "Consortium for Rapid Application Development"] [Text] Amsterdam -- A consortium has been formed to standardize methods for rapid application development, starting in the United Kingdom, but with the aim of expanding to worldwide operation. The consortium, Dynamic Systems Development Methods (DSDM), wants to make the most of the advantages offered by this method of systems development. The members of the consortium include Software AG, Sapiens, Oracle, Logica, and Cognos. The British firm Butler Group is coordinating its efforts. The advantages of rapid application development, according to Butler, are shorter construction time, lower costs, and improved quality. DSDM is based on interactive prototyping with input from the end user. Prototyping means building a demonstration model to test whether the application meets the required standards. The actual application is then only constructed at a later stage. Users Too In addition to the members listed above, companies such as Information Builders, McDonnell Douglas, Data Sciences, and Knowledgeware also form part of the consortium. Furthermore, Butler Group expects the number of interested suppliers to expand rapidly. "Software manufacturers, consultancies, and major user organizations are showing an interest. It looks as if DSDM will radically change the method of application development," says Peter Constable of Butler. According to the firm, companies are expressing growing dissatisfaction with traditional development methods. "Companies deserve better. Using old methods with the latest technologies is like putting a diesel engine in a Formula-1 racing car." The first meeting of the new consortium is planned for January next year. Butler expects approximately 30 suppliers to attend.
