FBIS4-21942 "jptot015__l94107" JPRS-TOT-94-015-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 31 March 1994 WEST EUROPE CYPRUS Turkish Paper Claims World Terrorist Groups Met in Cyprus Turkish Paper Claims World Terrorist Groups Met in Cyprus NC0704125294 Istanbul YENI GUNAYDIN in Turkish 31 Mar 94 p 20 NC0704125294 Istanbul YENI GUNAYDIN Turkish BFN [Following item is a mixed compilation of headlines, subheads, brief reports, a boxed section, and a caption] [Excerpts] The World's Most Bloody Terror Organizations Met in the Greek Cypriot Sector and Adopted Decisions. ASALA [Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia] Scourge Is Reviving Dirty Conspiracies in Southern Cyprus. The Revival of ASALA Was Endorsed in a Meeting Held in Nicosia With the Participation of the World's Most Bloody Terror Organizations Under the Chairmanship of Iran and Libya. There Will Be an Explosion in Terrorism Around the World The Iranian Revolutionary Guards, the Armenian Secret Army ASALA, the German and Japanese Red Armies, Red Brigades, Islamic Jihad, and Abu-Nidal's groups took part in the secret meeting held recently. Plans were made at the meeting, chaired by the heads of the Iranian and Libyan intelligence organizations, for operations that would soak the world in blood within a short period. The organizations were assigned duties for armed and bomb attacks. The Bloody ASALA Is Again on the Scene The wife of ASALA terrorist Agopyan, who was murdered in Athens in 1988, also took part in the meeting as the leader of that organization. Agopyan's wife, who met with the prominent intelligence officer in Tehran 'Ali Falahian recently, obtained great support also from the other bloody terror organizations during the meeting in Nicosia. The meeting, during which Tehran exerted enormous pressure to revive ASALA, promised to provide every assistance to this bloody organization to organize itself in many European countries. [passage omitted] Their First Act Took Place in Corsica The decisions adopted in Nicosia made themselves felt. The shootings and bombings last night following the detention of 14 members of the "Corsica National Liberation Front," which struggles for the liberation of the island, while preparing to carry out a bombing in the French island of Corsica on Sunday night, is believed to have been carried out by the same organization. [passage omitted]
