FBIS3-44373 "drchi001_k_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social XINHUA Issues `Public Notice' to Subscribers OW0201133894 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0948 GMT 31 Dec 93 OW0201133894 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN ["Public notice" to newspaper offices, and radio and television stations -- XINHUA headline] [Text] Comrades: As 1994 is drawing near, all comrades at XINHUA NEWS AGENCY would like to extend their season's greetings to you. They would also like to express their thanks for your enthusiastic support for the work carried out by the news agency over the past year. During the past year, we have endeavored to improve our services toward newspapers, and radio and television stations. Our editorial staff has improved the transmission of news items to newspapers in Beijing; to party organs in various provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the central government; and to newspapers in small and medium cities. We have further increased the number of special-line transmissions to radio and television stations, and enriched the contents of such transmissions. In the new year, we will continue to improve our services toward newspapers, and radio and television stations. We earnestly hope for your continued support and assistance. The year 1994 is one of reform in which news reporting tasks will be extremely heavy. All comrades at XINHUA NEWS AGENCY wish all newspaper offices, and radio and television stations even greater success in propagating the party's basic line and in promoting the establishment of a socialist market economic system under the guidance of Comrade Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics. May the close cooperation between XINHUA NEWS AGENCY and other newspaper offices, and radio and television stations further develop and strengthen. May our comrades succeed in their work and enjoy good health. [Signed] XINHUA NEWS AGENCY [Dated] 31 December 1993
