FBIS3-32869 "drlat030__a94002" FBIS-LAT-94-030-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 February 1994 ANNEX Argentina Army Chief Concerned About Falklands Minefields PY1002182494 Buenos Aires LA NACION in Spanish 9 Feb 94 p 4--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY1002182494 Buenos Aires LA NACION Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Alfredo Vega] [Text] Amid almost total secrecy, General Martin Balza -- the Army Chief of Staff -- on 7 February invited the commanders that participated in the Malvinas War to visit him in his office in Libertador Building. The objective was to obtain precise information as to how the chart mapping the minefield planted during the war had been handed over to the British. According to reliable Army sources, Balza's decision follows the publishing of an article in the British newspaper THE ECONOMIST which indicated that the Argentine generals refused to give the information to President Carlos Menem. General Mario Benjamin Menendez, the governor of the islands at that time; General Oscar Jofre; and Colonel Manuel Dorrego, all of whom are retired, participated in the highly confidential meeting. It was learned that Dorrego told Balza that he -- as the most senior officer of the Army Engineer Corps and on Menendez' orders -- had handed the chart to Major Thompson, and engineer officer of the British Army. Dorrego added that one week later, while detained in San Carlos, several British officers asked him if he could redraw the chart because they said Thompson had lost the original. Army sources confirm that the incident was reported to the Fourth Commission, which preceded the UN General Assembly. On that occasion, Argentine delegates, diplomats, and military men slapped the British representative with responsibility for the matter. The British delegates did not deny it. Asked by LA NACION on 8 February, Balza admitted that the meeting had been held. He said: "Between 19,000 and 20,000 antitank and antipersonnel mines were planted on the Malvinas, in addition to those planted by the British." He added that reports of allegedly concealing the information "are completely untrue and despicable. The honor of Argentine generals and the subordination of the Army to the constitutional power cannot be questioned." Balzo said: "The details have for some time been in the hands of the Foreign and Defense Ministries." He admitted that the Argentine officers did not retain a copy of the report, and that a receipt for the file does not exist. "The circumstances did not permit asking for a receipt," he said. Dorrego confirmed for LA NACION that on 15 June 1982, one day after the end of hostilities, he gave Thompson the information on the rows of mines, because no complete minefields were ever planted. He said he handed over the information at the request of Menendez in accordance with the Geneva Convention. He explained: "It was a brief meeting that took place at about 1900 in the building occupied by the British staff in Puerto Argentino. I gave him a pink file. Thompson asked me to sit down. He read the file, asked me if anything was missing, and then thanked me. One week later in San Carlos, a colonel asked me to whom I had given the file because they could not find it." According to Dorrego, the file was complete and fully detailed, "because when we planted the mines we thought we were going to win the war, that we would have to clear the mines ourselves."
