FBIS4-57063 "drlat092_t_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-092 Daily Report 11 May 1994 Venezuela Ministers Report Plan To Destabilize Country Ministers Report Plan To Destabilize Country PA1105232594 Caracas Radio Nacional de Venezuela Canal Clasico Network in Spanish 2200 GMT 11 May 94 PA1105232594 Caracas Radio Nacional de Venezuela Canal Clasico Network Spanish BFN [From "The National Newscast"] [Text] Venezuelan Interior Minister Ramon Escovar Salom has charged there is a subversive plan aimed at destabilizing the country. Escovar also said that the national government will adopt severe measures against persons speculating in the value of the dollar. [Begin Escovar recording] I want to tell you the following: This morning there were riots in some areas of the capital and in some places in the interior. Most of the demonstrations are under control. None are out of the government's control. Both the National Guard and the metropolitan police are on the streets closely cooperating to safeguard public order. The citizens can be sure that the government is prepared to take every measure necessary to safeguard the country's peace. I want to report that there is a plan that calls for agitation. Political interests that sometimes are contradictory are involved in this plan. The people involved hope that public order alterations may help their particular objectives. To this we can add that before I was interior minister, when I was the prosecutor general, I spoke of a hairy arm. I want to tell you that the hairy arm is roaming around, that it is acting up. The government is investigating to determine the degree of participation in these events of the mourners of corruption and people who do not want the penalization of some crimes against the state or of crimes of corruption, people who want to create confusion to use it as a smokescreen at a moment when the country is closely following the struggle against corruption. [end recording] Meanwhile, Education Minister Antonio Luis Cardenas appealed to students not to be fooled. He also urged parents and others not to let secondary schools be used for subversive purposes. [Begin Cardenas recording] Right. We, and I in particular, as education minister, deeply regret that people who want to subvert public order, as well as destabilize the country, are using public secondary schools and the boys, girls, and young people studying in those schools to create riots and confusion. Those people must realize that those schools care for the lower income population and that the country is being seriously harmed when boys and girls and young people are used to achieve ugly goals. We have already had the unfortunate death of one student. We regret that. Today I was informed that a young man and a boy have been wounded. We must stop this situation. We must clearly identify who the enemies of public education are, who is leading these young people to a dangerous situation. We appeal to parents and custodians and the community not to let their schools, the ones attended by the needy people, the public schools, to be used for subversive purposes. We have decided not to suspend classes because we do not think that is a solution, that it would harm the young people. [end recording]
