FBIS3-8171 "dreeu044_y_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Kosovo Rugova Endorses NATO Action, Croat-Muslim Pact AU0503202094 Pristina KOSOVA DAILY REPORT Nr 306 in English 4 Mar 94 AU0503202094 Pristina KOSOVA DAILY REPORT Nr 306 Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Press Conference of President Rugova in Prishtina" -- issued by the Democratic League of Kosovo] [Text] Repression continued this week. Raids, arrests, and ill-treatment in the municipalities of Peja, Gjilan, Suhareka, Prizren, Junik, Klina, Vitia, etc. have been continuing unabated, said President Rugova, speaking at a press conference today in Prishtina. Raids under the pretext of arms searches are usually followed by demolition of property, Dr. Rugova added. "The killing of Selman Daci in the vicinity of the Macedonia-Kosova border- crossing point is a bad omen," said President Rugova adding that the border with Macedonia [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia -- FYROM], "which is illegal for us," began a toll of its first victim. The week behind us was characterized by heavy movements of Serbian army and their build up in different areas such as in the bordering stripe Gjakova-Prizren, in the vicinity of Kacanik, around Podujeva, Kamaran, and other places, Dr. Rugova said. "Taking into account what happened in Bosnia we consider this as a new threat. We have warned that such Serbian military movements represent further provocation toward the Kosovo people," President Rugova said. "Following the Serbian takeover of the building of the Kosova's Academy of Arts and Sciences, the building of the Institute of Albanian Studies is threatened with a similar takeover. This is the only and last institution bearing the symbolic relevance for the Albanians," President Rugova told journalists adding that "once again we warn the Serbian regime, the local Serbian-installed authorities in Kosova to seriously think on what they have been doing." Commenting on the NATO actions in Bosnia, Dr. Rugova hailed the NATO intervention in compliance with the UN Security Council resolution on the non-flying zone over Bosnia. He also hailed the Croat-Muslim agreement signed in Washington hoping for its implementation. "We hail the statement of the U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher who said that all the problems in former Yugoslavia will be solved by the United States in cooperation with the European Union, and Russia. We think that such an approach is very encouraging for Kosova, too," he said. Asked whether Albania and the international community would intervene in order to stop Serbian violence in Kosova, President Rugova said: "We have been calling for preventive steps toward Kosova. Albania is interested to prevent any conflict. The awareness that if something happens in Kosova would be catastrophe for the entire region is very intense in the international fora. Therefore, everybody is interested to prevent such developments, and I hope that our demand for placing Kosova under a UN protectorate will be accepted." Asked to comment on the threats of his arrest issued in the Serbian press recently, Dr. Rugova said he had no wish to comment on them. Instead, he commented on the total unwillingness of the Serbian side to accept dialogue with the Albanians, stressing that the Albanian side is open and ready to engage in a serious dialogue over Kosova.
