FBIS4-28582 "dreas113_k_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-113 Daily Report 11 Jun 1994 Laos Reportage on Burma's Than Shwe Delegation Visit Reportage on Burma's Than Shwe Delegation Visit 10 Jun Activities BK1106092094 Vientiane Vitthayou Hengsat Radio Network in Lao 0000 GMT 11 Jun 94 BK1106092094 Vientiane Vitthayou Hengsat Radio Network Lao BFN [Text] At 0830 yesterday, His Excellency [H.E.] General Than Shwe, chairman of the State Law and Order Restoration Council of the Union of Myanmar [Burma], accompanied by his wife and entouage, visited some of our economic production establishments. They first travelled to the Nam Ngum hydroelectric dam in Keo Oudom District, Vientiane Province, to tour the dam site, where they were welcomed by many deputy ministers of the Industry Ministry and cadres concerned. After touring the dam site and hearing a report from the management of the dam on electricity generation there, H.E. Gen. Than Shwe and his party, accompanied by Foreign Affairs Minister Somsavat Lengsavat, took a boat tour of the dam area and had lunch on board hosted by Vientiane Provincial Governor Mounkeo Olaboun. After that, H.E. Gen. Than Shwe and his party returned to the capital, Vientiane. At 1600 on the same day, H.E. Gen. Than Shwe and the delegation left for Tha Naleng to visit the Lao-Thai friendship bridge where they were welcomed by Boun-gnang Volachit, mayor of Vientiane Municipality. After touring the bridge site, the delegation visited the multiethnic cultural park, which is located nearby. At the park, they were warmly welcomed by the leadership of the Ministry of Information and Culture and a number of high-ranking cadres. At 1000 today, H.E. Gen. Than Shwe and his party will pay a visit to the That Luang pagoda temple, where they will be welcomed by Bouaban Volakhoun, deputy minister of information and culture. Later they will pay homage to the pagoda, which is much revered by Lao people. The party is also scheduled to visit Sisaket temple and the Phakeo hall.
