FBIS4-18076 "drweu062__a94014" FBIS-WEU-94-062-A Daily Report 31 March 1994 ANNEX Germany SPD Wants UK To Contribute More to EU SPD Wants UK To Contribute More to EU AU3003123394 Hamburg DPA in German 1153 GMT 30 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU3003123394 Hamburg DPA German BFN [Text] Bonn -- According to the Social Democratic Party of Germany [SPD], the British Government should contribute more toward financing the European Union [EU]. The discount granted to Great Britain in 1985, involving 6 billion German marks [DM] annually, is no longer justified today, the deputy chairwoman of the SPD and spokeswoman for European affairs, Wieczorek-Zeul, stated at a news conference in Bonn today. She pointed out that the German net payments currently amount to over DM23 billion. Ms. Wieczorek-Zeul presented a 10-point catalogue with her party's demands for the German Presidency of the EU Council of Ministers, which begins in the second half of 1994. According to the SPD, the fight against unemployment must be given top priority. As the election results in Italy have shown, in view of 20 million jobless throughout the European Union, measures are urgently required to combat the increasing danger of right-wing radicalism. The realization of the trans-European transportation system would be a suitable project in this respect. During the German presidency, the SPD also expects initiatives designed to prevent the "social dumping" by foreign companies in the sphere of services -- above all, in the construction industry. Closer cooperation with the European Union in the fight against right-wing extremist criminals is also required. A female EU commissioner is going to be appointed to promote equal rights for women in European institutions. According to the SPD politician, the German presidency will assume particular significance. The changeover takes place at a time when members of the government parties seem to be lacking the willingness for further European unification. She was optimistic that the SPD will assume power in Bonn during the German presidency of the European Union.
