FBIS4-16475 "drsov074_c_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-074 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 Federal Assembly Faction Leaders View Civil Accord Memorandum Faction Leaders View Civil Accord Memorandum PM1804091194 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 16 Apr 94 First Edition p 2 PM1804091194 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [Reports by Yevgeniy Skukin under general heading: "We Discuss Draft Agreement on Civil Accord"] [Text] We Are For Moncloa Plan; Vladimir Goman, Deputy Chairman of the Committee for Federation Affairs in Regional Policy Our deputies' group, "new regional policy," was the initiator in elaborating a memorandum on accord in the State Duma. We were the first to come out with the proposal to adopt this document, similar to the Moncloa pact signed in Spain in 1977, to ensure that a consolidating basis appears in the work of the State Duma. If the sides which sign this document are sincere in their desire to lead society to civil accord and peace in order to implement the economic reforms which have been outlined then in that case the document on civil accord will play its part. But if a dual and triple philosophy is in operation and we say one thing, think another, and do a third, then the document will be doomed. I Support It Although.... Sergey Yushenkov, chairman of the State Duma Defense Committee The actual idea of civil accord agreements with the existence of a Constitution seems dubious to me. But on the other hand an agreement after the amnesty is indeed essential. The statements and actions of those who have been amnestied show that they by no means assess the pardon as an act of well intentioned conciliation and the path toward accord and they openly oppose the existing system, the president, and other structures of legal power. In this connection we must of course prevent conflicts in society. But how to do this? The memorandum on accord adopted by the Duma is in my view a hollow thing. It contains no real mechanisms of implementation except the primitive appeal to live in harmony -- there is nothing there. The president's draft provides for a mechanism of implementation -- not only organs for coordinating actions but also certain sanctions. When the "Russia's Choice" faction said that such agreements are impossible right now, we were by no means opposing the idea there should be an agreement. We were simply saying that the tasks which can be resolved should be resolved. I am skeptical about such documents and at the same time I understand the need for such steps from the viewpoint of creating an atmosphere of conciliation in society.
