FBIS4-28561 "dreas112_a_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-112 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Continued Reaction Reports on DPRK Issues Continued Reaction Reports on DPRK Issues NEW YORK TIMES Report Rebutted OW1006022794 Tokyo KYODO in English 0215 GMT 10 Jun 94 OW1006022794 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Washington, June 9 KYODO -- The Japanese Embassy on Thursday issued a rebuttal of an article published in the NEW YORK TIMES the same day claiming Japan was reluctant to levy sanctions against North Korea over its alleged nuclear weapons program. "The article is not accurate," the embassy said in a rebuttal statement. The Seoul-datelined dispatch reported that despite its public agreement with the United States on "any sanctions imposed," Tokyo, according to officials, has been arguing in private against Washington's plan. The report quoted a senior Japanese official as saying, "stopping the remittances of funds is a very heavy sanction. Our differences are over the weight of the sanctions and the timing." The TIMES quoted another senior Japanese official as saying that Japan and the U.S. have a different view of the money transmitted by Koreans in Japan to North Korea. "They (Americans) see this money as something that props up the North Korean Government. We see it as largely something from Koreans in Japan who want to help their families," the Japanese official was quoted as saying. The TIMES story also said: "Combined with China's reluctance to exert greater pressure on North Korea, the sharp debate between Tokyo and Washington threatens to greatly reduce the pain inflicted on the government of (North Korean President) Kim Il-song." The embassy said in its rebuttal it was "the shared view" among Japan, the U.S. and South Korea is that "the international community should, through the UN Security Council, urgently consider an appropriate response, including sanctions. There are no differences between the U.S. and Japan on this matter." The embassy statement also said, "Japan will respond in a responsible manner within its constitution, should the UN Security Council adopt measures, including sanctions." U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Robert Gallucci, appearing before a hearing in a House panel, dismissed the reported rift between Tokyo and Washington.
