FBIS3-18727 "drweu045_i_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 FRANCE Ministry Wants `Transparent' Policy BR0703141094 Paris LE FIGARO in French 5-6 Mar 94 p 2 BR0703141094 Paris LE FIGARO Language: French Article Type:BFN [Report by Claude Lorieux: "Saddam's Emissary in Paris"] [Text] The UN resolutions do not prohibit talks, so people are talking. Riyad al-Qaysi, director at the Iraqi Foreign Ministry, visited the French Foreign Ministry yesterday. He already has visited it once before, a few months ago. In addition, a Baghdad oil official was the guest of Elf and Total last week. France, with its high unemployment, is finding it increasingly difficult to live with the trade embargo imposed on Iraq since it invaded Kuwait in August 1990. The embargo is denying our exporters access to a large and creditworthy market (18 million inhabitants). France is not the only country experiencing these problems. With regard to this issue, which Washington is watching closely, Paris wants its policy to be "transparent." It expects Saddam Husayn to respect "the resolutions and nothing but the resolutions." Speaking on Wednesday [2 March] about the "progress" made by Iraq, [French Foreign Minister] Alain Juppe indicated that, if it is confirmed that Baghdad no longer has any weapons of mass destruction, we can authorize it to export its oil. Along with other countries, including Great Britain, France does not want the United Nations to invent fresh obstacles each time Iraq overcomes one of the previous hurdles placed in its path. Many Arab and Western diplomats suspect the White House of encouraging this practice. An "Iraqi lobby" accompanied -- or encouraged -- France's unilateral action of supporting Baghdad throughout the Iranian-Iraqi war. This lobby has now "reawakened." Some of its members dream of a government daring to "reinstall" them on the Iraqi market: Iraq has the Middle East's second largest oil reserves. Alain Juppe wants to respect "UN legality." It is said that he will insist on this point during the term of the French UN Security Council presidency. However, the increasingly tight grip being exerted by the United States on the Gulf monarchies and the disappointment of our exporters in Saudi Arabia (most recently the "political" failure of Airbus in the face of competition from Boeing) will only serve to push French -- and European -- leaders to look elsewhere, even if they will not condemn the sanctions before their reason for being has disappeared.
