FBIS4-13047 "drnes074yy_94002" FBIS-NES-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks New Round of PLO-Israeli Talks Begins in Cairo New Round of PLO-Israeli Talks Begins in Cairo Palestinian Official on 1st Session NC1704164794 Cairo MENA in Arabic 1522 GMT 17 Apr 94 NC1704164794 Cairo MENA Arabic BFN [Text] Cairo, 17 Apr (MENA)--Palestinian and Israeli negotiators meeting for talks to eliminate the obstacles impeding the implementation of the Gaza-Jericho accord on self-rule have wound up their first session, during which they continued the discussion of security issues. Khalid al-Qidrah, a member of the Palestinian delegation, told MENA that the Security Affairs Committee held a two-hour meeting chaired on the Palestinian side by Brigadier General 'Abd-al-Razzaq al-Yahya and on the Israeli side by Uzi Dayan, head of the Israeli Army's Planning Department. He added that the purpose of the meeting was to discuss issues concerning crossings between Gaza, Jericho, and Israel; joint Palestinian-Israeli patrols on parallel roads; the settlements' security; and other security topics. He said the Civil Affairs Committee, which will basically deal with water and communications, and the Legal Affairs Committee will meet later today. Al-Qidrah said that during the previous round the Israeli side presented a working paper to the Palestinians on the legal jurisdiction in Gaza and Jericho. He affirmed that the paper has been rejected because it is not in line with the regional sovereignty of the self-rule authority. He added that during this round the Palestinian side on the Legal Affairs Committee will submit a working paper on the legal and judicial jurisdiction and regional sovereignty. He noted that the Palestinian side demands full jurisdiction and sovereignty over the Palestinian territories. He said: The Israeli paper, which was presented to us at the end of the last round, was not discussed. He affirmed that the Palestinian side rejected it completely. Al-Qidrah rejected Israel having any legal jurisdiction in Gaza and Jericho, even on non-Palestinians as long as they are present in the territories under the Palestinian self-rule authority, noting that the Israeli proposal is incompatible with international law. This round of negotiations, which opened this morning, is expected to last until Thursday.
