FBIS3-44890 "drchi006_d_94011" FBIS-CHI-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 Northeast Asia Reports on Japan's Tsutomu Hata's Visit Holds Press Conference on Ties OW0901091494 Beijing XINHUA in English 0858 GMT 9 Jan 94 OW0901091494 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 9 (XINHUA) -- Japanese Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata gave a press conference here today before winding up his two-day China tour. He told Chinese and foreign reporters that he had discussions with Chinese leaders on bilateral ties, regional and international issues. The two sides also exchanged views on Japan providing new government loans to China after 1995, he added. He said that Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa takes the Japan- China relations as one of the pillars of the Japanese Government's foreign policy. In the coming years, he said, the Japanese Government will make such relations more forward-looking and more beneficial to the world. Meanwhile, Japan will continue to support China's reform and open policy, because the policy is of great importance to China, to the neighboring countries and even to the whole world, he said. To ensure continuous growth of the Sino-Japanese economic cooperation and trade, he said, the two sides have agreed to make more efforts in improving the environment for the economic activities. He described China's drive to build a socialist market economy as a "gigantic, historic experiment," and expressed the hope that it will succeed. On the nuclear issue in the Korean peninsula, he said that Japan and China are in complete agreement that there should be no nuclear weapons in the peninsula. The participation in international cooperation by Korea, a member of the international community, is very important to Korea itself and to Northeast Asia as well, he stressed. The two sides have also confirmed that they will, proceeding from their respective positions, make efforts to ensure that the northern part of Korea will accept the IAEA's [International Atomic Energy Agency] inspection and that the North-South dialogue will move forward. He said that China, now the world's eleventh largest trading power, should regain its seat in the GATT, and Japan will continue to support China's endeavors.
