FBIS3-60610 "jptnd001___94072" JPRS-TND-93-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 6 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL `Little Agreement in Sight' at CSCE on Russian Peacekeeping AU0112113893 Paris AFP in English 1048 GMT 1 Dec 93 AU0112113893 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Peter Mackler] [Text] Rome, Dec 1 (AFP) -- Diplomatic chiefs from 52 countries struggled through a second day of talks Wednesday with little agreement in sight on using Russian peacekeepers to police the former Soviet Union. Swiss Foreign Minister Flavio Cotti doubted whether anything more than a vague statement of principles would emerge from the two-day session of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). "The subject is not completely ripe for a decision," Cotti told reporters as foreign ministers and other representatives of the CSCE states continued their deliberations. "There will not be an absolute consensus but a rather broad accord in principle with strict conditions," he said. Delegates here said the ministers were generally agreed on the need to strenghten peacekeeping structures across a Europe plagued by ethnic and national strife. But Moscow's request for a mandate in the former Soviet republics drew warnings of caution from several nations and opposition from the Baltic states, where Russia still has troops. They fear Russia could use peacekeeping operations as a pretext for maintaining control over its former domain. The Russians, who have deployed forces in such hotspots as Georgia and Tajikistan, have sought authorisation from the CSCE or United Nations to give them international legitimacy and financing. But officials here said questions remained on the system of financing, the relationship of Russian troops to their international supervisors and other issues. A Swiss diplomat, who asked not to be named, said the CSCE would ask a group of experts to study the matter and report back in a few weeks. The aim is to reach a conclusion by a meeting of CSCE senior officials in Prague in March. "I understand the fears of certain countries," Cotti said. "But it is in everybody's interest to see a country, above all a large country, operating within the framework of international law." The Swiss minister said another subject of hot debate here was pressure on the Ukraine to dismantle the nuclear arsenal it inherited from the defunct Soviet Union. Sources said Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev asked the CSCE to condemn the Ukraine for balking on disarmament and unconditional ratification of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty [START I). Ukraine Foreign Minister Anatoly Zlenko reiterated here Tuesday that his country was moving towards gradual elimination of its stockpile but required security guarantees and financial help.
