FBIS3-29214 "dreas032_n_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 Vietnam Radio Hails Bilateral Relations With Russia BK1602012294 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam in English 1000 GMT 15 Feb 94 BK1602012294 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Language: English Article Type:BFN [Station commentary] [Text] Last week, Vietnamese Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam met and talked with Russian Vice Premier Yarov in Moscow. Mr. Yarov is also president of the Russian subcommitte in the Russia-Vietnam intergovernmental committee on economic, trade, scientific, and technological cooperation. Here is our radio editor's opinion: Throughout the meeting, the two sides informed each other of the situation in each country, compared notes on bilateral issues, and affirmed their wish to develop the traditional friendly relations between Vietnam and Russia. Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam and Vice Premier Yarov reaffirmed that they will quickly promote and broaden the cooperation for mutual interest between Vietnam and Russia in the field of energy, planting, and prospecting of tropical farm products, mining, and mine industry. The two sides are determined to strengthen relations between Vietnamese localities and those in the (?Far East) of Russia and promote the trade relations between the business enterprises between the two countries. On this occasion, Vietnam and Russia observed positive developments in recent relations between the two countries and maintained that these relations will further develop in the future. Their statements are correct. Over the last six months, the two countries held repeated meetings at high level. Vietnamese Vice Premier Tran Duc Luong last year paid a working visit to Russia. Over the last five months, the Vietnamese foreign minister paid two working visits to this country. Despite many difficulties confronting Russia, Russian leaders spent much time to contact and discuss with the Vietnamese leaders in order to strengthen the close relations between the two countries. Particularly, Russia agreed to let Vietnam pay its debt within its capacity. Russia also agreed with Vietnam's proposal to have measures to ensure safety and security for Vietnamese people working and studying in Russia. The relations between Vietnam and Russia have undergone many years of fine development. Now there is a ground to believe that these relations will develop as those in the past on the basis of equality and mutual benefit.
