FBIS3-51170 "drlat010bb_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 January 1994 INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS Terrorist Resurgence Prompts `State of Alert' PY1301210694 Asuncion ULTIMA HORA in Spanish 13 Jan 94 p 8 PY1301210694 Asuncion ULTIMA HORA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by correspondent Dolores Oliveira in Buenos Aires] [Text] Argentine President Carlos Menem yesterday ordered a "state of alert" among Argentine intelligence services in light of the possibility of a subversive resurgence -- like the uprising in Chiapas, Mexico -- in Southern Cone countries. The president caught his main security assistants by surprise. They attributed the initiative to Menem's "intuition." There were rumors that everything began after closed door conversations with Uruguayan President Luis Alberto Lacalle and Paraguayan President Juan Carlos Wasmosy in Punta del Este, Uruguay, last week. According to reports published in Buenos Aires by the morning economic newspaper EL CRONISTA, Argentine officials who accompanied Menem in Punta del Este detected a fear -- particularly among members of Wasmosy's entourage -- of "hit-and-run forays" across Paraguayan and Bolivian borders by -- as Paraguayan politicians put it -- "narcoterrorists at the service of the Sao Paulo forum." The Sao Paulo Forum The so-called Sao Paulo Forum was born in 1990 in the wake of a well-intentioned initiative by labor leader Luiz Inacio "Lula" da Silva to unify the Latin American leftist sectors and to lead them along the path of democracy, consensus, and government experience. The Forum has already held four subsequent meetings, in Sao Paulo, Mexico, Managua, and Havana. Two irreconcilable positions emerged from within the Forum at the latest meeting in Havana. On the one hand, those who insisted on the political course. Among them were the Uruguayan Broad Front; the Brazilian labor movement; and Mexico's opposition PRD [Party of the Democratic Revolution], led by political scientist Jorge Castaneda -- the philosophical inspirer of this Latin American leftist group. On the other hand, the hardliners refuse to give up the armed struggle and who decided "to prepare for a rebellion by the victims of the economic adjustment." This happened just two months ago, in November 1993. An intelligence report read a few hours ago by President Menem suggests some irregularities that might include a connection among the various attempts to begin subversive activities in Argentine territory.
