FBIS4-23327 "drafr107_d_94011" FBIS-AFR-94-107 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Renamo Brigadier Stripped, Beaten by Soldiers Renamo Brigadier Stripped, Beaten by Soldiers MB0206162094 London BBC World Service in English 1515 GMT 2 Jun 94 MB0206162094 London BBC World Service English BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] It is apparently getting pretty rough in the United Nations assembly camps in Mozambique. Hundreds of soldiers from the government side and Renamo [Mozambique National Resistance] have been kicking their heels for months, waiting to be demobilized. Conditions are often poor, the troops have run out of patience with the slow progress of the operation. There has been a string of mutinies, but the worst yet has occurred in a Renamo camp when troops turned on one of their most senior officers. From Maputo, Barnaby Philips reports: [Begin Philips recording] UN and diplomatic sources told me this morning of the most dramatic mutiny so far in the Mozambican peace process. It occurred yesterday in a Renamo assembly area in the northern province of Zambezia. One of Renamo's most senior generals, Brigadier Raul Dique, was set upon by his own men. The UN source said that Brig. Dique was stripped, tied to a tree, and beaten in the face and stomach. He apparently lost some teeth and his ribcage is understood to have been badly damaged. Diplomatic sources confirmed that Brig. Dique had been roughed up and said he was recuperating in a UN military hospital. In Maputo, Renamo have refused to say anything about the incident. It is only the latest in the now almost daily riots which are afflicting both government and Renamo assembly areas across Mozambique. The riots are getting increasingly violent and UN military observers in the camps are themselves becoming the target of that violence. All this was due to be discussed at a meeting in Maputo this afternoon between top UN, government, and Renamo figures. The UN will be (?arguing) that the brutal treatement handed out to Brig. Dique will provide the necessary motivations to both sides to speed up the mobilization process. [end recording]
