FBIS4-65893 "drweu101_n_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-101 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Sweden Bildt Defends Baltic Policy Bildt Defends Baltic Policy 94EN0343B Stockholm DAGENS NYHETER in Swedish 27 Apr 94 p 9 94EN0343B Stockholm DAGENS NYHETER Swedish CSO [Article by Thomas Michelsen: "Committee on Constitution Grills Bildt on Balts and Volvo" -- introductory paragraph in boldface as published] [Excerpt] What might Sweden do if the independence of the Baltic states was threatened again? Will we stay neutral or will we actively support our neighboring countries, as we did during Finland's Winter War? There was tough debate on those issues when Prime Minister Carl Bildt was questioned by the Committee on the Constitution on Tuesday [26 April]. The starting point was a speech delivered by Bildt at the Foreign Policy Institute in November of last year. Kurt Ove Johansson (Social Democratic Party) felt that in that speech, the prime minister had restricted Sweden's freedom of action and even aroused dangerous hopes in the Baltic states. Bildt had aroused expectations in our vicinity that we would not be neutral if there were a war. And above all, Kurt Ove Johansson questioned the way in which the prime minister's attention-getting speech had been prepared. Had Bildt consulted the rest of the government or the opposition parties represented on the Riksdag's Foreign Affairs Committee? "Signal" Bildt answered that the purpose of the speech was to send a signal to Red-Brown revanchists in the East. And the positions expressed were not new: The prime minister had expressed the same policy in several previous speeches and articles. "I hope that the European Union [EU] will react if the independence of the Balts is threatened. That might involve economic sanctions. And things like that can in no way be linked to strict neutrality under international law," the prime minister said. "But what does the prime minister mean by active Swedish support for the Baltic states if there is a Russian invasion?" Johansson asked. He pointed out that 8,000 Swedish soldiers had participated in Finland's Winter War using weapons from Swedish military stores as well as aircraft. "We will provide political support. That may mean sanctions," Bildt answered. "We must not let ourselves be forced to betray our neighbors again, as we did in 1940. But exactly what we will do must be decided when the time comes." Heated Debate Kurt Ove Johansson did not think there was any popular support in Sweden for abandoning neutrality. In a recent public opinion poll, over 80 percent said they thought we should keep our neutrality. [passage omitted]
