FBIS4-17471 "drsov079_e_94019" FBIS-SOV-94-079 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Continuation of Reportage on Black Sea Fleet Talks Continuation of Reportage on Black Sea Fleet Talks Kravchuk Rejects Third Party LD2304165494 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1614 GMT 23 Apr 94 LD2304165494 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] The problem of the Black Sea Fleet should be solved at the negotiations between Ukraine and Russia without interference of "any third parties," Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk said in his interview with the World service Radio Ukrainy on Saturday. He emphasized that he had never spoken about participation of any other party in this process. In Kravchuk's words, during his telephone talk with Viktor Chernomyrdin on Saturday he proposed to the Russian premier "to meet at the governmental level and to solve this problem with the help of experts and ministers." "The statements voiced by ministers are not obligatory the truth in its final instance," Kravchuk said given various interpretations of the results of the negotiations in Sevastopol presented by Vitaliy Radetskyy and Pavel Grachev, heads of military departments of both countries. He expressed hope that the Black Sea Fleet problem would be solved "with Russia's president and government." Kravchuk called the meeting between Ukrainian and Russian Defense Ministers held in Sevastopol on 21-22 April "a search for ways out" and called not to make any "far-reaching conclusions." Kravchuk reassured that Ukraine "will support Russia's interest to have its base in Sevastopol" and noted that "nobody should be granted any unilateral advantages." "One cannot force Russia to leave its bases in Crimea," said Kravchuk. He pointed out that "we must sign corresponding documents on rent of this bases by Russia for a definite time." "The main thing is to solve on which conditions and principles this would be done," Kravchuk said. He underlined that he does not see any other way out -- "this problem cannot be solved by dictatorship or sanctions." Kravchuk said that existence of foreign bases on the territory of any country not obligatory threatens to its sovereignty. As an example, he mentioned functioning of U.S. naval bases in several regions of the world.
