FBIS3-48925 "dreeu001_k_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 CROATIA TANJUG Reports Mobilization of Bosnian Croats LD3012213493 Belgrade TANJUG in English 2058 GMT 30 Dec 93 LD3012213493 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Zagreb, December 30 (TANJUG) -- The Croatian Helsinki Committee warned Thursday [30 December] that mass mobilization was carried out in the past few weeks in the Republic of Croatia of those born in Bosnia-Herzegovina in order to send them to the battle fronts in this war-torn former Yugoslav republic. A committee statement said several thousand people have already been mobilized. They were at the barracks of the Croatian Army and wearing uniforms without any insignia. Noting that those mobilized were citizens of Croatia, the committee noted that the Croatian authorities "did not adhere to international provisions" which "most strongly forbid sending soldiers of one state to fight in another state." A civil war raged in Bosnia-Herzegovina for more than 20 months between the local Serbs, Moslems and Croats. The Bosnian Croats have from the very beginning been assisted by several tens of thousand of troops of the regular Army of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Helsinki Committee demanded the Croatian authorities immediately halt such activities, condemn them and promise a thorough and urgent enquiry as well as open disciplinary and court proceedings against the officials involved. The statement also demanded an enquiry into the fate of all the soldiers, Croatia's citizens, sent to Bosnia-Herzegovina whose whereabouts were presently unknown, as well as the return of all those mobilized and already sent to Bosnia-Herzegovina. The committee, as set out, was in possession of documents showing that disciplinary measures were taken against the soldiers serving in Croatia's Army who have refused to go to Bosnia-Herzegovina as well as that they were threatened with court-martial. Some of the soldiers who refused to take part in the latest preparations for going to Bosnia-Herzegovina "were beaten up at the barracks," while others were threatened "to have their citizenship certificates taken away and inviting trouble for their families," the statement of the Croatian Helsinki Committee said.
