FBIS4-19087 "drweu071_q_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-071 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 TURKEY Cetin Comments on Agreements Cetin Comments on Agreements TA1204193494 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1700 GMT 12 Apr 94 TA1204193494 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Excerpt] [Passage omitted] In a statement after the official Turkish-Croatian talks in Ankara today, Foreign Minister Hikmet Cetin said that the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Balkans was discussed at the talks. Announcing that Turkey's contribution will continue for the implementation of the Croatian-Bosnian agreement signed in Washington, Cetin remarked that agreement was reached to hold a meeting in Ankara with the participation of the foreign ministers of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, and Turkey in a bid to put the agreement into effect. He reported that the Turkish peace force to be sent to Bosnia-Herzegovina was also discussed with the Croatian delegation. Cetin declared that agreements on the prevention of double taxation, promotion of investments, and economic cooperation will be signed as soon as possible with the aim of developing Turkish-Croatian relations. Cetin also stated that Turkey and Croatia will appoint military attaches to their respective embassies and Croatia will open a consulate general in Istanbul. Possibilities for bilateral cooperation in the field of defense industry will also be explored, Cetin noted, adding that the Croatian side welcomed Turkey's contribution on the rebuilding of the Mostar Bridge and other cultural works. Cetin announced that on 17 April, Croatian Airlines will begin Zagreb-Istanbul flights and ro-ro [roll-on/roll-off] connections will also be secured. In his statement after the talks between the delegations, Mate Granic, Croatian deputy prime minister and foreign minister, said that the talks in Ankara were very successful. He expressed the belief that bilateral relations will develop further with each passing day. Granic remarked that the United States, Russia, and the European Union are exerting efforts to organize a meeting among the Croatians, Bosnians, and Serbs. Granic was received by President Suleyman Demirel at the Cankaya Mansion this afternoon. The visiting minister will leave Turkey tomorrow.
