FBIS3-59542 "jpest002__l94027" JPRS-EST-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International Economic Competitiveness 10 January 1994 WEST EUROPE EAST-WEST RELATIONS Finland, Estonia: Mammalian Protein Protects Potatoes Against Viruses BR0912154093 Paris BIOFUTUR in French Nov 93 pp 9-10 - FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0912154093 Paris BIOFUTUR Language: French Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Mammals Rescue Plants"] [Text] Creating plants resistant to a large spectrum of viral infections rather than to a single virus is exactly what Finnish and Estonian researchers are trying to achieve. Their idea is to create transgenic plants incorporating 2'-5' oligoadenylate synthetase, a protein produced by mammals in response to viral infections. When activated by double-stranded RNA [ribonucleic acid] -- the most frequently found replicative form of viral RNA, this enzyme acts as a catalyst in the polymerization of ATP [adenosine triphosphate] into 2'-5' oligo-adenylates. In turn, these oligonucleotides go on to activate the endoribonuclease, RNase L. Mart Saarma (Biotechnology Institute of Helsinki) and his colleagues have transformed potato plants, via Agrobacterium tumefaciens, with the c-DNA [complementary deoxyribonucleic acid] of the rat's 2-5' oligo-adenylate synthetase gene. These plants, planted on small parcels of farmland, were innoculated with potato virus X (PVX). In three of the clones tested, no viral particles were detected. The virus was detected in the tubercules and leaves of the other clones, but in two cases, in concentrations below those found in non-transformed control plants and in transgenic plants expressing the capside protein of PVX. These results would suggest that a mammal protein can protect potato plants from infection by PVX. Is this protection equally effective against other RNA viruses? And is it, as in the case of mammals, general and non-specific? These are questions currently being addressed by the researchers. For more information, contact Mart Saarma, Biotechnology Institute, PO Box 45, Karvaamokuja 3A, 00014 Helsinki University, Finland.
