FBIS3-15805 "drsov047_a_94013" FBIS-SOV-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Yeltsin: Ames Case Not `Crucial' to U.S. Relations LD0903173494 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1555 GMT 9 Mar 94 LD0903173494 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: Reports by Diplomatic Correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboynikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy, and others] [Text] Asked by INTERFAX on Wednesday [9 March], whether he will receive ex U.S. President Nixon, now in Moscow, Russia's President Yeltsin toughly declared: "No". He added: "Neither the government nor Filatov (the presidential administration chief -- IF) will receive him." "After the meetings that Nixon has had here, this is impossible, and I am glad that U.S. President Clinton shares this view. One should not behave as he pleases in Russia. Russia is a Great country," said Yeltsin. During his current stay in Moscow, Nixon met with a number of officials, among them Russia's former president Alexander Rutskoy, just released from Lefortovo jail, the Communist Party leader Gennadiy Zyuganov, the cabinet member and leader of the Russian Unity and Concord Party's faction in Duma Sergey Shakhray, and the leader of another parliamentary faction Grigoriy Yavlinskiy. At the same time, Yeltsin stressed that we will do all we can so that what has been gained through Russo-American cooperation should not be lost. This is a very useful plus, and our goal is that at a meeting of the chiefs of the two countries foreign policy departments in Vladivostok (to be held on March 14 - IF), new opportunities will be explored to promote this cooperation." On the Ames scandal in U.S., Yeltsin said: "Well, it is the intelligence service's business. This is a natural state of relations between any countries, but this cannot be crucial to Russo-American relations." Yeltsin answered an INTERFAX reporter's question at a wreath-laying ceremony near Gagarin's burial site by the Kremlin wall. The ceremony was held to mark the sixtith birthday of the world's first cosmonaut.
