FBIS3-34199 "drnes024_h_94001" FBIS-NES-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 Tunisia Argentine Foreign Minister Hails Relations LD0402092194 Tunis Tunisian Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0600 GMT 4 Feb 94 LD0402092194 Tunis Tunisian Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Mr. Guido Jose Mario Di Tella, Argentine minister of foreign affairs, international trade, and protocol, ended his official visit to our country on 3 February. At a news conference he held at the airport before leaving Tunisia, he said that President Zine El Abidine had a unique personality and that his analyses were very clear. He also stressed the need to intensify exchanges between the two countries, indicating that the current export of Tunisian phosphate symbolized the new relations that the two countries intended to establish. In the same context, he said that he hoped President Ben Ali would pay a visit to Argentina, adding that such a visit would offer new opportunities to deepen bilateral relations on the one hand and to deepen Argentina's relations with the Arab world on the other hand. The Argentine minister also talked about the importance of strengthening bilateral relations as a necessary phase for the building of relations between regional groupings, such as the Arab Maghreb Union and the Organization of Cooperation and Trade for Latin American countries [as heard]. He then touched on the subject of South-South cooperation, saying that he had discussed this matter with President Ben Ali and that strengthening bilateral relations between developing countries was the only way to improve the level of cooperation between the countries of the southern hemisphere. Finally, he announced that the Argentine economy minister would visit Tunisia next April and said he hoped this visit would open important prospects for a fruitful exchange between businessmen in the two countries. The Argentine minister handed President Ben Ali a written message from President Carlos Menem yesterday. The minister also told President Ben Ali that his country was looking forward to his forthcoming visit, saying he hoped that it would take place as soon as possible because it would contribute to the intensification of the good relations of cooperation between the two countries.
