FBIS3-1027 "drafr053_e_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 WEST AFRICA Nigeria Minister Urges Security Consciousness in Bakassi AB1803085594 Lagos Radio Nigeria Network in English 0600 GMT 18 Mar 94 AB1803085594 Lagos Radio Nigeria Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The Federal Government has asked the public not to panic because of the intervention of France in the border dispute between Nigeria and Cameroon. The minister of information and culture, Professor Jerry Gana, gave this advice at a news conference in Abuja. Gbenga Onoiga was there: [Begin recording] [Onoiga] Recounting efforts made by the Federal Government to resolve the dispute amicably, Prof. Gana reiterated the readiness of government to protect the lives and property of Nigerians. He urged the people, particularly those living in eastern states and the border areas with Cameroon, to be security conscious and be ready in the event of any problem arising from the Bakassi conflict. Prof. Gana also advise the public to ignore some pamphlets now in circulation aimed at misinforming them about the dispute. [Gana] We appeal especially for Nigerians living in the eastern states and the border areas with Cameroon, to be particularly security conscious. It is therefore my responsibility to plead with the Nigerians to ignore a number of assaults which we have reason to believe are [words indistinct] people outside Nigeria who are trying to confuse Nigerians and knock their heads together in order to provoke internal division at this very critical time. [Onoiga] The minister said the pamphlets, which tended to [word indistinct] to tribalize our religious sentiments, were completely false. He said the minister of foreign affairs was to prepare a document concerning a full historical record on the Bakassi issue. The document, Prof. Gana explained, will be used by his ministry to educate the public on the facts of the matter. He maintained that the present administration will not make the mistake of the past by abandoning Nigerians to molestation and humiliation by neighboring countries, particularly Cameroon. In the words of the minister, since Nigerians live in Bakassi, they must be protected by the Nigerian State. [end recording]
