FBIS4-40933 "drsov119_b_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-119 Daily Report 18 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Union Urges `Uncompromising Action' on Crime Union Urges `Uncompromising Action' on Crime PM2006131394 Moscow TRUD in Russian 18 Jun 94 p 1 PM2006131394 Moscow TRUD Russian BFN [Statement by Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs: "Who Will Be Next?"] [Text] Acts of armed violence against Russian industrialists and entrepreneurs are continuing in Moscow and other Russian cities. In terms of its scale, cynicism, and impunity the terror imposed on society by criminal groupings is gradually turning from a strictly criminal factor into a factor which poses a real threat to social foundations and citizens' safety. Committing murders, explosions, acts of arson, and other crimes and remaining, for the most part, invulnerable to criminal prosecution, criminal elements are destroying the people's moral health and giving rise to fear and lack of faith in the authorities' ability to ensure citizens' safety. Literally every day augments the tragic list of people who have died at the hands of hired killers and bandits. Boris Berezovskiy, general director of the "All-Russia Automobile Alliance," might have become their latest victim. An attempt was made on his life in downtown Moscow 7 June. Fate proved charitable to him, but his companion died, and several people who happened to be at the scene of the explosion received injuries and mutilations of varying gravity. Who will be next?... It must be clearly understood that the situation is already getting out of control and, thus, requires extraordinary measures to be taken. Otherwise the criminal degradation of the state will occur. What is needed is not so much good intentions as vigorous, uncompromising action to eradicate the criminal free-for-all. For their part Russia's industrialists and entrepreneurs are prepared to support any resolute steps by the president, the Federal Assembly, and the government to instill law and order and to ensure guarantees of Russians' personal safety. The Association of Russian Banks has issued a similar statement. [Signed] The Board of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
