FBIS3-6340 "dreas052_n_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 Vietnam Thai Delegation Visit, Leadership Meetings Noted Fishing Rights Discussed BK1703014494 Bangkok BANGKOK POST in English 17 Mar 94 p 1 BK1703014494 Bangkok BANGKOK POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Suphaphon Kanwirayothin in Hanoi] [Excerpts] Thailand and Vietnam, in a bid to remove a major thorn in bilateral relations, yesterday agreed to set up a joint task force at ministerial level to resolve the problem of fishing rights in the Gulf of Thailand. They agreed on the move, which was proposed by Thailand, during talks held shortly after the arrival here of Prime Minister Chuan Likphai for a four-day official visit. Fishery questions topped the agenda of a dozen issues the two delegations touched on during the plenary talks chaired by Mr Chuan and Vietnam's Premier Vo Van Kiet. Fisheries Department chief Plotprasop Suratsawat affirmed Thailand's eagerness to settle the fishery row. He told the BANGKOK POST he hoped the joint task force would be able to recommend a solution within the first two months of its inception. "Both sides shared the feeling that this problem must be resolved urgently but with extreme caution as it has implications encompassing aspects of national security, economy and the livelihoods of the two peoples. And a rash solution could be damaging," Mr Plotprasop said. [passage omitted] The question of fishing rights will be discussed in depth today in a separate meeting between Foreign Minister Prasong Sunsiri and his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyen Manh Cam. Mr Plotprasop will also attend the meeting. According to Mr Plotprasop, the Thai delegation yesterday made clear to the Vietnamese side that if there were no solution to the fishery problem, cooperation in other fields might be affected, for instance that of agriculture. [passage omitted] Meanwhile, Defence Minister Wichit Sukmak is due to hold bilateral talks with Vietnam's Defence Minister Doan Khue this morning.
