FBIS3-45297 "drchi011_b_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 United States & Canada Visit by Richard Gephart, Delegation Reported MFN Status Discussed OW1501093794 Beijing XINHUA in English 0916 GMT 15 Jan 94 OW1501093794 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, January 15 (XINHUA) -- The Chinese National People's Congress (NPC) wishes to enhance its exchanges and cooperation with the U.S. Congress so as to jointly promote the healthy growth of Sino-U.S. relations. NPC Standing Committee Chairman Qiao Shi expressed the wish when meeting with Richard Gephardt, visiting majority leader of the House of Representatives of the United States. Extending his welcome to Gephardt and his party, Qiao said that many U.S. congressmen had visited China since last November when Chinese President Jiang Zemin and U.S. President Bill Clinton met in Seattle, which was regarded as a new start in bilateral relations. Such visits have helped promote the congressmen's understanding of China, and provided opportunities for exchanges of views on issues of common concern. On the issue of the most-favored-nation (MFN) trading status, Qiao said that the MFN treatment is an arrangement of equity and mutual benefit between China and the United States. He reiterated that China is against linking the MFN treatment with issues that have nothing to do with trade, such as the human rights issue. Qiao said that a sound political, economic and trade relationship between the two countries is in line with the fundamental interests of the two peoples and is conducive to world peace and development. Gephardt said that U.S.-Chinese relations are "most essential" to the two countries and to the rest of the world as well. He said he believed that dialogues and exchanges would improve U.S.-Chinese ties, adding that the United States hopes progress would be achieved in bilateral relations. The U.S. guests arrived in China Wednesday [12 January] at the invitation of the Chinese People's Institute of Foreign Affairs.
