FBIS4-6663 "dreas077__a94004" FBIS-EAS-94-077-A Daily Report 21 April 1994 ANNEX Japan Envoy Discusses Kantor, U.S. Framework Talks Envoy Discusses Kantor, U.S. Framework Talks OW2104051194 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 21 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2104051194 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Japanese BFN [From NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 21 April Morning Edition] [Text] Japanese Government special envoy Nobuo Matsunaga disclosed in a speech on the afternoon of 20 April that U.S. Trade Representative [USTR] Mickey Kantor said that "Japanese macroeconomic measures are most important" in dealing with the stalled Japanese-U.S. economic framework talks. Matsunaga reported that Kantor again sought the continuation of income tax cuts and the implementation of other measures. With regard to the priority sectors in the framework talks such as automobiles and auto parts, he said that "both Japan and the United States should make arduous efforts" to formulate objective criteria which do not entail numerical targets, and he stressed the importance of compromise by both sides. Matsunaga visited Washington in early April to hold talks with U.S. Government officials. He touched on these talks in the speech. In reporting the U.S. position on this issue, he disclosed that Kantor had stated: "While specific issues with Japan surely need to be resolved, macroeconomic policies are most important. If the Japanese economy is not transformed into a domestic demand-oriented one through macropolicies, there can be no progress in Japanese-U.S. relations." In connection with this, Matsunaga said during the speech, "It is a fact that there are doubts overseas about the effectiveness of tax cuts and how much actual public investment is involved." "There is little time left before June. If we do not work hard on this, we will not make it in time." Matsunaga also revealed that he had told U.S. officials that "from Japan's point of view, the U.S. battlefront is divided" and that he had expressed the view that differences of views inside the U.S. Government contributed to difficulties in bilateral negotiations. He reported that in response, U.S. officials had explained: "There is indeed room for some soul-searching. We are now building a consensus around USTR Kantor, who is responsible for government procurement, insurance, and other specific sectors of the framework talks."
