FBIS3-59669 "jpjst002__l94008" JPRS-JST-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 3 January 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness AIST Adding Five Projects to Pioneering Research System 93FE0984H Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO in Japanese 26 Aug 93 p 1--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 93FE0984H Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] On 25 August, the Agency of Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) completed the description of next year's position for the Industrial Science and Technology Research and Development Program in the Industrial Technology Council (an advisory organ appointed by the Minister of MITI). In pioneering research where preparatory research for projects and pre-evaluation are performed, five new research problems will be undertaken next year, beginning with precise polymeric materials. Of the five pioneering research currently underway, inorganic materials with high-order structure control will be elevated to a project next year. The budget for next year received as 6.2% increase over the budget for fiscal year 1993 for the whole system to ¥25.9 billion. A 63.4% increase of about ¥400 million is planned for pioneering research. The Industrial Science and Technology Research and Development Program established this year is integrated into the older Large Scale R&D Program. The pioneering research program is set up with the objective of determining which program should become a project. Pioneering research will last two to three years with an annual budget of ¥4 or 5 billion for one theme. Pioneering research programs which will begin next year are (1) Precise Polymeric Materials, (2) Accelerated Bio Functions Fabrication Technology (time machine bio), (3) Human Media and Expert Machine Technology (tentative name), (4) Next Generation Metal Resource Production Technology, and (5) Manufactured Goods Evaluation and High-Level Measurement Analysis Technology. In the Precise Polymeric Materials research, polymer methods which precisely control the one-dimensional structure of polymers and techniques to accurately analyze the structure of polymer sequence will be investigated and developed. The essential performance and function of current polymers cannot be understood by perturbing the chemical structure. The intent of this research is to solve these shortcomings. A basic technology of polymer materials for the next generation is expected. Accelerated Bio Function Fabrication Technology has the objectives of clarifying the mechanisms of the evolution of living things and building evolutionary test system with artificial mutations at the laboratory level. Based on this, it will be possible to create biological functions for the objectives of ultra heat resistance and ultra pressure resistance that are applicable to chemical material manufacturing processes. In Next Generation Metal Resource Manufacturing Technology, metal recycling technology which places a light load on the environment and conserves energy by using light and bacteria will be developed. A precision manufacturing system which collects uniform resources and does not use smokestacks will be developed. The aim is to effectively use resources and to contribute solutions to the world's environmental problems.
