FBIS3-43951 "drafr014_d_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Dhlakama Threatens To Stop Troop Confinement MB1901123794 Maputo MEDIAFAX in Portuguese 19 Jan 94 p 2 MB1901123794 Maputo MEDIAFAX Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Dhlakama's ultimatum"] [Text] Maputo--Yesterday's Supervision and Control Commission [CSC] meeting closed shortly after it had begun. Meanwhile, Afonso Dhlakama, Mozambique National Resistance [Renamo] leader, delivered a serious ultimatum because of the slowness of government troop confinement. At the Military Club, Raul Domingos had some "technical problems" while following the CSC meeting, which would end rather abruptly, shortly after the Cease-Fire Commission, CCF, had read its report. The meeting is regarded as crucial and is scheduled to resume today. However, Renamo leader Afonso Dhlakama has set 22 January as the deadline for the government to explain the reason for the poor turnout of its forces at confinement points. Speaking shortly before the CSC meeting was due to open, the Renamo leader warned that "if by 22 January President Chissano has said nothing in connection with this matter, I shall order a stop to everything." The CSC meeting had been called to discuss the relaxation in government troop turnout at confinement points. Afonso Dhlakama described as unacceptable the explanations given by the government so far. He added that, in addition to the fact that the Mozambique Armed Forces, FAM, have means of transportation such as vehicles and aircraft, their troop confinement points are in easily accessible villages and district capitals. Statistics provided by the UN Operations in Mozambique, Unomoz, indicate that Renamo has already confined more than 5,400 men, as opposed to the government's 8,340 troops. The total number of men is about 80,000 on the government's side and 20,000 on the Renamo side. This difference makes it clear that Renamo has so far confined a higher percentage of its forces than the government. Dhlakama explained that his threat to stop the troop confinement process is linked to "pressure from my generals. They keep asking me: so, Mr. President, you are telling us to confine our troops, and yet the Mozambique Liberation Front [Frelimo] forces are still outside?" Dhlakama noted that government soldiers are taking advantage of the fact that his men have gone into their confinement points to enter areas previously occupied by Renamo. "They (the government forces) are even murdering civilians in Milange and Angonia", the Renamo leader said. Afonso Dhlakama said he was concerned about the fact that the international community has not condemned the government's behavior as vigorously as it has condemned Renamo so far. "I get nervous, because when we explain that we cannot do this or that because Frelimo has not yet given us housing, that prompts Security Council meetings and pressures from this or that source...now, we have arrived at a crucial stage, we are confining men who used to fight each other with their weapons...this is a joke in poor taste."
