FBIS3-30640 "dreeu026__a94011" FBIS-EEU-94-026-A Document Type:Daily Report 8 February 1994 ANNEX Bulgaria Press Reports Violations of Yugoslav Embargo AU0402140094 Sofia BTA in English 1113 GMT 4 Jan 94 AU0402140094 Sofia BTA Language: English Article Type:BFN [From BTA press review] [Text] Sofia, February 4 (BTA) -- A frontpage story in DEMOKRATSIYA, the daily of the Union of Democratic Forces (SDS), reports that within days the National Investigative Service (NIS) will launch an inquiry into cases of busting the Yugo-embargo. The daily quotes NIS Director Ani Kruleva as confirming that her service had evidence of embargo violations. "We received records from the prosecutor's office and we will institute proceedings," Mrs. Kruleva is quoted as saying. According to DEMOKRATSIYA, "this terse statement implies questions, the answers to which would blast Lyuben Berov's government." A SDS MP told the daily that "Bulgaria has always stated that it observes the Yugo-embargo and does not violate it at the state level, but there is indisputable evidence of companies and mafia groups busting the embargo, smuggling not just fuel but weapons as well." "The government assumed responsibility for the blunders of the Interior Ministry, which is not employed to enforce law and order in the country but to help mafia groups. Now the cabinet will have to suffer the consequences," the MP is quoted as saying. The Socialist daily DUMA gives prominence to an attempted export of 648 tonnes of ammonium nitrate to Serbia by the Sofia company Navamex. Quoting the chief of the Committee on Standardization and Metrology, the daily says that the fertilizer was loaded on 17 wagons in 50 kg sacks and was documented as washing powder. The train was stopped on January 1 at the Dragoman Checkpoint (on the Serbian border) as the shipment did not have a certificate issued by the laboratory of the Committee on Standardization and Metrology. The daily points out that a new procedure effective February 1 was introduced for getting export permits for Serbia and Montenegro, according to which the UN Sanctions Committee will be the only authority competent to clear such exports. In an interview for the trade union daily TRUD, Henning Stanislawski, deputy head of the UN Sanctions Assistance Mission (SAMCOM) in Bulgaria, tells about an incident in which UN monitors patrolling Bulgaria's border were chased when they wanted to check a petrol-carrying train bound for Yugoslavia in Dragoman. When they started checking the wagon numbers and documents, unknown persons chased the SAMCOM officials from the border back to Sofia. Still, Mr. Stanislawski points out that the mission is working well with the Bulgarian authorities.
