FBIS4-16744 "drsov075_c_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-075 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 Federal Assembly Shumeyko Views Plan for CIS Integration Shumeyko Views Plan for CIS Integration LD1904120194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1026 GMT 19 Apr 94 LD1904120194 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS parliamentary correspondent Lyudmila Yermakova] [Text] Moscow April 19 TASS -- A long-range plan of integration of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) is to be worked out by the Councils of Defence Ministers and of Foreign Ministers of the CIS by September 9, said Vladimir Shumeyko, chairman of Russia's Federation Council. The document being drafted on Boris Yeltsin's initiative is to determine how the Commonwealth develops in the areas of economy, policy and interstate relations, Shumeyko told reporters on Tuesday. The head of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the CIS believes that the striving for closer economic cooperation was manifested at a meeting of heads of state of CIS countries in Moscow. He believes that the economic integration will lead to political integration and that the concept of the development of the CIS is important in this connection. Nazarbayev's proposal for the creation of a Eurasian union prompts this, Shumeyko said. Shumeyko believes that changes in the CIS regulations will follow. Specifically, it should be stipulated that members of the CIS should not be in a state of war with each other. He said that Armenia and Azerbaijan are meant, above all. Regarding the signing of the Russian-Belarussian [Belarusian] agreement on unifying the monetary systems, Shumeyko surmised that there will be no objections from the Federation Council to the ratification of the document. "It is necessary to visualise the ways of rapprochement of member-countries of the Commonwealth without infringing their sovereignty and freedoms," believes the speaker of the upper house of the Russian parliament. He said that the growing economic closeness of Russia and Belarus should only be encouraged as this has been the purpose of the entire previous economic policy.
