FBIS3-48349 "dreas016_c_94013" FBIS-EAS-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 North Korea CPRF Statement Decries ROK Decision on Funeral SK2201111394 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1041 GMT 22 Jan 94 SK2201111394 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Pyongyang, January 22 (KCNA) -- The Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland [CPRF] published a statement today, which says: "The South Korean authorities barred our mourners' group from going to Seoul to mourn the death of Rev. Mun Ik-hwan at his bier. This stripped them bare, revealing their color as hooligans ignorant of the beautiful customs and manners and civility and morality handed down from the ancestors and a group of traitors who are clean indifferent to peace of the country and its reunification. We denounce this with national resentment. "The South Korean authorities branded the National Alliance for the Country's Reunification (Pomminnyon) as `an organisation benefiting the enemy' in order to block the attendance of the North side's mourners' group at the funeral of Rev. Mun. This once again disclosed to the whole world that they are an anti-national, anti-reunification group which treats all the fellow countrymen who aspire after reunification as `enemies'. "Worse still, they took issue with our offer of mourning visit by linking it with the fictitious `nuclear issue.' This is a political provocation motivated by a sinister purpose to further aggravate the North-South relations by connecting the humanitarian question with the political and military question in a far-fetched manner." The statement stresses: "We will curse through years the treacherous crime of the South Korean rulers in blocking the mourning visit of our side in violation of the elementary human ethic and morality and settle account with them for this. The Kim Yong-sam group which is prolonging its days by dependence on outside forces, treacheries, political swindle and irregulaties will meet its doom before long. "The South Korean rulers should act discreetly with reason."
