FBIS3-29301 "dreas033_c_94012" FBIS-EAS-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 North Korea More on Celebration of Kim Chong-il's Birthday Children's Union Holds Meeting SK1702045794 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0414 GMT 17 Feb 94 SK1702045794 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Pyongyang, February 16 (KCNA) -- A grand joint national meeting of organisations of the Korean Children's Union (KCU) was held today at the Pyongyang indoor stadium to mark the birthday of the dear leader Mr. Kim Chong-il. Attending the meeting were Politburo members of the Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Korea -- Premier of the Administration Council Kang Song-san, Vice-President Pak Song-chol, Chief of the General Staff of the Korean People's Army Choe Kwang -- and other cadres of the party and government, anti-Japanese revolutionary fighters, heroes, frontrankers in beautiful communist traits, noted scientists, artists and sportsmen, provincial delegates of the children's union and school children in Pyongyang. A children's union ceremony took place prior to the meeting. Flags bearing portraits of the great leader President Kim Il-song and the dear leader Comrade Kim Chong-il entered the meeting hall, escorted by members of the children's union. Reports were made by the column heads. Choe Yong-hae, chairman of the Central Committee of the League of Socialist Working Youth of Korea, made a congratulatory report at the meeting. He said that the school children are sturdily growing to be future masters equipped with knowledge, a good moral character and good health, enjoying the happiest life in the world under the loving care of the dear leader Mr. Kim Chong-il. "The children's union members should prepare themselves more firmly as loyal and filial sons and daughters through a vigorous movement of learning from the glorious youth and childhood of the dear leader Mr. Kim Chong-il and thus defend and glorify the Korean-style socialism centred on the popular masses generation after generation," he said. Then followed a ceremony for the admission of children to the Korean Children's Union. Children who were admitted to the KCU made an oath and party and government cadres, anti-Japanese revolutionary fighters, heroes, scientists, officers of the Korean People's Army tied neckerchiefs around their necks and pinned badges on their chests. The children responded with their first children's union salute, shouting "we will always prepare ourselves" to the call "let us always prepare ourselves as reserves of communist construction!" Then columns of KCU members marched past.
