FBIS4-14946 "drsov066cc_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-066 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS CIS Official Urges Joint Effort To Solve Karabakh Problem CIS Official Urges Joint Effort To Solve Karabakh Problem LD0604092794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0839 GMT 6 Apr 94 LD0604092794 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Oksana Runova] [Text] St. Petersburg April 6 TASS -- "It is very important that not only Russia but also the entire Commonwealth of Independent States should participate in the effort to solve the problem of Nagorno-Karabakh", believes Mikhail Krotov, chief of the secretariat of the Council of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the CIS. "Participating in the negotiations, CIS member-countries assume the responsibility for the decisions to be taken, and this creates additional political guarantees that the arrangements reached will be implemented". A delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the CIS countries, headed by Speaker of Kyrgyzstan Parliament Meditkhan Sharimkulov, has just returned form the zone of the conflict. The delegation met with leaders of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Nagorno-Karabakh. The trip was made on the decision of the fourth plenary meeting of the assembly. The request for the assembly to continue a peacemaking mission was made by both sides participating in the conflict. The plan for settlement, known as the Russian plan, although it coincides with the CSCE plan in many aspects, has been discussed at the negotiations. Both sides want an earlier settlement of the conflict, but each fears that agreements can be broken and that the opposing side may take advantage of the ceasefire and troops disengagement, Krotov told a briefing. Parliamentarians' purpose is to create an instrument for reliable political guarantees and to dispel distrust. The main purpose is to end bloodshed. At the stage of settlement of the conflict, much depends on the executive authorities, Krotov said. On April 15 the Council of Heads of State and the Council of Governments of the CIS countries will be held in Moscow, and the problem will be tackled at the level of presidents and prime ministers. Matters of political settlement will be considered at the subsequent stage. The role of parliament will increase. The chief purpose of the Council of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the CIS at present is to create an atmosphere favourable for negotiations, Krotov said. This in the aim of another meeting of parliamentarians to be held in Bishkek.
