FBIS4-10922 "drlat076_i_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-076 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 Nicaragua Government Signs Letter of Intent With IMF Government Signs Letter of Intent With IMF PA1904144094 Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 1916 GMT 16 Apr 94 PA1904144094 Mexico City NOTIMEX Spanish BFN [Text] Managua, 16 Apr (NOTIMEX) -- The Nicaraguan Government and an IMF mission today signed a letter of intent and concluded the negotiation process of the second phase of the structural adjustment program. Central Bank President Jose Evenor Taboada, who, together with Finance Minister Emilio Pereira, was one of the signers of the document, confirmed the signing of the document to NOTIMEX. According to Taboada, the next step is the internal approval procedure at the IMF Directorate in Washington. With the signing of the letter of intent, which includes the terms of the economic program and a request for credit from the financial organization, the government concluded its difficult negotiations on the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) program, which is scheduled to be signed in June, Taboada confirmed. The IMF technical delegation, which had been in Nicaragua for one week, returned to Washington on Saturday, he added. The Central Bank president predicted that the accord's ratification will not encounter problems within the IMF Directorate because it is backed by a prior agreement with the administration of the international organization. Taboada told NOTIMEX: Having reached an agreement with the administration -- of the IMF -- we do not believe there will be a problem in approving the adjustment program which guarantees $140 million in credits to Nicaragua over the next three years. The signing of the ESAF is linked to foreign aid, which will total $600 million in 1994. This aid will come from the international banking community and donor countries on the condition that the adjustment measures continue to be implemented. Criticism from political and labor sectors opposed to the conditions imposed by the ESAF was called manipulative by Taboada, who explained that the cost will be greater if the measures are not implemented. The official said he was confident that the implementation of the economic program would not prompt violence, strikes, or social protests that have led to economic losses in previous years. He said: I trust people "will not be swayed by the agitation of some sectors which, because of a lack of information or special interests," oppose this agreement. The program includes a reduction of 13,000 government jobs over the next three years. It also calls for the privatization of the telephone company and water works, the liberalization of fuel distribution, and the reorganization of education and health budgets. The government has announced the creation of 84,000 jobs, including both primary and secondary jobs, and it promised to give greater support to agriculture production in order to attain the official GDP growth target of 4 percent by the end of 1994.
