FBIS3-37782 "drsov036_a_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Yeltsin Calls For Summit on Yugoslavia LD2302120294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1130 GMT 23 Feb 94 LD2302120294 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS corespondent Anna Melnikova] [Text] Moscow February 23 TASS -- Russian President Boris Yeltsin called to hold a summit with leaders of four major NATO members to "put an end to the Yugoslav conflict". The Russian president said on Wednesday [23 February] that he believes it possible to sign a joint agreement between leaders of Russia, the United States, Great Britain, France and Germany which would end the bloodshed in former Yugoslavia. "Russia should more courageously and resolutely join the European and world community and other international organisations", Yeltsin told reporters after laying a wreath to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier on Wednesday in connection with the Day of Motherland Defenders. "Attempts of certain leaders to keep Russia away from solving international security issues is a discrimination. Russia has to and will participate in all major international events as a permanent member of the UN Security Council", the Russian president stressed. He added that the NATO decision to bomb Bosnian Serbs "caused indignation not only among Russian diplomats, but among all citizens of Russia". Russia had to resort to urgent measures which it had proposed to the United Nations a year ago. "The Russian leadership recommended to the United Nations to take Sarajevo under its administrative control as the most disputed city", Yeltsin said. Russian contacts with Slobodan Milosevic and the trip of special envoy Vitaliy Churkin to Bosnia averted the catastrophe, according to the president. "In contrast to NATO which announced an ultimatum to Serbs, Russia requested the Serbs to pull back their heavy guns", the president said adding that this was "a psycologically well-thought out move which has worked". To ensure safety of the Serbs Russia sent 400 peace-keepers from Croatia to Sarajevo at a request of Milosevic. "Despite heavy snow the guys arrived in Sarajevo in time", Yeltsin said.
