FBIS4-16235 "drsov073cc_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-073 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS Ministers Fail To Reach Agreement on Minorities Ministers Fail To Reach Agreement on Minorities LD1404215394 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1934 GMT 14 Apr 94 LD1404215394 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] The Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) foreign ministers have once again failed to reach agreement on a draft convention on the rights of national minorities, Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev said. "Unfortunately, the convention caused debates again. I hope they were motivated by the desire to improve the document. We are getting closer to the approval of the convention, although it is a painful and difficult process," he said after a meeting of CIS foreign ministers held in Moscow on Thursday. Kozyrev said the convention was a "difficult political matter for some states." "It deals with the lives of millions of people, and therefore it's important here to evade mistakes, so we should feel relaxed about the postponement of the approval of the convention," he added. But the meeting did approve a declaration of sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability of the borders of CIS countries, the Russian minister said. "It is a useful document giving the lie to the speculations that the CIS is some kind of neo-imperialist club," he said. Meanwhile, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Anatoliy Zlenko told Interfax the declaration had been opposed only by Armenia, which, he thought, might not sign it. "It proposed its own declaration, which it had the right to do," he said. Kozyrev said positive decisions had been taken on all other matters, including collective security. The ministers also approved a flag for the CIS, proposed by the Commonwealth's Interparliamentary Assembly, and recommended that Friday's CIS summit approve it too. "That is not a national symbol. It doesn't have the same meaning as national flags do. It's something like the United Nations flag. It symbolizes humanitarian ideals, unity and common goals," Kozyrev said.
