FBIS3-13242 "drnes048_c_94007" FBIS-NES-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 ARAB AFRICA Egypt Hundreds Wounded, Detained NC1003181594 Cairo AL-'ARABI in Arabic 7 Mar 94 p 4 NC1003181594 Cairo AL-'ARABI Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Salih Rajab] [Excerpts] Hundreds of people were wounded and hundreds of others were detained as a result of the security forces' savage suppression of the uprising of the angry Egyptian people in protest against the al-Ibrahimi Mosque massacre. The Interior Ministry last week mobilized tens of thousands of central security and antiterrorism forces to suppress the popular demonstrations, which started from the universities, mosques, and trade union headquarters. These forces used extremely sophisticated weapons, including modern tear gas canister launchers, which have a range double that of the older type. The type of the canisters used is also more effective than the other tear gas canisters, as they cause serious inflammation to the stomach's mucous membrane and to the respiratory system. The rest of the repression arsenal included rubber bullets, shotgun cartridges, and electric clubs [al-'usi al- kahraba'iyah. More than 1,000 people, most of them students, were arrested last week. They were all charged with illegal gathering and rioting and then most of them were released. The number of people injured exceeded 800, most of them students. At Cairo University the number of injured up to last Thursday was 116 male and female students. Ten people were seriously wounded, most of them as a result of shotgun pellets. Some of them said they were wounded inside the university campus. [passage omitted] The situation at 'Ayn Shams University was no better than at Cairo University. The police opened fire with shotguns from close range at the demonstrators, seriously wounding a large number of students. Some of them lost their sight as a result of shotgun pellets. The 'Ayn Shams hospital received 60 wounded students up to last Thursday. Thirty others were admitted to the Dar al-Shifa' hospital.
