FBIS3-11101 "drlat051__a94001" FBIS-LAT-94-051-A Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 ANNEX Inter-American Affairs President Menem Inaugurates Narcotics Control Forum PY1103000594 Buenos Aires LA NACION in Spanish 9 Mar 94 p 10--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY1103000594 Buenos Aires LA NACION Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Nino Ramella] [Excerpts] Mar del Plata -- "The average age of people who start consuming drugs is 11," President Carlos Menem said in inaugurating the 15th regular session of the Inter-American Committee for the Control of Drugs and Drug Abuse (Cicad), an organization subordinate to the OAS. The president said security organizations' and armed forces' operations to neutralize drug trafficking have not been effective and advocated more emphasis on legislation better adapted to reality and on education. Accompanying Menem were Cicad President Monica Nagel, also Costa Rica's justice vice minister; Cicad executive secretary Irving Tragen from the United States; and General Pueyrredon Mayor Mario Russak. [passage omitted] Menem said in his message that "security organizations and the armed forces have tried to neutralize the scourge of drug trafficking, adding, however, that the results have not been very encouraging. Each year drug traffickers have more money. It is known that drug traffickers move more than $6 billion per year, which is more than the budget of many states." The president then talked about the need for common legislation on the matter in all countries in order to become more efficient. He also mentioned the proposal of those who think of legalizing consumption and those who propose the destruction of cultivated areas. The president said: "However, we must attack the problem at the roots. The problem is one of education." The president mentioned that "the average age of people who start consuming drugs is 11," adding that since the beginning of his administration the number of beds for treating drug addicts has increased from 85 to 3,000. The Cicad meeting, which is being attended by representatives from 24 American countries, will continue until 11 March.
