FBIS3-57094 "drsov015_c_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Federal Assembly Duma Panel Will Amend Supreme Soviet Draft Military Bills PM2001150194 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 20 Jan 94 p 1 PM2001150194 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Vladimir Yermolin report: "The Defense Committee Will Start Work on Legal Support for Military Doctrine"] [Text] The Defense Committee will start work on legal support for the military doctrine. That is, the fact is that the package of drafts [narabotki] of the Russian Federation Supreme Soviet Committee for Defense and Security Questions and of other committees which devoted attention to the Army will be set in train. Although corrections are undoubtedly inevitable. Sergey Yushenkov also voiced the hope of close contact with the Russian Federation Ministry of Defense on questions of lawmaking. This is necessitated, in particular, by the recently adopted military doctrine, which is in need of a "legal superstructure." The Duma members spent Tuesday afternoon clearing up questions of the standing orders. Once again, just as on the previous day, a proposal was made to "set free" Aleksandr Rutskoy and Ruslan Khasbulatov. Precisely 145 deputies came out in favor of including this item on the agenda, with 151 against it. The proposal did not pass. Nor did the next one -- to examine the reasons for closing down the well known "600 Seconds" news program. But the Duma members were unanimous on the proposed construction of a new parliamentary complex costing $500 million -- such costly construction is not timely. Yegor Gaydar ("Russia's Choice") and Valentin Kovalev (Communist Party of the Russian Federation) made a corresponding statement in the lobby, thereby setting an example of factional unity "on fundamental issues." It is proposed to resolve the State Duma's housing problem by redistributing the capital's administrative buildings. In fact, the incident with the parliamentary complex may be regarded as the first challenge to the government, as a test of the strength of the opposition members' coalition. On Wednesday the Duma members examined and approved the plan of the State Duma's law-drafting work. It was proposed and defended by Mikhail Mityukov, under whose leadership the plan was drawn up in the Legislative Proposals Commission under the Russian president.
