FBIS4-49534 "drchi089_i_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-089 Daily Report 5 May 1994 East Europe Meets Romanian Premier Meets Romanian Premier OW0805114794 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0730 GMT 5 May 94 OW0805114794 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [By RENMIN RIBAO reporter Zhang Zhipeng (1728 1807 7720) and XINHUA reporter Zheng Jian (6774 1017)] [Text] Bucharest, 4 May (XINHUA) -- When Romanian Prime Minister Vacaroiu met with General Zhang Wannian, member of the Central Military Commission and chief of the People's Liberation Army of China General Staff, and his party on the afternoon of 4 May, he said that the Romanian Government is sincerely pleased with the tremendous achievements scored by China in economic and social development and that it is determined to further develop and expand its friendly cooperation with China. Vacaroiu said: A traditional friendship exists between Romania and China; they share identical or similar views on major international issues, and their government departments have been holding contacts with each other at regular intervals. He expressed the hope that the meeting to be held by the mixed committee of the two governments soon will further promote the vigorous development of trade and economic relations between the two countries. During the meeting, Zhang Wannian stressed that China and Romania are good and old friends. He focused his briefing on China's political stability, economic development, national unity, and social progress. This morning, Lieutenant General (Chevlin), state secretary of Romania's Ministry of National Defense and chief of the Romanian armed forces joint staff, held formal talks with Zhang Wannian. Both sides unanimously expressed their belief that great changes have taken place in the two countries in recent years but that these have not affected Sino-Romanian friendship. The friendly relations between the two countries, between their peoples, and between their armies have enjoyed further development under the new historical condition. At the end of their talks, Romanian Defense Minister Tinca met with Zhang Wannian and his party. Zhang Wannian and his party arrived here on the afternoon of 3 May for a four-day goodwill visit.
