FBIS3-40532 "jpjst007__l94026" JPRS-JST-94-007L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 17 February 1994 Factory Automation, Robotics Rapid Prototyping Systems Seen as Helping Stagnant CAD/CAM/CAE Field 94FE0307C Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 15 Dec 93 p 12 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0307C Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] Demand for CAD/CAM/CAE systems has been poor due to industry's cuts in capital spending. Of course, peripherals such as digitizer tablets and plotters are also suffering. However, even though users are experiencing an economic downturn, they're not giving up on R&D. Rather, there is a trend because of the recession to put energy into developing new products that will distinguish themselves. Since CAD is essential to development departments, it has been hurt by recession, but not as much as machine tools, robots, and other production equipment. According to industry estimates, the CAD systems market was ¥600 billion in 1992. Given that the price of hardware has also fallen, the market is expected to fall significantly to ¥400 billion in 1993. There isn't the kind of new demand there would be in a good economy. Revenues can be raised mainly by replacing other companies' equipment or by providing support. CAE hasn't been hurt as much as CAD/CAM. Although until now CAE has been viewed as a tool used by specialists such as analysts, recently it's begun to be used by individual engineers. There appears to be considerable hidden demand for CAE. However, there are some cases in which negotiations have been held up by contract extensions and freezes. The market for plotters (CAD drawing output devices) is about one-tenth that for CAD systems or about ¥60 billion to ¥80 billion. Demand from recession-ridden Europe has fallen dramatically and price decreases have lowered average prices, so the plotter market has shrunk by about 25% from the previous year and is in much worse shape than anticipated. Inkjet plotters, the only plotters encountering favorable conditions, sparked the price cuts. Manufacturers of pen plotters and thermal plotters introduced low-cost machines and cut prices in response to inkjet plotters. Fierce price competition has resulted. However, sales of low-cost machines are so-so compared to those of high-speed, high precision high-class machines. Rapid prototyping systems, which can be considered as a kind of three-dimensional plotter, have also suffered from soft demand. But, growth is expected in this field because MITI has decided to support the rapid prototyping industry. 1993 sales are expected to go no higher than about fifteen systems, but about 40 sales are expected in 1994. The keys to increased demand will be the establishment of an industry organization and the resolution of technical and price issues. The market for digitizer tablets (input devices) is less than that for plotters since they're aimed at designers who are oriented toward inputting using mice or keyboards. The market is ¥10 billion, including exports. Those for the small computer graphics market are doing well, but, in general, digitizer tablets are doing worse than plotters. There's a trend for the rate of tablet attachment to CAD systems to decline. Some manufacturers have been directing their efforts toward pen input computers which can input almost like using a pencil to draw letters or a diagram.
