FBIS3-7918 "dreeu041_b_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 BULGARIA Commentary Views Yeltsin Speech, Implications AU2802165394 Sofia KONTINENT in Bulgarian 25 Feb 94 p 8 AU2802165394 Sofia KONTINENT Language: Bulgarian Article Type:BFN [Commentary by Andrey Apostolov: "Alas, the Bear Is Not Dead Yet!"] [Text] One week after Russia's Sarajevo initiative obliterated NATO's ultimatum and confused the plans of certain eastern and western capitals, Moscow claims that it has come out of the three year-period during which it used to lethargically bow to the West and indicates that it will not stand in front of Brussels' gates as Henry IV used to in front of the gates of Canossa. With his address to the Federal Assembly, President Yeltsin certainly gained points in Russia, which still awaits the billions the West promised. This is the first time that Moscow has warned the West in such a categorical manner that the time of unilateral concessions, especially regarding defense, is over and that expanding NATO without its participation would be a threat to Europe and the world. This could only mean one thing for NATO's East European candidates -- they will have to wait. Apparently, the period of waiting will be a long one. The "a-la-Zhirinovskiy" style, with which the president declared that a priority task will be to strengthen the state and prompt it to act firmly and decisively when the state interests require this, will obviously be a leading style of Russian policy. This was not a mere implication but a threat to NATO and those neighbors who have written Russia off as a great power. Now they will have to get used to the formula of "protecting the Russian citizens' life and interests." A similar formula in the last 40 years sent U.S. troops to the Dominican Republic, Vietnam, Grenada, Panama, and many other places. The Russians do not have to go that far to send their troops. After all, their troops already are in Georgia, Tajikistan, the Baltic states, and so on. The Western capitals probably watched Yeltsin's address, which was directly carried by CNN, and even more probably, they were unpleasantly surprised. The dying bear was brought back to life and it appears that it did not forget how to jump.
