FBIS4-26646 "drchi122_k_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-122 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social WEN WEI PO Editor Stands by Report WEN WEI PO Editor Stands by Report HK2406062694 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS in English 24 Jun 94 p 1 HK2406062694 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS English BFN [By Bruce Gilley] [Text] An official Chinese denial of a report on the paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, has created a rift with a Beijing-controlled newspaper in Hong Kong. China's Foreign Ministry yesterday denied a report in WEN WEI PO that the patriarch recently visited the Shandong province seaside resort of Qingdao. "This report is not accurate," a spokesman, Wu Jianmin, told a regular news conference in Beijing. Switching from Chinese to English for emphasis, he added: "It is not true." Sources in Qingdao added they were sure Deng had not been there. "We would have known the day he arrived and been immediately instructed by city officials whether we could reveal it or not," a journalist in Qingdao said. Another source in the city added that no senior official from Beijing had stayed recently at the Eight Great Passes Scenic Area Resort, the official residence for senior leaders visiting the city. The report may have been an attempt to contradict growing rumours of Deng's deteriorating health, which have been fuelled by television pictures of an emaciated and stunned-looking figure shuffling along the streets of Shanghai supported by his two daughters during the lunar new year holiday. The Chinese leader's health has been of particular concern in Hong Kong, where "the Deng factor" has a strong effect on markets, business and politics. The report quoted Deng, 89, as saying China's economic reforms and its policy of opening to the outside world would not change "unless there is an unavoidable large-scale war". It was reported that Deng also ruled out a multi-party political system. WEN WEI PO's editor-in-chief, Liu Zaiming, said yesterday the paper stood by its report. "I know about the Foreign Ministry statement. But what we have reported is what we believe," he said. The newspaper is controlled by China's Communist Party through the Hong Kong branch of the NEW CHINA NEWS AGENCY (XINHUA). It would not be the first time it has printed an erroneous story about the patriarch. Last December, it reported Deng had gone to vote in Beijing municipal elections when it was widely known that he was in Shanghai.
