FBIS4-57599 "drlat099_b_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-099 Daily Report 20 May 1994 Netherlands Antilles Government Wants U.S. To Lift Arms Exports Ban Government Wants U.S. To Lift Arms Exports Ban BR2005143994 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT in Dutch 20 May 94 p 10 BR2005143994 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT Dutch BFN [Stella van Rijn report: "Netherlands Antilles Seeks To Curb Arms Trade"] [Text] P. Atacho, the Netherlands Antillean justice minister, wants to impose strict restraints on the arms trade. In the last years, chaos seems to have resulted from a lack of control, particularly in Curacao. In December, the United States decided to suspend arms supplies to the Netherlands Antilles due to the increase in the quantity of weapons entering the country. Exactly how many is not known. This prompted the minister to launch an enquiry and to take measures to stop this proliferation. There are five licensed arms dealers operating in Curacao, but just two of them were found to comply with the regulations. The others had more weapons than authorized and also different kinds of weapons, the Public Prosecutor' enquiry revealed. The licenses are soon to be withdrawn and also more strictly controlled. It also seems that the nine rifle clubs in Curacao are able to independently import and even export weapons under present regulations. This will also stop. The government is to ask the United States to partially lift the export ban in order to guarantee deliveries to the government and security bodies. The illegal arms trade represents a possibly even greater problem. There have been many armed attacks over the last two years and sometimes very young children can be seen in the streets with guns. There is also an increasing tendency for arguments between (groups of) young people to result in the use of arms. It is unlikely that these weapons came into circulation via the legal channels of the licensed arms dealer. "I have no idea of the extent of illegal arms ownership," Minister Atacho declared. Combatting the illegal ownership of arms is certainly one of the priorities for the police and intelligence services. "I also see it as a social problem which is related to the collapse in standards and values in our society. And everyone must bear a part of the responsibility for this," the minister stated.
