FBIS3-2066 "drchi043_k_94026" FBIS-CHI-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Salt Smugglers `Running Wilder' in Inland China HK0203134494 Hong Kong ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE in Chinese 0810 GMT 20 Feb 94 HK0203134494 Hong Kong ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN ["Salt Smuggling Is Running Wild in China"--ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE headline] [Text] Beijing, 20 Feb (ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE)--Reports from departments concerned reveal that salt smuggling is running wilder and wilder in China inland in recent years, which may impair the national economy and the people's health as well. Statistical data show that the amount of salt output and sale that was not covered by the state plan totaled more than 800,000 metric tons last year. Because of tax evasion, this portion of salt sales did not contribute to tax revenue but had impact on the domestic salt market. The value of salt is not high. Then why does salt smuggling run wild? The root cause lies in the pretty high levy on salt. The state makes a levy of about 200 yuan on each metric ton of salt. For instance, from January to November 1993, some 30,000 metric tons of smuggled salt was seized in Sichuan province, which implies that about 6 million yuan of salt tax drained away, not to mention the actual amount of smuggled salt which could be very much higher. Therefore, salt smugglers can reap staggering profits from their deals, at the expense of considerable losses on the part of the state. A source from the Sichuan Provincial Salt Industry Bureau said some 200,000 metric tons of smuggled salt was sold on the market in Sichuan last year, incurring a 40 million yuan loss in tax revenue to the state. What is more worth to be brought to our attention is that the spread of salt smuggling may directly impair consumers' health. As some salt of inferior quality has been sold to some impoverished areas, cases of poisoning or even death caused by salt consumption have taken place from time to time. There have been also some cases where industrial salt was sold as edible salt, and the consumption of iodine-free salt was the cause for the increase in the amount of iodine deficiency in areas where iodine is in short supply. The source concerned noted that the spread of salt smuggling is a reflection of the fact that laws are not observed. The department concerned suggests that administrative actions, economic legislation, and other means be applied to a comprehensive operation to curb salt smuggling.
