FBIS4-57350 "drlat096_m_94012" FBIS-LAT-94-096 Daily Report 15 May 1994 Brazil Escalation of Violence Possible in Landless Peasant Problem Escalation of Violence Possible in Landless Peasant Problem PY1705215194 Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 15 May 94 Section 1 p 5 PY1705215194 Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO Portuguese BFN [Article by Josias de Souza] [Text] Classified documents sent to President Itamar Franco reveal the growing problem of land distribution in Brazil. Official investigations show the risk of an escalation of violence in the countryside. The reports were prepared by the SAE, Strategic Affairs Secretariat, headed by Admiral Mario Cesar Flores. The investigation of the landless peasants began nearly two years ago. Flores said: "The growing agrarian conflict is worrisome." According to him, the landless peasants "have adopted violence as a political method." The landless peasants were the main subject of the three meetings President Franco held with his military ministers this week. During a conversation with Justice Minister Alexandre Dupeyrat on 12 May, Deputy Luciano Pizzatto (PFL-PR) [Liberal Front Party-Parana] wondered whether the peasants are "arming themselves." In the evening during another meeting, Minister Dupeyrat said seriously: "The situation is far more serious than you can imagine." Contag [National Confederation of Farmworkers] President Aloisio Carneiro said the government is not well informed. "We do not buy weapons, nor do we support radical positions." Adm. Flores did not rule out the possibility of the land distribution problem reaching an "untenable" stage. In case it did, the problem would have to be dealt with as a "national security subject," and he even admitted an eventual intervention by the Armed Forces to control it. The president and his advisers are convinced that CUT [Sole Workers Center], the labor union branch of the PT [Workers Party], is behind the radicalization of the landless peasant problem. CUT has denied any inclination in favor of radicalizing the problem to use it for electoral purposes.
