FBIS3-44889 "drchi006_d_94010" FBIS-CHI-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 Northeast Asia Reports on Japan's Tsutomu Hata's Visit Views Economic, Military Relations OW0901080794 Tokyo KYODO in English 0759 GMT 9 Jan 94 OW0901080794 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, Jan. 9 KYODO -- Japanese Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata, on the last day of a two-day visit to China, Sunday [9 January] expressed hopes of further developing bilateral relations in a "future-oriented and global context." Speaking before the press following his morning meeting with Chinese President Jiang Zemin, Hata dispelled concerns over Japanese-Taiwan relations, while reiterating both a common Chinese and Japanese will to resolve the nuclear question on the Korean peninsula. The foreign minister said he told Chinese leaders that Japan would continue to abide by a one-China policy based on nongovernmental and economic relations and that Japan would continue to abide by the Japan-China joint communique. "For development of China and the development of Asia, we cannot deny the development of Taiwan," he said, while welcoming the participation of both Taiwan and Hong Kong in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum. "As far as I know, no member of the (Hosokawa) cabinet will visit Taiwan, " Hata said Hata asked the Chinese leadership to make use of its historical and geographical position to "convey the suspicions of the international community concerning nuclear development" to North Korean leaders. The Chinese side reiterated its opposition to pressuring or placing sanctions on North Korea, he said, but the Chinese assured him that they would play a positive role in seeking a solution to the nuclear question on the Korean peninsula. Hata felt it was important for China to enter the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade because of its growing economy and influence over international trade. Working-level talks between Japan and China for China's membership in the world trade body "would begin soon," he said. Hata referred to Japanese-Chinese relations as entering a new phase after the 20th anniversary of the normalization of diplomatic relations in 1992 and the 15th anniversary of the signing of the Sino-Japan peace treaty. After his arrival in Beijing Saturday, Hata met with Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen and Premier Li Peng. In a meeting with Jiang, Hata called on China to make efforts for disarmament, saying Japan and other neighboring countries are concerned about China's increasing military spending, Japanese officials said. The Chinese president said China's military forces are designed to only defend China's land and economy, adding that an increase in commodity prices was behind the rise in military expenditures, according to the officials. Jiang was also quoted as saying that China does not have any ambition and will never seek hegemony. The most important issue for the Chinese Government is how to feed its 1.2 billion people, Jiang added. The two leaders shared the view that Japan and China have been playing a pivotal role in the peace and stability of Asia, the officials said.
