FBIS3-57700 "drsov019_f_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Jan 1994 National Affairs Security of Crimea Following Elections Doubted LD2801115094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1121 GMT 28 Jan 94 LD2801115094 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Tamara Zamyatina] [Text] Moscow January 28 TASS -- "Yuriy Meshkov, representing the Russia Bloc, seems to have the best chances at winning the January 30 presidential elections in the Crimea", Emile Payin told ITAR-TASS. Payin is head of the Committee on National Politics under the Russian Presidential Council and a respected political scientist. The Russian Bloc is made up of political parties who support the reunification of the Crimean Peninsula with the Russian Federation. The Russian Party, the Black Sea Fleet Officers' Assembly, and the Russian Popular Council have been the most active in supporting such a move. And they all have been supporting Yuriy Meshkov for president of the Crimea since February 1993. What are the possible consequences of their struggle? According to Payin, "it would be impossible to peacefully and legally turn the Crimea over to Russia: Leonid Kravchuk has the right, given to him by the Ukrainian parliament, to overrule any decision taken by the Crimean authorities which contradicts the Ukrainian Constitution and threatens that state's territorial integrity". The Russian Foreign Ministry has also declared its unwillingness to strain relations between Russian and Ukraine over the Crimean question, taking into account the current situation in both countries. After his victory in the first round of the presidential elections, Meshkov himself announced that he was not going to insist on the Crimea's withdrawal from Ukraine and unification with Russia. Meshkov intends to fight for equality between Ukraine and Russia in Crimean matters, especially concerning the Black Sea Fleet, according to Payin's assesment. No matter what the results of the voting are, Payin predicts that ethnic tensions in the region will rise. However, he emphasized that, "any expected result in the elections at the current stage will not be cause for a reexamination of the Crimea's fate or status". Despite Russia's determination not to inflame the subject, Payin is sure that "the election results will not bring the Crimea reconciliation, since it is completely possible that those groups who are unsuccessful in the elections will step up their illegal political activities. Despite the balanced position occupied by Kiev and Moscow, there are forces in both Russia and Ukraine who have a lot to gain from destabilising the political situation. These are the "soldiers of fortune", who have already shown up in the Dniester area, Abkhazia, and other regions of conflict", the presidential advisor explained.
