FBIS4-22974 "jpust005__l94017" JPRS-UST-94-005l JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 06 April 1994 COMPUTERS Glass Cylinder Memory Device Described Glass Cylinder Memory Device Described 947G0007 Moscow NAUKA I ZHIZN in Russian No. 10, Oct 93 p 60 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 947G0007 Moscow NAUKA I ZHIZN Russian CSO [Article in NAUKA I ZHIZN] [Text] What do we mean by ``good memory''? Usually we mean reliability, then capacity, and finally the speed at which we can extract the required information. It's the same for human and machine memory. People have long used external information carriers to expand their memory. At one time people used a string tied around the finger, later any type of note book. The same thing has happened with computers: the volume of their memory has been increased by using external carriers. First, they were mechanical (punched cards and paper tape), later, magnetic tapes and disks, and most recently, optical disks. The latter are favorably distinguished from the others by their basic parameters. However, they are produced by only a few Japanese and American firms and are used on a very limited basis, mainly due to their high cost. Specialists at the Institute for Problems in Recording Information of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences have created their own version of an optical information carrier. It is not a disk, but a glass cylinder with a recording layer on the internal surface. A light beam is used to create pits on it, each of which corresponds to a one in binary code. At the time of recording, to increase the density, the cylinder is immersed in a liquid medium. When the beam passes through the liquid it is not scattered. Normally the beam would be scatt ered due to the difference in the indices of refraction of the laser and air. In this case, the beam remains focused. The diameter of the pit does not exceed 0.6 microns. This new carrier has a record high recording density. Its other specifications ar e comparable with those of the optical disk, and it has the same serious chances for improvement. The cylindrical memory is suitable for many uses, and the information on it can be rewritten. Another advantage is its small size: the optical memory cylinder has the same dimensions as a fountain pen. As for its cost, its creators hope that it will cost significantly less than foreign optical disks.
