FBIS4-35512 "drnes105yy_94001" FBIS-NES-94-105 Daily Report 30 May 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Syria's al-Shar' Expresses Support for Yemeni Unity Syria's al-Shar' Expresses Support for Yemeni Unity JN3005183894 Damascus Syrian Arab Television Network in Arabic 1730 GMT 30 May 94 JN3005183894 Damascus Syrian Arab Television Network Arabic BFN [Report by 'Abd-al-Salam Hijab from Cairo] [Text] [Syrian] Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shar' has underlined the importance of the subjects which the foreign ministers of the Nonaligned Movement will discuss in their conference that will start tomorrow. Answering reporters' questions on arrival at Cairo International Airport this afternoon to lead the Syrian delegation to the 11th conference of the foreign ministers of the Nonaligned Movement, al-Shar' said there are international and regional issues, as well as issues of concern to our Arab region. These include political and economic issues, he said. The foreign minister added: One important subject at the top of the conference agenda is the Arab-Israeli conflict and the peace process and its developments, as well as our assessment of that process and the Israeli aggressive practices and intransigent positions. Asked if there has been any progress in the subject of peace with Israel on the Syrian track, the foreign minister stressed that there is no progress thus far. He explained that the reason for that is Israel's attempt to evade the foundations of the peace process and the requirements for peace. Israel, he added, also attempts to gain time, thinking that this will be to its advantage. Al-Shar' said: We believe this opportunity should not be missed. Israel will be the biggest loser if this opportunity is missed. Asked if Syria supports secession in Yemen, the foreign minister said: We do not support the secession of any Arab territory from an Arab state. He added: We are pained by what is happening in Yemen, and what is happening should not have happened. Al-Shar' stressed that Syria supports Yemen's unity and a quick end to the fighting there. He said the end of fighting should coincide with a concern for preserving the Yemeni unity.
