FBIS3-39940 "drweu037_i_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 FRANCE Mitterrand Stresses FRG's Role in EU Monetary Policy BR2302142194 Paris LE FIGARO in French 23 Feb 94 p 8 BR2302142194 Paris LE FIGARO Language: French Article Type:BFN [Report by Anne Fulda: "Francois Mitterrand -- An Act of European Faith"] [Text] Frankfurt -- Between two select committee meetings on the situation in the former Yugoslavia, the president of the Republic flew to Frankfurt for one of those historical-cultural escapades he so likes. At about the same time that European foreign ministers and their Bosnian and Serb counterparts were meeting in Bonn, the head of state was participating in Frankfurt's 1,200th anniversary celebrations. Arriving in the snow and in miserable weather in this town described by Mayor Andreas Von Schoeler as the "cradle of German democracy," Francois Mitterrand yesterday morning attended the festivities accompanied by German President Richard Von Weizsaecker. The word "festivities" is perhaps a little strong, since the chosen musical program and the speeches of the various speakers in the town's Alte Oper [opera house], richly decorated with red and white flowers, did not really convey a spirit of conviviality. "Europe Is Our Common Heritage" Finally, at the end of this dreary ceremony it was the French head of state, "crowned" citizen of honor of the town in 1986, who received the most applause. It has to be said that the president of the republic, who recalled that his first visit to Germany as head of state was to Frankfurt -- "I had come before but it was not a real visit" -- flattered his audience by saying how pleased he was that this town had been chosen as the seat of the European Monetary Institute. "The European Monetary Institute has just been set up in Frankfurt. The stakes for both our countries is the creation of a strong and stable currency. On that point, you know your business," Francois Mitterrand said. The choice of Frankfurt, he continued, "bears the future, the symbol of German monetary power, and, why not, of European monetary power. Therefore, let us not hide the fact that Germany, to which we have attributed the headquarters of the European Bank, has a special responsibility in ensuring the success of this undertaking." The president of the Republic also reminded his audience that Frankfurt had always been "a crossroads for the European idea," since it was here, in this region that used to be called eastern Franconia, that Charlemagne convened the first imperial synod in 794. Finally, after mentioning Goethe, Nietzche, and Francois I -- "Francois, France, Franconia, Frankfurt -- I find it all very confusing" -- the head of state declared, more European than ever: "Long live Frankfurt, long live Franco-German friendship, long live Europe, our shared heritage!"
