FBIS4-57244 "drlat094_i_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-094 Daily Report 11 May 1994 Nicaragua VP Doubts U.S. Aid To Stop Over Ownership Issue VP Doubts U.S. Aid To Stop Over Ownership Issue PA1305193894 Managua LA PRENSA in Spanish 11 May 94 p 16 PA1305193894 Managua LA PRENSA Spanish BFN [Report by Roger Suarez] [Text] Vice President Virgilio Godoy told LA PRENSA that he does not think the threat of a suspension of U.S. aid to Nicaragua will be realized because the Clinton administration has already decided to support President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro until her mandate ends. Last Friday the U.S. Congress approved the Helms-Gonzalez Amendment, which sets a 90-day deadline for countries that have not returned properties confiscated from U.S. citizens. This matter is a cause for great concern in Nicaragua as approximately 1,400 U.S. citizens have filed complaints. Dr. Godoy does not believe that the threat of a suspension of aid will break the government's economic adjustment program "because the Clinton administration wants the Chamorro administration to fulfill its mandate without difficulties." Godoy based his opinion on the "the unchanging attitude of U.S. Ambassador John Maisto" and the reaffirmation of that view by Alexander Watson, U.S. assistant secretary of State for inter-American affairs, during his visit to Nicaragua, two things that translate into clear support for Chamorro. He described the latest news from Washington on the possible suspension as a "kind of blot or shadow." "I believe this is merely an invitation to the government to respond to the complaints filed by U.S. citizens at the Attorney General's Office or with the government directly to either have their properties returned or be compensated," he noted. Godoy expressed skepticism about a law to end the ownership problem "because one cannot simply say four years later that we should turn over a new leaf.... This calls for a high degree of understanding." He added that the National Assembly may enact a law that will end the problem, "but it will do no good, since nobody will heed it. Let us remember that according to international law and the general principles of human rights, there is no statute of limitations on property rights." LA PRENSA asked Godoy if there is a solution to the ownership problem in Nicaragua. He replied: "It should have been resolved a long time ago. There was a way to do it, but the government or the presidency minister lacked the political commitment to do so." The vice president affirmed that during a reception hosted by the Venezuelan Embassy, he told Presidency Minister Antonio Lacayo that "if they put the ownership problem in my hands, I could resolve it in 90 days." Godoy told Sandinist leader Daniel Ortega the same thing last year. Godoy explained that there are different levels to the ownership problem, "and the main ones are the easiest to solve, but the remaining cases are very specific and must be settled by the courts. Presidency Minister Lacayo confirmed that he spoke with Godoy on 8 September at the Venezuelan Embassy about the stability the country required and how it entailed a solution to this problem. On 27 September, Godoy, Lacayo, and Sandinist leader Henry Ruiz met at the Spanish Embassy. "When I heard Ruiz and Godoy say that a solution to the ownership problem was feasible based on consensus, I asked them to draft a proposal endorsed by the Sandinist National Liberation Front and UNO [National Opposition Union]. (Godoy and Ruiz) shook hands," Lacayo stated. Godoy later abruptly left the meeting. "I am still waiting for the proposal," Lacayo said.
