FBIS4-23949 "drafr118_e_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-118 Daily Report 19 Jun 1994 WEST AFRICA Nigeria Government, Opposition Holding Informal Contacts Government, Opposition Holding Informal Contacts AB1906204094 Paris AFP in English 1932 GMT 19 Jun 94 AB1906204094 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Lagos, June 19 (AFP) -- Informal contacts are taking place between the federal military government and opposition members in an attempt to find a solution to Nigeria's political crisis, a member of the opposition told AFP Sunday [19 June]. The contacts were being held ahead of a meeting military ruler General Sani Abacha is expected to hold this week with traditional monarchs and selected politicians from all parts of the federation, observers noted. "We are not opposed to any form of dialogue aimed at resolving the crisis. Nobody wants the nation to be on fire. Nobody wants a deadlock or a political logjam," the opposition member said in a telephone discussion. He said however that neither the National Democratic Coalition (Nadeco) nor its affiliated bodies would compromise on the issues of "actualisation of the verdict" of last June's annulled presidential election, a quick return to democracy and restoration of political structures dissolved last November when Abacha came to power. "We have told our leaders and representatives to respond to government offers on quick return to democracy any time they are made," said the source who asked for anonymity. "Nobody would refute the efficacy of dialogue...the survival of Nigeria is paramount to all of us." While contacts between the two parties are going on, the government has stated its determination to forge ahead with its plan to convene a constitutional conference, beginning June 27 in the capital Abuja. Problems confronting the nation, including those that threaten its unity, are expected to be discussed at the conference, scheduled to last three months. The report of the conference would be submitted to the Provisional Ruling Council for ratification.
