FBIS4-5670 "dreas071_a_94028" FBIS-EAS-94-071 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Discussion on Hosokawa's Successor Continues Discussion on Hosokawa's Successor Continues Disaffection With Moves for Hata OW1304034294 Tokyo KYODO in English 0336 GMT 13 Apr 94 OW1304034294 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, April 13 KYODO -- New party Sakigake leader Masayoshi Takemura on Wednesday [13 April] expressed disaffection with burgeoning intra-coalition moves to put forward Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata as next prime minister. Takemura told a news conference at Sakigake's headquarters in Tokyo that coalition parties should conclude discussion on a possible recombination of political parties that will comprise a new coalition government before picking their prime ministerial candidate. Coalition parties "have not initiated discussion on what framework a new government should have," Takemura said. Takemura called on other chiefs of coalition parties to band together to reconcile their difference over key policy objectives before initiating full-fledged talks on picking a new prime minister. "The responsible leaders of coalition parties should assemble, analyze the situation and then start debate on what prospects (a new government) should have," he said. "If they could reconcile their differences, we could go ahead with the current framework. However, if we failed to strike such accord, we should consider forming a new recombination of parties," he said. Earlier in the day, a senior Sakigake official said the party will remain in the ruling coalition. There may remain "an unpleasant feeling" between Sakigake and Shinseito, however, said the official, who spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity. Shinseito is regarded as the most influential force in the seven-party coalition. During the course of the power struggle following Hosokawa's announcement of his resignation last Friday, Sakigake has sided with the coalition's biggest group, the Social Democratic Party, to oppose Shinseito Secretary General Ichiro Ozawa's influence over the choice of a successor to Hosokawa, political sources said.
