FBIS4-57581 "drlat099_a_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-099 Daily Report 21 May 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Address on Tourism, Foreign Investment Address on Tourism, Foreign Investment FL2105181794 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 1700 GMT 21 May 94 FL2105181794 Havana Radio Rebelde Network Spanish BFN [Text] Commander in Chief Fidel Castro has said that tourism is a priority matter in the country's life at this historic moment. In a two-hour meeting with representatives, delegates, tour operators, and reporters attending the Cuba-94 tourism convention, President Castro answered more than a dozen questions. He said anything that has an impact on the economy is very important to the country, that tourism is one of the areas with the greatest impact, and that it is growing at a rate of almost 30 percent yearly. He added that because Cuba has tourist potential, and especially because there is willingness to keep it growing, tourism is considered a priority. The blockade was also among the issues discussed at the meeting with delegates, tour operators, and reporters from the tourism convention. On this matter, the commander in chief said President Clinton is maintaining his severity, but in a softer manner and with less threatening, less bellicose words. He said, however, that the severity of U.S. policy toward Cuba has not changed. It remains the same. Concerning foreign investments in the country, Fidel Castro said the opening will be increasingly broader and that it is perfectly conceivable because the objective is to attain the means to develop the country. When asked about how a socialist system can coexist with the flow of foreign capital, Castro said that Cuba neither will give up socialism nor defraud those who want to contribute to the development of this and other fields, such as petroleum exploration and exploitation. Concerning the desired image for Cuba, Castro said he wants to convey the image of a beautiful country with natural conditions; a hospitable and sound nation; a well-organized, drug-free country with a warm climate and a high culture that protects the environment. The 15th tourism convention gathered 971 delegates from 26 European and American countries and representatives from Algiers and the Arab world. In this convention, Cuba has signed several contracts for the next winter and summer seasons.
