FBIS4-492 "drafr070_c_94031" FBIS-AFR-94-070 Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA IEC Warns TEC of Delays in Inauguration Timetable IEC Warns TEC of Delays in Inauguration Timetable MB1104193294 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1906 GMT 11 Apr 94 MB1104193294 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [By Patrick Bulger] [Text] Johannesburg April 11 SAPA -- Independent Electoral Commission [IEC] Chairman Judge Johann Kriegler has written to the Transitional Executive Council [TEC] to warn that its timetable to inaugurate a new government may have to change. The judge reminded the TEC in a letter that his commission had up to 10 days to decide whether the election was "substantially free and fair". The TEC has decided on a series of dates to inaugurate South Africa's new national and provincial governments. They are May 5 for the inauguration of the nine provincial assemblies, May 6 for the inauguration of the national assembly and May 10 for the inauguration of the new state president. In terms of the Electoral Act, the IEC may not pronounce the elections free and fair within two days after the election. The law gives the IEC another eight days in which to hear electoral disputes. An IEC spokesman said the IEC had until May 9 to declare the elections free and fair. If it took this long, the TEC's inauguration dates would have to be changed. Although both TEC and IEC sources said the judge was merely pointing out the legal position, he was also pointing out the possibility of a delay that would have practical implications for the logistics of the transition. The period between the end of the elections and the inauguration of a new government could see the multiparty TEC assuming effective control of the government, a TEC source said. "There has been concern about who is in charge after the elections. This may mean that the TEC will have to take control," the source said. He pointed out that in normal democracies, the levers of power are held by the former government until a new government takes charge. But if the ruling national party loses by a landslide and if there is an electoral dispute, the TEC may have to step into the vacuum. The TEC's management committee which comprises, among others, of members of government, the NP, the African National Congress and the South African Communist Party, was due to meet for the last time on April 25. However, the management committee has now decided that it will meet again on April 29, ostensibly to wrap up its affairs. The TEC source said the question of who would control the security forces in the period between the election and the inauguration of a new government had been referred to legal advisers after a dispute about the issue in the TEC-appointed joint military command council.
