FBIS4-55358 "dreeu093__a94003" FBIS-EEU-94-093-A Daily Report 13 May 1994 ANNEX Albania Meksi Promises Aid for Kukes Flood Victims Meksi Promises Aid for Kukes Flood Victims AU1305122194 Tirana ATA in English 1019 GMT 13 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1305122194 Tirana ATA English BFN [Text] Tirana, May 13 (ATA) -- Representatives from the strike commission, the association of the families whose land and property have been inundated by the Fierza Lake, and the Presidency of the Kukes and Has Districts met yesterday afternoon [12 May] with Premier Meksi, government representatives and deputies. The participants in the meeting said that the strike has only an economic character. They said that the difficulties created in the Kukes district and northeastern areas are greater than those in other districts. The conclusions drawn in the five hour meeting were included in a joint communique of the premier and the strikers. The formula of solving the problem of those stricken by the construction of the Fierza hydro-power station is the organised removal to other districts of the families under the most difficult living conditions, providing them with house and land. The government members said this solution has long since begun to be applied but it is delayed because of the verification of the related lists. The families left without land in the inundated areas are made evident first and free areas in other districts are being found out. Priority will be given to the families under very difficult economic conditions, without land, job and other living means. The participants in the meeting agreed that the problem be solved in cooperation with all the parties. They decided that measures be adopted to provide social assistance and improve its structure as well as to compensate for the land, always favouring those lacking the living means. In the mean time, the land and homes of the inhabitants to be displaced will be used for solving problems of those that will continue to live in those areas. The government's spokesman reported that the government will help the removed inhabitants with long term credits to build houses considering them as shelterless. Funds of international organisations also are envisaged to be used in this respect. Premier Meksi promised to go and meet with the Kukes inhabitants soon.
