FBIS4-32994 "drlat105_j_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-105 Daily Report 30 May 1994 Panama Endara Views Changes at Interoceanic Authority Endara Views Changes at Interoceanic Authority PA3105192494 Panama City Circuito RPC Television in Spanish 2300 GMT 30 May 94 PA3105192494 Panama City Circuito RPC Television Spanish BFN [Report by Ciro Ortega; from the "RPC Television News" newscast] [Text] President Guillermo Endara Galimany has said the management changes at the Interoceanic Region Authority [ARI] will not affect the plans of that institution. For Endara, Juan Blau's resignation from the post of ARI administrator will not cause a crisis in that institution. [Begin Endara recording] You must remember the post of manager is not important in the ARI. What is important are the directors. The manager is an official who can be changed without a problem. [end recording] Endara has said the ARI's priority is devising an action master plan for the use of the reverted areas. The president of the Republic has also commented on the structuring of a constituent assembly. [Begin Endara recording] Henriquez' [not further identified] formula is to leave the door open so that in the future, when one wants to convene a Constituent Assembly, the future executive and legislative branches could use a special mechanism to do so without violating the Constitution; this is a great idea that I support. I did not present it, because I did not achieve a consensus among the parties that supported me back then. [end recording] Endara has also said his administration does not want to create crises in government institutions to adversely affect the future administration of Perez Balladares. He has also ruled out irregular situations in the Social Security Fund. [Begin Endara recording] During the coming weeks of my administration, three months, there will be many rumors and speculation. We are interested--this is very clear--in handing power over to those elected whom the people elected under the best possible conditions. [end recording] The president explained he will not adopt important decisions during the remaining months of his administration. He concluded he will continue to carry out works and administer the government properly.
