FBIS3-40792 "jpnea008___94002" JPRS-NEA-94-008 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 15 February 1994 NEAR EAST PALESTINIAN AFFAIRS Gulf Funds See Further Investment in Gaza-Jericho 94AE0065B London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 11 Jan 94 p 10 94AE0065B London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article: "$30 Million Funds for Projects in Occupied Territories This Year"] [Text] Abu Dhabi--Gulf development funds are expected to play a prominent role in the development process in the occupied Arab territories when the Gaza-Jericho agreement is implemented. Dr. Badr Malallah, the general coordinator of the Arab development funds, has said that the Gulf funds have been assigned by their governments to fully implement and supervise development projects in the occupied Arab territories in cooperation with the World Bank. He said, in remarks made on the occasion of the 35th meeting of the coordination group of the national and regional Arab development organizations, which got underway yesterday in Abu Dhabi, that contacts were ongoing between the funds and the World Bank to set up a mechanism for future cooperation in the development process in light of the $2 billion "assistance deal" that was decided upon in the assistance donor countries last October in Washington. The Gulf states have so far promised to give $150 million, of which $100 million will come from Saudi Arabia, $25 million from the United Arab Emirates, and the same sum from Kuwait. Malallah indicated that these amounts were not final, but merely the first step in supporting "the course of development in Palestine." He said that the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development [AFESD] would present a report in the meeting about its experience in funding development projects in the occupied Arab territories. He added that this report would help the rest of the funds find a common direction for future cooperation in supporting development in the autonomous Palestinian areas. He indicated that AFESD had 10 years of experience in this field. For his part, Isma'il al-Zirani, director of operations of AFESD, said that the volume of AFESD's operations in the occupied Arab territories, from the time of its establishment until the present, amounted to $40 million. He said that AFESD would fund $30 million worth of projects in those areas in the current year.
