FBIS4-10410 "drlat071__a94004" FBIS-LAT-94-071-A Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 ANNEX Argentina Finance Ministry To Be Established After Elections Finance Ministry To Be Established After Elections PY0804033694 Buenos Aires LA NACION in Spanish 7 Apr 94 Section 2 p 1 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY0804033694 Buenos Aires LA NACION Spanish BFN [Article by Paz Tejerina] [Text] The creation of a Finance Ministry is practically a fact. The candidate? Public Income Secretary Carlos Tacchi appears to be the perfect man for the job. No one can forget the president's plaudits regarding Tacchi, nor his very good relations with Minister Domingo Cavallo. The Economy Ministry's prognosis for the upcoming elections is very optimistic. It is therefore to be believed that in the near future the number of ministries will be increased. The division of the Economy Ministry is becoming more and more of a fact with the reform of the Constitution. The economic team has always held the hypothesis that public resources must be managed by one organization during a new stage. In the corridors of the Economy Ministry, Tacchi appeared to be the most solid person to give life to an alternate organization to that of Cavallo. And at Government House, the full endorsement that Carlos Menem has given the "collector" seems to place him at the top of the list of those whose names were mentioned by the presidential clique. The president is always repeating in addition that Tacchi knows more about tax legislation than Cavallo himself. In second place, the names of Vice Economy Minister Carlos Sanchez, followed by that of Finance Secretary Ricardo Gutierrez, were mentioned. Cavallo was, however, more cautious in mentioning candidates. He preferred not to make any forecasts, and only repeated that anyone on his team is prepared for the post. The campaign closes today. There is no doubt that the Economy Ministry foresees a favorable outcome. Some analysts are asking themselves whether a future ministry managed by Tacchi might not cast a cloud over Domingo Cavallo.
