FBIS4-6796 "dreas079_l_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-079 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 Philippines CPP `Plotting' To Kill Four Communist Leaders CPP `Plotting' To Kill Four Communist Leaders BK2204113094 Manila THE MANILA CHRONICLE in English 18 Apr 94 pp 1, 6 BK2204113094 Manila THE MANILA CHRONICLE English BFN [Text] Bacolod City -- A faction of the Communist Party of the Philippines [CPP] allied with the exiled Jose Ma. Sison is plotting to assassinate Arturo Tabara, chairman of the New People's Army's [NPA] Visayas Commission and a bitter critic of Sison. The plan to liquidate Tabara and three other top rebel leaders opposing the leadership of Sison, will be carried out by the Melito Glor Command headed by Gregorio Rosal, Alias Ka [Comrade] Roger, according to intelligence reports gathered by the military. Other rebel leader sentenced to death are Romulo Kintanar, former NPA chief; Ricardo Reyes, then Secretary General; and, Felimon Lagman, secretary of the Manila-Rizal Regional Party Committee, the report added. The liquidation of Tabara, Lagman, Kintanar, and Reyes were confirmed by Ka Roger as published in the national papers. Tabara is facing kidnaping charges in Tiaong, Quezon and is detained in Fort Bonifacio, Makati. Estelito Dioquino, former commander of the NPA in Southern Negros, admitted selective liquidation is being practiced by the underground movement on abusive policemen, paramilitary troopers, and even army men. He said he does not know about the claims of pro-Sison forces in Central Negros that Tabara and others are subjects of liquidation by the other rebel faction. Dioquino said the extent of punishment for abusive law enforcers or individuals depend on the gravity of their acts against the masses. Dioquino used to be aligned with Tabara in the still unresolved power struggle within the CPP-NPA. The continuing criticism being waged by the Tabara faction against Sison and its plan to establish a new party might have forced the CPP mainstream officials to order the liquidation. Col. Antonio Romero, 301st infantry brigade commander, said a bloody confrontation between the two rebel factions is possible if reports about the liquidation of top rebel leaders are true.
