FBIS4-17748 "drsov082_b_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 RUSSIAN NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Comments on Threats to Security Comments on Threats to Security LD2704142894 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1411 GMT 27 Apr 94 LD2704142894 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Text] Moscow April 27 TASS -- The Russian Intelligence Service must be one of the leading think tanks working to stabilise the situation in the world and avert threats to the national security of the country, Russian President Boris Yeltsin said at a meeting with foreign intelligence leaders in Moscow on Wednesday. The president said special attention should be paid to forecasting problems which Russia may face in the near future and in a long-term perspective. Although the period of global confrontation is over and the vector of the world's development is on the whole favourable for Russia "we must remember that its direction may change," Yeltsin noted. He believes that "the world is standing at a crossroads, largely because Russia, one of the great powers, is going through the transition period." "You should know that there are forces abroad which would like to keep Russia in the state of uncontrolled paralysis," Yeltsin continued. He stressed that "only a strong, democratic and prosperous Russian state can become a factor which will bring the world a new perspective. It is our common task to make this goal a reality." "The ultimate objective of foreign intelligence is to serve the state interests of Russia. We will strengthen it and promote the authority of those who work in it. This is not only the president's opinion, this is my policy," he said. In conditions when the military budget is shrinking, the role of intelligence grows considerably and information it supplies becomes a major guarantee of the country's security, the president noted. Yeltsin pointed out that the foreign intelligence service has a high reputation in Russia's system of power. "I hope that your prompt information, analytical conclusions and recommendations will receive only the highest marks," he said.
